as hungering allthe time for Bible truth.Mr. Kincaid waited.So she repeated it presently; for Desire never made a fuss; she wastoo really sensitive for that."'The Tenderness in the midst of the Almightiness shall feed them,and shall lead them to living fountains of water.'"Mr. Kincaid recognized the "new word," and his face lit up."'The Lamb in the midst of the Throne,'" he said. "Out of the Heartof God, the Christ. Who was there before; the intent by which allthings were made. The same yesterday, and to-day, and forever; whoever liveth to make intercession for us. Christ _had to be_. TheWord, full of grace, must be made flesh. Why need people disputeabout Eternity and Divinity, if they can only see that?--Was thatMrs. Froke's reading?""Yes; that was Rachel's sermon.""It is an illumination."They walked all up Orchard Street without another word.Then Kenneth Kincaid said,--"Miss Desire, why won't you come andteach in the Mission School?""I teach? Why, I've got everything to learn!""But as fast as you _do_ learn; the morsels, you know. That is theway they are given out. That is the wonder of the kingdom of heaven.There is no need to go away and buy three hundred pennyworth beforewe begin, that every one may take a little; the bread given as theMaster breaks it feeds them till they are filled; and there arebaskets full of fragments to gather up."Kenneth Kincaid's heart was in his Sunday work, as his sister hadsaid. The more gladly now, that the outward daily bread was beinggiven.Mr. Geoffrey,--one of those busy men, so busy that they do promptlythat which their hands find to do,--had put Kenneth in the way ofwork. It only needed a word from him, and the surveying and layingout of some new streets and avenues down there where Boston isgrowing so big and grand and strange, were put into his charge.Kenneth was busy now, cheerily busy, from Monday morning to Saturdaynight; and restfully busy on the Sunday, straightening the paths andlaying out the ways for souls to walk in. He felt the harmony andthe illustration between his week and his Sunday, and the onestrengthening the other, as all true outward work does harmonizewith and show forth, and help the spiritual doing. It could not havebeen so with that gold work, or any little feverish hitching on toother men's business; producing nothing, advancing nothing, onlystanding between to snatch what might fall, or to keep a premium forpassing from hand to hand.Our great cities are so full,--our whole country is sooverrun,--with these officious middle-men whom the world does nottruly want; chiffonniers of trade, who only pick up a living out ofthe great press and waste and overflow; and our boys are so eager toslip in to some such easy, ready-made opportunity,--to get somecrossing to sweep.What will come of it all, as the pretenses multiply? Will there bealways pennies for every little broom? Will two, and three, and sixsweeps be tolerated between side and side? By and by, I think, theywill have to turn to and lay pavements. Hard, honest work, and theday's pay for it; that is what we have got to go back to; that andthe day's snug, patient living, which the pay achieves.Then, as I say, the week shall illustrate the Sunday, and the Sundayshall glorify the week; and what men do and build shall stand truetypes, again, for the inner growth and the invisible building; sothat if this outer tabernacle were dissolved, there should be seenglorious behind it, the house not made with hands,--eternal.As Desire Ledwith met this young Kenneth Kincaid from day to day,seeing him so often at her Aunt Ripwinkley's, where he and Dorriswent in and out now, almost like a son and daughter,--as she walkedbeside him this morning, hearing him say these things, at whichthe heart-longing in her burned anew toward the real andsatisfying,--what wonder was it that her restlessness grasped atthat in his life which was strong and full of rest; that she feltglad and proud to have him tell his thought to her; that without anysilliness,--despising all silliness,--she should yet be conscious,as girls of seventeen are conscious, of something that made her daysufficient when she had so met him,--of a temptation to turn intothose streets in her walks that led his way? Or that she often, withher blunt truth, toward herself as well as others, and her quickcontempt of sham and subterfuge, should snub herself mentally, andturn herself round as by a grasp of her own shoulders, and makeherself walk off stoutly in a far and opposite direction, when,without due need and excuse, she caught herself out in these things?What wonder that this stood in her way, for very pleasantness, whenKenneth asked her to come and teach in the school? That she wasashamed to let herself do a thing--even a good thing, that her lifeneeded,--when there was this conscious charm in the asking; thissecret thought--that she should walk up home with him every Sunday!She remembered Agatha and Florence, and she imagined, perhaps, morethan they would really have thought of it at home; and so as theyturned into Shubarton Place,--for he had kept on all the way alongBridgeley and up Dorset Street with her,--she checked her stepssuddenly as they came near the door, and said brusquely,--"No, Mr. Kincaid; I can't come to the Mission. I might learn A, andteach them that; but how do I know I shall ever learn B, myself?"He had left his question, as their talk went on, meaning to ask itagain before they separated. He thought it was prevailing with her,and that the help that comes of helping others would reach her need;it was for her sake he asked it; he was disappointed at the sudden,almost trivial turn she gave it."You have taken up another analogy, Miss Desire," he said. "We weretalking about crumbs and feeding. The five loaves and the fivethousand. 'Why reason ye because ye have no bread? How is it that yedo not understand?'"Kenneth quoted these words naturally, pleasantly; as he might quoteanything that had been spoken to them both out of a love andauthority they both recognized, a little while ago.But Desire was suddenly sharp and fractious. If it had not touchedsome deep, live place in her, she would not have minded so much. Itwas partly, too, the coming toward home. She had got away out of thepure, clear spaces where such things seemed to be fit andunstrained, into the edge of her earth atmosphere again, where,falling, they took fire. Presently she would be in that ridiculouspink room, and Glossy Megilp would be chattering about "those lovelypurple poppies with the black grass," that she had been lamentingall the morning she had not bought for her chip hat, instead of thepomegranate flowers. And Agatha would be on the bed, in her cashmeresack, reading Miss Braddon."It would sound nice to tell them she was going down to the MissionSchool to give out crumbs!"Besides, I suppose that persons of a certain temperament never uttera more ungracious "No," than when they are longing all the time tosay "Yes."So she turned round on the lower step to Kenneth, when he had askedthat grave, sweet question of the Lord's, and said perversely,--"I thought you did not believe in any brokering kind of business.It's all there,--for everybody. Why should I set up to fetch andcarry?"She did not look in his face as she said it; she was not audaciousenough to do that; she poked with the stick of her sunshade betweenthe uneven bricks of the sidewalk, keeping her eyes down, as if shewatched for some truth she expected to pry up. But she only wedgedthe stick in so that she could not get it out; and Kenneth Kincaidmaking her absolutely no answer at all, she had to stand there,growing red and ashamed, held fast by her own silly trap."Take care; you will break it," said Kenneth, quietly, as she gaveit a twist and a wrench. And he put out his hand, and took it fromhers, and drew gently upward in the line in which she had thrust itin."You were bearing off at an angle. It wanted a straight pull.""I never pull straight at anything. I always get into a crook,somehow. You didn't answer me, Mr. Kincaid. I didn't mean to berude--or wicked. I didn't mean--""What you said. I know that; and it's no use to answer what peopledon't mean. That makes the crookedest crook of all.""But I think I did mean it partly; only not contrarimindedly. I domean that I have no business--yet awhile. It would only be--Miggingat gospel!"And with this remarkable application of her favorite illustrativeexpression, she made a friendly but abrupt motion of leave-taking,and went into the house.Up into her own room, in the third story, where the old furniturewas, and no "fadging,"--and sat down, bonnet, gloves, sunshade, andall, in her little cane rocking-chair by the window.Helena was down in the pink room, listening with charmed ears to thegrown up young-ladyisms of her elder sisters and Glossy Megilp.Desire sat still until the dinner-bell rang, forgetful of her dress,forgetful of all but one thought that she spoke out as she rose atlast at the summons to take off her things in a hurry,--"I wonder,--I _wonder_--if I shall ever live anything all straightout!"XIII.PIECES OF WORLDS.Mr. Dickens never put a truer thought into any book, than he put atthe beginning of "Little Dorrit."That, from over land and sea, from hundreds, thousands of milesaway, are coming the people with whom we are to have to do in ourlives; and that, "what is set to us to do to them, and what is setfor them to do to us, will all be done."Not only from far places in this earth, over land and sea,--but fromout the eternities, before and after,--from which souls are born,and into which they die,--all the lines of life are movingcontinually which are to meet and join, and bend, and cross our own.But it is only with a little piece of this world, as far as we cansee it in this short and simple story, that we have now to do.Rosamond Holabird was coming down to Boston.With all her pretty, fresh, delicate, high-lady ways, with herbeautiful looks, and her sweet readiness for true things and nobleliving, she was coming, for a few days only,--the cooperativehousekeeping was going on at Westover, and she could not be sparedlong,--right in among them here in Aspen Street, and ShubartonPlace, and Orchard Street, and Harrisburg Square, where Mrs.Scherman lived whom she was going to stay with. But a few days maybe a great deal.Rosamond Holabird was coming for far more than she knew. Amongother things she was coming to get a lesson; a lesson right on in acourse she was just now learning; a lesson of next things, and bestthings, and real folks.You see how it happened,--where the links were; Miss Craydocke, andSin Scherman, and Leslie Goldthwaite, were dear friends, made toeach other one summer among the mountains. Leslie had had Sin andMiss Craydocke up at Z----, and Rosamond and Leslie were friends,also.Mrs. Frank Scherman had a pretty house in Harrisburg Square. She hadnot much time for paying fashionable calls, or party-going, orparty-giving. As to the last, she did not think Frank had moneyenough yet to "circumfuse," she said, in that way.But she had six lovely little harlequin cups on a side-shelf in herchina closet, and six different-patterned breakfast plates, withcolored borders to match the cups; rose, and brown, and gray, andvermilion, and green, and blue. These were all the real china shehad, and were for Frank and herself and the friends whom she madewelcome,--and who might come four at once,--for day and night. Shedelighted in "little stays;" in girls who would go into the nurserywith her, and see Sinsie in her bath; or into the kitchen, and helpher mix up "little delectabilities to surprise Frank with;" only thetrouble had got to be now, that the surprise occurred when thedelectabilities did not. Frank had got demoralized, and expectedthem. She rejoiced to have Miss Craydocke drop in of a morning andcome right up stairs, with her little petticoats and things to workon; and she and Frank returned these visits in a social, cosy way,after Sinsie was in her crib for the night. Frank's boots never wenton with a struggle for a walk down to Orchard Street; but they wereterribly impossible for Continuation Avenue.So it had come about long ago, though I have not had a corner tomention it in, that they "knew the Muffin Man," in an Aspen Streetsense; and were no strangers to the charm of Mrs. Ripwinkley's"evenings." There was always an "evening" in the "Mile Hill House,"as the little family and friendly coterie had come to call it.Rosamond and Leslie had been down together for a week once, at theSchermans; and this time Rosamond was coming alone. She had businessin Boston for a day or two, and had written to ask Asenath "if shemight." There were things to buy for Barbara, who was going to bemarried in a "navy hurry," besides an especial matter that haddetermined her just at this time to come.And Asenath answered, "that the scarlet and gray, and green and bluewere pining and fading on the shelf; and four days would be the veryleast to give them all a turn and treat them fairly; for such thingshad their delicate susceptibilities, as Hans Andersen had taught usto know, and might starve and suffer,--why not? being made ofprotoplasm, same as anybody."Rosamond's especial errand to the city was one that just a littleset her up, innocently, in her mind. She had not wholly got thebetter,--when it interfered with no good-will or generousdealing,--of a certain little instinctive reverence for imposingoutsides and grand ways of daily doing; and she was somewhatcomplacent at the idea of having to go,--with kindly and needfulinformation,--to Madam Mucklegrand, in Spreadsplendid Park.Madam Mucklegrand was a well-born Boston lady, who had gone toEurope in her early youth, and married a Scottish gentleman with aSir before his name. Consequently, she was quite entitled to becalled "my lady;" and some people who liked the opportunity oftouching their republican tongues to the salt of Europeandignitaries, addressed her so; but, for the most part, she assumedand received simply the style of "Madam." A queen may be called"Madam," you know. It covers an indefinite greatness. But when shespoke of her late,--very long ago,--husband, she always named him as"Sir Archibald."Madam Mucklegrand's daughter wanted a wet-nurse for her little baby.Up in Z----, there was a poor woman whose husband, a young brakemanon the railroad, had been suddenly killed three months ago, beforeher child was born. There was a sister here in Boston, who couldtake care of it for her if she could go to be foster-mother to somerich little baby, who was yet so poor as this--to need one. SoRosamond Holabird, who was especially interested for Mrs. Jopson,had written to Asenath, and had an advertisement put in the"Transcript," referring to Mrs. Scherman for information. And theMucklegrand carriage had rolled up, the next day, to the house inHarrisburg Square.They wanted to see the woman, of course, and to hear all abouther,--more than Mrs. Scherman was quite able to tell; therefore whenshe sent a little note up to Z----, by the evening mail, Rosamondreplied with her "Might she come?"She brought Jane Jopson and the baby down with her, left them overnight at Mrs. Ginnever's, in Sheafe Street, and was to go for themnext morning and take them up to Spreadsplendid Park. She had sent agraceful, polite little note to Madam Mucklegrand, dated "Westover,Z----," and signed, "Rosamond Holabird," offering to do this, thatthere might not be the danger of Jane's losing the chance in themeanwhile.It was certainly to accomplish the good deed that Rosamond caredthe most; but it was also certainly something to accomplish it inthat very high quarter. It lent a piquancy to the occasion.She came down to breakfast very nicely and discriminatingly dressed,with the elegant quietness of a lady who knew what was simplyappropriate to such an errand and the early hour, but who meant tobe recognized as the lady in every unmistakable touch; and there wasa carriage ordered for her at half past nine.Sin Scherman was a cute little matron; she discerned the dash ofsubdued importance in Rosamond's air; and she thought it verylikely, in the Boston nature of things, that it would getwholesomely and civilly toned down.Just at this moment, Rosamond, putting on her little straw bonnetwith real lace upon it, and her simple little narrow-bordered greenshawl, that was yet, as far as it went, veritable cashmere,--had aconsciousness, in a still, modest way, not only of her own personaldignity as Rosamond Holabird, who was the same going to see MadamMucklegrand, or walking over to Madam Pennington's, and as much inher place with one as the other; but of the dignity of Westoveritself, and Westover ladyhood, represented by her among the palacesof Boston-Appendix to-day.She was only twenty, this fair and pleasant Rosamond of ours, andcountry simple, with all her native tact and grace; and she forgot,or did not know how full of impressions a life like MadamMucklegrand's might be, and how very trifling and fleeting must beany that she might chance to make.She drove away down to the North End, and took Jane Jopson and herbaby in,--very clean and shiny, both of them,--and Janeparticularly nice in the little black crape bonnet that Rosamondherself had made, and the plain black shawl that Mrs. Holabird hadgiven her.She stood at the head of the high, broad steps, with her mind verymuch made up in regard to her complete and well-bred self-possession,and the manner of her quietly assured self-introduction. She had hercard all ready that should explain for her; and to the servant'sreply that Madam Mucklegrand was in, she responded by moving forwardwith only enough of voluntary hesitation to allow him to indicate toher the reception room, at the door of which she gave him the littlepasteboard, with,--"Take that to her, if you please," and so sat down, very much as ifshe had been in such places frequently before, which she never had.One may be quite used to the fine, free essence of gentle living,and never in all one's life have anything to do with such solid,concrete expression of it as Rosamond saw here.Very high, to begin with, the ceiled and paneled room was; reachingup into space as if it had really been of no consequence to thebuilders where they should put the cover on; and with no remotestsuggestion of any reserve for further superstructure upon the samefoundation.Very dark, and polished, and deeply carved, and heavily ornamentedwere its wainscotings, and frames, and cornices; out of the new lookof the streets, which it will take them yet a great while tooutgrow, she had stepped at once into a grand, and mellow, andancient stateliness.There were dim old portraits on the walls, and paintings that hintedat old mastership filled whole panels; and the tall, high-backed,wonderfully wrought oaken chairs had heraldic devices in relief upontheir bars and corners; and there was a great, round mosaic table,in soft, rich, dark colors, of most precious stones; these, inturn, hidden with piles of rare engravings.The floor was of dark woods, inlaid; and sumptuous rugs were putabout upon it for the feet, each one of which was wide enough tocall a carpet.And nothing of it all was _new_; there was nothing in the room butsome plants in a jardiniere by the window, that seemed to have a bitof yesterday's growth upon it.A great, calm, marble face of Jove looked down from high up, out ofthe shadows.Underneath sat Rosamond Holabird, holding on to her identity and herself-confidence.Madam Mucklegrand came in plainly enough dressed,--in black; youwould not notice what she had on; but you would notice instantly theconsummate usedness to the world and the hardening into the mouldthereof that was set and furrowed upon eye and lip and brow.She sailed down upon Rosamond like a frigate upon a graceful littlepinnace; and brought to within a pace or two of her, continuing tostand an instant, as Rosamond rose, just long enough for the shadowof a suggestion that it might not be altogether material that sheshould be seated again at all.But Rosamond made a movement backward to her chair, and laid herhand upon its arm, and then Madam Mucklegrand decided to sit down."You called about the nurse, I conclude, Miss--Holabird?""Yes, ma'am; I thought you had some questions you wished to ask, andthat I had better come myself. I have her with me, in the carriage.""Thank you," said Madam Mucklegrand, politely.But it was rather a _de haut en bas_ politeness; she exercised italso toward her footman.Then followed inquiries about age, and health, and character.Rosamond told all she knew, clearly and sufficiently, with somelittle sympathetic touches that she could not help, in giving herstory.Madam Mucklegrand met her nowhere, however, on any common ground;she passed over all personal interest; instead of two womenbefriending a third in her need, who in turn was to give life to alittle child waiting helplessly for some such ministry, it mighthave been the leasing of a house, or the dealing about somemerchandise, that was between them.Rosamond proposed, at last, to send Jane Jopson in.Jane and her baby were had in, and had up-stairs; the physician andattending nurse pronounced upon her; she was brought down again, togo home and dispose of her child, and return. Rosamond, meanwhile,had been sitting under the marble Jove.There was nothing really rude in it; she was there on business; whatmore could she expect? But then she knew all the time, that she toowas a lady, and was taking trouble to do a kind thing. It was not sothat Madam Mucklegrand would have been treated at Westover.Rosamond was feeling pretty proud by the time Madam Mucklegrand camedown stairs."We have engaged the young woman: the doctor quite approves; shewill return without delay, I hope?"As if Rosamond were somehow responsible all through."I have no doubt she will; good morning, madam.""Good morning. I am, really, very much obliged. You have been ofgreat service."Rosamond turned quietly round upon the threshold."That was what I was very anxious to be," she said, in her perfectlysweet and musical voice,--"to the poor woman."Italics would indicate too coarsely the impalpable emphasis she putupon the last two words. But Mrs. Mucklegrand caught it.Rosamond went away quite as sure of her own self-respect as ever,but very considerably cured of Spreadsplendidism.This was but one phase of it, she knew; there are real folks, also,in Spreadsplendid Park; they are a good deal covered up, there, tobe sure; but they can't help that. It is what always happens tosomebody when Pyramids are built. Madam Mucklegrand herself was,perhaps, only a good deal covered up.How lovely it was to go down into Orchard Street after that, andtake tea with Miss Craydocke! How human and true it seemed,--thefriendliness that shone and breathed there, among them all. Howkingdom-of-heaven-like the air was, and into what pleasantness ofspeech it was born!And then Hazel Ripwinkley came over, like a little spirit fromanother blessed society, to tell that "the picture-book things wereall ready, and that it would take everybody to help."That was Rosamond's first glimpse of Witch Hazel, who found her outinstantly,--the real, Holabirdy part of her,--and set her down atonce among her "folks."It was bright and cheery in Mrs. Ripwinkley's parlor; you couldhardly tell whence the cheeriness radiated, either.The bright German lamp was cheery, in the middle of the round table;the table was cheery, covered with glossy linen cut into large,square book-sheets laid in piles, and with gay pictures of allkinds, brightly colored; and the scissors,--or scissorses,--therewere ever so many shining pairs of them,--and the little mucilagebottles, and the very scrap-baskets,--all looked cozy andcomfortable, and as if people were going to have a real good timeamong them, somehow.And the somehow was in making great beautiful, everlastingpicture-books for the little orphans in Miss Craydocke's Home,--theHome, that is, out of several blessed and similar ones that she wasespecially interested in, and where Hazel and Diana had been withher until they knew all the little waifs by sight and name andheart, and had their especial chosen property among them, as theyused to have among the chickens and the little yellow ducks atHomesworth Farm.Mrs. Ripwinkley was cheery; it might be a question whether all thelight did not come from her first, in some way, and perhaps it did;but then Hazel was luminous, and she fluttered about with quick,happy motions, till like a little glancing taper she had shone uponand lit up everybody and everything; and Dorris was sunny with clearcontent, and Kenneth was blithe, and Desire was scintillant, as shealways was either with snaps or smiles; and here came in beamingMiss Craydocke, and gay Asenath and her handsome husband; and ourRosa Mundi; there,--how can you tell? It was all round; and it wasmore every minute.There were cutters and pasters and stitchers and binders and everypart was beautiful work, and nobody could tell which waspleasantest. Cutting out was nice, of course; who doesn't likecutting out pictures? Some were done beforehand, but there were asmany left as there would be time for. And pasting, on the fine,smooth linen, making it glow out with charming groups and tints offlowers and birds and children in gay clothes,--that wasdelightful; and the stitchers had the pleasure of combining andarranging it all; and the binders,--Mrs. Ripwinkley and MissCraydocke,--finished all off with the pretty ribbons and the graycovers, and theirs being the completing touch, thought _they_ hadthe best of it."But I don't think finishing is best, mother," said Hazel, who wasdiligently snipping in and out around rose leaves or baby faces, asit happened. "I think beginning is always beautiful. I never want toend off,--anything nice, I mean.""Well, we don't end off this," said Diana. "There's the giving,next.""And then their little laughs and Oo's," said Hazel."And their delight day after day; and the comfort of them in theirlittle sicknesses," said Miss Craydocke."And the stories that have got to be told about every picture," saidDorris."No; nothing really nice does end; it goes on and on," said Mrs.Ripwinkley."Of course!" said Hazel, triumphantly, turning on the Drummond lightof her child-faith. "We're forever and ever people, you know!""Please paste some more flowers, Mr. Kincaid," said Rosamond, whosat next him, stitching. "I want to make an all-flower book of this.No,--not roses; I've a whole page already; this great white lily, Ithink. That's beautiful!""Wouldn't it do to put in this laurel bush next, with the bird'snest in it?""O, those lovely pink and white laurels! Yes. Where did you get suchpictures, Miss Hazel?""O, everybody gave them to us, all summer, ever since we began. Mrs.Geoffrey gave those flowers; and mother painted some. She did thatlaurel. But don't call me Miss Hazel, please; it seems to send meoff into a corner."Rosamond answered by a little irresistible caress; leaning her headdown to Hazel, on her other side, until her cheek touched thechild's bright curls, quickly and softly. There was magnetismbetween those two.Ah, the magnetism ran round!"For a child's picture-book, Mrs. Ripwinkley?" said Mrs. Scherman,reaching over for the laurel picture. "Aren't these almosttoo exquisite? They would like a big scarlet poppy just aswell,--perhaps better. Or a clump of cat-o'-nine-tails," she added,whimsically."There _is_ a clump of cat-o'-nine-tails," said Mrs. Ripwinkley. "Iremember how I used to delight in them as a child,--the real ones.""Pictures are to _tell_ things," said Desire, in her brief way."These little city refugees _must_ see them, somehow," saidRosamond, gently. "I understand. They will never get up on themountains, maybe, where the laurels grow, or into the shady swampsamong the flags and the cat-o'-nine-tails. You have _picked out_pictures to give them, Mrs. Ripwinkley."Kenneth Kincaid's scissors stopped a moment, as he looked atRosamond, pausing also over the placing of her leaves.Desire saw that from the other side; she saw how beautiful andgracious this girl was--this Rosamond Holabird; and there was astrange little twinge in her heart, as she felt, suddenly, that letthere be ever so much that was true and kindly, or even tender, inher, it could never come up in her eyes or play upon her lips likethat she could never say it out sweetly and in due place everythingwas a spasm with her; and nobody would ever look at her just asKenneth Kincaid looked at Rosamond then.She said to herself, with her harsh, unsparing honesty, that it mustbe a "hitch inside;" a cramp or an awkwardness born in her, that sether eyes, peering and sharp, so near together, and put that knotinto her brows instead of their widening placidly, like Rosamond's,and made her jerky in her speech. It was no use; she couldn't lookand behave, because she couldn't _be_; she must just go boggling andkinking on, and--losing everything, she supposed.The smiles went down, under a swift, bitter little cloud, and thehard twist came into her face with the inward pinching she wasgiving herself; and all at once there crackled out one of her sharp,strange questions; for it was true that she could not do otherwise;everything was sudden and crepitant with her."Why need all the good be done up in batches, I wonder? Why can't itbe spread round, a little more even? There must have been a gooddeal left out somewhere, to make it come in a heap, so, upon you,Miss Craydocke!"Hazel looked up."I know what Desire means," she said. "It seemed just so to me,_one_ way. Why oughtn't there to be _little_ homes, done-by-handhomes, for all these little children, instead of--well--machiningthem all up together?"And Hazel laughed at her own conceit."It's nice; but then--it isn't just the way. If we were all broughtup like that we shouldn't know, you see!""You wouldn't want to be brought up in a platoon, Hazel?" saidKenneth Kincaid. "No; neither should I.""I think it was better," said Hazel, "to have my turn of being alittle child, all to myself; _the_ little child, I mean, with therest of the folks bigger. To make much of me, you know. I shouldn'twant to have missed that. I shouldn't like to be _loved_ in aplatoon.""Nobody is meant to be," said Miss Craydocke."Then why--" began Asenath Scherman, and stopped."Why what, dear?""Revelations," replied Sin, laconically. "There are loads of peoplethere, all dressed alike, you know; and--well--it's platoony, Ithink, rather! And down here, such a world-full; and the sky--fullof worlds. There doesn't seem to be much notion of one at a time, inthe general plan of things.""Ah, but we've got the key to all that," said Miss Craydocke. "'Thevery hairs of your head are all numbered.' It may be impossible withus, you know, but not with Him.""Miss Hapsie! you always did put me down, just when I thought I wassmart," said Sin Scherman.Asenath loved to say "Miss Hapsie," now and then, to her friend,ever since she had found out what she called her "squee littlename.""But the little children, Miss Craydocke," said Mrs. Ripwinkley. "Itseems to me Desire has got a right thought about it."Mrs. Ripwinkley and Hazel always struck the same note. The samedelicate instinct moved them both. Hazel "knew what Desire meant;"her mother did not let it be lost sight of that it was Desire whohad led the way in this thought of the children; so that the abruptbeginning--the little flash out of the cloud--was quite forgottenpresently, in the tone of hearty understanding and genuine interestwith which the talk went on; and it was as if all that was generousand mindfully suggestive in it had first and truly come from her.They unfolded herself for her--these friendly ones--as she could notdo; out of her bluntness grew a graciousness that lay softly overit; the cloud itself melted away and floated off; and Desire beganto sparkle again more lambently. For she was not one of the kind tobe meanly or enviously "put out.""It seemed to me there must be a great many spare little cornerssomewhere, for all these spare little children," she said, "andthat, lumped up together so, there was something they did not get.""That is precisely the thing," said Miss Craydocke, emphatically. "Iwonder, sometimes," she went on, tenderly, "if whenever God makes alittle empty place in a home, it isn't really on purpose that itmight be filled with one of these,--if people only thought.""Miss Craydocke," said Hazel, "how did you begin your beehive?""I!" said the good lady. "I didn't. It began itself.""Well, then, how did you _let_ it begin?""Ah!"The tone was admissive, and as if she had said, "_That_ is anotherthing!" She could not contradict that she had let it be."I'll tell you a queer story," she said, "of what they say they usedto do, in old Roman Catholic times and places, when they wanted to_keep up_ a beehive that was in any danger of dwindling or growingunprofitable. I read it somewhere in a book of popular beliefs andcustoms about bees and other interesting animals. An old woman oncewent to her friend, and asked her what she did to make her hive sogainful. And this was what the old wife said; it sounds ratherstrange to us, but if there is anything irreverent in it, it is theword and not the meaning; 'I go,' she said, 'to the priest, and geta little round Godamighty, and put it in the hive, and then all goeswell; the bees thrive, and there is plenty of honey; they alwayscome, and stay, and work, when _that_ is there.""A little round--something awful! what _did_ she mean?" asked Mrs.Scherman."She meant a consecrated wafer,--the Sacrament. We don't need to putthe wafer in; but if we let _Him_ in, you see,--just say to Him itis his house, to do with as He likes,--He takes the responsibility,and brings in all the rest."Nobody saw, under the knitting of Desire Ledwith's brows, and theclose setting of her eyes, the tenderness with which they suddenlymoistened, and the earnestness with which they gleamed. Nobody knewhow she thought to herself inwardly, in the same spasmodic fashionthat she used for speech,--"They Mig up their parlors with upholstery, and put rose-coloredpaper on their walls, and call them _their_ houses; and shut thelittle round awfulness and goodness out! We've all been doing it!And there's no place left for what might come in."Mrs. Scherman broke the hush that followed what Miss Hapsie said.Not hastily, or impertinently; but when it seemed as if it might bea little hard to come down into the picture-books and the pleasanteasiness again."Let's make a Noah's Ark picture-book,--you and I," she said toDesire. "Give us all your animals,--there's a whole Natural Historyfull over there, all painted with splendid daubs of colors; thechildren did that, I know, when they _were_ children. Come; we'llhave everything in, from an elephant to a bumble-bee!""We did not mean to use those, Mrs. Scherman," said Desire. "We didnot think they were good enough. They are _so_ daubed up.""They're perfectly beautiful. Exactly what the young ones will like.Just divide round, and help. We'll wind up with the most wonderfulbook of all; the book they'll all cry for, and that will have to begiven always, directly after the Castor Oil."It took them more than an hour to do that, all working hard; and awonderful thing it was truly, when it was done. Mrs. Scherman andDesire Ledwith directed all the putting together, and the groupingwas something astonishing.There were men and women,--the Knowers, Sin called them; she saidthat was what she always thought the old gentleman's name was, inthe days when she first heard of him, because he knew so much; andin the backgrounds of the same sheets were their country cousins,the orangs, and the little apes. Then came the elephants, and thecamels, and the whales; "for why shouldn't the fishes be put in,since they must all have been swimming round sociably, if theyweren't inside; and why shouldn't the big people be all kepttogether properly?"There were happy families of dogs and cats and lions and snakes andlittle humming-birds; and in the last part were all manner of bugs,down to the little lady-bugs in blazes of red and gold, and the grayfleas and mosquitoes which Sin improvised with pen and ink, in aswarm at the end."And after that, I don't believe they wanted any more," she said;and handed over the parts to Miss Craydocke to be tied together.For this volume had had to be made in many folds, and Mrs.Ripwinkley's blue ribbon would by no means stretch over the back.And by that time it was eleven o'clock, and they had worked fourhours. They all jumped up in a great hurry then, and began to saygood-by."This must not be the last we are to have of you, Miss Holabird,"said Mrs. Ripwinkley, laying Rosamond's shawl across her shoulders."Of course not," said Mrs Scherman, "when you are all coming to ourhouse to tea to-morrow night."Rosamond bade the Ripwinkleys good-night with a most sweetcordiality, and thanks for the pleasure she had had, and she toldHazel and her mother that it was "neither beginning nor end, shebelieved; for it seemed to her that she had only found a little newpiece of her world, and that Aspen Street led right out of Westoverin the invisible geography, she was sure.""Come!" said Miss Craydocke, standing on the doorsteps. "It is allinvisible geography out here, pretty nearly; and we've all ourdifferent ways to go, and only these two unhappy gentlemen to insiston seeing everybody home."So first the whole party went round with Miss Hapsie, and thenKenneth and Dorris, who always went home with Desire, walked upHanley Street with the Schermans and Rosamond, and so across throughDane Street to Shubarton Place.But while they were on their way, Hazel Ripwinkley was saying to hermother, up in her room, where they made sometimes such longgood-nights,--"Mother! there were some little children taken away from you beforewe came, you know? And now we've got this great big house, andplenty of things, more than it takes for us.""Well?""Don't you think it's expected that we should do something with thecorners? There's room for some real good little times for somebody.I think we ought to begin a beehive."Mrs. Ripwinkley kissed Hazel very tenderly, and said, only,--"We can wait, and see."Those are just the words that mothers so often put children offwith! But Mrs. Ripwinkley, being one of the real folks, meant it;the very heart of it.In that little talk, they took the consecration in; they would waitand see; when people do that, with an expectation, the beehivebegins.       *       *       *       *       *Up Hanley Street, the six fell into pairs.Mrs. Scherman and Desire, Dorris and Mr. Scherman, Rosamond andKenneth Kincaid.It only took from Bridgeley Street up to Dane, to tell KennethKincaid so much about Westover, in answer to his questions, that hetoo thought he had found a new little piece of his world. WhatRosamond thought, I do not know; but a girl never gives a young manso much as she gave Kenneth in that little walk without having someof the blessed consciousness that comes with giving. The sun knowsit shines, I dare say; or else there is a great waste of hydrogenand other things.There was not much left for poor little Desire after they partedfrom the Schermans and turned the corner of Dane Street. Only alittle bit of a way, in which new talk could hardly begin, and justtime for a pause that showed how the talk that had come to an endwas missed or how, perhaps, it stayed in the mind, repeating itself,and keeping it full.Nobody said anything till they had crossed B---- Street; and thenDorris said, "How beautiful,--_real_ beautiful, Rosamond Holabirdis!" And Kenneth answered, "Did you hear what she said to Mrs.Ripwinkley?"They were full of Rosamond! Desire did not speak a word.Dorris had heard and said it over. It seemed to please Kenneth tohear it again. "A piece of her world!""How quickly a true person springs to what belongs to--their life!"said Kenneth, using that wrong little pronoun that we shall never beable to do without."People don't always get what belongs, though," blurted Desire atlast, just as they came to the long doorsteps. "Some people's livesare like complementary colors, I think; they see blue, and livered!""But the colors are only accidentally--I mean temporarily--divided;they are together in the sun; and they join somewhere--beyond.""I hate beyond!" said Desire, recklessly. "Good-night. Thank you."And she ran up the steps.Nobody knew what she meant. Perhaps she hardly knew herself.They only thought that her home life was not suited to her, and thatshe took it hard.XIV."SESAME; AND LILIES.""I've got a discouragement at my stomach," said Luclarion Grapp."What's the matter?" asked Mrs. Ripwinkley, naturally."Mrs. Scarup. I've been there. There ain't any bottom to it.""Well?"Mrs. Ripwinkley knew that Luclarion had more to say, and that shewaited for this monosyllable."She's sick again. And Scarup, he's gone out West, spending ahundred dollars to see whether or no there's a chance anywhere for a_smart_ man,--and that ain't he, so it's a double waste,--to makefifty. No girl; and the children all under foot, and Pinkie lookingmiserable over the dishes.""Pinkie isn't strong.""No. She's powerful weak. I just wish you'd seen that dirtysettin'-room fire-place; looks as if it hadn't been touched sinceScarup smoked his pipe there, the night before he went off awild-gandering. And clo'es to be ironed, and the girl cleared out,because 'she'd always been used to fust-class families.' Therewasn't anything to your hand, and you couldn't tell where to begin,unless you began with a cataplasm!"Luclarion had heard, by chance, of a cataclysm, and that was whatshe meant."It wants--creation, over again! Mrs. Scarup hadn't any fitbreakfast; there was burnt toast, made out of tough bread, thatshe'd been trying to eat; and a cup of tea, half drunk; somethingthe matter with that, I presume. I'd have made her some gruel, ifthere'd been a fire; and if there'd been any kindlings, I'd havemade her a fire; but there 'twas; there wasn't any bottom to it!""You had better make the gruel here, Luclarion.""That's what I come back for. But--Mrs. Ripwinkley!""Well?""Don't it appear to you it's a kind of a stump? I don't want to doit just for the satisfaction; though it _would_ be a satisfaction toplough everything up thorough, and then rake it over smooth; what doyou think?""What have you thought, Luclarion? Something, of course.""She wants a real smart girl--for two dollars a week. She can't gether, because she ain't. And I kind of felt as though I should liketo put in. Seemed to me it was a--but there! I haven't any right tostump _you_.""Wouldn't it be rather an aggravation? I don't suppose you wouldmean to stay altogether?""Not unless--but don't go putting it into my head, Mrs. Ripwinkley.I shall feel as if I _was_. And I don't think it goes quite so faras that, yet. We ain't never stumped to more than one thing at atime. What she wants is to be straightened out. And when things oncelooked _my_ way, she might get a girl, you see. Anyhow, 'twouldencourage Pinkie, and kind of set her going. Pinkie likes thingsnice; but it's such a Hoosac tunnel to undertake, that she just letsit all go, and gets off up-stairs, and sticks a ribbon in her hair.That's all she _can_ do. I s'pose 'twould take a fortnight, maybe?""Take it, Luclarion," said Mrs. Ripwinkley, smiling. Luclarionunderstood the smile."I s'pose you think it's as good as took. Well, perhaps it is--spokefor. But it wasn't me, you know. Now what'll you do?""Go into the kitchen and make the pudding.""But then?""We are not stumped for then, you know.""There was a colored girl here yesterday, from up in Garden Street,asking if there was any help wanted. I think she came in partially,to look at the flowers; the 'sturtiums _are_ splendid, and I gaveher some. She was awfully dressed up,--for colors, I mean; but shelooked clean and pleasant, and spoke bright. Maybe she'd come,temporary. She seemed taken with things. I know where to find her,and I could go there when I got through with the gruel. Mrs. Scarupmust have that right off."And Luclarion hurried away.It was not the first time Mrs. Ripwinkley had lent Luclarion; butMiss Grapp had not found a kitchen mission in Boston heretofore. Itwas something new to bring the fashion of simple, prompt, neighborlyhelp down intact from the hills, and apply it here to the tangle ofcity living, that is made up of so many separate and unrecognizedstruggles.When Hazel came home from school, she went all the way up the gardenwalk, and in at the kitchen door. "That was the way she took itall," she said; "first the flowers, and then Luclarion and what theyhad for dinner, and a drink of water; and then up-stairs, tomother."To-day she encountered in the kitchen a curious and startlingapparition of change.A very dusky brown maiden, with a petticoat of flashing purple, anda jacket of crimson, and extremely puzzling hair tied up with knotsof corn color, stood in possession over the stove, tending africassee, of which Hazel recognized at once the preparation andsavor as her mother's; while beside her on a cricket, munching coldbiscuit and butter with round, large bites of very white littleteeth, sat a small girl of five of the same color, gleaming andtwinkling as nothing human ever does gleam and twinkle but a littledarkie child."Where is Luclarion?" asked Hazel, standing still in the middle ofthe floor, in her astonishment."I don't know. I'm Damaris, and this one's little Vash. Don't go forcallin' me Dam, now; the boys did that in my last place, an' I left,don' yer see? I ain't goin' to be swore to, anyhow!"And Damaris glittered at Hazel, with her shining teeth and her quickeyes, full of fun and good humor, and enjoyed her end of the jokeextremely."Have you come to _stay_?" asked Hazel."'Course. I don' mostly come for to go.""What does it mean, mother?" Hazel asked, hurrying up into hermother's room.And then Mrs. Ripwinkley explained."But what _is_ she? Black or white? She's got straight braids andcurls at the back of her head, like everybody's"--"'Course," said a voice in the doorway. "An' wool on top,--placewhere wool ought to grow,--same's everybody, too."Damaris had come up, according to orders, to report a certain pointin the progress of the fricassee."They all pulls the wool over they eyes, now-days, an sticks thestraight on behind. Where's the difference?"Mrs. Ripwinkley made some haste to rise and move toward thedoorway, to go down stairs, turning Damaris from her position, andchecking further remark. Diana and Hazel stayed behind, and laughed."What fun!" they said.It was the beginning of a funny fortnight; but it is not the fun Ihave paused to tell you of; something more came of it in thehome-life of the Ripwinkleys; that which they were "waiting to see."Damaris wanted a place where she could take her little sister; shewas tired of leaving her "shyin' round," she said. And Vash, withher round, fuzzy head, her bright eyes, her little flashing teeth,and her polished mahogany skin,--darting up and down the house "onAarons," or for mere play,--dressed in her gay little scarletflannel shirt-waist, and black and orange striped petticoat,--waslike some "splendid, queer little fire-bug," Hazel said, and made asurprise and a picture wherever she came. She was "cute," too, asDamaris had declared beforehand; she was a little wonder at noticingand remembering, and for all sorts of handiness that a child of fivecould possibly be put to.Hazel dressed rag babies for her, and made her a soap-box baby-housein the corner of the kitchen, and taught her her letters; and beganto think that she should hate to have her go when Luclarion cameback.Damaris proved clever and teachable in the kitchen; and had, aboveall, the rare and admirable disposition to keep things scrupulouslyas she had found them; so that Luclarion, in her afternoon tripshome, was comforted greatly to find that while she was "clearing andploughing" at Mrs. Scarup's, her own garden of neatness was notbeing turned into a howling wilderness; and she observed, as isoften done so astutely, that "when you _do_ find a neat, capable,colored help, it's as good help as you can have." Which you maynotice is just as true without the third adjective as with.Luclarion herself was having a splendid time.The first thing she did was to announce to Mrs. Scarup that she wasout of her place for two weeks, and would like to come to her at herwages; which Mrs. Scarup received with some such awed andunbelieving astonishment as she might have done the coming of alegion of angels with Gabriel at their head. And when one strong,generous human will, with powers of brain and body under itsufficient to some good work, comes down upon it as Luclarion didupon hers, there _is_ what Gabriel and his angels stand for, and noless sent of God.The second thing Luclarion did was to clean that "settin'-roomfire-place," to restore the pleasant brown color of its freestonehearth and jambs, to polish its rusty brasses till they shone likegolden images of gods, and to lay an ornamental fire of chips andclean little sticks across the irons. Then she took a wet broom andswept the carpet three times, and dusted everything with a dampduster; and then she advised Mrs. Scarup, whom the gruel had alreadycheered and strengthened, to be "helped down, and sit there in theeasy-chair, for a change, and let her take her room in hand." And nodoctor ever prescribed any change with better effect. There are agood many changes that might be made for people, without sendingthem beyond their own doors. But it isn't the doctors who alwaysknow _what_ change, or would dare to prescribe it if they did.Mrs. Scarup was "helped down," it seemed,--really up, rather,--intoa new world. Things had begun all over again. It was worth while toget well, and take courage. Those brasses shone in her face likemorning suns."Well, I do declare to Man, Miss Grapp!" she exclaimed; and breathand expression failed together, and that was all she could say.Up-stairs, Luclarion swept and rummaged. She found the sheet andtowel drawers, and made everything white and clean. She laid freshnapkins over the table and bureau tops, and set the littlethings--boxes, books, what not,--daintily about on them. She put aclean spread on the bed, and gathered up things for the wash shemeant to have, with a recklessness that Mrs. Scarup herself wouldnever have dared to use, in view of any "help" she ever expected todo it.And then, with Pinkie to lend feeble assistance, Luclarion turned toin the kitchen.It was a "clear treat," she told Mrs. Ripwinkley afterward. "Thingshad got to that state of mussiness, that you just began at one endand worked through to the other, and every inch looked new made overafter you as you went along."She put the children out into the yard on the planks, and gave themtin pans and clothes-pins to keep house with, and gingerbread fortheir dinner. She and Pinkie had cups of tea, and Mrs. Scarup hadher gruel, and went up to bed again; and that was another newexperience, and a third stage in her treatment and recovery.When it came to the cellar, Luclarion got the chore-man in; and whenall was done, she looked round on the renovated home, and saidwithin herself, "If Scarup, now, will only break his neck, or getsomething to do, and stay away with his pipes and his boots and hiscontraptions!"And Scarup did. He found a chance in some freight-house, and wrotethat he had made up his mind to stay out there all winter; and Mrs.Scarup made little excursions about the house with her returningstrength, and every journey was a pleasure-trip, and the only miserywas that at the end of the fortnight Miss Grapp was going away, andthen she should be "all back in the swamp again.""No, you won't," said Luclarion; "Pinkie's waked up, and she's goingto take pride, and pick up after the children. She can do that, now;but she couldn't shoulder everything. And you'll have somebody inthe kitchen. See if you don't. I've 'most a mind to say I'll staytill you do."Luclarion's faith was strong; she knew, she said, that "if she wasdoing at her end, Providence wasn't leaving off at his. Things wouldcome round."This was how they did come round.It only wanted a little sorting about. The pieces of the puzzle wereall there. Hazel Ripwinkley settled the first little bit in theright place. She asked her mother one night, if she didn't thinkthey might begin their beehive with a fire-fly? Why couldn't theykeep little Vash?"And then," said Diana, in her quiet way, slipping one of the bigthree-cornered pieces of the puzzle in, "Damaris might go to Mrs.Scarup for her two dollars a week. She is willing to work for that,if she can get Vash taken. And this would be all the same, andbetter."Desire was with them when Luclarion came in, and heard it settled."How is it that things always fall right together for you, so? How_came_ Damaris to come along?""You just take hold of something and try," said Luclarion. "You'llfind there's always a working alongside. Put up your sails, and thewind will fill 'em."Uncle Titus wanted to know "what sort of use a thing like thatcould be in a house?"He asked it in his very surliest fashion. If they had had anymotives of fear or favor, they would have been disconcerted, andbegun to think they had made a mistake.But Hazel spoke up cheerily,--"Why, to wait on people, uncle. She's the nicest littlefetch-and-carrier you ever saw!""Humph! who wants to be waited on, here? You girls, with feet andhands of your own? Your mother doesn't, I know.""Well, to wait _on_, then," says Hazel, boldly. "I'm making her ababy-house, and teaching her to read; and Diana is knitting scarletstockings for her, to wear this winter. We like it.""O, if you like it! That's always a reason. I only want to havepeople give the real one."And Uncle Titus walked off, so that nobody could tell whether _he_liked it or not.Nobody told him anything about the Scarups. But do you suppose hedidn't know? Uncle Titus Oldways was as sharp as he was blunt."I guess I know, mother," said Hazel, a little while after this, oneday, "how people write stories.""Well?" asked her mother, looking up, ready to be amused withHazel's deep discovery."If they can just begin with one thing, you see, that makes the nextone. It can't help it, hardly. Just as it does with us. What made methink of it was, that it seemed to me there was another little pieceof our beehive story all ready to put on; and if we went and didit,--I wonder if you wouldn't, mother? It fits exactly.""Let me see.""That little lame Sulie at Miss Craydocke's Home, that we like somuch. Nobody adopts her away, because she is lame; her legs are nouse at all, you know, and she just sits all curled up in that greatround chair that Mrs. Geoffrey gave her, and sews patchwork, andmakes paper dolls. And when she drops her scissors, or her thread,somebody has to come and pick it up. She wants waiting on; she justwants a little lightning-bug, like Vash, to run round for her allthe time. And we don't, you see; and we've got Vash! And Vash--likespaper dolls."Hazel completed the circle of her argument with great triumph."An extra piece of bread to finish your too much butter," saidDiana."Yes. Doesn't it just make out?" said Hazel, abating not a jot ofher triumph, and taking things literally, as nobody could do betterthan she, upon occasion, for all her fancy and intuition."I wonder what Uncle Oldways would say to that," said Diana."He'd say 'Faugh, faugh!' But he doesn't mean faugh, faugh, half thetime. If he does, he doesn't stick to it. Mother," she asked rathersuddenly, "do you think Uncle Oldways feels as if we oughtn't todo--other things--with his money?""What other things?""Why, _these_ others. Vash, and Sulie, perhaps. Wouldn't he like itif we turned his house into a Beehive?""It isn't his house," said Mrs. Ripwinkley, "He has given it to me.""Well,--do you feel 'obligated,' as Luclarion says?'"In a certain degree,--yes. I feel bound to consider his comfortand wishes, as far as regards his enjoyment with us, and fulfillingwhat he reasonably looked for when he brought us here.""Would that interfere?""Suppose you ask him, Hazel?""Well, I could do that.""Hazel wouldn't mind doing anything!" said Diana, who, to tell thetruth was a little afraid of Uncle Titus, and who dreaded of allthings, being snubbed."Only," said Hazel, to whom something else had just occurred,"wouldn't he think--wouldn't it be--_your_ business?""It is all your plan, Hazel. I think he would see that.""And you are willing, if he doesn't care?""I did not quite say that. It would be a good deal to think of.""Then I'll wait till you've thought," said clear-headed littleHazel."But it fits right on. I can see that. And Miss Craydocke saidthings would, after we had begun."Mrs. Ripwinkley took it into her thoughts, and carried it about withher for days, and considered it; asking herself questions.Was it going aside in search of an undertaking that did not belongto her?Was it bringing home a care, a responsibility, for which they werenot fitted,--which might interfere with the things they were meant,and would be called, to do?There was room and opportunity, doubtless, for them to do something;Mrs. Ripwinkley had felt this; she had not waited for her child tothink of it for her; she had only waited, in her new, strangesphere, for circumstances to guide the way, and for the Giver ofall circumstance to guide her thought. She chose, also, in thethings that would affect her children's life and settle duties forthem, to let them grow also to those duties, and the perception ofthem, with her. To this she led them, by all her training andinfluence; and now that in Hazel, her child of quick insight andtrue instincts, this influence was bearing fruit and quickening toaction, she respected her first impulses; she believed in them; theyhad weight with her, as argument in themselves. These impulses, inyoung, true souls, freshly responding, are, she knew, as theproof-impressions of God's Spirit.Yet she would think; that was her duty; she would not do a thinghastily, or unwisely.Sulie Praile had been a good while, now, at the Home.A terrible fall, years ago, had caused a long and painful illness,and resulted in her present helplessness. But above those littleidle, powerless limbs, that lay curled under the long, soft skirtshe wore, like a baby's robe, were a beauty and a brightness, aquickness of all possible motion, a dexterous use of hands, and aface of gentle peace and sometimes glory, that were like abenediction on the place that she was in; like the very Holy Ghostin tender form like a dove, resting upon it, and abiding among themwho were there.In one way, it would hardly be so much a giving as a taking, toreceive her in. Yet there was care to assume, the continuance ofcare to promise or imply; the possibility of conflicting plans inmuch that might be right and desirable that Mrs. Ripwinkley shoulddo for her own. Exactly what, if anything, it would be right toundertake in this, was matter for careful and anxious reflection.The resources of the Home were not very large; there were painfulcases pressing their claims continually, as fast as a little placewas vacated it could be filled; was wanted, ten times over; andSulie Praile had been there a good while. If somebody would onlytake her, as people were very ready to take--away to happy, simple,comfortable country homes, for mere childhood's sake--the round,rosy, strong, and physically perfect ones! But Sulie must be liftedand tended; she must keep somebody at home to look after her; no onecould be expected to adopt a child like that.Yet Hazel Ripwinkley thought they could be; thought, in herstraightforward, uncounting simplicity, that it was just thenatural, obvious, beautiful thing to do, to take her home--into areal home--into pleasant family life; where things would not crowd;where she could be mothered and sistered, as girls ought to be, whenthere are so many nice places in the world, and not so many peoplein them as there might be. When there could be so much visiting, andspare rooms kept always in everybody's house, why should notsomebody who needed to, just come in and stay? What were the spareplaces made for?"We might have Sulie for this winter," said Mrs. Ripwinkley, atlast. "They would let her come to us for that time; and it would bea change for her, and leave a place for others. Then if anythingmade it impossible for us to do more, we should not have raised anexpectation to be disappointed. And if we can and ought to do more,it will be shown us by that time more certainly."She asked Miss Craydocke about it, when she came home from Z----that fall. She had been away a good deal lately; she had been up toZ---- to two weddings,--Leslie Goldthwaite's and Barbara Holabird's.Now she was back again, and settled down.Miss Craydocke thought it a good thing wisely limited."Sulie needs to be with older girls; there is no one in the Home tobe companion to her; the children are almost all little. A winterhere would be a blessing to her!""But the change again, if she should have to make it?" suggestedMrs. Ripwinkley."Good things don't turn to bad ones because you can't have them anymore. A thing you're not fit for, and never ought to have had, may;but a real good stays by; it overflows all the rest. Sulie Praile'slife could never be so poor again, after a winter here with you, asit might be if she had never had it. If you'd like her, let hercome, and don't be a bit afraid. We're only working by inches, anyof us; like the camel's-hair embroiderers in China. But it gets puttogether; and it is beautiful, and large, and whole, somewhere.""Miss Craydocke always knows," said Hazel.Nobody said anything again, about Uncle Titus. A winter's plan neednot be referred to him. But Hazel, in her own mind, had resolved tofind out what was Uncle Titus's, generally and theoretically; howfree they were to be, beyond winter plans and visits of weeks; howmuch scope they might have with this money and this house, thatseemed so ample to their simple wants, and what they might do withit and turn it into, if it came into their heads or hearts orconsciences.So one day she went in and sat down by him in the study, after shehad accomplished some household errand with Rachel Froke.Other people approached him with more or less of strategy, afraid ofthe tiger in him; Desire Ledwith faced him courageously; only Hazelcame and nestled up beside him, in his very cage, as if he were nowild beast, after all.Yet he pretended to growl, even at her, sometimes; it was so funnyto see her look up and chirp on after it, like some little bird towhom the language of beasts was no language at all, and passed by onthe air as a very big sound, but one that in no wise concerned it."We've got Sulie Praile to spend the winter, Uncle Titus," she said."Who's Sulie Praile?""The lame girl, from the Home. We wanted somebody for Vash to waiton, you know. She sits in a round chair, that twists, like yours;and she's--just like a lily in a vase!" Hazel finished her sentencewith a simile quite unexpected to herself.There was something in Sulie's fair, pale, delicate face, and herupper figure, rising with its own peculiar lithe, easily swayedgrace from among the gathered folds of the dress of her favoritedark green color, that reminded--if one thought of it, and Hazelturned the feeling of it into a thought at just this moment--of abeautiful white flower, tenderly and commodiously planted."Well, I suppose it's worth while to have a lame girl to sit up in around chair, and look like a lily in a vase, is it?""Uncle Titus, I want to know what you think about some things.""That is just what I want to know myself, sometimes. To find outwhat one thinks about things, is pretty much the whole finding,isn't it?""Don't be very metaphysical, please, Uncle Titus. Don't turn youreyes round into the back of your head. That isn't what I mean.""What do you mean?""Just plain looking.""O!""Don't you think, when there are places, all nice and ready,--andpeople that would like the places and haven't got 'em,--that thepeople ought to be put into the places?""'The shirtless backs put into the shirts?'""Why, yes, of course. What are shirts made for?""For some people to have thirty-six, and some not to have any," saidMr. Oldways."No," said Hazel. "Nobody wants thirty-six, all at once. But what Imean is, rooms, and corners, and pleasant windows, and seats at thetable; places where people come in visiting, and that are kept savedup. I can't bear an empty box; that is, only for just one pleasantminute, while I'm thinking what I can put into it.""Where's your empty box, now?""Our house _was_ rather empty-boxy. Uncle Titus, do you mind how wefill it up,--because you gave it to us, you know?""No. So long as you don't crowd yourselves out.""Or you, Uncle Titus. We don't want to crowd you out. Does it crowdyou any to have Sulie and Vash there, and to have us 'took up' withthem, as Luclarion says?"How straight Witch Hazel went to her point!"Your catechism crowds me just a little, child," said Uncle Titus."I want to see you go your own way. That is what I gave you thehouse for. Your mother knows that. Did she send you here to ask me?""No. I wanted to know. It was I that wanted to begin a kind of aBeehive--like Miss Craydocke's. Would you care if it was turnedquite into a Beehive, finally?"Hazel evidently meant to settle the furthest peradventure, now shehad begun."Ask your mother to show you the deed. 'To Frances Ripwinkley, herheirs and assigns,'--that's you and Diana,--'for their use andbehoof, forever.' I've no more to do with it.""'Use, and behoof,'" said Hazel, slowly. And then she turned theleaves of the great Worcester that lay upon the study table, andfound "Behoof.""'Profit,--gain,--benefit;' then that's what you meant; that weshould make as much more of it as we could. That's what I think,Uncle Titus. I'm glad you put 'behoof in.""They always put it in, child!""Do they? Well, then, they don't always work it out!" and Hazellaughed.At that, Mr. Oldways pulled off his spectacles, looked sharp atHazel with two sharp, brown eyes,--set near together, Hazel noticedfor the first time, like Desire's,--let the keenness turn graduallyinto a twinkle, suffered the muscles that had held his lips so grimto relax, and laughed too; his peculiar, up-and-down shake of alaugh, in which head and shoulders made the motions, as if he were abottle, and there were a joke inside of him which was to be wellmixed up to be thoroughly enjoyed."Go home to your mother, jade-hopper!" he said, when he had done;"and tell her I'm coming round to-night, to tea, amongst yourbumble-bees and your lilies!"XV.WITH ALL ONE'S MIGHT.Let the grapes be ever so sweet, and hang in plenty ever so low,there is always a fair bunch out of reach.Mrs. Ledwith longed, now, to go to Europe.At any rate, she was eager to have her daughters go. But, after justone year, to take what her Uncle Oldways had given her, in returnfor her settling herself near him, and _un_settle herself, and gooff to the other side of the world! Besides, what he had given herwould not do it. That was the rub, after all. What was two thousanda year, now-a-days? Nothing is anything, now-a-days. And it takeseverything to do almost nothing.The Ledwiths were just as much pinched now as they were before theyever heard from Uncle Oldways. People with unlimited powers ofexpansion always are pinched; it is good for them; one of the savinglaws of nature that keeps things decently together.Yet, in the pink room of a morning, and in the mellow-tinteddrawing-room of an evening, it was getting to be the subjectoftenest discussed. It was that to which they directed the combinedmagnetism of the family will; everything was brought to bear upon it;Bridget's going away on Monday morning, leaving the clothes in thetubs, the strike-price of coal, and the overcharge of the grocer;Florence's music, Helena's hopeless distress over French and German;even Desire's listlessness and fidgets; most of all Mrs. Megilp'splans, which were ripening towards this long coveted end. She andGlossy really thought they should go this winter."It is a matter of economy now; everybody's going. The Fargo's andthe Fayerwerses, and the Hitherinyons have broken all up, and aregoing out to stay indefinitely. The Fayerwerses have been saving upthese four years to get away, there are so many of them, you know;the passage money counts, and the first travelling; but after you_are_ over, and have found a place to settle down in,"--thenfollowed all the usual assertions as to cheap delights andinestimable advantages, and emancipation from all American householdills and miseries.Uncle Oldways came up once in a while to the house in ShubartonPlace, and made an evening call. He seemed to take apricot-color forgranted, when he got there, as much as he did the plain, old,unrelieved brown at Mrs. Ripwinkley's; he sat quite unconcernedly inthe grand easy chair that Laura wheeled out for him; indeed, itseemed as if he really, after a manner, indorsed everything by hisacceptance without demur of what he found. But then one must sitdown on something; and if one is offered a cup of coffee, oranything on a plate, one cannot easily protest against sea-greenchina. We do, and we have, and we wear, and we say, a greatmany things, and feel ourselves countenanced and confirmed,somehow,--perhaps excused,--because nobody appears surprised or saysanything. But what should they say; and would it be at all properthat they should be surprised? If we only thought of it, and oncetried it, we might perhaps find it quite as easy and encouraging, onthe same principle, _not_ to have apricot rep and sea-green china.One night Mr. Oldways was with them when the talk turned eastwardlyover the water. There were new names in the paper, of people whohad gone out in the _Aleppo_, and a list of Americans registered atBowles Brothers,' among whom were old acquaintance."I declare, how they all keep turning up there" said Mrs. Ledwith."The war doesn't seem to make much difference," said her husband."To think how lucky the Vonderbargens were, to be in Paris just atthe edge of the siege!" said Glossy Megilp. "They came back fromComo just in time; and poor Mr. Washburne had to fairly hustle themoff at last. They were buying silks, and ribbons, and gloves, up tothe last minute, for absolutely nothing. Mrs. Vonderbargen said itseemed a sin to come away and leave anything. I'm sure I don't knowhow they got them all home; but they did."Glossy had been staying lately with the Vonderbargens in New York.She stayed everywhere, and picked up everything."You have been abroad, Mrs. Scherman?" said Mrs. Ledwith,inquiringly, to Asenath, who happened to be calling, also, with herhusband, and was looking at some photographs with Desire."No, ma'am," answered Mrs. Scherman, very promptly, not havingspoken at all before in the discussion. "I do not think I wish togo. The syphon has been working too long.""The Syphon?"Mrs. Ledwith spoke with a capital S in her mind; but was not quitesure whether what Mrs. Scherman meant might be a line of Atlanticsteamers or the sea-serpent."Yes, ma'am. The emptying back and forth. There isn't much that isforeign over there, now, nor very much that is native here. Thehemispheres have got miserably mixed up. I think when I go 'strangecountries for to see,' it will have to be Patagonia or IndependentTartary."Uncle Oldways turned round with his great chair, so as to faceAsenath, and laughed one of his thorough fun digesting laughs, hiskeen eyes half shut with the enjoyment, and sparkling out throughtheir cracks at her.But Asenath had resumed her photographs with the sweetest andquietest unconsciousness.Mrs. Ledwith let her alone after that; and the talk rambled on tothe schools in Munich, and the Miracle Plays at Oberammergau."To think of _that_ invasion!" said Asenath, in a low tone toDesire, "and corrupting _that_ into a show, with a run of regularperformances! I do believe they have pulled down the last unprofanedthing now, and trampled over it.""If we go," said Mrs. Megilp, "we shall join the Fayerwerses, andsettle down with them quietly in some nice place; and then makeexcursions. We shall not try to do all Europe in three months; weshall choose, and take time. It is the only way really to enjoy oracquire; and the quiet times are so invaluable for the lessons andlanguages."Mrs. Megilp made up her little varnishes with the genuine gums oftruth and wisdom; she put a beautiful shine even on to her limitedopportunities and her enforced frugalities."Mrs. Ledwith, you _ought_ to let Agatha and Florence go too. Iwould take every care of them; and the expense would be sodivided--carriages, and couriers, and everything--that it would behardly anything.""It is a great opportunity," Mrs. Ledwith said, and sighed. "But itis different with us from what it is with you. We must still be afamily here, with nearly the same expenses. To be sure Desire hasdone with school, and she doesn't care for gay society, and Helenais a mere child yet; if it ever could"--And so it went on between the ladies, while Mr. Oldways and Mr.Ledwith and Frank Scherman got into war talk, and Bismarck policy,and French poss--no, _im_-possibilities."I don't think Uncle Oldways minded much," said Mrs. Ledwith toAgatha, and Mrs. Megilp, up-stairs, after everybody had gone who wasto go."He never minds anything," said Agatha."I don't know," said Mrs. Megilp, slowly. "He seemed mightilypleased with what Asenath Scherman said.""O, she's pretty, and funny; it makes no difference what she says;people are always pleased.""We might dismiss one girl this winter," said Mrs. Ledwith, "andboard in some cheap country place next summer. I dare say we couldsave it in the year's round; the difference, I mean. When youweren't actually travelling, it wouldn't cost more than to have youhere,--dress and all."They wouldn't need to have a new thing," said Glossy."Those people out at Z---- want to buy the house. I've a great mindto coax Grant to sell, and take a slice right out, and send them,"said Mrs. Ledwith, eagerly. She was always eager to accomplish thenext new thing for her children; and, to say the truth, did not muchconsider herself. And so far as they had ever been able, theLedwiths had always been rather easily given to "taking the sliceright out."The Megilps had had a little legacy of two or three thousanddollars, and were quite in earnest in their plans, this time, whichhad been talk with them for many years."Those poor Fayerwerses!" said Asenath to her husband, walking home."Going out now, after the cheap European living of a dozen yearsago! The ghost always goes over on the last load. I wonder at Mrs.Megilp. She generally knows better.""She'll do," said Frank Scherman. "If the Fayerwerses stickanywhere, as they probably will, she'll hitch on to the Fargo's, andturn up at Jerusalem. And then there are to be the Ledwiths, andtheir 'little slice.'""O, dear! what a mess people do make of living!" said Asenath.Uncle Titus trudged along down Dorset Street with his stick underhis arm."Try 'em! Find 'em out!" he repeated to himself. "That's whatMarmaduke said. Try 'em with this,--try 'em with that; a good deal,or a little; having and losing, and wanting. That's what the Lorddoes with us all; and I begin to see He has a job of it!"The house was sold, and Agatha and Florence went.It made home dull for poor Desire, little as she found of realcompanionship with her elder sisters. But then she was alwayslooking for it, and that was something. Husbands and wives, parentsand children, live on upon that, through years of repeateddisappointments, and never give up the expectation of that which issomewhere, and which these relations represent to them, through alltheir frustrated lives.That is just why. It _is_ somewhere.It turned out a hard winter, in many ways, for Desire Ledwith. Shehated gay company, and the quiet little circle that she had becomefond of at her Aunt Ripwinkley's was broken somewhat to them all,and more to Desire than, among what had grown to be her chronicdiscontents, she realized or understood, by the going away for atime of Kenneth Kincaid.What was curious in the happening, too, he had gone up to "And" tobuild a church. That had come about through the Marchbankses'knowledge of him, and this, you remember, through their being withthe Geoffreys when the Kincaids were first introduced in SummitStreet.The Marchbankses and the Geoffreys were cousins. A good many Bostonfamilies are.Mr. Roger Marchbanks owned a good deal of property in And. Theneighborhood wanted a church; and he interested himself actively andliberally in behalf of it, and gave the land,--three lots right outof the middle of Marchbanks Street, that ran down to the river.Dorris kept her little room, and was neighborly as heretofore; butshe was busy with her music, and had little time but her evenings;and now there was nobody to walk home with Desire to ShubartonPlace, if she stayed in Aspen Street to tea. She came sometimes, andstayed all night; but that was dreary for Helena, who neverremembered to shut the piano or cover up the canary, or give theplants in the bay window their evening sprinkle, after the furnaceheat had been drying them all day.Kenneth Kincaid came down for his Sundays with Dorris, and his workat the Mission; a few times he called in at Uncle Oldways' aftertea, when the family was all together; but they saw him very seldom;he gave those Sunday evenings mostly to needed rest, and to quiettalk with Dorris.Desire might have gone to the Mission this winter, easily enough,after all. Agatha and Florence and Glossy Megilp were not by to makewondering eyes, or smile significant smiles; but there was somethingin herself that prevented; she knew that it would be more than halfto _get_, and she still thought she had so little to give! Besides,Kenneth Kincaid had never asked her again, and she could not go tohim and say she would come.Desire Ledwith began to have serious question of what life was evergoing to be for her. She imagined, as in our early years and ourfirst gray days we are all apt to imagine, that she had found out agood deal that it was _not_ going to be.She was not going to be beautiful, or accomplished, or even, she wasafraid, agreeable; she found that such hard work with most people.She was not ever--and that conclusion rested closely upon theseforegoing--to be married, and have a nice husband and a prettyhouse, and go down stairs and make snow-puddings and ginger-snaps ofa morning, and have girls staying with her, and pleasant people into tea; like Asenath Scherman. She couldn't write a book,--that,perhaps, was one of her premature decisions, since nobody knows tillthey try, and the books are lying all round, in leaves, waiting onlyto be picked up and put together,--or paint a picture; she couldn'tbear parties, and clothes were a fuss, and she didn't care to go toEurope.She thought she should rather like to be an old maid, if she couldbegin right off, and have a little cottage out of town somewhere, orsome cosy rooms in the city. At least, she supposed that was whatshe had got to be, and if that were settled, she did not see why itmight not be begun young, as well as married life. She could notendure waiting, when a thing was to be done."Aunt Frances," she said one day, "I wish I had a place of my own.What is the reason I can't? A girl can go in for Art, and set up astudio; or she can go to Rome, and sculp, and study; she can learnelocution, and read, whether people want to be read to or not; andall that is Progress and Woman's Rights; why can't she set up a_home_?""Because, I suppose, a house is not a home; and the beginning of ahome is just what she waits for. Meanwhile, if she has a father anda mother, she would not put a slight on _their_ home, or fail of hershare of the duty in it.""But nobody would think I failed in my duty if I were going to bemarried. I'm sure mamma would think I was doing it beautifully. AndI never shall be married. Why can't I live something out for myself,and have a place of my own? I have got money enough to pay my rent,and I could do sewing in a genteel way, or keep a school for littlechildren. I'd rather--take in back stairs to wash," she exclaimedvehemently, "than wait round for things, and be nothing! And Ishould like to begin young, while there might be some sort of fun init. You'd like to come and take tea with me, wouldn't you, AuntFrank?""If it were all right that you should have separate teas of yourown.""And if I had waffles. Well, I should. I think, just now, there'snothing I should like so much as a little kitchen of my own, and apie-board, and a biscuit-cutter, and a beautiful baking oven, and aJapan tea-pot.""The pretty part. But brooms, and pails, and wash-tubs, and the backstairs?""I specified back stairs in the first place, of my own accord. Iwouldn't shirk. Sometimes I think that real good old-fashioned hardwork is what I do want. I should like to find the right, honestthing, and do it, Aunt Frank."She said it earnestly, and there were tears in her eyes."I believe you would," said Mrs. Ripwinkley. "But perhaps the right,honest thing, just now, is to wait patiently, with all your might.""Now, that's good," said Desire, "and cute of you, too, that lastpiece of a sentence. If you had stopped at '_patiently_,' as peoplegenerally do! That's what exasperates; when you want to do somethingwith all your might. It almost seems as if I could, when you put itso.""It is a 'stump,' Luclarion would say.""Luclarion is a saint and a philosopher. I feel better," saidDesire.She stayed feeling better all that afternoon; she helped SuliePraile cut out little panels from her thick sheet of graypainting-board, and contrived her a small easel with her roundlightstand and a book-rest; for Sulie was advancing in the finearts, from painting dollies' paper faces in cheap water colors, tocopying bits of flowers and fern and moss, with oils, on gray board;and she was doing it very well, and with exquisite delight.To wait, meant something to wait for; something coming by and by;that was what comforted Desire to-day, as she walked home alone inthe sharp, short, winter twilight; that, and the being patient withall one's might. To be patient, is to be also strong; this she saw,newly; and Desire coveted, most of all, to be strong.Something to wait for. "He does not cheat," said Desire, low down inher heart, to herself. For the child had faith, though she could nottalk about it.Something; but very likely not the thing you have seen, or dreamedof; something quite different, it may be, when it comes; and it maycome by the way of losing, first, all that you have been able yet,with a vague, whispering hope, to imagine.The things we do not know! The things that are happening,--thethings that are coming; rising up in the eastward of our lives belowthe horizon that we can yet see; it may be a star, it may be acloud!Desire Ledwith could not see that out at Westover, this cheerywinter night, it was one of dear Miss Pennington's "Next Thursdays;"she could not see that the young architect, living away over therein the hundred-year-old house on the side of East Hill, a boarderwith old Miss Arabel Waite, had been found, and appreciated, anddrawn into their circle by the Haddens and the Penningtons and theHolabirds and the Inglesides; and that Rosamond was showing him thepleasant things in their Westover life,--her "swan's nest among thereeds," that she had told him of,--that early autumn evening, whenthey had walked up Hanley Street together.XVI.SWARMING.Spring came on early, with heavy rains and freshets in many parts ofthe country.It was a busy time at Z----.Two things had happened there that were to give Kenneth Kincaid morework, and would keep him where he was all summer.Just before he went to Z----, there had been a great fire at WestHill. All Mr. Roger Marchbanks's beautiful place was desolate.House, conservatories, stables, lovely little vine-covered rusticbuildings, exquisitely tended shrubbery,--all swept over in onenight by the red flames, and left lying in blackness and ashes.For the winter, Mr. Marchbanks had taken his family to Boston; nowhe was planning eagerly to rebuild. Kenneth had made sketches; Mr.Marchbanks liked his ideas; they had talked together from time totime. Now, the work was actually in hand, and Kenneth was busy withdrawings and specifications.Down at the river, during the spring floods, a piece of the bridgehad been carried away, and the dam was broken through. There werenew mill buildings, too, going up, and a block of factory houses.All this business, through Mr. Marchbanks directly or indirectly,fell also into Kenneth's hands.He wrote blithe letters to Dorris; and Dorris, running in and outfrom her little spring cleanings that Hazel was helping her with,told all the letters over to the Ripwinkleys."He says I must come up there in my summer vacation and board withhis dear old Miss Waite. Think of Kentie's being able to give mesuch a treat as that! A lane, with ferns and birches, and thewoods,--_pine_ woods!--and a hill where raspberries grow, and theriver!"Mrs. Ledwith was thinking of her summer plans at this time, also.She remembered the large four-windowed room looking out over themeadow, that Mrs. Megilp and Glossy had at Mrs. Prendible's, fortwelve dollars a week, in And. She could do no better than that, atcountry boarding, anywhere; and Mr. Ledwith could sleep at the housein Shubarton Place, getting his meals down town during the week, andcome up and spend his Sundays with them. A bedroom, in addition, forsix dollars more, would be all they would want.The Ripwinkleys were going up to Homesworth by and by for a littlewhile, and would take Sulie Praile with them. Sulie was ecstaticallyhappy. She had never been out of the city in all her life. She felt,she said, "as if she was going to heaven without dying." Vash was tobe left at Mrs. Scarup's with her sister.Miss Craydocke would be away at the mountains; all the little lifethat had gathered together in the Aspen Street neighborhood, seemedabout to be broken up.Uncle Titus Oldways never went out of town, unless on business.Rachel Froke stayed, and kept his house; she sat in the gray room,and thought over the summers she had had."Thee never loses anything out of thy life that has been in," shesaid. "Summer times are like grains of musk; they keep their smellalways, and flavor the shut-up places they are put away in."For you and me, reader, we are to go to Z---- again. I hope you likeit.But before that, I must tell you what Luclarion Grapp has done.Partly from the principle of her life, and partly from the spirit ofthings which she would have caught at any rate, from the Ripwinkleyhome and the Craydocke "Beehive,"--for there is nothing truer thanthat the kingdom of heaven is like leaven,--I suppose she had beensecretly thinking for a good while, that she was having too easy atime here, in her first floor kitchen and her garden bedroom; thatthis was not the life meant for her to live right on, withoutscruple or question; and so began in her own mind to expect somesort of "stump;" and even to look about for it."It isn't as it was when Mrs. Ripwinkley was a widow, andpoor,--that is, comparative; and it took all her and my contrivanceto look after the place and keep things going, and paying, up inHomesworth; there was something to buckle to, then; but now,everything is eased and flatted out, as it were; it makes meres'less, like a child put to bed in the daytime."Luclarion went down to the North End with Miss Craydocke, on errandsof mercy; she went in to the new Mission, and saw the heavenlybeauty of its intent, and kindled up in her soul at it; and she camehome, time after time, and had thoughts of her own about thesethings, and the work in the world there was to do.She had cleaned up and set things going at Mrs. Scarup's; shelearned something in doing that, beyond what she knew when she setabout it; her thoughts began to shape themselves to a theory; andthe theory took to itself a text and a confirmation and a command."Go down and be a neighbor to them that have fallen among thieves."Luclarion came to a resolution in this time of May, when everybodywas making plans and the spring-cleaning was all done.She came to Mrs. Ripwinkley one morning, when she was folding awaywinter clothes, and pinning them up in newspapers, with camphor-gum;and she said to her, without a bit of preface,--Luclarion hatedprefaces,--"Mrs. Ripwinkley, I'm going to swarm!"Mrs. Ripwinkley looked up in utter surprise; what else could she do?"Of course 'm, when you set up a Beehive, you must have expected it;it's the natural way of things; they ain't good for much unless theydo. I've thought it all over; I'll stay and see you all off, first,if you want me to, and then--I'll swarm.""Well," said Mrs. Ripwinkley, assenting in full faith, beforehand;for Mrs. Ripwinkley, if I need now to tell you of it, was not anordinary woman, and did not take things in an ordinary selfish way,but grasped right hold of the inward right and truth of them, andbelieved in it; sometimes before she could quite see it; and shenever had any doubt of Luclarion Grapp. "Well! And now tell me allabout it.""You see," said Luclarion, sitting down in a chair by the window, asMrs. Ripwinkley suspended her occupation and took one by thebedside, "there's places in this town that folks leave and give up.As the Lord might have left and give up the world, because there wasdirt and wickedness in it; only He didn't. There's places where itain't genteel, nor yet respectable, to live; and so those placesgrow more disrespectable and miserable every day. They're left tothemselves. What I think is, they hadn't ought to be. There's oneclean spot down there now, in the very middle of the worst dirt.And it ain't bad to live in. _That's_ started. Now, what I think is,that somebody ought to start another, even if its only a little one.Somebody ought to just go there and _live_, and show 'em how, justas I took and showed Mrs. Scarup, and she's been living ever since,instead of scratching along. If some of them folks had a clean,decent neighbor to go to see,--to drink tea with, say,--and was tocatch an idea of her fixings and doings, why, I believe there'd bemore of 'em,--cleaned up, you know. They'd get some kind of anambition and a hope. Tain't enough for ladies--though I bless 'em inmy soul for what I've seen 'em do--to come down there of a Fridays,and teach and talk awhile, and then go home to Summit Street andRepublic Avenue, and take up _their_ life again where they left itoff, that is just as different as heaven is from 'tother place;somebody's got to come right down _out_ of heaven, and bring thelife in, and live it amongst them miserable folks, as the Lord JesusChrist came and did! And it's borne in upon me, strong and clear,that that's what's got to be before all's righted. And so--for alittle piece of it, and a little individual stump--I'm going toswarm, and settle, and see what'll come."Mrs. Ripwinkley was looking very intently at Luclarion. Her breathwent and came hurriedly, and her face turned pale with the grandsurprise of such a thought, such a plan and purpose, so simply andsuddenly declared. Her eyes were large and moist with feeling."Do you _know_, Luclarion," she exclaimed at last, "do you realizewhat this is that you are thinking of; what a step it would be totake,--what a work it would be to even hope to begin to do? Do youknow how strange it is,--how almost impracticable,--that it is noteven safe?""'Twasn't _safe_ for Him--when He came into the world," Luclarionanswered."Not to say I think there's any comparison," she began again,presently, "or that I believe there's anything to be really scaredof,--except dirt; and you _can_ clean a place round you, as themMission people have done. Why, there ain't a house in Boston nicer,or sweeter, or airier even, than that one down in Arctic Street,with beautiful parlors and bedrooms, and great clean galleriesleading round, and skylighted,--_sky_ lighted! for you see the blueheaven is above all, and you _can_ let the skylight in, without anycorruption coming in with it; and if twenty people can do that much,or a hundred,--one can do something. 'Taint much, either, toundertake; only to be willing to go there, and make a clean placefor yourself, and a home; and live there, instead of somewheres elsethat's ready made; and let it spread. And you know I've alwayslooked forrud to some kind of a house-keep of my own, finally.""But, Luclarion, I don't understand! All alone? And you couldn't usea whole house, you know. Your neighbors would be _inmates_. Why, itseems to me perfectly crazy!""Now, ma'am, did you ever know me to go off on a tangent, withoutsome sort of a string to hold on to? I ain't goin' to swarm allalone! I never heard of such a thing. Though if I couldn't _swarm_,and the thing was to be done, I say I'd try it. But Savira Goldingis going to be married to Sam Gallilee, next month; and he's astevedore, and his work is down round the wharves; he's class-leaderin our church, and a first-rate, right-minded man, or else Savirawouldn't have him; for if Savira ain't a clear Christian, and adoing woman, there ain't one this side of Paradise. Now, you see,Sam Gallilee makes money; he runs a gang of three hundred men. Hecan afford a good house, and a whole one, if he wants; but he'sgoing in for a big one, and neighbors. They mean to live nice,--heand Savira; and she has pretty, tasty ways; there'll be whitecurtains, and plants blooming in her windows, you may make sure;she's always had 'em in that little up-stairs dress-making room ofhers; and boxes of mignonette and petunias on the ledges; and birdssinging in a great summer cage swung out against the wall. She's oneof the kind that reaches out, and can't be kept in; and she knowsher gifts, and is willing to go and let her light shine where itwill help others, and so glorify; and Sam, he's willing too, andsees the beauty of it. And so,--well, that's the swarm.""And the 'little round Godamighty in the middle of it,'" said Mrs.Ripwinkley, her face all bright and her eyes full of tears."_Ma'am_!"Then Mrs. Ripwinkley told her Miss Craydocke's story."Well," said Luclarion, "there's something dear andright-to-the-spot about it; but it does sound singular; and itcertainly ain't a thing to say careless."       *       *       *       *       *Desire Ledwith grew bright and excited as the summer came on, andthe time drew near for going to Z----. She could not help beingglad; she did not stop to ask why; summer-time was reason enough,and after the weariness of the winter, the thought of Z---- and thewoods and the river, and sweet evenings and mornings, and gardensand orchards, and road-side grass, was lovely to her."It is so pleasant up there!" she would keep saying to Dorris; andsomehow she said it to Dorris oftener than to anybody else.There was something fitful and impetuous in her little outbursts ofsatisfaction; they noticed it in her; the elder ones among themnoticed it with a touch of anxiety for her.Miss Craydocke, especially, read the signs, matching them withsomething that she remembered far back in the life that had closedso peacefully, with white hairs and years of a serene content andpatience, over all unrest and disappointment, for herself. She wassorry for this young girl, for whom she thought she saw anunfulfilled dream of living that should go by her like some brightcloud, just near enough to turn into a baptism of tears.She asked Desire, one day, if she would not like to go with her,this summer, to the mountains.Desire put by the suggestion hastily."O, no, thank you, Miss Craydocke, I must stay with mamma andHelena. And besides," she added, with the strict, full truth shealways demanded of herself, "I _want_ to go to Z----.""Yes," said Miss Craydocke.There was something tender, like a shade of pity, in her tone."But you would enjoy the mountains. They are full of strength andrest. One hardly understands the good the hills do one. David did,looking out into them from Jerusalem. 'I will look to the hills,from whence cometh my strength.'""Some time," said Desire. "Some time I shall need the hills, and--beready for them. But this summer--I want a good, gay, young time. Idon't know why, except that I shall be just eighteen this year, andit seems as if, after that, I was going to be old. And I want to bewith people I know. I _can_ be gay in the country; there issomething to be gay about. But I can't dress and dance in the city.That is all gas-light and get-up.""I suppose," said Miss Craydocke, slowly, "that our faces are allset in the way we are to go. Even if it is--" She stopped. She wasthinking of one whose face had been set to go to Jerusalem. Her ownwords had led her to something she had not foreseen when she began.Nothing of such suggestion came to Desire. She was in one of herrare moods of good cheer."I suppose so," she said, heedlessly. And then, taking up a thoughtof her own suddenly,--"Miss Craydocke! Don't you think people almostalways live out their names? There's Sin Scherman; there'll alwaysbe a little bit of mischief and original naughtiness in her,--withthe harm taken out of it; and there's Rosamond Holabird,--theycouldn't have called her anything better, if they'd waited for herto grow up; and Barb _was_ sharp; and our little Hazel is witchy andsweet and wild-woodsy; and Luclarion,--isn't that shiny andtrumpety, and doesn't she do it? And then--there's me. I shallalways be stiff and hard and unsatisfied, except in little bits ofsummer times that won't come often. They might as well havechristened me Anxiety. I wonder why they didn't.""That would have been very different. There is a nobleness inDesire. You will overlive the restless part," said Miss Craydocke."Was there ever anything restless in your life, Miss Craydocke? Andhow long did it take to overlive it? It doesn't seem as if you hadever stubbed your foot against anything; and I'm _always_ stubbing.""My dear, I have stubbed along through fifty-six years; and theyears had all three hundred and sixty-five days in them. There werechances,--don't you think so?""It looks easy to be old after it is done," said Desire. "Easy andcomfortable. But to be eighteen, and to think of having to go on tobe fifty-six; I beg your pardon,--but I wish it was over!"And she drew a deep breath, heavy with the days that were to be."You are not to take it all at once, you know," said Miss Craydocke."But I do, every now and then. I can't help it. I am sure it is thename. If they had called me 'Hapsie,' like you, I should have gonealong jolly, as you do, and not minded. You see you have to _hear_it all the time; and it tunes you up to its own key. You can't feellike a Dolly, or a Daisy, when everybody says--De-sire!""I don't know how I came to be called 'Hapsie,'" said MissCraydocke. "Somebody who liked me took it up, and it seemed to getfitted on. But that wasn't when I was young.""What was it, then?" asked Desire, with a movement of interest."Keren-happuch," said Miss Craydocke, meekly. "My father named me,and he always called me so,--the whole of it. He was a severe,Old-Testament man, and _his_ name was Job."Desire was more than half right, after all. There was a good deal ofMiss Craydocke's story hinted in those few words and those twoancient names."But I turned into 'Miss Craydocke' pretty soon, and settled down. Isuppose it was very natural that I should," said the sweet old maid,serenely.XVII.QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.The evening train came in through the little bend in the edge of thewoods, and across the bridge over the pretty rapids, and slid to itsstopping-place under the high arches of the other bridge thatconnected the main street of Z---- with its continuation through"And."There were lights twinkling in the shops, where they were makingchange, and weighing out tea and sugar, and measuring calico,although outside it was not yet quite dark.The train was half an hour late; there had been a stoppage at somedraw or crossing near the city.Mr. Prendible was there, to see if his lodgers were come, and to gethis evening paper; the platform was full of people. Old Z----acquaintances, many of them, whom Desire and her mother werepleased, and Helena excited to see."There's Kenneth Kincaid!" she exclaimed, quite loudly, pullingDesire's sleeve."Hush!" said Desire, twitching away. "How can you, Helena?""He's coming,--he heard me!" cried Helena, utterly impenitent."I should think he might!" And Desire walked off a little, to lookamong the trunks that were being tumbled from the baggage car.She had seen him all the time; he had been speaking to RuthHolabird, and helping her up the steps with her parcels. Mr.Holabird was there with the little Westover carryall that they keptnow; and Kenneth put her in, and then turned round in time to hearHelena's exclamation and to come down again."Can I help you? I'm very glad you are come," he said, cordially.Well; he might have said it to anybody. Again, well; it was enoughto say to anybody. Why should Desire feel cross?He took Helena's bag; she had a budget beside; Mr. Prendiblerelieved Mrs. Ledwith; Desire held on valiantly to her own things.Kenneth walked over the bridge with them, and down the street to Mr.Prendible's door; there he bade them good-by and left them.It was nice to be in Z----; it was very sweet here under theblossoming elms and locusts; it was nice to see Kenneth Kincaidagain, and to think that Dorris was coming by and by, and that thelanes were green and full of ferns and vines, and that there was tobe a whole long summer; but there were so many people down there onthe platform,--there was such a muss always; Ruth Holabird was adear little thing, but there were always so many Ruths about! andthere was only one cross, stiff, odd, uncomfortable Desire!But the very next night Kenneth came down and stayed an hour; therewas a new moon glistening through the delicate elm-tips, and theysat out on the piazza and breathed in such an air as they had nothad in their nostrils for months and months.The faint, tender light from the golden west in which the new moonlay, showed the roof and tower of the little church, Kenneth's firstbeautiful work; and Kenneth told them how pleasant it was up at MissArabel's, and of the tame squirrels that he fed at his window, andof the shady pasture-path that led away over the brook from thevery door, and up among pines and into little still nooks where drymossy turf and warm gray rocks were sheltered in by scraggy cedarsand lisping birches, so that they were like field-parlors opening inand out from each other with all sorts of little winding andclimbing passages, between clumps of bayberry bushes and tall ferns;and that the girls from Z---- and Westover made morning picnicsthere, since Lucilla Waters had grown intimate with Delia Waite andfound it out; and that Delia Waite and even Miss Arabel carriedtheir dressmaking down there sometimes in a big white basket, andstayed all day under the trees. They had never used to do this; theyhad stayed in the old back sitting room with all the litter round,and never thought of it till those girls had come and showed themhow."I think there is the best and sweetest neighborliness and mostbeautiful living here in Z----, that I ever knew in any place," saidKenneth Kincaid; "except that little piece of the same thing inAspen Street."Kenneth had found out how Rosamond Holabird recognized Aspen Streetas a piece of her world.Desire hated, as he spoke, her spitefulness last night; what she hadsaid to herself of "so many Ruths;" why could not she not be pleasedto come into this beautiful living and make a little part of it?She was pleased; she would be; she found it very easy when Kennethsaid to her in that frank intimate way,--"I wish you and your motherwould come over and see what Dorris will want, and help me a littleabout that room of hers. I told Miss Waite not to bother; just tolet the old things stand,--I knew Dorris would like them,--andanything else I would get for her myself. I mean Dolly shall take along vacation this year; from June right through to September; andits 'no end of jolly,' as those English fellows say, that you havecome too!"Kenneth Kincaid was fresher and pleasanter and younger himself, thanDesire had ever seen him before; he seemed to have forgotten thathard way of looking at the world; he had found something soundeniably good in it. I am afraid Desire had rather liked him forhis carping, which was what he least of all deserved to be likedfor. It showed how high and pure his demands were; but his praiseand admissions were better; it is always better to discern good thanto fret at the evil."I shall see you every day," he said, when he shook hands atparting; "and Helena, if you want a squirrel to keep in your pocketnext winter, I'll begin training one for you at once."He had taken them right to himself, as if they belonged to him; hespoke as if he were very glad that he should see them every day.Desire whistled over her unpacking; she could not sing, but shecould whistle like a blackbird. When her father came up on Saturdaynight, he said that her eyes were brighter and her cheeks wererounder, for the country air; she would take to growing prettyinstead of strong-minded, if she didn't look out.Kenneth came round on Monday, after tea, to ask them to go over toMiss Waite's and make acquaintance."For you see," he said, "you will have to be very intimate there,and it is time to begin. It will take one call to be introduced, andanother, at least, to get up-stairs and see that beautiful breezyold room that can't be lived in in winter, but is to be a delicioussort of camping-out for Dolly, all summer. It is all windows andsquirrel-holes and doors that won't shut. Everything comes in butthe rain; but the roof is tight on that corner. Even the woodbinehas got tossed in through a broken upper pane, and I wouldn't haveit mended on any account. There are swallows' nests in the chimneys,and wrens under the gable, and humming-birds in the honeysuckle.When Dolly gets there, it will be perfect. It just wants her to takeit all right into her heart and make one piece of it. _They_ don'tknow,--the birds and the squirrels,--it takes the human. There hasto be an Adam in every garden of Eden."Kenneth really chattered, from pure content and delight.It did not take two visits to get up-stairs. Miss Arabel met themheartily. She had been a shy, timid old lady, from long neglect andhumble living; but lately she had "come out in society," Delia said.Society had come after her, and convinced her that she could makegood times for it.She brought out currant wine and gave them, the first thing; andwhen Kenneth told her that they were his and Dorris's friends, andwere coming next week to see about getting ready for her, she tookthem right round through all four of the ground rooms, to the queercorner staircase, and up into the "long west chamber," to show themwhat a rackety old place it was, and to see whether they supposed itcould be made fit."Why it's like the Romance of the Forest!" said Helena, delighted."I wish _we_ had come here. Don't you have ghosts, or robbers, orsomething, up and down those stairs, Miss Waite?" For she had spieda door that led directly out of the room, from beside the chimney,up into the rambling old garret, smelling of pine boards andpenny-royal."No; nothing but squirrels and bees, and sometimes a bat," answeredMiss Arabel."Well, it doesn't want fixing. If you fix it, you will spoil it. Ishall come here and sleep with Dorris,--see if I don't."The floor was bare, painted a dark, marbled gray. In the middle wasa great braided rug, of blue and scarlet and black. The walls werepale gray, with a queer, stencilled scroll-and-dash border ofvermilion and black paint.There was an old, high bedstead, with carved frame and posts, bareof drapery; an antiquated chest of drawers; and a half-circulartable with tall, plain, narrow legs, between two of the windows.There was a corner cupboard, and a cupboard over the chimney. Thedoors of these, and the high wainscot around the room, were stainedin old-fashioned "imitation mahogany," very streaky and red. Thewainscot was so heavily finished that the edge running around theroom might answer for a shelf."Just curtains, and toilet covers, and a little low rocking chair,"said Mrs. Ledwith. "That is all you want.""But the windows are so high," suggested Desire. "A low chair wouldbury her up, away from all the pleasantness. I'll tell you what Iwould have, Mr. Kincaid. A kind of dais, right across that corner,to take in two windows; with a carpet on it, and a chair, and alittle table.""Just the thing!" said Kenneth. "That is what I wanted you for, MissDesire," he said in a pleased, gentle way, lowering his tone to herespecial hearing, as he stood beside her in the window.And Desire was very happy to have thought of it.Helena was spurred by emulation to suggest something."I'd have a--hammock--somewhere," she said."Good," said Kenneth. "That shall be out under the great butternut."The great butternut walled in one of the windows with a wildernessof green, and the squirrels ran chattering up and down the brownbranches, and peeping in all day. In the autumn, when the nuts wereripe, they would be scrambling over the roof, and in under theeaves, to hide their stores in the garret, Miss Arabel told them."Why doesn't everbody have an old house, and let the squirrels in?"cried Helena, in a rapture.In ten days more,--the first week of June,--Dorris came.Well,--"That let in all the rest," Helena said, and Desire, may be,thought. "We shan't have it to ourselves any more."The girls could all come down and call on Dorris Kincaid, and theydid.But Desire and Helena had the first of it; nobody else went right upinto her room; nobody else helped her unpack and settle. And she wasso delighted with all that they had done for her.The dais was large enough for two or three to sit upon at once, andit was covered with green carpet of a small, mossy pattern, and thewindow was open into the butternut on one side, and into thehoneysuckle on the other, and it was really a bower."I shall live ten hours in one," said Dorris."And you'll let me come and sleep with you some night, and hear thebats," said Helena.The Ledwiths made a good link; they had known the Kincaids so well;if it had been only Dorris, alone, with her brother there, theWestover girls might have been shy of coming often. Since Kennethhad been at Miss Waite's, they had already grown a little less freeof the beautiful woods that they had just found out and begun fairlyto enjoy last autumn.But the Ledwiths made a strong party; and they lived close by;there were plans continually.Since Leslie Goldthwaite and Barbara Holabird were married and gone,and the Roger Marchbankses were burned out, and had been living inthe city and travelling, the Hobarts and the Haddens and Ruth andRosamond and Pen Pennington had kept less to their immediateWestover neighborhood than ever; and had come down to Lucilla's, andto Maddy Freeman's, and the Inglesides, as often as they had inducedthem to go up to the Hill.Maud Marchbanks and the Hendees were civil and neighborly enough athome, but they did not care to "ramify." So it came to pass thatthey were left a good deal to themselves. Olivia and Adelaide, whenthey came up to Westover, to their uncle's, wondered "that papacared to build again; there really wasn't anything to come for; WestHill was entirely changed."So it was; and a very good thing.I came across the other day, reading over Mr. Kingsley's "Two YearsAgo," a true word as to social needs in England, that reminded me ofthis that the Holabirds and the Penningtons and the Inglesides havebeen doing, half unconsciously, led on from "next" to next, inZ----.Mr. Kingsley, after describing a Miss Heale, and others of herclass,--the middle class, with no high social opportunities, andwith time upon their hands, wasted often in false dreams of life andunsatisfied expectations, "bewildering heart and brain with novels,"for want of a nobler companionship, says this: "Till in countryvillages, the ladies who interest themselves about the poor willrecollect that the farmers' and tradesmens' daughters are just asmuch in want of their influence as the charity children and willyield a far richer return for their labor, so long will England befull of Miss Heales."If a kindly influence and fellowship are the duty of thearistocratic girls of England toward their "next," below, how farmore false are American girls to the spirit of their country, andthe blessed opportunities of republican sympathies and equalities,when they try to draw invisible lines between themselves and thosewhose outer station differs by but so little, and whose hearts andminds, under the like culture with their own, crave, just as theydo, the best that human intercourse can give. Social science hassomething to do, before--or at least simultaneously with--reachingdown to the depths where all the wrongs and blunders andmismanagements of life have precipitated their foul residuum. Amaster of one of our public schools, speaking of the undue cultureof the brain and imagination, in proportion to the opportunitiesoffered socially for living out ideas thus crudely gathered, saidthat his brightest girls were the ones who in after years, impatientof the little life gave them to satisfy the capacities and demandsaroused and developed during the brief period of school life, andfed afterwards by their own ill-judged and ill-regulated reading,were found fallen into lives of vice. Have our women, old or young,who make and circumscribe the opportunities of social intercourseand enjoyment, nothing to search out here, and help, as well, or assoon as, to get their names put on committee lists, and manage thesepublic schools themselves, which educate and stimulate up to thepoint of possible fierce temptation, and then have nothing more thatthey can do?It was a good thing for Desire Ledwith to grow intimate, as she did,with Rosamond Holabird. There were identical points of characterbetween the two. They were both so real."You don't want to _play_ anything," Barbara Holabird had said toRosamond once, in some little discussion of social appearances andpretensions. "And that's the beauty of you!"It was the beauty of Desire Ledwith also; only, with Rosamond, herambitions had clothed themselves with a grace and delicateness thatwould have their own perfect and thorough as far as it went; andwith Desire, the same demands of true living had chafed into animpatience with shams and a blunt disregard of and resistance to allconventionalisms."You are a good deal alike, you two," Kenneth Kincaid said to themone day, in a talk they all three happened to have together.And he had told Rosamond afterward that there was "something grandin Desire Ledwith; only grand things almost always have to grow withstruggles."Rosamond had told this again to Desire.It was not much wonder that she began to be happier; to have ahidden comfort of feeling that perhaps the "waiting with all hermight" was nearly over, and the "by and by" was blossoming for her,though the green leaves of her own shy sternness with herself foldedclose down about the sweetening place, and she never parted themaside to see where the fragrance came from.       *       *       *       *       *They were going to have a grand, large, beautiful supper party inthe woods.Mrs. Holabird and Mrs. Hobart were the matrons, and gave out theinvitations."I don't think I could possibly spend a Tuesday afternoon with alittle 't,'" said Mrs. Lewis Marchbanks laughing, and tossing downpoor, dear, good Mrs. Hobart's note upon her table. "It is _rather_more than is to be expected!""Doctor and Mrs. Hautayne are here, and Dakie Thayne is home fromWest Point. It will be rather a nice party.""The Holabirds seem to have got everything into their own hands,"said Mrs. Marchbanks, haughtily. "It is always a pity when peopletake the lead who are not exactly qualified. Mrs. Holabird _will_not discriminate!'"I think the Holabirds are splendid," spoke up Lily, "and I don'tthink there's any fun in sticking up by ourselves! I can't bear tobe judicious!"Poor little Lily Marchbanks had been told a tiresome many times thatshe must be "judicious" in her intimacies."You can be _pleasant_ to everybody," said mother and elder sister,with a salvo of Christian benignity.But it is so hard for little children to be pleasant with fence andlimitation."Where must I stop?" Lily had asked in her simplicity. "When theygive me a piece of their luncheon, or when they walk home fromschool, or when they say they will come in a little while?"But there came a message back from Boston by the eleven o'clocktrain on the morning of the Tuesday with a little "t," from Mr.Marchbanks himself, to say that his brother and Mr. Geoffrey wouldcome up with him to dinner, and to desire that carriages might beready afterward for the drive over to Waite's grove.Mrs. Marchbanks marveled, but gave her orders. Arthur came outearly, and brought with him his friend Archie Mucklegrand, and thesetwo were bound also for the merry-making.Now Archie Mucklegrand was the identical youth of the lavenderpantaloons and the waxed moustache, whom Desire, as "Miss Ledwith,"had received in state a year and a half ago.So it was an imposing cavalcade, after all, from West Hill, thathonored the very indiscriminate pleasure party, and came riding anddriving in at about six o'clock. There were the barouche and thecoupe; for the ladies and elder gentlemen, and the two young menaccompanied them on horseback.Archie Mucklegrand had been at West Hill often before. He andArthur had just graduated at Harvard, and the Holabirds had hadcards to their grand spread on Class Day. Archie Mucklegrand hadfound out what a pretty girl--and a good deal more than merelypretty--Rosamond Holabird was; and although he might any day goover to his big, wild Highland estate, and take upon himself theglory of "Sir Archibald" there among the hills and moors,--andthough any one of a good many pretty girls in Spreadsplendid Parkand Republic Avenue might be induced, perhaps, if he tried, to gowith him,--all this did not hinder him from perceiving that uphere in Z---- was just the most bewitching companionship he hadever fallen in with, or might ever be able to choose for himselffor any going or abiding; that Rosamond Holabird was just thebrightest, and sweetest, and most to his mind of any girl that hehad ever seen, and most like "the woman" that a man might dreamof. I do not know that he quite said it all to himself inprecisely that way; I am pretty sure that he did not, as yet; butwhatever is off-hand and young-mannish and modern enough toexpress to one's self without "sposhiness" an admiration and apreference like that, he undoubtedly did say. At any rate afterhis Christmas at Z---- with Arthur, and some charade parties theyhad then at Westover, and after Class Day, when everybody had beenfurious to get an introduction, and all the Spreadsplendid girlsand their mothers had been wondering who that Miss Holabird wasand where she came from, and Madam Mucklegrand herself--not havingthe slightest recollection of her as the Miss Holabird of thatearly-morning business call, whose name she had just glanced atand dropped into an Indian china scrap-jar before she wentdown-stairs--had asked him the same questions, and pronounced thatshe was "an exceedingly graceful little person, certainly,"--afterall this, Archie had made up his--mind, shall I say? at least hisinclination, and his moustache--to pursue the acquaintance, and beas irresistible as he could.But Rosamond had learned--things do so play into our lives in abenign order--just before that Christmas time and those charades, inone of which Archie Mucklegrand had sung to her, so expressively,the "Birks of Aberfeldy,"--that Spreadsplendid Park was not, atleast his corner of it,--a "piece of her world;" and she did notbelieve that Aberfeldy would be, either, though Archie's voice wasbeautiful, and--          "Bonnie lassie, will ye go?"sounded very enticing--in a charade.So she was quite calm when the Marchbanks party came upon theground, and Archie Mucklegrand, with white trousers and a lavendertie, and the trim, waxed moustache, looking very handsome in spiteof his dapperness, found her out in the first two minutes, andattached himself to her forthwith in a most undetachable anddetermined manner, which was his way of being irresistible.They were in the midst of their tea and coffee when the West Hillparty came. Miss Arabel was busy at the coffee-table between the twooaks, pouring out with all her might, and creaming the fragrant cupswith a rich lavishness that seemed to speak of milky mothers withoutnumber or limit of supply; and Rosamond, as the most natural andhospitable thing to do, conducted the young gentleman as soon as shecould to that lady, and commended him to her good offices.These were not to be resisted; and as soon as he was occupied,Rosamond turned to attend to others coming up; and the groupsshifting, she found herself presently a little way off, andmeanwhile Mrs. Marchbanks and her son had reached the table andjoined Archie."I say, Arthur! O, Mrs. Marchbanks! You never got such coffee asthis, I do believe! The open air has done something to it, or elsethe cream comes from some supernal cows! Miss Holabird!"Rosamond turned round."I don't see,--Mrs. Marchbanks ought to have some of this coffee,but where is your good woman gone?" For Miss Arabel had steppedround behind the oak-tree for a moment, to see about somereplenishing.In her prim, plain dress, utterly innocent of style or _bias_, andher zealous ministry, good Miss Arabel might easily be taken forsome comfortable, superior old servant; but partly from a suddensense of fun,--Mrs. Marchbanks standing there in all her elegantdignity,--and partly from a jealous chivalry of friendship, Rosamondwould not let it pass so."Good woman? Hush! she is one of our hostesses, the owner of theground, and a dear friend of mine. Here she is. Miss Waite, let meintroduce Mr. Archibald Mucklegrand. Mrs. Marchbanks will like somecoffee, please."Which Mrs. Marchbanks took with a certain look of amazement, thatshowed itself subtilely in a slight straightening of the lips and anexpansion of the nostrils. She did not _sniff_; she was a great dealtoo much a lady; she was Mrs. Marchbanks, but if she had been Mrs.Higgin, and had felt just so, she would have sniffed.Somebody came up close to Rosamond on the other side."That was good," said Kenneth Kincaid. "Thank you for that, MissRosamond.""Will you have some more?" asked Rosamond, cunningly, pretending tomisunderstand, and reaching her hand to take his empty cup."One mustn't ask for all one would like," said Kenneth,relinquishing the cup, and looking straight in her eyes.Rosamond's eyes fell; she had no rejoinder ready; it was very wellthat she had the cup to take care of, and could turn away, for shefelt a very foolish color coming up in her face.She made herself very busy among the guests. Archie Mucklegrandstayed by, and spoke to her every time he found a chance. At last,when people had nearly done eating and drinking, he asked her if shewould not show him the path down to the river."It must be beautiful down there under the slope," he said.She called Dorris and Desire, then, and Oswald Megilp, who was withthem. He was spending a little time here at the Prendibles, with hisboat on the river, as he had used to do. When he could take anabsolute vacation, he was going away with a pedestrian party, amongthe mountains. There was not much in poor Oswald Megilp, but Desireand Rosamond were kind to him now that his mother was away.As they all walked down the bank among the close evergreens, theymet Mr. Geoffrey and Mr. Marchbanks, with Kenneth Kincaid, comingup. Kenneth came last, and the two parties passed each other singlefile, in the narrow pathway.Kenneth paused as he came close to Rosamond, holding back a boughfor her."I have something very nice to tell you," he whispered, "by and by.But it is a secret, as yet. Please don't stay down there very long."Nobody heard the whisper but Rosamond; if they could have done so,he would not have whispered. Archie Mucklegrand was walking rathersulkily along before; he had not cared for a party to be made upwhen he asked Rosamond to go down to the river with him. Desire andDorris had found some strange blossom among the underbrush, and werestopping for it; and Oswald Megilp was behind them. For a fewseconds, Kenneth had Rosamond quite to himself.The slight delay had increased the separation between her and ArchieMucklegrand, for he had kept steadily on in his little huff."I do not think we shall be long," said Rosamond, glancing afterhim, and looking up, with her eyes bright. She was half merry withmischief, and half glad with a quieter, deeper pleasure, atKenneth's words.He would tell her something in confidence; something that he wasglad of; he wanted her to know it while it was yet a secret; she hadnot the least guess what it could be; but it was very "nice"already. Rosamond always did rather like to be told things first; tohave her friends confide in and consult with her, and rely upon hersympathy; she did not stop to separate the old feeling which she wasquite aware of in herself, from something new that made itespecially beautiful that Kenneth Kincaid should so confide andrely.Rosamond was likely to have more told her to-night than she quitedreamed of."Desire!"They heard Mrs. Ledwith's voice far back among the trees.Desire answered."I want you, dear!""Something about shawls and baskets, I suppose," said Desire,turning round, perhaps a little the more readily that Kenneth wasbeside her now, going back also.Dorris and Oswald Megilp, finding there was a move to return, andbeing behind Desire in the pathway, turned also, as people will whohave no especial motive for going one way rather than another; andso it happened that after all Rosamond and Archie Mucklegrand walkedon down the bank to the river together, by themselves.Archie's good humor returned quickly."I am glad they are gone; it was such a fuss having so many," hesaid."We shall have to go back directly; they are beginning to break up,"said Rosamond.And then, coming out to the opening by the water, she began to talkrather fast about the prettiness of the view, and to point out thebridge, and the mills, and the shadow of East Hill upon the water,and the curve of the opposite shore, and the dip of the shrubs andtheir arched reflections. She seemed quite determined to have allthe talk to herself.Archie Mucklegrand played with his stick, and twisted the end ofhis moustache. Men never ought to allow themselves to learn thattrick. It always comes back upon them when it makes them look mostfoolish.Archie said nothing, because there was so much he wanted to say, andhe did not know how to begin.He knew his mother and sister would not like it,--as long as theycould help it, certainly,--therefore he had suddenly made up hismind that there should be no such interval. He could do as hepleased; was he not Sir Archibald? And there was his Bostongrandfather's property, too, of which a large share had been leftoutright to him; and he had been twenty-one these six months. Therewas nothing to hinder; and he meant to tell Rosamond Holabird thathe liked her better than any other girl in the world. Somebody elsewould be telling her so, if he didn't; he could see how they allcame round her; perhaps it might be that tall, quiet, cheeky lookingfellow,--that Kincaid. He would be before him, at any rate.So he stood and twisted his moustache, and said nothing,--nothing, Imean, except mere little words of assent and echo to Rosamond'schatter about the pretty view.At last,--"You are fond of scenery, Miss Holabird?"Rosamond laughed."O yes, I suppose I am; but we don't call this scenery. It is justpleasantness,--beauty. I don't think I quite like the word'scenery.' It seems artificial,--got up for outside effect. And themost beautiful things do not speak from the outside, do they? Inever travelled, Mr. Mucklegrand. I have just lived here, until Ihave lived _into_ things, or they into me. I rather think it istravelling, skimming about the world in a hurry, that makes peopletalk about 'scenery.' Isn't it?""I dare say. I don't care for skimming, myself. But I like to go tonice places, and stay long enough to get into them, as you say. Imean to go to Scotland next year. I've a place there among the hillsand lochs, Miss Rosamond.""Yes. I have heard so. I should think you would wish to go and seeit.""I'll tell you what I wish, Miss Holabird!" he said suddenly,letting go his moustache, and turning round with sufficientmanfulness, and facing her. "I suppose there is a more gradual andelegant way of saying it; but I believe straightforward is as goodas any. I wish you cared for me as I care for you, and then youwould go with me."Rosamond was utterly confounded. She had not imagined that it couldbe hurled at her, this fashion; she thought she could parry and putaside, if she saw anything coming. She was bewildered and breathlesswith the shock of it; she could only blindly, and in very foolishwords, hurl it back."O, dear, no!" she exclaimed, her face crimson. "I mean--I don't--Icouldn't! I beg your pardon, Mr. Mucklegrand; you are very good; Iam very sorry; but I wish you hadn't said so. We had better goback.""No," said Archie Mucklegrand, "not yet. I've said it now. I said itlike a moon calf, but I mean it like a man. Won't you--can't you--bemy wife, Rosamond? I must know that.""No, Mr. Mucklegrand," answered Rosamond, quite steadily now andgently. "I could not be. We were never meant for each other. Youwill think so yourself next year,--by the time you go to Scotland.""I shall never think so."Of course he said that; young men always do; they mean it at themoment, and nothing can persuade them otherwise."I told you I had lived right here, and grown into these things, andthey into me," said Rosamond, with a sweet slow earnestness, as ifshe thought out while she explained it; and so she did; for thethought and meaning of her life dawned upon her with a newperception, as she stood at this point and crisis of it in theresponsibility of her young womanhood. "And these, and all thethings that have influenced me, have given my life its direction;and I can see clearly that it was never meant to be your way. I donot know what it will be; but I know yours is different. It would bewrenching mine to turn it so.""But I would turn mine for you," said Archie."You couldn't. Lives _grow_ together. They join beforehand, if theyjoin at all. You like me, perhaps,--just what you see of me; but youdo not know me, nor I you. If it--this--were meant, we should.""Should what?""Know. Be sure.""I am sure of what I told you.""And I thank you very much; but I do not--I never could--belong toyou."What made Rosamond so wise about knowing and belonging?She could not tell, herself; she had never thought it out before;but she seemed to see it very clearly now. She did not belong toArchie Mucklegrand, nor he to her; he was mistaken; their lives hadno join; to make them join would be a force, a wrenching.Archie Mucklegrand did not care to have it put on such deep ground.He liked Rosamond; he wanted her to like him; then they should bemarried, of coarse, and go to Scotland, and have a good time; butthis quiet philosophy cooled him somewhat. As they walked up thebank together, he wondered at himself a little that he did not feelworse about it. If she had been coquettish, or perverse, she mighthave been all the more bewitching to him. If he had thought sheliked somebody else better, he might have been furiously jealous;but "her way of liking a fellow would be a slow kind of a way, afterall." That was the gist of his thought about it; and I believe thatto many very young men, at the age of waxed moustaches and Germandancing, that "slow kind of a way" in a girl is the best possibleinsurance against any lasting damage that their own enthusiasm mightsuffer.He had not been contemptible in the offering of his love; his besthad come out at that moment; if it does not come out then,somehow,--through face and tone, in some plain earnestness or simplenobleness, if not in fashion of the spoken word as very well it maynot,--it must be small best that the man has in him.Rosamond's simple saying of the truth, as it looked to her in thatmoment of sure insight, was the best help she could have given him.Truth is always the best help. He did not exactly understand thewherefore, as she understood it; but the truth touched himnevertheless, in the way that he could perceive. They did not"belong" to each other.And riding down in the late train that evening, Archie Mucklegrandsaid to himself, drawing a long breath,--"It would have been anawful tough little joke, after all, telling it to the old lady!""Are you too tired to walk home?" Kenneth Kincaid asked of Rosamond,helping her put the baskets in the carriage.Dakie Thayne had asked Ruth the same question five minutes before,and they two had gone on already. Are girls ever too tired to walkhome after a picnic, when the best of the picnic is going to walkhome with them? Of course Rosamond was not too tired; and Mrs.Holabird had the carryall quite to herself and her baskets.They took the River Road, that was shady all the way, and sweet nowwith the dropping scents of evening; it was a little longer, too, Ithink, though that is one of the local questions that have never yetbeen fully decided."How far does Miss Waite's ground run along the river?" askedKenneth, taking Rosamond's shawl over his arm."Not far; it only just touches; it runs back and broadens toward theOld Turnpike. The best of it is in those woods and pastures.""So I thought. And the pastures are pretty much run out.""I suppose so. They are full of that lovely gray crackling moss.""Lovely for picnics. Don't you think Miss Waite would like to sell?""Yes, indeed, if she could. That is her dream; what she has beenlaying up for her old age: to turn the acres into dollars, and buildor buy a little cottage, and settle down safe. It is all she has inthe world, except her dressmaking.""Mr. Geoffrey and Mr. Marchbanks want to buy. They will offer hersixteen thousand dollars. That is the secret,--part of it.""O, Mr. Kincaid! How glad,--how _sorry_, I can't help being, too!Miss Waite to be so comfortable! And never to have her dear oldwoods to picnic in any more! I suppose they want to make streetsand build it all up.""Not all. I'll tell you. It is a beautiful plan. Mr. Geoffrey wantsto build a street of twenty houses,--ten on a side,--with just alittle garden plot for each, and leave the woods behind for a pieceof nature for the general good,--a real Union Park; a place forchildren to play in, and grown folks to rest and walk and take teain, if they choose; but for nobody to change or meddle with anyfurther. And these twenty houses to be let to respectable persons ofsmall means, at rents that will give him seven per cent, for hiswhole outlay. Don't you see? Young people, and people like MissWaite herself, who don't want _much_ house-room, but who want itnice and comfortable, and will keep it so, and who _do_ want alittle of God's world-room to grow in, that they can't get in thecrowded town streets, where the land is selling by the foot to beall built over with human packing-cases, and where they have to payas much for being shut up and smothered, as they will out here tolive and breathe. That Mr. Geoffrey is a glorious man, Rosamond! Heis doing just this same thing in the edges of three or four othertowns, buying up the land just before it gets too dear, to save forpeople who could not save it for themselves. He is providing for aclass that nobody seems to have thought of,--the nice, narrow-pursedpeople, and the young beginners, who get married and take the worldin the old-fashioned way."He had no idea he had called her "Rosamond," till he saw the colorshining up so in her face verifying the name. Then it flashed outupon him as he sent his thought back through the last few sentencesthat he had spoken."I beg your pardon," he said, suddenly. "But I was so full of thisbeautiful doing,--and I always think of you so! Is there a sin inthat?"Rosamond colored deeper yet, and Kenneth grew more bold. He hadspoken it without plan; it had come of itself."I can't help it now. I shall say it again, unless you tell me not!Rosamond! I shall have these houses to build. I am getting ever somuch to do. Could you begin the world with me, Rosamond?"Rosamond did not say a word for a full minute. She only walkedslowly by his side, her beautiful head inclined gently, shyly; hersweet face all one bloom, as faces never bloom but once.Then she turned toward him and put out her hand."I will begin the world with you," she said.And their world--that was begun for them before they wereborn--lifted up its veil and showed itself to them, bright in theeternal morning.       *       *       *       *       *Desire Ledwith walked home all alone. She left Dorris at MissWaite's, and Helena had teased to stay with her. Mrs. Ledwith hadgone home among the first, taking a seat offered her in Mrs. TomFriske's carriage to East Square; she had a headache, and was tired.Desire felt the old, miserable questions coming up, tempting her.Why?Why was she left out,--forgotten? Why was there nothing, very much,in any of this, for her?Yet underneath the doubting and accusing, something lived--stayedby--to rebuke it; rose up above it finally, and put it down, thoughwith a thrust that hurt the heart in which the doubt was trampled.Wait. Wait--with all your might!Desire could do nothing very meekly; but she could even _wait_ withall her might. She put her foot down with a will, at every step."I was put here to be Desire Ledwith," she said, relentlessly, toherself; "not Rosamond Holabird, nor even Dolly. Well, I suppose Ican stay put, and _be_! If things would only _let_ me be!"But they will not. Things never do, Desire.They are coming, now, upon you. Hard things,--and all at once.XVIII.ALL AT ONCE.There was a Monday morning train going down from Z----.Mr. Ledwith and Kenneth Kincaid were in it, reading the morningpapers, seated side by side.It was nearly a week since the picnic, but the engagement ofRosamond and Kenneth had not transpired. Mr. Holabird had been awayin New York. Of course nothing was said beyond Mrs. Holabird andRuth and Dolly Kincaid, until his return. But Kenneth carried ahappy face about with him, in the streets and in the cars and abouthis work; and his speech was quick and bright with the men he metand had need to speak to. It almost told itself; people might haveguessed it, if they had happened, at least to see the _two_ faces inthe same day, and if they were alive to sympathetic impressions ofother people's pain or joy. There are not many who stop to pieceexpressions, from pure sympathy, however; they are, for the mostpart, too busy putting this and that together for themselves.Desire would have guessed it in a minute; but she saw little ofeither in this week. Mrs. Ledwith was not well, and there was adress to be made for Helena.Kenneth Kincaid's elder men friends said of him, when they saw himin these days, "That's a fine fellow; he is doing very well." Theycould read that; he carried it in his eye and in his tone and in hisstep, and it was true.It was a hot morning; it would be a stifling day in the city. Theysat quiet while they could, in the cars, taking the fresh air of thefields and the sea reaches, reading the French news, and sayinglittle.They came almost in to the city terminus, when the train stopped.Not at a station. There were people to alight at the last but one;these grew impatient after a few minutes, and got out and walked.The train still waited.Mr. Ledwith finished a column he was reading, and then looked up, asthe conductor came along the passage."What is the delay?" he asked of him."Freight. Got such a lot of it. Takes a good while to handle."Freight outward bound. A train making up.Mr. Ledwith turned to his newspaper again.Ten minutes went by. Kenneth Kincaid got up and went out, like manyothers. They might be kept there half an hour.Mr. Ledwith had read all his paper, and began to grow impatient. Heput his head out at the window, and looked and listened. Half thepassengers were outside. Brake-men were walking up and down."Has he got a flag out there?" says the conductor to one of these."Don't know. Can't see. Yes, he has; I heard him whistle brakes."Just then, their own bell sounded, and men jumped on board. KennethKincaid came back to his seat.Behind, there was a long New York train coming in.Mr. Ledwith put his head out again, and looked back. All right;there had been a flag; the train had slackened just beyond a curve.But why will people do such things? What is the use of asking? Mr.Ledwith still looked out; he could not have told you why.A quicker motion; a darkening of the window; a freight car standingupon a siding, close to the switch, as they passed by; a sudden,dull blow, half unheard in the rumble of the train. Women, sittingbehind, sprang up,--screamed; one dropped, fainting: they had seen aghastly sight; warm drops of blood flew in upon them; the car was incommotion.Kenneth Kincaid, with an exclamation of horror, clutched hold of alifeless body that fell--was thrust--backward beside him; the poorhead fractured, shattered, against the fatal window frame.       *       *       *       *       *The eleven o'clock train came out.People came up the street,--a group of gentlemen, three orfour,--toward Mr. Prendible's house.Desire sat in a back window behind the blinds, busy. Mrs. Ledwithwas lying on the bed.Steps came in at the house door.There was an exclamation; a hush. Mr. Prendible's voice, KennethKincaid's, Mr. Dimsey's, the minister's."O! How? "--Mrs. Prendible's voice, now."Take care!""Where are they?"Mrs. Ledwith heard."What is the matter?"--springing up, with a sudden instinct ofprecognition.Desire had not seen or heard till now. She dropped her work."What is it, mother?"Mrs. Ledwith was up, upon the floor; in the doorway out in thepassage; trembling; seized all over with a horrible dread and vagueknowledge."_Tell_ me what it is!" she cried, to those down below.They were all there upon the staircase; Mrs. Prendible furthest up."O, Mrs. Ledwith!" she cried. "_Don't_ be frightened! _Don't_ takeon! Take it easy,--do!"Desire rushed down among them; past Mrs. Prendible, past theminister, straight to Kenneth Kincaid.Kenneth took her right in his arms, and carried her into a littleroom below."There could have been no pain," he said, tenderly. "It was theaccident of a moment. Be strong,--be patient, dear!"There had been tender words natural to his lips lately. It was notstrange that in his great pity he used them now."My father!" gasped Desire."Yes; your father. It was our Father's will.""Help me to go to my mother!"She took his hand, half blind, almost reeling.And then they all, somehow, found themselves up-stairs.There were moans of pain; there were words of prayer. We have noright there. It is all told.       *       *       *       *       *"Be strong,--be patient, dear!"It came back, in the midst of the darkness, the misery; it helpedher through those days; it made her strong for her mother. Itcomforted her, she hardly knew how much; but O, how cruel it seemedafterward!They went directly down to Boston. Mr. Ledwith was buried from theirown house. It was all over; and now, what should they do? UncleTitus came to see them. Mrs. Ripwinkley came right back fromHomesworth. Dorris Kincaid left her summer-time all behind, andcame to stay with them a week in Shubarton Place. Mrs. Ledwithcraved companionship; her elder daughters were away; there werethese five weeks to go by until she could hear from them. She wouldnot read their letters that came now, full of chat and travel.Poor Laura! her family scattered; her dependence gone; her life allbroken down in a moment!Dorris Kincaid did not speak of Kenneth and Rosamond. How could shebring news of others' gladness into that dim and sorrowful house?Luclarion Grapp shut up her rooms, left her plants and her birdswith Mrs. Gallilee, and came up to Shubarton Place in the beginning.There were no servants there; everything was adrift; the terribleblows of life take people between the harness, most unprovided,unawares.It was only for a little while, until they could hear from thegirls, and make plans. Grant Ledwith's income died with him; therewas ten thousand dollars, life insurance; that would give them alittle more than a sixth part of what his salary had been; and therewere the two thousand a year of Uncle Titus; and the house, on whichthere was a twelve thousand dollar mortgage.Mrs. Ledwith had spent her life in cutting and turning and planning;after the first shock was over, even her grief was counterpoised andabated, by the absorption of her thoughts into the old channels.What they should do, how they should live, what they could have; howit should be contrived and arranged. Her mind busied itself with allthis, and her trouble was veiled,--softened. She had a dozendifferent visions and schemes, projected into their details ofresidence, establishment, dress, ordering,--before the letterscame, bringing back the first terribleness in the first reception ofand response to it, of her elder children.It was so awful to have them away,--on the other side of the world!If they were only once all together again! Families ought not toseparate. But then, it had been for their good; how could she haveimagined? She supposed she should have done the same again, underthe same circumstances.And then came Mrs. Megilp's letter, delayed a mail, as she wouldhave delayed entering the room, if they had been rejoined in theirgrief, until the family had first been gathered together with theirtears and their embraces.Then she wrote,--as she would have come in; and her letter, asher visit would have been, was after a few words of tendercondolence,--and they were very sweet and tender, for Mrs. Megilpknew how to lay phrases like illuminating gold-leaf upon hermeaning,--eminently practical and friendly, full of judicious, notto say mitigating, suggestions.It was well, she thought, that Agatha and Florence were with her.They had been spared so much; and perhaps if all this had happenedfirst, they might never have come. As to their return, she thoughtit would be a pity; "it could not make it really any better foryou," she said; "and while your plans are unsettled, the fewer youare, the more easily you will manage. It seems hard to shadow theiryoung lives more than is inevitable; and new scenes and interestsare the very best things for them; their year of mourning would befairly blotted out at home, you know. For yourself, poor friend, ofcourse you cannot care; and Desire and Helena are not much comeforward, but it would be a dead blank and stop to them, so muchlost, right out; and I feel as if it were a kind Providence for thedear girls that they should be just where they are. We are livingquietly, inexpensively; it will cost no more to come home at onetime than at another;" etc.There are persons to whom the pastime of life is the whole businessof it; sickness and death and misfortune,--to say nothing of caresand duties--are the interruptions, to be got rid of as they may.The next week came more letters; they had got a new idea out there.Why should not Mrs. Ledwith and the others come and join them? Theywere in Munich, now; the schools were splendid; would be just thething for Helena; and "it was time for mamma to have a rest."This thought, among the dozen others, had had its turn in Mrs.Ledwith's head. To break away, and leave everything, that is theimpulse of natures like hers when things go hard and they cannotshape them. Only to get off; if she could do that!Meanwhile, it was far different with Desire.She was suffering with a deeper pain; not with a sharper loss, forshe had seen so little of her father; but she looked in and back,and thought of what she _ought_ to miss, and what had never been.She ought to have known her father better; his life ought to havebeen more to her; was it her fault, or, harder yet, had it been his?This is the sorest thrust of grief; when it is only shock, and pity,and horror, and after these go by, not grief enough!The child wrestled with herself, as she always did, questioning,arraigning. If she could make it all right, in the past, and now; ifshe could feel that all she had to do was to be tenderly sorry, andto love on through the darkness, she would not mind the dark; itwould be only a phase of the life,--the love. But to have lived herlife so far, to have had the relations of it, and yet _not_ to havelived it, not to have been real child, real sister, not to be realstricken daughter now, tasting the suffering just as God made it tobe tasted,--was she going through all things, even this, in a vainshadow? _Would_ not life touch her?She went away back, strangely, and asked whether she had had anybusiness to be born? Whether it were a piece of God's truth at all,that she and all of them should be, and call themselves ahousehold,--a home? The depth, the beauty of it were so unfulfilled!What was wrong, and how far back? Living in the midst ofsuperficialities; in the noontide of a day of shams; putting herhands forth and grasping, almost everywhere, nothing but thin, hardsurface,--she wondered how much of the world was real; how many cameinto the world where, and as, God meant them to come. What it was to"climb up some other way into the sheepfold," and to be a thief anda robber, even of life!These were strange thoughts. Desire Ledwith was a strange girl.But into the midst there crept one comfort; there was one glimpseout of the darkness into the daylight.Kenneth Kincaid came in often to see them,--to inquire; just now hehad frequent business in the city; he brought ferns and flowers,that Dorris gathered and filled into baskets, fresh and damp withmoss.Dorris was a dear friend; she dwelt in the life and the brightness;she reached forth and gathered, and turned and ministered again. Theferns and flowers were messages; leaves out of God's living Word,that she read, found precious, and sent on; apparitions, theyseemed standing forth to sense, and making sweet, true signs fromthe inner realm of everlasting love and glory.And Kenneth,--Desire had never lost out of her heart thosewords,--"Be strong,--be patient, dear!"He did not speak to her of himself; he could not demandcongratulation from her grief; he let it be until she should somehowlearn, and of her own accord, speak to him.So everybody let her alone, poor child, to her hurt.The news of the engagement was no Boston news; it was something thathad occurred, quietly enough, among a few people away up in Z----.Of the persons who came in,--the few remaining in town,--nobodyhappened to know or care. The Ripwinkleys did, of course; but Mrs.Ripwinkley remembered last winter, and things she had read inDesire's unconscious, undisguising face, and aware of nothing thatcould be deepening the mischief now, thinking only of the sufficientburden the poor child had to bear, thought kindly, "better not."Meanwhile Mrs. Ledwith was dwelling more and more upon the Europeanplan. She made up her mind, at last, to ask Uncle Titus. When allwas well, she would not seem to break a compact by going awayaltogether, so soon, to leave him; but now,--he would see thedifference; perhaps advise it. She would like to know what he wouldadvise. After all that had happened,--everything so changed,--halfher family abroad,--what could she do? Would it not be more prudentto join them, than to set up a home again without them, and keepthem out there? And all Helena's education to provide for, andeverything so cheap and easy there, and so dear and difficult here?"Now, tell me, truly, uncle, should you object? Should you take itat all hard? I never meant to have left you, after all you havedone; but you see I have to break up, now poor Grant is gone; wecannot live as we did before, even with what you do; and--for alittle while--it is cheaper there; and by and by we can come backand make some other plan. Besides, I feel sometimes as if I _must_go off; as if there weren't anything left here for me."Poor woman! poor _girl_, still,--whose life had never truly takenroot!"I suppose," said Uncle Titus, soberly, "that God shines all round.He's on this side as much as He is on that."Mrs. Ledwith looked up out of her handkerchief, with which at thatmoment she had covered her eyes."I never knew Uncle Titus was pious!" she said to herself. And herastonishment dried her tears.He said nothing more that was pious, however; he simply assured her,then and in conversations afterward, that he should take nothing"hard;" he never expected to bind her, or put her on parole; hechose to come to know his relatives, and he had done so; he had alsodone what seemed to him right, in return for their meeting him halfway; they were welcome to it all, to take it and use it as they bestcould, and as circumstances and their own judgment dictated. If theywent abroad, he should advise them to do it before the winter.These words implied consent, approval. Mrs. Ledwith went up-stairsafter them with a heart so much lightened that she was very nearlycheerful. There would be a good deal to do now, and something tolook forward to; the old pulses of activity were quickened. Shecould live with those faculties that had been always vital in her,as people breathe with one live lung; but trouble and change hadwrought in her no deeper or further capacity; had wakened nothingthat had never been awake before.The house and furniture were to be sold; they would sail inSeptember.When Desire perceived that it was settled, she gave way; she hadsaid little before; her mother had had many plans, and they amusedher; she would not worry her with opposition; and besides, she washerself in a secret dream of a hope half understood.It happened that she told it to Kenneth Kincaid herself; she sawalmost every one who came, instead of her mother; Mrs. Ledwith livedin her own room chiefly. This was the way in which it had comeabout, that nobody noticed or guessed how it was with Desire, andwhat aspect Kenneth's friendship and kindness, in the simple historyof those few weeks, might dangerously grow to bear with her.Except one person. Luclarion Grapp, at last, made up her mind.Kenneth heard what Desire told him, as he heard all she ever had totell, with a gentle interest; comforted her when she said she couldnot bear to go, with the suggestion that it might not be for verylong; and when she looked up in his face with a kind of strange,pained wonder, and repeated,--"But I cannot _bear_,--I tell you, I cannot _bear_ to go!" heanswered,--"One can bear all that is right; and out of it the good will comethat we do not know. All times go by. I am sorry--very sorry--thatyou must go; but there will be the coming back. We must all wait forthat."She did not know what she looked for; she did not know what sheexpected him to mean; she expected nothing; the thought of hispreventing it in any way never entered into her head; she knew, ifshe _had_ thought, how he himself was waiting, working. She onlywanted him to _care_. Was this caring? Much? She could not tell."We never can come _back_," she said, impetuously. "There will beall the time--everything--between."He almost spoke to her of it, then; he almost told her that theeverything might be more, not less; that friendships gathered,multiplied; that there would be one home, he hoped, in which, by andby, she would often be; in which she would always be a dear andwelcome comer.But she was so sad, so tried; his lips were held; in his pure,honest kindness, he never dreamt of any harm that his silence mightdo; it only seemed so selfish to tell her how bright it was withhim.So he said, smiling,--"And who knows what the 'everything' may be?" And he took both herhands in his as he said good-by,--for his little stops were ofminutes on his way, always,--and held them fast, and looked warmly,hopefully into her face.It was all for her,--to give her hope and courage; but the light ofit was partly kindled by his own hope and gladness that lay behind;and how could she know that, or read it right? It was at once toomuch, and not enough, for her.Five minutes after, Luclarion Grapp went by the parlor door with apile of freshly ironed linen in her arms, on her way up-stairs.Desire lay upon the sofa, her face down upon the pillow; her armswere thrown up, and her hands clasped upon the sofa-arm; her frameshook with sobs.Luclarion paused for the time of half a step; then she went on. Shesaid to herself in a whisper, as she went,--"It is a stump; a proper hard one! But there's nobody else; and Ihave got to tell her!"       *       *       *       *       *That evening, under some pretense of clean towels, Luclarion came upinto Desire's room.She was sitting alone, by the window, in the dark.Luclarion fussed round a little; wiped the marble slab and thebasin; set things straight; came over and asked Desire if she shouldnot put up the window-bars, and light the gas."No," said Desire. "I like this best."So did Luclarion. She had only said it to make time."Desire," she said,--she never put the "Miss" on, she had been toofamiliar all her life with those she was familiar with at all,--"thefact is I've got something to say, and I came up to say it."She drew near--came close,--and laid her great, honest, faithfulhand on the back of Desire Ledwith's chair, put the other behind herown waist, and leaned over her."You see, I'm a woman, Desire, and I know. You needn't mind me, I'man old maid; that's the way I do know. Married folks, even mothers,half the time forget. But old maids never forget. I've had mystumps, and I can see that you've got yourn. But you'd ought tounderstand; and there's nobody, from one mistake and another, that'sgoing to tell you. It's awful hard; it will be a trouble to you atfirst,"--and Luclarion's strong voice trembled tenderly with thesympathy that her old maid heart had in it, after, and because of,all those years,--"but Kenneth Kincaid"--"_What_!" cried Desire, starting to her feet, with a suddenindignation."Is going to be married to Rosamond Holabird," said Luclarion, verygently. "There! you ought to know, and I have told you.""What makes you suppose that that would be a trouble to me?" blazedDesire. "How do you dare"--"I didn't dare; but I had to!" sobbed Luclarion, putting her armsright round her.And then Desire--as she would have done at any rate, for that blazewas the mere flash of her own shame and pain--broke down with amoan."All at once! All at once!" she said piteously, and hid her face inLuclarion's bosom.And Luclarion folded her close; hugged her, the good woman, in herlove that was sisterly and motherly and all, because it was the loveof an old maid, who had endured, for a young maid upon whom theendurance was just laid,--and said, with the pity of heaven in thewords,--"Yes. All at once. But the dear Lord stands by. Take hold of Hishand,--and bear with all your might!"XIX.INSIDE."Do you think, Luclarion," said Desire, feebly, as Luclarion came totake away her bowl of chicken broth,--"that it is my _duty_ to gowith mamma?""I don't know," said Luclarion, standing with the little waiter inher right hand, her elbow poised upon her hip,--"I've thought ofthat, and I _don't_ know. There's most generally a stump, you see,one way or another, and that settles it, but here there's one bothways. I've kinder lost my road: come to two blazes, and can't tellwhich. Only, it ain't my road, after all. It lays between the Lordand you, and I suppose He means it shall. Don't you worry; there'llbe some sort of a sign, inside or out. That's His business, you'vejust got to keep still, and get well."Desire had asked her mother, before this, if she would care verymuch,--no, she did not mean that,--if she would be disappointed, ordisapprove, that she should stay behind."Stay behind? Not go to Europe? Why, where _could_ you stay? Whatwould you do?""There would be things to do, and places to stay," Desire hadanswered, constrainedly. "I could do like Dorris.""Teach music!""No. I don't know music. But I might teach something I do know. Or Icould--rip," she said, with an odd smile, remembering something shehad said one day so long ago; the day the news came up to Z----from Uncle Oldways. "And I might make out to put together for otherpeople, and for a real business. I never cared to do it just formyself.""It is perfectly absurd," said Mrs Ledwith. "You couldn't be left totake care of yourself. And if you could, how it would look! No; ofcourse you must go with us.""But do you _care_?""Why, if there were any proper way, and if you really hate so togo,--but there isn't," said Mrs. Ledwith, not very grammatically orconnectedly."She _doesn't_ care," said Desire to herself, after her mother hadleft her, turning her face to the pillow, upon which two tears ranslowly down. "And that is my fault, too, I suppose. I have neverbeen _anything_!"Lying there, she made up her mind to one thing. She would get UncleTitus to come, and she would talk to him."He won't encourage me in any notions," she said to herself. "And Imean now, if I can find it out, to do the thing God means; and thenI suppose,--I _believe_,--the snarl will begin to unwind."Meanwhile, Luclarion, when she had set a nice little bowl oftea-muffins to rise, and had brought up a fresh pitcher of ice-waterinto Desire's room, put on her bonnet and went over to Aspen Streetfor an hour.Down in the kitchen, at Mrs. Ripwinkley's, they were having a nicetime.Their girl had gone. Since Luclarion left, they had fallen into thatGulf-stream which nowadays runs through everybody's kitchen. Girlscame, and saw, and conquered in their fashion; they muddled up, andwent away.The nice times were in the intervals when they _had_ gone away.Mrs. Ripwinkley did not complain; it was only her end of the"stump;" why should she expect to have a Luclarion Grapp to serveher all her life?This last girl had gone as soon as she found out that Sulie Prailewas "no relation, and didn't anyways belong there, but had been tookin." She "didn't go for to come to work in an _Insecution_. She hadalways been used to first-class private families."Girls will not stand any added numbers, voluntarily assumed, or eveninvoluntarily befalling; they will assist in taking up no newresponsibilities; to allow things to remain as they are, and cannothelp being, is the depth of their condescension,--the extent of whatthey will put up with. There must be a family of some sort, ofcourse, or there would not be a "place;" that is what the family ismade for; but it must be established, no more to fluctuate; that is,you may go away, some of you, if you like, or you may die; butnobody must come home that has been away, and nobody must be born.As to anybody being "took in!" Why, the girl defined it; it was notbeing a family, but an _Insecution_.So the three--Diana, and Hazel, and Sulie--were down in the kitchen;Mrs. Ripwinkley was busy in the dining-room close by; there was aberry-cake to be mixed up for an early tea. Diana was picking overthe berries, Hazel was chopping the butter into the flour, and Sulieon a low cushioned seat in a corner--there was one kept ready forher in every room in the house, and Hazel and Diana carried herabout in an "arm-chair," made of their own clasped hands and wrists,wherever they all wanted to go,--Sulie was beating eggs.Sulie did that so patiently; you see she had no temptation to jumpup and run off to anything else. The eggs turned, under herfingers, into thick, creamy, golden froth, fine to the last possibledivisibility of the little air-bubbles.They could not do without Sulie now. They had had her for "allwinter;" but in that winter she had grown into their home."Why," said Hazel to her mother, when they had the few words aboutit that ended in there being no more words at all,--"that's the waychildren are _born_ into houses, isn't it? They just come; andthey're new and strange at first, and seem so queer. And then aftera while you can't think how the places were, and they not in them.Sulie belongs, mother!"So Sulie beat eggs, and darned stockings, and painted her lovelylittle flower-panels and racks and easels, and did everything thatcould be done, sitting still in her round chair, or in the cushionedcorners made for her; and was always in the kitchen, above all, whenany pretty little cookery was going forward.Vash ran in and out from the garden, and brought balsamine blossoms,from which she pulled the little fairy slippers, and tried to matchthem in pairs; and she picked off the "used-up and puckered-up"morning glories, which she blew into at the tube-end, and "snapped"on the back of her little brown hand.Wasn't that being good for anything, while berry-cake was making?The girls thought it was; as much as the balsamine blossoms weregood for anything, or the brown butterflies with golden spots ontheir wings, that came and lived among them. The brown butterflieswere a "piece of the garden;" little brown Vash was a piece of thehouse. Besides, she would eat some of the berry-cake when it wasmade; wasn't that worth while? She would have a "little teenty one"baked all for herself in a tin pepper-pot cover. Isn't that thespecial pleasantness of making cakes where little children are?Vash was always ready for an "Aaron," too; they could not do withouther, any more than without Sulie. Pretty soon, when Diana shouldhave left school, and Vash should be a little bigger, they meant to"cooeperate," as the Holabirds had done at Westover.Of course, they knew a great deal about the Holabirds by this time.Hazel had stayed a week with Dorris at Miss Waite's; and one ofWitch Hazel's weeks among "real folks" was like the days or hours infairy land, that were years on the other side. She found out so muchand grew so close to people.Hazel and Ruth Holabird were warm friends. And Hazel was to beRuth's bridesmaid, by and by!For Ruth Holabird was going to be married to Dakie Thayne."That seemed so funny," Hazel said. "Ruth didn't _look_ any olderthan she did; and Mr. Dakie Thayne was such a nice boy!"He was no less a man, either; he had graduated among the first threeat West Point; he was looking earnestly for the next thing that heshould do in life with his powers and responsibilities; he did notcount his marrying a _separate_ thing; that had grown up alongsideand with the rest; of course he could do nothing without Ruth; thatwas just what he had told her; and she,--well Ruth was always asensible little thing, and it was just as plain to her as it was tohim. Of course she must help him think and plan; and when the planswere made, it would take two to carry them out; why, yes, they mustbe married. What other way would there be?That wasn't what she _said_, but that was the quietly natural andhappy way in which it grew to be a recognized thing in her mind,that pleasant summer after he came straight home to them with hishonors and his lieutenant's commission in the Engineers; and hishearty, affectionate taking-for-granted; and it was no surprise orquestion with her, only a sure and very beautiful "rightness," whenit came openly about.Dakie Thayne was a man; the beginning of a very noble one; but it isthe noblest men that always keep a something of the boy. If you hadnot seen anything more of Dakie Thayne until he should be fortyyears old, you would then see something in him which would beprecisely the same that it was at Outledge, seven years ago, withLeslie Goldthwaite, and among the Holabirds at Westover, in hisfirst furlough from West Point.Luclarion came into the Ripwinkley kitchen just as the cakes--thelittle pepper-pot one and all--were going triumphantly into theoven, and Hazel was baring her little round arms to wash the dishes,while Diana tended the pans.Mrs. Ripwinkley heard her old friend's voice, and came out."That girl ought to be here with you; or somewheres else than whereshe is, or is likely to be took," said Luclarion, as she lookedround and sat down, and untied her bonnet-strings.Miss Grapp hated bonnet-strings; she never endured them a minutelonger than she could help."Desire?" asked Mrs. Ripwinkley, easily comprehending."Yes; Desire. I tell you she has a hard row to hoe, and she wantscomforting. She wants to know if it is her duty to go to Yourup withher mother. Now it may be her duty to be _willing_ to go; but itain't anybody's else duty to let her. That's what came to me as Iwas coming along. I couldn't tell _her_ so, you see, because itwould interfere with her part; and that's all in the tune as much asany; only we've got to chime in with our parts at the right stroke,the Lord being Leader. Ain't that about it, Mrs. Ripwinkley?""If we are sure of the score, and can catch the sign," said Mrs.Ripwinkley, thoughtfully."Well, I've sung mine; it's only one note; I may have to keephammering on it; that's according to how many repeats there are tobe. Mr. Oldways, he ought to know, for one. Amongst us, we have gotto lay our heads together, and work it out. She's a kind of an oddchicken in that brood; and my belief is she's like the ugly duckHazel used to read about. But she ought to have a chance; if she's aswan, she oughtn't to be trapesed off among the weeds and on the dryground. 'Tisn't even ducks she's hatched with; they don't take tothe same element.""I'll speak to Uncle Titus, and I will think," said Mrs. Ripwinkley.But before she did that, that same afternoon by the six o'clockpenny post, a little note went to Mr. Oldways:--     "DEAR UNCLE TITUS,--     "I want to talk with you a little. If I were well, I should     come to see you in your study. Will you come up here, and see     me in my room?     "Yours sincerely,      DESIRE LEDWITH."Uncle Titus liked that. It counted upon something in him which fewhad the faith to count upon; which, truly he gave few people reasonto expect to find.He put his hat directly on, took up his thick brown stick, andtrudged off, up Borden Street to Shubarton Place.When Luclarion let him in, he told her with some careful emphasis,that he had come to see Desire."Ask her if I shall come up," he said. "I'll wait down here."Helena was practicing in the drawing-room. Mrs. Ledwith lay, halfasleep, upon a sofa. The doors into the hall were shut,--Luclarionhad looked to that, lest the playing should disturb Desire.Luclarion was only gone three minutes. Then she came back, and ledMr. Oldways up three flights of stairs."It's a long climb, clear from the door," she said."I can climb," said Mr. Oldways, curtly."I didn't expect it was going to stump _you_," said Luclarion, justas short in her turn. "But I thought I'd be polite enough to mentionit."There came a queer little chuckling wheeze from somewhere, like awhispered imitation of the first few short pants of a steam-engine:that was Uncle Titus, laughing to himself.Luclarion looked down behind her, out of the corner of her eyes, asshe turned the landing. Uncle Titus's head was dropped between hisshoulders, and his shoulders were shaking up and down. But he kepthis big stick clutched by the middle, in one hand, and the otherjust touched the rail as he went up. Uncle Titus was not out ofbreath. Not he. He could laugh and climb.Desire was sitting up for a little while, before going to bed againfor the night. There was a low gas-light burning by thedressing-table, ready to turn up when the twilight should be gone;and a street lamp, just lighted, shone across into the room.Luclarion had been sitting with her, and her gray knitting-work layupon the chair that she offered when she had picked it up, to Mr.Oldways. Then she went away and left them to their talk."Mrs. Ripwinkley has been spry about it," she said to herself, goingsoftly down the stairs. "But she always was spry.""You're getting well, I hope," said Uncle Titus, seating himself,after he had given Desire his hand."I suppose so," said Desire, quietly. "That was why I wanted to seeyou. I want to know what I ought to do when I am well.""How can I tell?" asked Uncle Titus, bluntly."Better than anybody I can ask. The rest are all too sympathizing. Iam afraid they would tell me as I wish they should.""And I don't sympathize? Well, I don't think I do much. I haven'tbeen used to it.""You have been used to think what was right; and I believe you wouldtell me truly. I want to know whether I ought to go to Europe withmy mother.""Why not? Doesn't she want you to go?"--and Uncle Titus was sharpthis time."I suppose so; that is, I suppose she expects I will. But I don'tknow that I should be much except a hindrance to her. And I think Icould stay and do something here, in some way. Uncle Titus, I hatethe thought of going to Europe! Now, don't you suppose I ought togo?""_Why_ do you hate the thought of going to Europe?" asked UncleTitus, regarding her with keenness."Because I have never done anything real in all my life!" brokeforth Desire. "And this seems only plastering and patching whatcan't be patched. I want to take hold of something. I don't want tofloat round any more. What is there left of all we have ever triedto do, all these years? Of all my poor father's work, what is thereto show for it now? It has all melted away as fast as it came, likesnow on pavements; and now his life has melted away; and I feel asif we had never been anything real to each other! Uncle Titus, Ican't tell you _how_ I feel!"Uncle Titus sat very still. His hat was in one hand, and bothtogether held his cane, planted on the floor between his feet. Overhat and cane leaned his gray head, thoughtfully. If Desire couldhave seen his eyes, she would have found in them an expression thatshe had never supposed could be there at all.She had not so much spoken _to_ Uncle Titus, in these last words ofhers, as she had irresistibly spoken _out_ that which was in her.She wanted Uncle Titus's good common sense and sense of right tohelp her decide; but the inward ache and doubt and want, out ofwhich grew her indecisions,--these showed themselves forth at thatmoment simply because they must, with no expectation of a responsefrom him. It might have been a stone wall that she cried against;she would have cried all the same.Then it was over, and she was half ashamed, thinking it was of nouse, and he would not understand; perhaps that he would only set thewhole down to nerves and fidgets and contrariness, and give her nocommon sense that she wanted, after all.But Uncle Titus spoke, slowly; much as if he, too, were speaking outinvoluntarily, without thought of his auditor. People do so speak,when the deep things are stirred; they speak into the deep thatanswereth unto itself,--the deep that reacheth through all souls,and all living, whether souls feel into it and know of it or not."The real things are inside," he said. "The real world is the insideworld. _God_ is not up, nor down, but in the _midst_."Then he looked up at Desire."What is real of your life is living inside you now. That issomething. Look at it and see what it is.""Discontent. Misery. Failure.""_Sense_ of failure. Well. Those are good things. The beginning ofbetter. Those are _live_ things, at any rate."Desire had never thought of that.Now _she_ sat still awhile.Then she said,--"But we can't _be_ much, without doing it. I supposewe are put into a world of outsides for something.""Yes. To find out what it means. That's the inside of it. And tohelp make the outside agree with the in, so that it will be easierfor other people to find out. That is the 'kingdom come and will bedone, on earth as it is in heaven.' Heaven is the inside,--the truthof things.""Why, I never knew"--began Desire, astonished. She had almostfinished aloud, as her mother had done in her own mind. She neverknew that Uncle Oldways was "pious.""Never knew that was what it meant? What else can it mean? What doyou suppose the resurrection was, or is?"Desire answered with a yet larger look of wonder, only in the dimlight it could not be wholly seen."The raising up of the dead; Christ coming up out of the tomb.""The coming out of the tomb was a small part of it; just what couldnot help being, if the rest was. Jesus Christ rose out of dead_things_, I take it, into these very real ones that we are talkingof, and so lived in them. The resurrection is a man's soul comingalive to the soul of creation--God's soul. _That_ is eternal life,and what Jesus of Nazareth was born to show. Our coming to that isour being 'raised with Him;' and it begins, or ought to, a long waythis side the tomb. If people would only read the New Testament,expecting to get as much common sense and earnest there as they doamong the new lights and little 'progressive-thinkers' that aretrying to find it all out over again, they might spare thesegentlemen and themselves a great deal of their trouble."The exclamation rose half-way to her lips again,--"I never knew youthought like this. I never heard you talk of these things before!"But she held it back, because she would not stop him by remindinghim that he _was_ talking. It was just the truth that was sayingitself. She must let it say on, while it would."Un--"She stopped there, at the first syllable. She would not even callhim "Uncle Titus" again, for fear of recalling him to himself, andhushing him up."There is something--isn't there--about those who _attain_ to thatresurrection; those who are _worthy_? I suppose there must be somewho are just born to this world, then, and never--'born again?'""It looks like it, sometimes; who can tell?""Uncle Oldways,"--it came out this time in her earnestness, and herstrong personal appeal,--"do you think there are some people--wholefamilies of people--who have no business in the reality of thingsto be at all? Who are all a mistake in the world, and have nothingto do with its meaning? I have got to feeling sometimes lately, asif--_I_--had never had any business to be."She spoke slowly--awe-fully. It was a strange speech for a girl inher nineteenth year. But she was a girl in this nineteenth century,also; and she had caught some of the thoughts and questions of it,and mixed them up with her own doubts and unsatisfactions which theycould not answer."The world is full of mistakes; mistakes centuries long; but it isfull of salvation and setting to rights, also. 'The kingdom ofheaven is like leaven, which a woman hid in three measures of mealtill the whole was leavened.' You have been _allowed_ to be, DesireLedwith. And so was the man that was born blind. And I think thereis a colon put into the sentence about him, where a comma was meantto be."Desire did not ask him, then, what he meant; but she turned to thestory after he had gone, and found this:--"Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the worksof God should be manifest in him."You can see, if you look also, where she took the colon out, and putthe comma in.Were all the mistakes--the sins, even--for the very sake of the pureblessedness and the more perfect knowledge of the setting right?Desire began to think that Uncle Oldways' theology might help her.What she said to him now was,--"I want to do something. I should like to go and live withLuclarion, I think, down there in Neighbor Street. I should like totake hold of some other lives,--little children's, perhaps,"--andhere Desire's voice softened,--"that don't seem to have any businessto be, either, and see if I could help or straighten anything. ThenI feel is if I should know.""Then--according to the Scripture--you _would_ know. But--that'sundertaking a good deal. Luclarion Grapp has got there; but she hasbeen fifty-odd years upon the road. And she has been doing realthings all the time. That's what has brought her there. You can'tboss the world's hard jobs till you've been a journeyman at the easyones.""And I've missed my apprenticeship!" said Desire, with changed voiceand face, falling back into her disheartenment again."No!" Uncle Oldways almost shouted. "Not if you come to the Masterwho takes in the eleventh hour workers. And it isn't the eleventhhour with you,--_child_!"He dwelt on that word "child," reminding her of her short mistakingand of the long retrieval. Her nineteen years and the forever andever contrasted themselves before her suddenly, in the light ofhope.She turned sharply, though, to look at her duty. Her journeyman'sduty of easy things."Must I go to Europe with my mother?" she asked again, theconversation coming round to just that with which it had begun."I'll talk with your mother," said Uncle Oldways, getting up andlooking into his hat, as a man always does when he thinks of puttingit on presently. "Good-night. I suppose you are tired enough now.I'll come again and see you."Desire stood up and gave him her hand."I thank you, Uncle Titus, with all my heart."He did not answer her a word; but he knew she meant it.He did not stop that night to see his niece. He went home, to thinkit over. But as he walked down Borden Street, swinging his bigstick, he said to himself,--"Next of kin! Old Marmaduke Wharne was right. But it takes more thanthe Family Bible to tell you which it is!"Two days after, he had a talk with Mrs. Ledwith which relieved boththeir minds.From the brown-and-apricot drawing-room,--from among the thingsthat stood for nothing now, and had never stood for home,--he wentstraight up, without asking, and knocked at Desire's third-storydoor."Come in!" she said, without a note of expectation in her voice.She had had a dull morning. Helena had brought her a novel fromLoring's that she could not read. Novels, any more than life, cannotbe read with very much patience, unless they touch something besidessurface. Why do critics--some of them--make such short, smartwork,--such cheerful, confident despatch, nowadays, of a story withreligion in it, as if it were an abnormity,--a thing with sentenceof death in itself, like a calf born with two heads,--that needs nottheir trouble, save to name it as it is? Why, that is, if religionstand for the relation of things to spirit, which I suppose itshould? Somebody said that somebody had written a book made up of"spiritual struggles and strawberry short-cake." That was bright andfunny; and it seemed to settle the matter; but, taking strawberryshort-cake representatively, what else is human experience on earthmade up of? And are novels to be pictures of human experience, ornot?This has nothing to do with present matters, however, except thatDesire found nothing real in her novel, and so had flung it aside,and was sitting rather listlessly with her crochet which she nevercared much for, when Uncle Oldways entered.Her face brightened instantly as he came in. He sat down just wherehe had sat the other night. Mr. Oldways had a fashion of finding thesame seat a second time when he had come in once; he was a man whotook up most things where he left them off, and this was anunconscious sign of it."Your mother has decided to sell the house on the 23d, it seems," hesaid."Yes; I have been out twice. I shall be able to go away by then; Isuppose that is all she has waited for.""Do you think you could be contented to come and live with me?""Come and _live_?""Yes. And let your mother and Helena go to Europe.""O, Uncle Oldways! I think I could _rest_ there! But I don't wantonly to rest, you know. I must do something. For myself, to beginwith. I have made up my mind not to depend upon my mother. Whyshould I, any more than a boy? And I am sure I cannot depend onanybody else."These were Desire Ledwith's thanks; and Mr. Oldways liked them. Shedid not say it to please him; she thought it seemed almostungrateful and unwilling; but she was so intent on taking up lifefor herself."You must have a place to do in,--or from," said Mr. Oldways. "Andit is better you should be under some protection. You must consentto that for your mother's sake. How much money have you got?""Two hundred and fifty dollars a year. Of my own."This was coming to business and calculation and common sense. Desirewas encouraged. Uncle Oldways did not think her quite absurd."That will clothe you,--without much fuss and feathers?""I have done with fuss and feathers,"--Desire said with a gravesmile, glancing at her plain white wrapper and the black shawl thatwas folded around her."Then come where is room for you and a welcome, and do as much moreas you please, and can, for yourself, or for anybody else. I won'tgive you a cent; you shall have something to do for me, if youchoose. I am an old man now, and want help. Perhaps what I want asmuch as anything is what I've been all my life till lately, prettyobstinate in doing without."Uncle Oldways spoke short, and drew his breath in and puffed it outbetween his sentences, in his bluff way; but his eyes were kind, ashe sat looking at the young girl over his hat and cane.She thought of the still, gray parlor; of Rachel Froke and her faceof peace; and the Quaker meeting and the crumbs last year; of UncleOldways' study, and his shelves rich with books; of the newunderstanding that had begun between herself and him, and the faithshe had found out, down beneath his hard reserves; of the beautifulneighborhood, Miss Craydocke's Beehive, Aunt Franks' cheery home andthe ways of it, and Hazel's runnings in and out. It seemed as if thereal things had opened for her, and a place been made among them inwhich she should have "business to be," and from which her lifemight make a new setting forth."And mamma knows?" she said, inquiringly, after that long pause."Yes. I told you I would talk with her. That is what we came to. Itis only for you to say, now.""I will come. I shall be glad to come!" And her face was full oflight as she looked up and said it.       *       *       *       *       *Desire never thought for a moment of what her mother could not helpthinking of; of what Mrs. Megilp thought and said, instantly, whenshe learned it three weeks later.It is wonderful how abiding influence is,--even influence to whichwe are secretly superior,--if ever we have been subjected to, orallowed ourselves to be swayed by it. The veriest tyranny ofdiscipline grows into one's conscience, until years after, when lifehas got beyond the tyranny, conscience,--or something superinducedupon it,--keeps up the echo of the old mandates, and one can take nocomfort in doing what one knows all the time one has a perfectright, besides sound reason, to do. It was a great while before ourgrandmothers' daughters could peaceably stitch and overcast a seam,instead of over-sewing and felling it. I know women who feel to thismoment as if to sit down and read a book of a week-day, in thedaytime, were playing truant to the needle, though all thesewing-machines on the one hand, and all the demand and supply ofmental culture on the other, of this present changed and betteredtime, protest together against the absurdity.Mrs. Ledwith had heard the Megilp precepts and the Megilpforth-putting of things, until involuntarily everything showeditself to her in a Megilp light. The Megilp "sense of duty,"therefore, came up as she unhesitatingly assented to Uncle Oldways'proposal and request. He wanted Desire; of course she could not saya word; she owed him something, which she was glad she could so makeup; and secretly there whispered in her mind the suggestion whichMrs. Megilp, on the other side of the water, spoke right out."If he wants her, he must mean something by her. He is an old man;he might not live to give her back into her mother's keeping; whatwould she do there, in that old house of his, if he should die,unless--he _does_ mean something? He has taken a fancy to her; sheis odd, as he is; and he isn't so queer after all, but that hiscrotchets have a good, straightforward sense of justice in them.Uncle Titus knows what he is about; and what's more, just what heought to be about. It is a good thing to have Desire provided for;she is uncomfortable and full of notions, and she isn't likely everto be married."So Desire was given up, easily, she could not help feeling; but sheknew she had been a puzzle and a vexation to her mother, and thatMrs. Ledwith had never had the least idea what to do with her; leastof all had she now, what she should do with her abroad."It was so much better for her that Uncle Titus had taken her home."With these last words Mrs. Ledwith reassured herself and cheered herchild.Perhaps it would have been the same--it came into Desire's head,that would conceive strange things--if the angels had taken her.Mrs. Ledwith went to New York; she stayed a few days with Mrs.Macmichael, who wanted her to buy lace for her in Brussels andBohemian glass in Prague; then a few days more with her cousin,Geraldine Raxley; and then the _City of Antwerp_ sailed.XX.NEIGHBORS AND NEXT OF KIN."I'll tell you what to do with them, Luclarion," said Hazel briskly."Teach them to play.""Music! Pianners!" exclaimed Luclarion, dismayed."No. Games. Teach them to have good times. That was the first thingever we learnt, wasn't it, Dine? And we never could have got alongwithout it.""It takes _you_!" said Luclarion, looking at Hazel with delightedadmiration."Does it? Well I don't know but it does. May I go, mother?Luclarion, haven't you got a great big empty room up at the top ofthe house?"Luclarion had."That's just what it's for, then. Couldn't Mr. Gallilee put up aswing? And a 'flying circle' in the middle? You see they can't goout on the roofs; so they must have something else that will seemkind of flighty. And _I'll_ tell you how they'll learn theirletters. Sulie and I will paint 'em; great big ones, all colors; andhang 'em up with ribbons, and every child that learns one, so as toknow it everywhere, shall take it down and carry it home. Then wewill have marbles for numbers; and they shall play addition games,and multiplication games, and get the sums for prizes; the ones thatget to the head, you know. Why, you don't understand _objects_,Luclarion!"Luclarion had been telling them of the wild little folk of NeighborStreet, and worse, of Arctic Street. She wanted to do something withthem. She had tried to get them in with gingerbread and popcorn;they came in fast enough for those; but they would not stay. Theywere digging in the gutters and calling names; learning the foullanguage of the places into which they were born; chasing and hidingin alley-ways; filching, if they could, from shops; going offbegging with lies on their lips. It was terrible to see the springsfrom which the life of the city depths was fed."If you could stop it _there_!" Luclarion said, and said withreason."Will you let me go?" asked Hazel of her mother, in good earnest."'Twon't hurt her," put in Luclarion. "Nothing's catching that youhaven't got the seeds of in your own constitution. And so thecatching will be the other way."The seeds of good,--to catch good; that was what Luclarion Grappbelieved in, in those dirty little souls,--no, those clean little_souls_, overlaid with all outward mire and filth of body, clothing,speech, and atmosphere, for a mile about; through which they couldno more grope and penetrate, to reach their own that was hidden fromthem in the clearer life beyond, than we can grope and reach toother stars."I will get Desire," quoth Hazel, inspired as she always was, bothways.Running in at the house in Greenley Street the next Thursday, sheran against Uncle Titus coming out."What now?" he demanded."Desire," said Hazel. "I've come for her. We're wanted atLuclarion's. We've got work to do.""Humph! Work? What kind?""Play," said Hazel, laughing. She delighted to bother and mystifyUncle Titus, and imagined that she did."I thought so. Tea parties?""Something like," said Hazel. "There are children down there thatdon't know how to grow up. They haven't any comfortable sort offashion of growing up. Somebody has got to teach them. They don'tknow how to play 'Grand Mufti,' and they never heard of 'King Georgeand his troops.' Luclarion tried to make them sit still and learnletters; but of course they wouldn't a minute longer than thegingerbread lasted, and they are eating her out of house and home.It will take young folks, and week-days, you see; so Desire and Iare going." And Hazel ran up the great, flat-stepped staircase."Lives that have no business to be," said Uncle Titus to himself,going down the brick walk. "The Lord has His own ways of bringinglives together. And His own business gets worked out among them,beyond their guessing. When a man grows old, he can stand still nowand then, and see a little."It was a short cross street that Luclarion lived in, between twogreat thoroughfares crowded with life and business, bustle,drudgery, idleness, and vice. You will not find the name I giveit,--although you may find one that will remind you of it,--in anydirectory or on any city map. But you can find the places withoutthe names; and if you go down there with the like errands in yourheart, you will find the work, as she found it, to do.She heard the noise of street brawls at night, voices of men andwomen quarreling in alley-ways, and up in wretched garrets; flingingup at each other, in horrible words, all the evil they knew of ineach other's lives,--"away back," Luclarion said, "to when they werelittle children.""And what is it," she would say to Mrs. Ripwinkley telling herabout it, "that _flings_ it up, and can call it a shame, after allthe shames of years and years? Except just _that_ that the littlechildren _were_, underneath, when the Lord let them--He knowswhy--be born so? I tell you, ma'am, it's a mystery; and the nigheryou come to it, the more it is; it's a piece of hell and a piece ofheaven; it's the wrastle of the angel and the dragon; and it's goingon at one end, while they're building up their palaces and livingsoft and sweet and clean at the other, with everything hushed upthat can't at least _seem_ right and nice and proper. I know there'sgood folks there, in the palaces; _beautiful_ folks; there, and allthe way down between; with God's love in them, and His hate, that isholy, against sin; and His pity, that is _prayers_ in them, for allpeople and places that are dark; but if they would _come down_there, and take hold! I think it's them that would, that might havepart in the first resurrection, and live and reign the thousandyears."Luclarion never counted herself among them,--those who were to havethrones and judgments; she forgot, even, that she had gone down andtaken hold; her words came burning-true, out of her soul; and in theheat of truth they were eloquent.But I meant to tell you of her living.In the daytime it was quiet; the gross evils crept away and hid fromthe sunshine; there was labor to take up the hours, for those whodid labor; and you might not know or guess, to go down thoseavenues, that anything worse gathered there than the dust of theworld's traffic that the lumbering drays ground up continually withtheir wheels, and the wind,--that came into the city from far awaycountry places of green sweetness, and over hills and ponds andstreams and woods,--flung into the little children's faces.Luclarion had taken a house,--one of two, that fronted upon alittle planked court; aside, somewhat, from Neighbor Street, as thatwas a slight remove from the absolute terrible contact of ArcticStreet. But it was in the heart of that miserable quarter; she couldreach out her hands and touch and gather in, if it would let her,the wretchedness. She had chosen a place where it was possible forher to make a nook of refuge, not for herself only, or so much, asfor those to whom she would fain be neighbor, and help to a betterliving.It had been once a dwelling of some well-to-do family of the daysgone by; of some merchant, whose ventures went out and came in atthose wharves below, whence the air swept up pure, then, with itssalt smell, into the streets. The rooms were fairly large; Luclarionspent money out of her own little property, that had been growing bycare and saving till she could spare from it, in doing her sharetoward having it all made as sweet and clean as mortar and whitewashand new pine-boards and paint and paper could make it. All that wasleft of the old, they scoured with carbolic soap; and she had thewindows opened, and in the chimneys that had been swept of theirsoot she had clear fires made and kept burning for days.Then she put her new, plain furnishings into her own two down-stairsrooms; and the Gallilees brought in theirs above; and beside them,she found two decent families,--a German paper-hanger's, and that ofa carpenter at one of the theatres, whose wife worked atdressmaking,--to take the rest. Away up, at the very top, she hadthe wide, large room that Hazel spoke of, and a smaller one to whichshe climbed to sleep, for the sake of air as near heaven as it couldbe got.One of her lower-rooms was her living and housekeeping room; theother she turned into a little shop, in which she sold tapes andneedles and cheap calicoes and a few ribbons; and kept a counter onthe opposite side for bread and yeast, gingerbread, candy, and thelike. She did this partly because she must do something to help outthe money for her living and her plans, and partly to draw the womenand children in. How else could she establish any relations betweenherself and them, or get any permanent hold or access? She had"turned it all over in her mind," she said; "and a tidy little shopwith fair, easy prices, was the very thing, and a part of just whatshe came down there to do."She made real, honest, hop-raised bread, of sweet flour that shegave ten dollars a barrel for; it took a little more than a pint,perhaps, to make a tea loaf; that cost her three cents; she sold herloaf for four, and it was better than they could get anywhere elsefor five. Then, three evenings in a week, she had hot muffins, orcrumpets, home-made; (it was the subtle home touch and flavor thatshe counted on, to carry more than a good taste into their mouths,even a dim notion of home sweetness and comfort into their hearts;)these first,--a quart of flour at five cents, two eggs at a centapiece, and a bit of butter, say three cents more, with three centsworth of milk, made an outlay of fifteen cents for a dozen and ahalf; so she sold them for ten cents a dozen, and the like had neverbeen tasted or dreamed of in all that region round about; no, nor Idare almost to say, in half the region round about Republic Avenueeither, where they cannot get Luclarion Grapps to cook.The crumpets were cheaper; they were only bread-sponge, baked on agriddle; they were large, and light and tender; a quart of flourwould make ten; she gave the ten for seven cents.And do you see, putting two cents on every quart of her flour, forher labor, she _earned_, not _made_,--that word is for speculatorsand brokers,--with a barrel of one hundred and ninety six pounds orquarts, three dollars and ninety-two cents? The beauty of it was,you perceive, that she did a small business; there was an eagermarket for all she could produce, and there was no waste to allow amargin for.I am not a bit of a political economist myself; but I have a shrewdsuspicion that Luclarion Grapp was, besides having hit upon theinitial, individual idea of a capital social and philanthropicenterprise.This was all she tried to do at first; she began with bread; theLord from heaven began with that; she fed as much of the multitudeas she could reach; they gathered about her for the loaves; and theygot, consciously or unconsciously, more than they came or asked for.They saw her clean-swept floor; her netted windows that kept theflies out, the clean, coarse white cotton shades,--tacked up, androlled and tied with cord, country-fashion, for Luclarion would notset any fashions that her poor neighbors might not follow if theywould;--and her shelves kept always dusted down; they could see herway of doing that, as they happened in at different times, when shewhisked about, lightly and nicely, behind and between her jars andboxes and parcels with the little feather duster that she kepthanging over her table where she made her change and sat at hersewing.They grew ashamed by degrees,--those coarse women,--to come in intheir frowsy rags, to buy her delicate muffins or her white loaves;they would fling on the cleanest shawl they had or could borrow, to"cut round to Old Maid Grapp's," after a cent's worth of yeast,--forher yeast, also, was like none other that could be got, and would_almost_ make her own beautiful bread of itself.Back of the shop was her house-room; the cheapest and cleanest ofcarpet,--a square, bound round with bright-striped carpet-binding,--laidin the middle of a clean dark yellow floor; a plain pine table, scouredwhite, standing in the middle of that; on it, at tea-time, common blueand white crockery cups and plates, and a little black teapot; a napkin,coarse, but fresh from the fold, laid down to save, and at the sametime to set off, with a touch of delicate neatness, the white table;a wooden settee, with a home-made calico-covered cushion and pillows,set at right angles with the large, black, speckless stove; a woodenrocking-chair, made comfortable in like manner, on the other side; thesink in the corner, clean, freshly rinsed, with the bright tin basinhung above it on a nail.There was nothing in the whole place that must not be, in someshape, in almost the poorest; but all so beautifully ordered, sostainlessly kept. Through that open door, those women read a dailysermon.And Luclarion herself,--in a dark cotton print gown, a plain stripof white about the throat,--even that was cotton, not linen, and twoof them could be run together in ten minutes for a cent,--and ablack alpacca apron, never soiled or crumpled, but washed and ironedwhen it needed, like anything else,--her hair smoothly gathered backunder a small white half-handkerchief cap, plain-hemmed,--was thesermon alive; with the soul of it, the inner sweetness and purity,looking out at them from clear pleasant eyes, and lips cheery with asmile that lay behind them.She had come down there just to do as God told her to be a neighbor,and to let her light shine. He would see about the glorifying.She did not try to make money out of her candy, or her ginger-nuts;she kept those to entice the little children in; to tempt them tocome again when they had once done an errand, shyly, or saucily, orhang-doggedly,--it made little difference which to her,--in hershop."I'll tell you what it's like," Hazel said, when she came in andup-stairs the first Saturday afternoon with Desire, and showed andexplained to her proudly all Luclarion's ways and blessedinventions. "It's like your mother and mine throwing crumbs to makethe pigeons come, when they were little girls, and lived inBoston,--I mean _here_!"Hazel waked up at the end of her sentence, suddenly, as we all dosometimes, out of talking or thinking, to the consciousness that itwas _here_ that she had mentally got round to.Desire had never heard of the crumbs or the pigeons. Mrs. Ledwithhad always been in such a hurry, living on, that she never stoppedto tell her children the sweet old tales of how she _had_ lived. Herchild-life had not ripened in her as it had done in Frank.Desire and Hazel went up-stairs and looked at the empty room. It waslight and pleasant; dormer windows opened out on a great area ofroofs, above which was blue sky; upon which, poor clothes flutteredin the wind, or cats walked and stretched themselves safely andlazily in the sun."I always _do_ like roofs!" said Hazel. "The nicest thing in 'MutualFriend' is Jenny Wren up on the Jew's roof, being dead. It seemslike getting up over the world, and leaving it all covered up andput away.""Except the old clothes," said Desire."They're _washed_" answered Hazel, promptly; and never stopped tothink of the meaning.Then she jumped down from the window, along under which a greatbeam made a bench to stand on, and looked about the chamber."A swing to begin with," she said. "Why what is that? Luclarion'sgot one!"Knotted up under two great staples that held it, was the long loopof clean new rope; the notched board rested against the chimneybelow."It's all ready! Let's go down and catch one! Luclarion, we've cometo tea," she announced, as they reached the sitting-room. "There'sthe shop bell!"In the shop was a woman with touzled hair and a gown with placketsplit from gathers to hem, showing the ribs of a dirty skeletonskirt. A child with one garment on,--some sort of woolen thing thathad never been a clean color, and was all gutter-color now,--thewoman holding the child by the hand here, in a safe place, in a waythese mothers have who turn their children out in the street dirtand scramble without any hand to hold. No wonder, though, perhaps;in the strangeness and unfitness of the safe, pure place, doubtlessthey feel an uneasy instinct that the poor little vagabonds have gotastray, and need some holding."Give us a four-cent loaf!" said the woman, roughly, her eyeslowering under crossly furrowed brows, as she flung two coins uponthe little counter.Luclarion took down one, looked at it, saw that it had a pale side,and exchanged it for another."Here is a nice crusty one," she said pleasantly, turning to wrap itin a sheet of paper."None o' yer gammon! Give it here; there's your money; come along,Crazybug!" And she grabbed the loaf without a wrapper, and twitchedthe child.Hazel sat still. She knew there was no use. But Desire with herpoint-black determination, went right at the boy, took hold of hishand, dirt and all; it was disagreeable, therefore she thought shemust do it."Don't you want to come and swing?" she said."---- yer swing! and yer imperdence! Clear out! He's got swingsenough to home! Go to ----, and be ----, you ---- ---- ----!"Out of the mother's mouth poured a volley of horrible words, like ahailstorm of hell.Desire fell back, as from a blinding shock of she knew not what.Luclarion came round the counter, quite calmly."Ma'am," she said, "those words won't hurt _her_. She don't know thelanguage. But you've got God's daily bread in your hand; how can youtalk devil's Dutch over it?"The woman glared at her. But she saw nothing but strong, calm,earnest asking in the face; the asking of God's own pity.She rebelled against that, sullenly; but she spoke no more foulwords. I think she could as soon have spoken them in the face ofChrist; for it was the Christ in Luclarion Grapp that looked out ather."You needn't preach. You can order me out of your shop, if you like.I don't care.""I don't order you out. I'd rather you would come again. I don'tthink you will bring that street-muck with you, though."There was both confidence and command in the word like the "Neitherdo I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." It detached the street-muckfrom the woman. It was not _she_; it was defilement she had pickedup, when perhaps she could not help it. She could scrape her shoesat the door, and come in clean."You know a darned lot about it, I suppose!" were the last words ofdefiance; softened down, however, you perceive, to that which can beprinted.Desire was pale, with a dry sob in her throat, when the woman hadgone and Luclarion turned round."The angels in heaven know; why shouldn't you?" said Luclarion."That's what we've got to help."A child came in afterwards, alone; with an actual clean spot in themiddle of her face, where a ginger-nut or an acid drop might go in.This was a regular customer of a week past. The week had made thatclean spot; with a few pleasant and encouraging hints fromLuclarion, administered along with the gingerbread.Now it was Hazel's turn.The round mouth and eyes, with expectation in them, were like a spotof green to Hazel, feeling with her witch-wand for a human spring.But she spoke to Desire, looking cunningly at the child."Let us go back and swing," she said.The girl's head pricked itself up quickly."We've got a swing up-stairs," said Hazel, passing close by, andjust pausing. "A new one. I guess it goes pretty high; and it looksout of top windows. Wouldn't you like to come and see?"The child lived down in a cellar."Take up some ginger-nuts, and eat them there," said Luclarion toHazel.If it had not been for that, the girl would have hung back, afraidof losing her shop treat.Hazel knew better than to hold out her hand, at this first essay;she would do that fast enough when the time came. She only walkedon, through the sitting-room, to the stairs.The girl peeped, and followed.Clean stairs. She had never trodden such before. Everything wasstrange and clean here, as she had never seen anything before in allher life, except the sky and the white clouds overhead. Heaven bethanked that they are held over us, spotless, always!Hazel heard the little feet, shuffling, in horrible, distortedshoes, after her, over the steps; pausing, coming slowly but stillstarting again, and coming on.Up on the high landing, under the skylight, she opened the door wideinto the dormer-windowed room, and went in; she and Desire, neitherof them looking round.Hazel got into the swing. Desire pushed; after three vibrations theysaw the ragged figure standing in the doorway, watching, turning itshead from side to side as the swing passed."Almost!" cried Hazel, with her feet up at the window. "There!" Shethrust them out at that next swing; they looked as if they touchedthe blue."I can see over all the chimneys, and away off, down the water! Nowlet the old cat die."Out again, with a spring, as the swinging slackened, she still tookno notice of the child, who would have run, like a wild kitten, ifshe had gone after her. She called Desire, and plunged into a closetunder the eaves."I wonder what's here!" she exclaimed."Rats!"The girl in the doorway saw the dark, into which the low dooropened; she was used to rats in the dark."I don't believe it," says Hazel; "Luclarion has a cut, a great bigbuff one with green eyes. She came in over the roofs, and she runsup here nights. I shouldn't wonder if there might be kittens,though,--one of these days, at any rate. Why! what a place to play'Dare' in! It goes way round, I don't know where! Look here,Desire!"She sat on the threshold, that went up a step, over the beam, and soleaned in. She had one eye toward the girl all the time, out of theshadow. She beckoned and nodded, and Desire came.At the same moment, the coast being clear, the girl gave a suddenscud across, and into the swing. She began to scuff with herslipshod, twisted shoes, pushing herself.Hazel gave another nod behind her to Desire. Desire stood up, and asthe swing came back, pushed gently, touching the board only.The girl laughed out with the sudden thrill of the motion. Desirepushed again.Higher and higher, till the feet reached up to the window."There!" she cried; and kicked an old shoe off, out over the roof."I've lost my shoe!""Never mind; it'll be down in the yard," said Hazel.Thereupon the child, at the height of her sweep again, kicked outthe other one.Desire and Hazel, together, pushed her for a quarter of an hour."Now let's have ginger-cakes," said Hazel, taking them out of herpocket, and leaving the "cat" to die.Little Barefoot came down at that, with a run; hanging to the ropeat one side, and dragging, till she tumbled in a sprawl upon thefloor."You ought to have waited," said Desire."Poh! I don't never wait!" cried the ragamuffin rubbing her elbows."I don't care.""But it isn't nice to tumble round," suggested Hazel."I _ain't_ nice," answered the child, and settled the subject."Well, these ginger-nuts are," said Hazel. "Here!""Have you had a good time?" she asked when the last one was eaten,and she led the way to go down-stairs."Good time! That ain't nothin'! I've had a reg'lar bust! I'm comin'agin'; it's bully. Now I must get my loaf and my shoes, and go alongback and take a lickin'."That was the way Hazel caught her first child.She made her tell her name,--Ann Fazackerley,--and promise to comeon Saturday afternoon, and bring two more girls with her."We'll have a party," said Hazel, "and play Puss in the Corner. Butyou must get leave," she added. "Ask your mother. I don't want youto be punished when you go home.""Lor! you're green! I ain't got no mother. An' I always hooks jack.I'm licked reg'lar when I gets back, anyway. There's half a dozen of'em. When 'tain't one, it's another. That's Jane Goffey's bread;she's been a swearin' after it this hour, you bet. But I'llcome,--see if I don't!"Hazel drew a hard breath as she let the girl go. Back to her crowdedcellar, her Jane Goffeys, the swearings, and the lickings. What wasone hour at a time, once or twice a week, to do against all this?But she remembered the clean little round in her face, out of whicheyes and mouth looked merrily, while she talked rough slang; thesame fun and daring,--nothing worse,--were in this child's face,that might be in another's saying prettier words. How could she helpher words, hearing nothing but devil's Dutch around her all thetime? Children do not make the language they are born into. And theface that could be simply merry, telling such a tale as that,--whatsort of bright little immortality must it be the outlook of?Hazel meant to try her hour.       *       *       *       *       *This is one of my last chapters. I can only tell you now theybegan,--these real folks,--the work their real living led them upto. Perhaps some other time we may follow it on. If I were to tellyou now a finished story of it, I should tell a story ahead of theworld.I can show you what six weeks brought it to. I can show you themfairly launched in what may grow to a beautiful private charity,--an"Insecution,"--a broad social scheme,--a millennium; at any rate, alife work, change and branch as it may, for these girls who havefound out, in their girlhood, that there is genuine living, not mere"playing pretend," to be done in the world. But you cannot, inlittle books of three hundred pages, see things through. I neverexpected or promised to do that. The threescore years and tenthemselves, do not do it.It turned into regular Wednesday and Saturday afternoons. Threegirls at first, then six, then less again,--sometimes only one ortwo; until they gradually came up to and settled at, an average ofnine or ten.The first Saturday they took them as they were. The next time theygave them a stick of candy each, the first thing, then Hazel'sfingers were sticky, and she proposed the wash-basin all round,before they went up-stairs. The bright tin bowl was ready in thesink, and a clean round towel hung beside; and with some red andwhite soap-balls, they managed to fascinate their dirty littlevisitors into three clean pairs of hands, and three clean faces aswell.The candy and the washing grew to be a custom; and in three weeks'time, watching for a hot day and having it luckily on a Saturday,they ventured upon instituting a whole bath, in big round tubs, inthe back shed-room, where a faucet came in over a wash bench, and agreat boiler was set close by.They began with a foot-paddle, playing pond, and sailing chips atthe same time; then Luclarion told them they might have tubs full,and get in all over and duck, if they liked; and children who mayhate to be washed, nevertheless are always ready for a duck and apaddle. So Luclarion superintended the bath-room; Diana helped her;and Desire and Hazel tended the shop. Luclarion invented ashower-bath with a dipper and a colander; then the wet, tangled hairhad to be combed,--a climax which she had secretly aimed at with agreat longing, from the beginning; and doing this, she contrivedwith carbolic soap and a separate suds, and a bit of sponge, to givethe neglected little heads a most salutary dressing.Saturday grew into bath-day; soap-suds suggested bubbles; and theducking and the bubbling were a frolic altogether.Then Hazel wished they could be put into clean clothes each time;wouldn't it do, somehow?But that would cost. Luclarion had come to the limit of her purse;Hazel had no purse, and Desire's was small."But you see they've _got_ to have it," said Hazel; and so she wentto her mother, and from her straight to Uncle Oldways.They counted up,--she and Desire, and Diana; two little commonsuits, of stockings, underclothes, and calico gowns, apiece;somebody to do a washing once a week, ready for the change; andthen--"those horrid shoes!""I don't see how you can do it," said Mrs. Ripwinkley. "The thingswill be taken away from them, and sold. You would have to keepdoing, over and over, to no purpose, I am afraid.""I'll see to that," said Luclarion, facing her "stump." "We'll dofor them we can do for; if it ain't ones, it will be tothers. Thosethat don't keep their things, can't have 'em; and if they're takenaway, I won't sell bread to the women they belong to, till they'rebrought back. Besides, the _washing_ kind of sorts 'em out,beforehand. 'Taint the worst ones that are willing to come, or tosend, for that. You always have to work in at an edge, in anything,and make your way as you go along. It'll regulate. I'm _living_there right amongst 'em; I've got a clew, and a hold; I can followthings up; I shall have a 'circle;' there's circles everywhere. Andin all the wheels there's a moving _spirit_; you ain't got to dependjust on yourself. Things work; the Lord sees to it; it's _His_business as much as yours."Hazel told Uncle Titus that there were shoes and stockings and gownswanted down in Neighbor Street; things for ten children; they musthave subscriptions. And so she had come to him.The Ripwinkleys had never given Uncle Titus a Christmas or abirthday present, for fear they should seem to establish a mutualprecedent. They had never talked of their plans which involvedcalculation, before him; they were terribly afraid of just one thingwith him, and only that one,--of anything most distantly like whatDesire Ledwith called "a Megilp bespeak." But now Hazel went up tohim as bold as a lion. She took it for granted he was like otherpeople,--"real folks;" that he would do--what must be done."How much will it cost?""For clothes and shoes for each child, about eight dollars for threemonths, we guess," said Hazel. "Mother's going to pay for thewashing!""_Guess_? Haven't you calculated?""Yes, sir. 'Guess' and 'calculate' mean the same thing in Yankee,"said Hazel, laughing.Uncle Titus laughed in and out, in his queer way, with his shouldersgoing up and down.Then he turned round, on his swivel chair, to his desk, and wrote acheck for one hundred dollars."There. See how far you can make that go.""That's good," said Hazel, heartily, looking at it; "that'ssplendid!" and never gave him a word of personal thanks. It was athing for mutual congratulations, rather, it would seem; the "good"was just what they all wanted, and there it was. Why should anybodyin particular be thanked, as if anybody in particular had asked foranything? She did not say this, or think it; she simply did notthink about it at all.And Uncle Oldways--again--liked it.There! I shall not try, now, to tell you any more; theirexperiences, their difficulties, their encouragements, would makelarge material for a much larger book. I want you to know of theidea, and the attempt. If they fail, partly,--if drunken fatherssteal the shoes, and the innocent have to forfeit for theguilty,--if the bad words still come to the lips often, though Hazeltells them they are not "nice,"--and beginning at the outside, theyare in a fair way of learning the niceness of being nice,--if somechildren come once or twice, and get dressed up, and then go offand live in the gutters again until the clothes are gone,--are thesereal failures? There is a bright, pure place down there in NeighborStreet, and twice a week some little children have there a bright,pure time. Will this be lost in the world? In the great Ledger ofGod will it always stand unbalanced on the debit side?If you are afraid it will fail,--will be swallowed up in the greatsink of vice and misery, like a single sweet, fresh drop, sweet onlywhile it is falling,--go and do likewise; rain down more; make thework larger, stronger; pour the sweetness in faster, till the wide,grand time of full refreshing shall have come from the presence ofthe Lord!Ada Geoffrey went down and helped. Miss Craydocke is going to knitscarlet stockings all winter for them; Mr. Geoffrey has put aregular bath-room in for Luclarion, with half partitions, and threeseparate tubs; Mrs. Geoffrey has furnished a dormitory, where littlehomeless ones can be kept to sleep. Luclarion has her hands full,and has taken in a girl to help her, whose board and wages RachelFroke and Asenath Scherman pay. A thing like that spreads every way;you have only to be among, and one of--Real Folks.       *       *       *       *       *Desire, besides her work in Neighbor Street, has gone into theNormal School. She wants to make herself fit for any teaching; shewants also to know and to become a companion of earnest, workinggirls.She told Uncle Titus this, after she had been with him a month, andhad thought it over; and Uncle Titus agreed, quite as if it were noreal concern of his, but a very proper and unobjectionable plan forher, if she liked it.One day, though, when Marmaduke Wharne--who had come this fall againto stay his three days, and talk over their business,--sat with himin his study, just where they had sat two years and a little moreago, and Hazel and Desire ran up and down stairs together, in andout upon their busy Wednesday errands,--Marmaduke said to Titus,--"Afterwards is a long time, friend; but I mistrust you have foundthe comfort, as well as the providence, of 'next of kin?'""Afterwards _is_ a long time," said Titus Oldways, gravely; "but theLord's line of succession stretches all the way through."And that same night he had his other old friend, Miss Craydocke, in;and he brought two papers that he had ready, quietly out to besigned, each with four names: "Titus Oldways," by itself, on the oneside; on the other,--          "RACHEL FROKE,           MARMADUKE WHARNE,           KEREN-HAPPUCH CRAYDOCKE."And one of those two papers--which are no further part of thepresent story, seeing that good old Uncle Titus is at this momentalive and well, as he has a perfect right, and is heartily welcometo be, whether the story ever comes to a regular winding up ornot--was laid safely away in a japanned box in a deep drawer of hisstudy table; and Marmaduke Wharne put the other in his pocket.He and Titus knew. I myself guess, and perhaps you do; but neitheryou nor I, nor Rachel, nor Keren-happuch, know for certain; and itis no sort of matter whether we do or not.The "next of kin" is a better and a deeper thing than any claim oflaw or register of bequest can show. Titus Oldways had found thatout; and he had settled in his mind, to his restful and satisfiedbelief, that God, to the last moment of His time, and the lastparticle of His created substance, can surely care for and order anddirect His own.Is that end and moral enough for a two years' watchful trial and atwo years' simple tale?XXI.THE HORSESHOE.They laid out the Waite Place in this manner:--Right into the pretty wooded pasture, starting from a point a littleway down the road from the old house, they projected a roadway whichswept round, horseshoe fashion, till it met itself again within aspace of some twenty yards or so; and this sweep made afrontage--upon its inclosed bit of natural, moss-turfed green,sprinkled with birch and pine and oak trees, and with grayout-croppings of rock here and there--for the twenty houses, behindwhich opened the rest of the unspoiled, irregular, open slope andswell and dingle of the hill-foot tract that dipped down at onereach, we know, to the river.The trees, and shrubs, and vines, and ferns, and stones, were leftin their wild prettiness; only some roughness of nature's wear andtear of dead branches and broken brushwood, and the like, were takenaway, and the little footpaths cleared for pleasant walking.There were all the little shady, sweet-smelling nooks, just as theyhad been; all the little field-parlors, opening with their windingturns between bush and rock, one into another. The twenty householdsmight find twenty separate places, if they all wanted to take aprivate out-door tea at once.The cellars were dug; the frames were up; workmen were busy withbrick and mortar, hammer and plane; two or three buildings werenearly finished, and two--the two standing at the head of theHorseshoe, looking out at the back into the deepest and pleasantestwood-aisle, where the leaves were reddening and mellowing in theearly October frost, and the ferns were turning into tendertransparent shades of palest straw-color--were completed, and haddwellers in them; the cheeriest, and happiest, and coziest ofneighbors; and who do you think these were?Miss Waite and Delia, of course, in one house; and with them,dividing the easy rent and the space that was ample for four women,were Lucilla Waters and her mother. In the other, were Kenneth andRosamond Kincaid and Dorris.Kenneth and Rosamond had been married just three weeks. Rosamond hadtold him she would begin the world with him, and they had begun.Begun in the simple, true old-fashioned way, in which, if peopleonly would believe it, it is even yet not impossible for young menand women to inaugurate their homes.They could not have had a place at Westover, and a horse and buggyfor Kenneth to go back and forth with; nor even a house in one ofthe best streets of Z----; and down at East Square everything wasvery modern and pretentious, based upon the calculation of risingvalues and a rush of population.But here was this new neighborhood of--well, yes,--"model houses;" ablessed Christian speculation for a class not easily or oftenreached by any speculations save those that grind and consume theirlittle regular means, by forcing upon them the lawless and arbitraryprices of the day, touching them at every point in their _living_,but not governing correspondingly their income, as even thehod-carrier's and railroad navvy's daily pay is reached and ruled tomeet the proportion of the time.They would be plain, simple, little-cultured people that would livethere: the very "betwixt and betweens" that Rosamond had used tothink so hardly fated. Would she go and live among them, in one ofthese little new, primitive homes, planted down in the pasture-land,on the outskirts? Would she--the pretty, graceful, elegantRosamond--live semi-detached with old Miss Arabel Waite?That was just exactly the very thing she would do; the thing she didnot even let Kenneth think of first, and ask her, but that, whenthey had fully agreed that they would begin life somehow, in someright way together, according to their means, she herself hadquestioned him if they might not do.And so the houses were hurried in the building; for old Miss Arabelmust have hers before the winter; (it seems strange how often thechange comes when one could not have waited any longer for it;) andKenneth had mill building, and surveying, and planning, in EastSquare, and Mr. Roger Marchbanks' great gray-stone mansion going upon West Hill, to keep him busy; work enough for any talented youngfellow, fresh from the School of Technology, who had got fair holdof a beginning, to settle down among and grasp the "next things"that were pretty sure to follow along after the first.Dorris has all Ruth's music scholars, and more; for there has neverbeen anybody to replace Miss Robbyns, and there are many young girlsin Z----, and down here in East Square, who want good teaching andcannot go away to get it. She has also the organ-playing in the newchurch.She keeps her morning hours and her Saturdays to help Rosamond; forthey are "cooeperating" here, in the new home; what was the use,else, of having cooeperated in the old? Rosamond cannot bear to haveany coarse, profane fingers laid upon her little householdgods,--her wedding-tins and her feather dusters,--while the firstgloss and freshness are on, at any rate; and with her dainty handling,the gloss is likely to last a long while.Such neighbors, too, as the Waites and Waterses are! How they helpedin the fitting up, running in in odd half hours from their ownnailing and placing, which they said could wait awhile, since theyweren't brides; and such real old times visiting as they havealready between the houses; coming and taking right hold, withwiping up dinner plates as likely as not, if that is the thing inhand; picking up what is there, as easily as "the girls" used tohelp work out some last new pattern of crochet, or try over music,or sort worsteds for gorgeous affghans for the next great fair!Miss Arabel is apt to come in after dinner, and have a dab at theplates; she knows she interrupts nothing then; and she "has neverbeen used to sitting talking, with gloves on and a parasol in herlap." And now she has given up trying to make impossible biases, shehas such a quantity of time!It was the matter of receiving visits from her friends who _did_ sitwith their parasols in their laps, or who only expected to see thehouse, or look over wedding presents, that would be the greatesthindrance, Rosamond realized at once; that is, if she would let it;so she did just the funniest thing, perhaps, that ever a bride diddo: she set her door wide open from her pretty parlor, with itsbooks and flowers and pictures and window-draperies of hangingvines, into the plain, cozy little kitchen, with its tin pans andbright new buckets and its Shaker chairs; and when she was busythere, asked her girl-friends right in, as she had used to take themup into her bedroom, if she were doing anything pretty or hadsomething to show.And they liked it, for the moment, at any rate; they could not helpit; they thought it was lovely; a kind of bewitching little play atkeeping house; though some of them went away and wondered, and saidthat Rosamond Holabird had quite changed all her way of living andher position; it was very splendid and strong-minded, they supposed;but they never should have thought it of her, and of course shecould not keep it up."And the neighborhood!" was the cry. "The rabble she has got, and isgoing to have, round her! All planks and sand, and tubs of mortar,now; you have to half break your neck in getting up there; and whenit is settled it will be--such a frowze of common people! Why theforeman of our factory has engaged a house, and Mrs. Haslam, whoactually used to do up laces for mamma, has got another!"That is what is said--in some instances--over on West Hill, when theelegant visitors came home from calling at the Horseshoe. Meanwhile,what Rosamond does is something like this, which she happened to doone bright afternoon a very little while ago.She and Dorris had just made and baked a charming little tea-cake,which was set on a fringed napkin in a round white china dish, andput away in the fresh, oak-grained kitchen pantry, where not a crumbor a slop had ever yet been allowed to rest long enough to defile orgive a flavor of staleness; out of which everything is tidily usedup while it is nice, and into which little delicate new-made bitslike this, for next meals, are always going.The tea-table itself,--with its three plates, and its new silver,and the pretty, thin, shallow cups and saucers, that an Irish girlwould break a half-dozen of every week,--was laid with exquisitepreciseness; the square white napkins at top and bottom over thecrimson cloth, spread to the exactness of a line, and every knifeand fork at fair right angles; the loaf was upon the white carvedtrencher, and nothing to be done when Kenneth should come in, but todraw the tea, and bring the brown cake forth.Rosamond will not leave all these little doings to break up thepleasant time of his return; she will have her leisure then, let herbe as busy as she may while he is away.There was an hour or more after all was done; even after thePanjandrums had made their state call, leaving their barouche at theheel of the Horseshoe, and filling up all Rosamond's littlevestibule with their flounces, as they came in and went out.The Panjandrums were new people at West Hill; very new and verygrand, as only new things and new people can be, turned out in thelatest style pushed to the last agony. Mrs. Panjandrum's dress wasall in two shades of brown, to the tips of her feathers, and thetoes of her boots, and the frill of her parasol; and her carriagewas all in two shades of brown, likewise; cushions, and tassels,and panels; the horses themselves were cream-color, with darkmanes and tails. Next year, perhaps, everything will be inpansy-colors,--black and violet and gold; and then she will probablyhave black horses with gilded harness and royal purple tails.It was very good of the Panjandrums, doubtless, to come down to theHorseshoe at all; I am willing to give them all the credit of reallyadmiring Rosamond, and caring to see her in her little new home; butthere are two other things to be considered also: the novel kind ofhome Rosamond had chosen to set up, and the human weakness ofcuriosity concerning all experiments, and friends in all new lights;also the fact of that other establishment shortly to branch out ofthe Holabird connection. The family could not quite go under water,even with people of the Panjandrum persuasion, while there was sucha pair of prospective corks to float them as Mr. and Mrs. DakieThayne.The Panjandrum carriage had scarcely bowled away, when a littlebuggy and a sorrel pony came up the road, and somebody alighted witha brisk spring, slipped the rein with a loose knot through thefence-rail at the corner, and came up one side of the two-plankfoot-walk that ran around the Horseshoe; somebody who had come homeunexpectedly, to take his little wife to ride. Kenneth Kincaid hadbusiness over at the new district of "Clarendon Park."Drives, and livery-stable bills, were no part of the items allowedfor, in the programme of these young people's living; thereforeRosamond put on her gray hat, with its soft little dove's breast,and took her bright-striped shawl upon her arm, and let Kenneth lifther into the buggy--for which there was no manner of need exceptthat they both liked it,--with very much the feeling as if she weregoing off on a lovely bridal trip. They had had no bridal trip, yousee; they did not really want one; and this little impromptu drivewas such a treat!Now the wonders of nature and the human mind show--if I must go sofar to find an argument for the statement I am making--that into asingle point of time or particle of matter may be gathered therelations of a solar system or the experiences of a life; that auniverse may be compressed into an atom, or a molecule expanded intoa macrocosm; therefore I expect nobody to sneer at my Rosamond aschildishly nappy in her simple honeymoon, or at me for makingextravagant and unsupported assertions, when I say that this hourand a half, and these four miles out to Clarendon Park andback,--the lifting and the tucking in, and the setting off, thesitting side by side in the ripe October air and the goldentwilight, the noting together every pretty turn, every flash ofautumn color in the woods, every change in the cloud-groupingsoverhead, every glimpse of busy, bright-eyed squirrels up and downthe walls, every cozy, homely group of barnyard creatures at thefarmsteads, the change, the pleasure, the thought of home andalways-togetherness,--all this made the little treat of a countryride as much to them, holding all that any wandering up and down thewhole world in their new companionship could hold,--as a going toEurope, or a journey to mountains and falls and sea-sides andcities, in a skimming of the States. You cannot have more than thereis; and you do not care, for more than just what stands for andemphasizes the essential beauty, the living gladness, that no_place_ gives, but that hearts carry about into places and baptizethem with, so that ever afterward a tender charm hangs round them,because "we saw it _then_."And Kenneth and Rosamond Kincaid had all these bright associations,these beautiful glamours, these glad reminders, laid up for years tocome, in a four miles space that they might ride or walk over,re-living it all, in the returning Octobers of many other years. Isay they had a bridal tour that day, and that the four miles were asgood as four thousand. Such little bits of signs may stand for suchhigh, great, blessed things!"How lovely stillness and separateness are!" said Rosamond as theysat in the buggy, stopping to enjoy a glimpse of the river on oneside, and a flame of burning bushes on the other, against the darkface of a piece of woods that held the curve of road in which theystood, in sheltered quiet. "How pretty a house would be, up on thatknoll. Do you know things puzzle me a little, Kenneth? I have almostcome to a certain conclusion lately, that people are not meant tolive apart, but that it is really everybody's duty to live in atown, or a village, or in some gathering of human beings together.Life tends to that, and all the needs and uses of it; and yet,--itis so sweet in a place like this,--and however kind and social youmay be, it seems once in a while such an escape! Do you believe inbeautiful country places, and in having a little piece of creationall to yourself, if you can get it, or if not what do you supposeall creation is made for?""Perhaps just that which you have said, Rose." Rosamond has now,what her mother hinted once, somebody to call her "Rose," with ahappy and beautiful privilege. "Perhaps to escape into. Not for one,here and there, selfishly, all the time; but for the whole, withfair share and opportunity. Creation is made very big, you see, andmen and women are made without wings, and with very limited handsand feet. Also with limited lives; that makes the time-question, andthe hurry. There is a suggestion,--at any rate, a necessity,--inthat. It brings them within certain spaces, always. In spite of allthe artificial lengthening of railroads and telegraphs, there muststill be centres for daily living, intercourse, and need. Peopletend to towns; they cannot establish themselves in isolatedindependence. Yet packing and stifling are a cruelty and a sin. I donot believe there ought to be any human being so poor as to beforced to such crowding. The very way we are going to live at theHorseshoe, seems to me an individual solution of the problem. Itought to come to pass that our towns should be built--and if builtalready, wrongly, _thinned out_,--on this principle. People arecoming to learn a little of this, and are opening parks and squaresin the great cities, finding that there must be room for bodies andsouls to reach out and breathe. If they could only take hold of someof their swarming-places, where disease and vice are festering, andpull down every second house and turn it into a garden space, Ibelieve they would do more for reform and salvation than all theirseparate institutions for dealing with misery after it is let grow,can ever effect.""O, why _can't_ they?" cried Rose. "There is money enough,somewhere. Why can't they do it, instead of letting the cities growhorrid, and then running away from it themselves, and buying acresand acres around their country places, for fear somebody should cometoo near, and the country should begin to grow horrid too?""Because the growing and the crowding and the striving of the city_make_ so much of the money, little wife! Because to keep everybodyfairly comfortable as the world goes along, there could not be somany separate piles laid up; it would have to be used more as itcomes, and it could not come so fast. If nobody cared to be veryrich, and all were willing to live simply and help one another, inlittle 'horseshoe neighborhoods,' there wouldn't be so much thatlooks like grand achievement in the world perhaps; but I think maybethe very angels might show themselves out of the unseen, and bringthe glory of heaven into it!"Kenneth's color came, and his eyes glowed, as he spoke these wordsthat burst into eloquence with the intensity of his meaning; andRosamond's face was holy-pale, and her look large, as she listened;and they were silent for a minute or so, as the pony, of his ownaccord, trotted deliberately on."But then, the beauty, and the leisure, and all that grows out ofthem to separate minds, and what the world gets through therefinement of it! You see the puzzle comes back. Must we never, inthis life, gather round us the utmost that the world is capable offurnishing? Must we never, out of this big creation, have the pieceto ourselves, each one as he would choose?""I think the Lord would show us a way out of that," said Kenneth. "Ithink He would make His world turn out right, and all come to goodand sufficient use, if we did not put it in a snarl. Perhaps we canhardly guess what we might grow to all together,--'the whole body,fitly joined by that which every joint supplieth, increasing andbuilding itself up in love.' And about the quietness, and theseparateness,--we don't want to _live_ in that, Rose; we only wantit sometimes, to make us fitter to live. When the disciples began totalk about building tabernacles on the mountain of the vision,Christ led them straight down among the multitude, where there was adevil to be cast out. It is the same thing in the old story of thecreation. God worked six days, and rested one.""Well," said Rose, drawing a deep breath, "I am glad we have begunat the Horseshoe! It was a great escape for me, Kenneth. I am such aworldly girl in my heart. I should have liked so much to haveeverything elegant and artistic about me.""I think you do. I think you always will. Not because of theworldliness in you, though; but the _other_-worldliness, the senseof real beauty and truth. And I am glad that we have begun at all!It was a greater escape for me. I was in danger of all sorts ofhardness and unbelief. I had begun to despise and hate things,because they did not work rightly just around me. And then I fellin, just in time, with some real, true people; and then you came,with the 'little piece of your world,' and then I came here, and sawwhat your world was, and how you were making it, Rose! How a littlecommunity of sweet and generous fellowship was crystallizing hereamong all sorts--outward sorts--of people; a little community of thekingdom; and how you and yours had done it.""O, Kenneth! I was the worst little atom in the whole crystal! Ionly got into my place because everybody else did, and there wasnothing else left for me to do.""You see I shall never believe that," said Kenneth, quietly. "Thereis no flaw in the crystal. You were all polarized alike. Andbesides, can't I see daily just how your nature draws and points?""Well, never mind," said Rose. "Only some particles are naturalmagnets, I believe, and some get magnetized by contact. Now that wehave hit upon this metaphor, isn't it funny that our little socialexperiment should have taken the shape of a horseshoe?""The most sociable, because the most magnetic, shape it could take.You will see the power it will develop. There's a great deal inmerely taking form according to fundamental principles. Witness thegetting round a fireside. Isn't that a horseshoe? And could half asmuch sympathy be evolved from a straight line?""I believe in firesides," said Rose."And in women who can organize and inform them," said Kenneth."First, firesides; then neighborhoods; that is the way the world'slife works out; and women have their hands at the heart of it. Theycan do so much more there than by making the laws! When the life isright, the laws will make themselves, or be no longer needed. Theyare such mere outside patchwork,--makeshifts till a better time!""Wrong living must make wrong laws, whoever does the voting," saidRosamond, sagely."False social standards make false commercial ones; inflatedpretensions demand inflated currency; selfish, untrue domesticliving eventuates in greedy speculations and business shams; and allin the intriguing for corrupt legislation, to help out partialinterests. It isn't by multiplying the voting power, but bypurifying it, that the end is to be reached.""That is so sententious, Kenneth, that I shall have to take it homeand ravel it out gradually in my mind in little shreds. In the meanwhile, dear, suppose we stop in the village, and get some littlebrown-ware cups for top-overs. You never ate any of my top-overs?Well, when you do, you'll say that all the world ought to be broughtup on top-overs."Rosamond was very particular about her little brown-ware cups. Theyhad to be real stone,--brown outside, and gray-blue in; and theymust be of a special size and depth. When they were found, and doneup in a long parcel, one within another, in stout paper, she carriedit herself to the chaise, and would scarcely let Kenneth hold itwhile she got in; after which, she laid it carefully across her lap,instead of putting it behind upon the cushion.'You see they were rather dear; but they are the only kind worthwhile. Those little yellow things would soak and crack, and neverlook comfortable in the kitchen-closet. I give you very fairwarning, I shall always want the best of things but then I shalltake very fierce and jealous care of them,--like this.'And she laid her little nicely-gloved hand across her homelyparcel, guardingly.How nice it was to go buying little homely things together! Again,it was as good and pleasant,--and meant ever so much more,--than ifit had been ordering china with a monogram in Dresden, or glass inPrague, with a coat-of-arms engraved.When they drove up to the Horseshoe, Dakie Thayne and Ruth met them.They had been getting "spiritual ferns" and sumach leaves withDorris; "the dearest little tips," Ruth said, "of scarlet andcarbuncle, just like jets of fire."And now they would go back to tea, and eat up the brown cake?"Real Westover summum-bonum cake?" Dakie wanted to know. "Well, hecouldn't stand against that. Come, Ruthie!" And Ruthie came."What do you think Rosamond says?" said Kenneth, at the tea-table,over the cake. "That everybody ought to live in a city or a village,or, at least, a Horseshoe. She thinks nobody has a right to stickhis elbows out, in this world. She's in a great hurry to be packedas closely as possible here.""I wish the houses were all finished, and our neighbors in; that iswhat I said," said Rosamond. "I should like to begin to know aboutthem, and feel settled; and to see flowers in their windows, andlights at night.""And you always hated so a 'little crowd!'" said Ruth."It isn't a crowd when they _don't_ crowd," said Rosamond. "I can'tbear little miserable jostles.""How good it will be to see Rosamond here, at the head of her court;at the top of the Horseshoe," said Dakie Thayne. "She will be quitethe 'Queen of the County.'""Don't!" said Rosamond. "I've a very weak spot in my head. You can'ttell the mischief you might do. No, I won't be queen!""Any more than you can help," said Dakie."She'll be Rosa Mundi, wherever she is," said Ruth affectionately."I think that is just grand of Kenneth and Rosamond," said DakieThayne, as he and Ruth were walking home up West Hill in themoonlight, afterward. "What do you think you and I ought to do, oneof these days, Ruthie? It sets me to considering. There are moreHorseshoes to make, I suppose, if the world is to jog on.""_You_ have a great deal to consider about," said Ruth,thoughtfully. "It was quite easy for Kenneth and Rosamond tosee what they ought to do. But you might make a great manyHorseshoes,--or something!""What do you mean by that second person plural, eh? Are you shirkingyour responsibilities, or are you addressing your imaginaryBoffinses? Come, Ruthie, I can't have that! Say 'we,' and I'll facethe responsibilities and talk it all out; but I won't have anythingto do with 'you!'""Won't you?" said Ruth, with piteous demureness. "How can I say'we,' then?""You little cat! How you can scratch!""There are such great things to be done in the world Dakie," Ruthsaid seriously, when they had got over that with a laugh that liftedher nicely by the "we" question. "I can't help thinking of it.""O," said Dakie, with significant satisfaction. "We're getting onbetter. Well?""Do you know what Hazel Ripwinkley is doing? And what LuclarionGrapp has done? Do you know how they are going among poor people, indreadful places,--really living among them, Luclarion is,--andfinding out, and helping, and showing how? I thought of thatto-night, when they talked about living in cities and villages.Luclarion has gone away down to the very bottom of it. And somehow,one can't feel satisfied with only reaching half-way, when oneknows--and might!""Do you mean, Ruthie, that you and I might go and _live_ in suchplaces? Do you think I could take you there?""I don't know, Dakie," Ruth answered, forgetting in her earnestness,to blush or hesitate for what he said;--"but I feel as if we oughtto reach down, somehow,--_away_ down! Because that, you see, is the_most_. And to do only a little, in an easy way, when we are made sostrong to do; wouldn't it be a waste of power, and a missing of themeaning? Isn't it the 'much' that is required of us, Dakie?"They were under the tall hedge of the Holabird "parcel of ground,"on the Westover slope, and close to the home gates. Dakie Thayne puthis arm round Ruth as she said that, and drew her to him."We will go and be neighbors somewhere, Ruthie. And we will make asbig a Horseshoe as we can."XXII.MORNING GLORIES.And Desire?Do you think I have passed her over lightly in her troubles? Or doyou think I am making her out to have herself passed over themlightly?Do you think it is hardly to be believed that she should have turnedround from these shocks and pains that bore down so heavily and allat once upon her, and taken kindly to the living with old UncleTitus and Rachel Froke in the Greenley Street house, and going downto Luclarion Grapp's to help wash little children's faces, and teachthem how to have innocent good times? Do you think there is littlemaking up in all that for her, while Rosamond Kincaid is happy inher new home, and Ruth and Dakie Thayne are looking out togetherover the world,--which can be nowhere wholly sad to them, since theyare to go down into it together,--and planning how to make long armswith their wealth, to reach the largest neighborhood they can? Inthe first place, do you know how full the world is, all around you,of things that are missed by those who say nothing, but go on livingsomehow without them? Do you know how large a part of life, evenyoung life, is made of the days that have never been lived? Do youguess how many girls, like Desire, come near something that theythink they might have had, and then see it drift by just beyondtheir reach, to fall easily into some other hand that seems hardlyput out to grasp it?And do you see, or feel, or guess how life goes on, incompletenessand all, and things settle themselves one way, if not another,simply because the world does not stop, but keeps turning, andtossing off days and nights like time-bubbles just the same?Do you ever imagine how different this winter's parties are fromlast, or this summer's visit or journey from those of the summergone,--to many a maiden who has her wardrobe made up all the same,and takes her German or her music lessons, and goes in and out, andhas her ticket to the Symphony Concerts, and is no different to lookat, unless perhaps with a little of the first color-freshness goneout of her face,--while secretly it seems to her as if the sweetearly symphony of her life were all played out, and had ended in adiscord?We begin, most of us, much as we are to go on. Real or mistaken, theexperiences of eighteen initiate the lesson that those of two andthree score after years are needed to unfold and complete. What isleft of us is continually turning round, perforce, to take up withwhat is left of the world, and make the best of it.Thus much for what does happen, for what we have to put up with, forthe mere philosophy of endurance, and the possibility of thingsbeing endured. We do live out our years, and get and bear it all.And the scars do not show much outside; nay, even we ourselves canlay a finger on the place, after a little time, without a cringe.Desire Ledwith did what she had to do; there was a way made for her,and there was still life left.But there is a better reading of the riddle. There is never a"Might-have-been" that touches with a sting, but reveals also to usan inner glimpse of the wide and beautiful "May Be." It is allthere; somebody else has it now while we wait; but the years of Godare full of satisfying, each soul shall have its turn; it is Hisgood _pleasure_ to give us the kingdom. There is so much room, thereare such thronging possibilities, there is such endless hope!To feel this, one must feel, however dimly, the inner realm, out ofwhich the shadows of this life come and pass, to interpret to us thelaid up reality."The real world is the inside world."Desire Ledwith blessed Uncle Oldways in her heart for giving herthat word.It comforted her for her father. If his life here had been hard,toilsome, mistaken even; if it had never come to that it might havecome to; if she, his own child, had somehow missed the reality ofhim here, and he of her,--was he not passed now into the within?Might she not find him there; might they not silently andspiritually, without sign, but needing no sign, begin to understandeach other now? Was not the real family just beginning to be borninto the real home?Ah, that word _real_! How deep we have to go to find the root of it!It is fast by the throne of God; in the midst.Hazel Ripwinkley talked about "real folks." She sifted, and shefound out instinctively the true livers, the genuine _neahburs_,nigh-dwellers; they who abide alongside in spirit, who shall findeach other in the everlasting neighborhood, when the veil falls.But there, behind,--how little, in our petty outside vexations orgladnesses, we stop to think of or perceive it!--is the actual, eventhe present, inhabiting; there is the kingdom, the continuing city,the real heaven and earth in which we already live and labor, andbuild up our homes and lay up our treasure and the loving Christ,and the living Father, and the innumerable company of angels, andthe unseen compassing about of friends gone in there, and they onthis earth who truly belong to us inwardly, however we and they maybe bodily separated,--are the Real Folks!What matters a little pain, outside? Go _in_, and rest from it!There is where the joy is, that we read outwardly, spelling byparts imperfectly, in our own and others' mortal experience; thereis the content of homes, the beauty of love, the delight offriendship,--not shut in to any one or two, but making the commonair that all souls breathe. No one heart can be happy, that allhearts may not have a share of it. Rosamond and Kenneth, Dakie andRuth, cannot live out obviously any sweetness of living, cannotsing any notes of the endless, beautiful score, that DesireLedwith, and Luclarion Grapp, and Rachel Froke, and HapsieCraydocke, and old Miss Arabel Waite, do not just as truly get theblessed grace and understanding of; do not catch and feel theperfect and abounding harmony of. Since why? No lip can sound morethan its own few syllables of music; no life show more than itsown few accidents and incidents and groupings; the vast melody,the rich, eternal satisfying, are behind; and the signs are for usall!You may not think this, or see it so, in your first tussle andset-to with the disappointing and eluding things that seem the realand only,--missing which you miss all. This chapter may be less toyou--less _for_ you, perhaps--than for your elders; the story mayhave ended, as to that you care for, some pages back; but for allthat, this is certain; and Desire Ledwith has begun to find it, forshe is one of those true, grand spirits to whom personal loss orfrustration are most painful as they seem to betoken somethingwrong or failed in the general scheme and justice. This terrible"why should it be?" once answered,--once able to say to themselvesquietly, "It is all right; the beauty and the joy are there; thesong is sung, though we are of the listeners; the miracle-play isplayed, though but a few take literal part, and many of us look on,with the play, like the song, moving through our souls only, or oursouls moving in the vital sphere of it, where the stage is wideenough for all;"--once come to this, they have entered already intothat which is behind, and nothing of all that goes forth thence intothe earth to make its sunshine can be shut off from them forever.Desire is learning to be glad, thinking of Kenneth and Rosamond,that this fair marriage should have been. It is so just and exactlybest; Rosamond's sweet graciousness is so precisely what Kenneth'ssterner way needed to have shine upon it; her finding and making ofall manner of pleasantness will be so good against his sharpdiscernment of the wrong; they will so beautifully temper andsustain each other!Desire is so generous, so glad of the truth, that she can standaside, and let this better thing be, and say to herself that it _is_better.Is not this that she is growing to inwardly, more blessed than anymarriage or giving in marriage? Is it not a partaking of theheavenly Marriage Supper?"We two might have grumbled at the world until we grumbled at eachother."She even said that, calmly and plainly, to herself.And then that manna was fed to her afresh of which she had beengiven first to eat so long a while ago; that thought of "the Lamb inthe midst of the Throne" came back to her. Of the Tenderness deepwithin the Almightiness that holds all earth and heaven and time andcircumstance in its grasp. Her little, young, ignorant human heartbegins to rest in that great warmth and gentleness; begins to beglad to wait there for what shall arise out of it, moving theAlmightiness for her,--even on purpose for her,--in the by-and-by;she begins to be sure; of what, she knows not,--but of a great,blessed, beautiful something, that just because she is at all, shallbe for her; that she shall have a part, somehow, even in the_showing_ of His good; that into the beautiful miracle-play sheshall be called, and a new song be given her, also, to sing in thegrand, long, perfect oratorio; she begins to pray quietly, that,"loving the Lord, always above all things, she may obtain Hispromises, which exceed all that she can desire."And waiting, resting, believing, she begins also to work. Thisbeginning is even as an ending and forehaving, to any human soul.I will tell you how she woke one morning; of a little poem thatwrote itself along her chamber wall.It was a square, pleasant old room, with a window in an angle towardthe east. A great, old-fashioned mirror hung opposite, between thewindows that looked out north-westwardly; the morning and theevening light came in upon her. Beside the solid, quaint oldfurnishings of a long past time, there were also around her thethings she had been used to at home; her own little oldrocking-chair, her desk and table, and her toilet and mantelornaments and things of use. A pair of candle-branches with droppinglustres,--that she had marveled at and delighted in as a child, andhad begged for herself when they fell into disuse in thedrawing-room,--stood upon the chimney along which the firstsun-rays glanced. Just in those days of the year, they struck in soas to shine level through the clear prisms, and break into a hundredlittle rainbows.She opened her eyes, this fair October morning, and lay and lookedat the little scattered glories.All around the room, on walls, curtains, ceiling,--falling likebright soft jewels upon table and floor, touching everything with amagic splendor,--were globes and shafts of colored light. Softlyblended from glowing red to tenderly fervid blue, they lay invarious forms and fragments, as the beam refracted or the objectscaught them.Just on the edge of the deep, opposite window-frame, clung onevivid, separate flash of perfect azure, all alone, and farthest offof all.Desire wondered, at first glance, how it should happen till she saw,against a closet-door ajar, a gibbous sphere of red and goldenflame. Yards apart the points were, and a shadow lay between; butthe one sure sunbeam knew no distance, and there was no radiant lineof the spectrum lost.Desire remembered her old comparison of complementary colors: "tosee blue, and to live red," she had said, complaining.But now she thought,--"Foreshortening! In so many things, that isall,--if we could only see as the Sun sees!"One bit of our living, by itself, all one deep, burning, bleedingcolor, maybe; but the globe is white,--the blue is somewhere. And,lo! a soft, still motion; a little of the flame-tint has droppedoff; it has leaped to join itself to the blue; it gives itself over;and they are beautiful together,--they fulfill each other; yet, inthe changing never a thread falls quite away into the dark. Why, itis like love joining itself to love again!As God's sun climbs the horizon, His steadfast, gracious purpose,striking into earthly conditions, seems to break, and scatter, anddivide. Half our heart is here, half there; our need and ache aresevered from their help and answer; the tender blue waits far offfor the eager, asking red; yet just as surely as His light shineson, and our life moves under it, so surely, across whatever gulf,the beauty shall all be one again; so surely does it even now moveall together, perfect and close always under His eye, who neversends a _half_ ray anywhere.       *       *       *       *       *She read her little poem,--sent to her; she read it through. Sherose up glad and strong; her room was full of glorious sunshine now;the broken bits of color were all taken up in one full pouring ofthe day.She went down with the light of it in her heart, and all about her.Uncle Oldways met her at the foot of the wide staircase. "Good-day,child!" he said to her in his quaint fashion. "Why it _is_ good day!Your face shines.""You have given me a beautiful east window, uncle," said Desire,"and the morning has come in!"And from the second step, where she still stood, she bent forward alittle, put her hands softly upon his shoulders, and for the firsttime, kissed his cheek.***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REAL FOLKS********** This file should be named 13997.txt or 13997.zip *******This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/1/3/9/9/13997Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/pglaf.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://www.gutenberg.net/about/contactFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/donateWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit:http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Works of Horace, by HoraceThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Works of HoraceAuthor: HoraceRelease Date: November 11, 2004 [EBook #14020]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WORKS OF HORACE ***Produced by Juliet Sutherland and the Online Distributed ProofreadingTeamHandy Literal TranslationsTHE WORKS OF HORACE_TRANSLATED LITERALLY INTO ENGLISH PROSE_By C. Smart, A.M.Of Pembroke College, Cambridge_A NEW EDITION_REVISED BYTheodore Alois Buckley B.A. Of Christ ChurchTHE FIRST BOOK OF THE ODES OF HORACE.ODE I.TO MAECENAS.Maecenas, descended from royal ancestors, O both my protection and mydarling honor! There are those whom it delights to have collectedOlympic dust in the chariot race; and [whom] the goal nicely avoided bythe glowing wheels, and the noble palm, exalts, lords of the earth, tothe gods.This man, if a crowd of the capricious Quirites strive to raise him tothe highest dignities; another, if he has stored up in his own granarywhatsoever is swept from the Libyan thrashing floors: him who delightsto cut with the hoe his patrimonial fields, you could never tempt, forall the wealth of Attalus, [to become] a timorous sailor and cross theMyrtoan sea in a Cyprian bark. The merchant, dreading the south-westwind contending with the Icarian waves, commends tranquility and therural retirement of his village; but soon after, incapable of beingtaught to bear poverty, he refits his shattered vessel. There isanother, who despises not cups of old Massic, taking a part from theentire day, one while stretched under the green arbute, another at theplacid head of some sacred stream.The camp, and the sound of the trumpet mingled with that of the clarion,and wars detested by mothers, rejoice many.The huntsman, unmindful of his tender spouse, remains in the cold air,whether a hart is held in view by his faithful hounds, or a Marsian boarhas broken the fine-wrought toils.Ivy, the reward of learned brows, equals me with the gods above: thecool grove, and the light dances of nymphs and satyrs, distinguish mefrom the crowd; if neither Euterpe withholds her pipe, nor Polyhymniadisdains to tune the Lesbian lyre. But, if you rank me among the lyricpoets, I shall tower to the stars with my exalted head.       *       *       *       *       *ODE II.TO AUGUSTUS CAESAREnough of snow and dreadful hail has the Sire now sent upon the earth,and having hurled [his thunderbolts] with his red right hand against thesacred towers, he has terrified the city; he has terrified the nations,lest the grievous age of Pyrrha, complaining of prodigies till thenunheard of, should return, when Proteus drove all his [marine] herd tovisit the lofty mountains; and the fishy race were entangled in the elmtop, which before was the frequented seat of doves; and the timorousdeer swam in the overwhelming flood. We have seen the yellow Tiber, withhis waves forced back with violence from the Tuscan shore, proceed todemolish the monuments of king [Numa], and the temples of Vesta; whilehe vaunts himself the avenger of the too disconsolate Ilia, and theuxorious river, leaving his channel, overflows his left bank,notwithstanding the disapprobation of Jupiter.Our youth, less numerous by the vices of their fathers, shall hear ofthe citizens having whetted that sword [against themselves], with whichit had been better that the formidable Persians had fallen; they shallhear of [actual] engagements. Whom of the gods shall the people invoketo the affairs of the sinking empire? With what prayer shall the sacredvirgins importune Vesta, who is now inattentive to their hymns? To whomshall Jupiter assign the task of expiating our wickedness? Do thou atlength, prophetic Apollo, (we pray thee!) come, vailing thy radiantshoulders with a cloud: or thou, if it be more agreeable to thee,smiling Venus, about whom hover the gods of mirth and love: or thou, ifthou regard thy neglected race and descendants, our founder Mars, whomclamor and polished helmets, and the terrible aspect of the Moorishinfantry against their bloody enemy, delight, satiated at length withthy sport, alas! of too long continuance: or if thou, the winged son ofgentle Maia, by changing thy figure, personate a youth upon earth,submitting to be called the avenger of Caesar; late mayest thou returnto the skies, and long mayest thou joyously be present to the Romanpeople; nor may an untimely blast transport thee from us, offended atour crimes. Here mayest thou rather delight in magnificent triumphs, andto be called father and prince: nor suffer the Parthians with impunityto make incursions, you, O Caesar, being our general.       *       *       *       *       *ODE III.TO THE SHIP, IN WHICH VIRGIL WAS ABOUT TO SAIL TO ATHENS.So may the goddess who rules over Cyprus; so may the bright stars, thebrothers of Helen; and so may the father of the winds, confining allexcept Iapyx, direct thee, O ship, who art intrusted with Virgil; myprayer is, that thou mayest land him safe on the Athenian shore, andpreserve the half of my soul. Surely oak and three-fold brass surroundedhis heart who first trusted a frail vessel to the merciless ocean, norwas afraid of the impetuous Africus contending with the northern storms,nor of the mournful Hyades, nor of the rage of Notus, than whom there isnot a more absolute controller of the Adriatic, either to raise orassuage its waves at pleasure. What path of death did he fear, whobeheld unmoved the rolling monsters of the deep; who beheld unmoved thetempestuous swelling of the sea, and the Acroceraunians--ill-famedrocks?In vain has God in his wisdom divided the countries of the earth by theseparating ocean, if nevertheless profane ships bound over waters not tobe violated. The race of man presumptuous enough to endure everything,rushes on through forbidden wickedness.The presumptuous son of Iapetus, by an impious fraud, brought down fireinto the world. After fire was stolen from the celestial mansions,consumption and a new train of fevers settled upon the earth, and theslow approaching necessity of death, which, till now, was remote,accelerated its pace. Daedalus essayed the empty air with wings notpermitted to man. The labor of Hercules broke through Acheron. There isnothing too arduous for mortals to attempt. We aim at heaven itself inour folly; neither do we suffer, by our wickedness, Jupiter to lay asidehis revengeful thunderbolts.       *       *       *       *       *ODE IV.TO SEXTIUS.Severe winter is melted away beneath the agreeable change of spring andthe western breeze; and engines haul down the dry ships. And neitherdoes the cattle any longer delight in the stalls, nor the ploughman inthe fireside; nor are the meadows whitened by hoary frosts. NowCytherean Venus leads off the dance by moonlight; and the comely Graces,in conjunction with the Nymphs, shake the ground with alternate feet;while glowing Vulcan kindles the laborious forges of the Cyclops. Now itis fitting to encircle the shining head either with verdant myrtle, orwith such flowers as the relaxed earth produces. Now likewise it isfitting to sacrifice to Faunus in the shady groves, whether he demand alamb, or be more pleased with a kid. Pale death knocks at the cottagesof the poor, and the palaces of kings, with an impartial foot. O happySextius! The short sum total of life forbids us to form remoteexpectations. Presently shall darkness, and the unreal ghosts, and theshadowy mansion of Pluto oppress you; where, when you shall have oncearrived, you shall neither decide the dominion of the bottle by dice,nor shall you admire the tender Lycidas, with whom now all the youth isinflamed, and for whom ere long the maidens will grow warm.       *       *       *       *       *ODE V.TO PYRRHA.What dainty youth, bedewed with liquid perfumes, caresses you, Pyrrha,beneath the pleasant grot, amid a profusion of roses? For whom do youbind your golden hair, plain in your neatness? Alas! how often shall hedeplore your perfidy, and the altered gods; and through inexperience beamazed at the seas, rough with blackening storms who now credulousenjoys you all precious, and, ignorant of the faithless gale, hopes youwill be always disengaged, always amiable! Wretched are those, to whomthou untried seemest fair? The sacred wall [of Neptune's temple]demonstrates, by a votive tablet, that I have consecrated my droppinggarments to the powerful god of the sea.       *       *       *       *       *ODE VI.TO AGRIPPA.You shall be described by Varius, a bird of Maeonian verse, as brave,and a subduer of your enemies, whatever achievements your fiercesoldiery shall have accomplished, under your command; either onship-board or on horseback. We humble writers, O Agrippa, neitherundertake these high subjects, nor the destructive wrath of inexorableAchilles, nor the voyages of the crafty Ulysses, nor the cruel house ofPelops: while diffidence, and the Muse who presides over the peacefullyre, forbid me to diminish the praise of illustrious Caesar, and yours,through defect of genius. Who with sufficient dignity will describe Marscovered with adamantine coat of mail, or Meriones swarthy with Trojandust, or the son of Tydeus by the favor of Pallas a match for the gods?We, whether free, or ourselves enamored of aught, light as our wont,sing of banquets; we, of the battles of maids desperate against youngfellows--with pared nails.       *       *       *       *       *ODE VII.TO MUNATIUS PLANCUS.Other poets shall celebrate the famous Rhodes, or Mitylene, or Ephesus,or the walls of Corinth, situated between two seas, or Thebes,illustrious by Bacchus, or Delphi by Apollo, or the Thessalian Tempe.There are some, whose one task it is to chant in endless verse the cityof spotless Pallas, and to prefer the olive culled from every side, toevery other leaf. Many a one, in honor of Juno, celebrates Argos,productive of steeds, and rich Mycenae. Neither patient Lacedaemon somuch struck me, nor so much did the plain of fertile Larissa, as thehouse of resounding Albunea, and the precipitately rapid Anio, and theTiburnian groves, and the orchards watered by ductile rivulets. As theclear south wind often clears away the clouds from a lowering sky, nowteems with perpetual showers; so do you, O Plancus, wisely remember toput an end to grief and the toils of life by mellow wine; whether thecamp, refulgent with banners, possess you, or the dense shade of yourown Tibur shall detain you. When Teucer fled from Salamis and hisfather, he is reported, notwithstanding, to have bound his temples,bathed in wine, with a poplar crown, thus accosting his anxious friends:"O associates and companions, we will go wherever fortune, morepropitious than a father, shall carry us. Nothing is to be despaired ofunder Teucer's conduct, and the auspices of Teucer: for the infallibleApollo has promised, that a Salamis in a new land shall render the nameequivocal. O gallant heroes, and often my fellow-sufferers in greaterhardships than these, now drive away your cares with wine: to-morrow wewill re-visit the vast ocean."       *       *       *       *       *ODE VIII.TO LYDIA.Lydia, I conjure thee by all the powers above, to tell me why you are sointent to ruin Sybaris by inspiring him with love? Why hates he thesunny plain, though inured to bear the dust and heat? Why does heneither, in military accouterments, appear mounted among his equals; normanage the Gallic steed with bitted reins? Why fears he to touch theyellow Tiber? Why shuns he the oil of the ring more cautiously thanviper's blood? Why neither does he, who has often acquired reputation bythe quoit, often by the javelin having cleared the mark, any longerappear with arms all black-and-blue by martial exercises? Why is heconcealed, as they say the son of the sea-goddess Thetis was, justbefore the mournful funerals of Troy; lest a manly habit should hurryhim to slaughter, and the Lycian troops?       *       *       *       *       *ODE IX.TO THALIARCHUS.You see how Soracte stands white with deep snow, nor can the laboringwoods any longer support the weight, and the rivers stagnate with thesharpness of the frost. Dissolve the cold, liberally piling up billetson the hearth; and bring out, O Thaliarchus, the more generous wine,four years old, from the Sabine jar. Leave the rest to the gods, whohaving once laid the winds warring with the fervid ocean, neither thecypresses nor the aged ashes are moved. Avoid inquiring what may happentomorrow; and whatever day fortune shall bestow on you, score it up forgain; nor disdain, being a young fellow, pleasant loves, nor dances, aslong as ill-natured hoariness keeps off from your blooming age. Now letboth the Campus Martius and the public walks, and soft whispers at theapproach of evening be repeated at the appointed hour: now, too, thedelightful laugh, the betrayer of the lurking damsel from some secretcorner, and the token ravished from her arms or fingers, pretendinglytenacious of it.       *       *       *       *       *ODE X.TO MERCURY.Mercury, eloquent grandson of Atlas, thou who artful didst from thesavage manners of the early race of men by oratory, and the institutionof the graceful Palaestra: I will celebrate thee, messenger of Jupiterand the other gods, and parent of the curved lyre; ingenious to concealwhatever thou hast a mind to, in jocose theft. While Apollo, with angryvoice, threatened you, then but a boy, unless you would restore theoxen, previously driven away by your fraud, he laughed, [when he foundhimself] deprived of his quiver [also]. Moreover, the wealthy Priam too,on his departure from Ilium, under your guidance deceived the proud sonsof Atreus, and the Thessalian watch-lights, and the camp inveterateagaist Troy. You settle the souls of good men in blissful regions, anddrive together the airy crowd with your golden rod, acceptable both tothe supernal and infernal gods.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XI.TO LEUCONOE.Inquire not, Leuconoe (it is not fitting you should know), how long aterm of life the gods have granted to you or to me: neither consult theChaldean calculations. How much better is it to bear with patiencewhatever shall happen! Whether Jupiter have granted us more winters, or[this as] the last, which now breaks the Etrurian waves against theopposing rocks. Be wise; rack off your wines, and abridge your hopes [inproportion] to the shortness of your life. While we are conversing,envious age has been flying; seize the present day, not giving the leastcredit to the succeeding one.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XII.TO AUGUSTUS.What man, what hero, O Clio, do you undertake to celebrate on the harp,or the shrill pipe? What god? Whose name shall the sportive echoresound, either in the shady borders of Helicon, or on the top ofPindus, or on cold Haemus? Whence the woods followed promiscuously thetuneful Orpheus, who by his maternal art retarded the rapid courses ofrivers, and the fleet winds; and was so sweetly persuasive, that he drewalong the listening oaks with his harmonious strings. But what can Ising prior to the usual praises of the Sire, who governs the affairs ofmen and gods; who [governs] the sea, the earth, and the whole world withthe vicissitudes of seasons? Whence nothing is produced greater thanhim; nothing springs either like him, or even in a second degree to him:nevertheless, Pallas has acquired these honors, which are next afterhim.Neither will I pass thee by in silence, O Bacchus, bold in combat; northee, O Virgin, who art an enemy to the savage beasts; nor thee, OPhoebus, formidable for thy unerring dart.I will sing also of Hercules, and the sons of Leda, the one illustriousfor his achievements on horseback, the other on foot; whoseclear-shining constellation as soon as it has shone forth to thesailors, the troubled surge falls down from the rocks, the winds cease,the clouds vanish, and the threatening waves subside in the sea--becauseit was their will. After these, I am in doubt whom I shall firstcommemorate, whether Romulus, or the peaceful reign of Numa, or thesplendid ensigns of Tarquinius, or the glorious death of Cato. I willcelebrate, out of gratitude, with the choicest verses, Regulus, and theScauri, and Paulus, prodigal of his mighty soul, when Carthageconquered, and Fabricius.Severe poverty, and an hereditary farm, with a dwelling suited to it,formed this hero useful in war; as it did also Curius with his roughlocks, and Camillus. The fame of Marcellus increases, as a tree does inthe insensible progress of time. But the Julian constellation shinesamid them all, as the moon among the smaller stars. O thou son ofSaturn, author and preserver of the human race, the protection of Caesaris committed to thy charge by the Fates: thou shalt reign supreme, withCaesar for thy second. Whether he shall subdue with a just victory theParthians making inroads upon Italy, or shall render subject the Seresand Indians on the Eastern coasts; he shall rule the wide world withequity, in subordination to thee. Thou shalt shake Olympus with thytremendous car; thou shalt hurl thy hostile thunderbolts against thepolluted groves.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XIII.TO LYDIA.O Lydia, when you commend Telephus' rosy neck, and the waxen arms ofTelephus, alas! my inflamed liver swells with bile difficult to berepressed. Then neither is my mind firm, nor does my color maintain acertain situation: and the involuntary tears glide down my cheek,proving with what lingering flames I am inwardly consumed. I am on fire,whether quarrels rendered immoderate by wine have stained your fairshoulders; or whether the youth, in his fury, has impressed with histeeth a memorial on your lips. If you will give due attention to myadvice, never expect that he will be constant, who inhumanly woundsthose sweet kisses, which Venus has imbued with the fifth part of allher nectar. O thrice and more than thrice happy those, whom anindissoluble connection binds together; and whose love, undivided byimpious complainings, does not separate them sooner than the last day!       *       *       *       *       *ODE XIV.TO THE ROMAN STATE.O ship, new waves will bear you back again to sea. O what are you doing?Bravely seize the port. Do you not perceive, that your sides aredestitute of oars, and your mast wounded by the violent south wind, andyour main-yards groan, and your keel can scarcely support theimpetuosity of the waves without the help of cordage? You have notentire sails; nor gods, whom you may again invoke, pressed withdistress: notwithstanding you are made of the pines of Pontus, and asthe daughter of an illustrious wood, boast your race, and a fame now ofno service to you. The timorous sailor has no dependence on a paintedstern. Look to yourself, unless you are destined to be the sport of thewinds. O thou, so lately my trouble and fatigue, but now an object oftenderness and solicitude, mayest thou escape those dangerous seas whichflow among the shining Cyclades.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XV.TO PARIS.When the perfidious shepherd (Paris) carried off by sea in Trojan shipshis hostess Helen, Nereus suppressed the swift winds in an unpleasantcalm, that he might sing the dire fates. "With unlucky omen art thouconveying home her, whom Greece with a numerous army shall demand backagain, having entered into a confederacy to dissolve your nuptials, andthe ancient kingdom of Priam. Alas! what sweat to horses, what to men,is just at hand! What a destruction art thou preparing for the Trojannation! Even now Pallas is fitting her helmet, and her shield, and herchariot, and her fury. In vain, looking fierce through the patronage ofVenus, will you comb your hair, and run divisions upon the effeminatelyre with songs pleasing to women. In vain will you escape the spearsthat disturb the nuptial bed, and the point of the Cretan dart, and thedin [of battle], and Ajax swift in the pursuit. Nevertheless, alas! thetime will come, though late, when thou shalt defile thine adulteroushairs in the dust. Dost thou not see the son of Laertes, fatal to thynation, and Pylian Nestor, Salaminian Teucer, and Sthenelus skilled infight (or if there be occasion to manage horses, no tardy charioteer),pursue thee with intrepidity? Meriones also shalt thou experience.Behold! the gallant son of Tydeus, a better man than his father, glowsto find you out: him, as a stag flies a wolf, which he has seen on theopposite side of the vale, unmindful of his pasture, shall you,effeminate, fly, grievously panting:--not such the promises you madeyour mistress. The fleet of the enraged Achilles shall defer for a timethat day, which is to be fatal to Troy and the Trojan matrons: but,after a certain number of years, Grecian fire shall consume the Trojanpalaces."       *       *       *       *       *ODE XVI.TO A YOUNG LADY HORACE HAD OFFENDED.O daughter, more charming than your charming mother, put what end youplease to my insulting iambics; either in the flames, or, if you chooseit, in the Adriatic. Nor Cybele, nor Apollo, the dweller in the shrines,so shakes the breast of his priests; Bacchus does not do it equally, nordo the Corybantes so redouble their strokes on the sharp-soundingcymbals, as direful anger; which neither the Noric sword can deter, northe shipwrecking sea, nor dreadful fire, not Jupiter himself rushingdown with awful crash. It is reported that Prometheus was obliged to addto that original clay [with which he formed mankind], some ingredienttaken from every animal, and that he applied the vehemence of the raginglion to the human breast. It was rage that destroyed Thyestes withhorrible perdition; and has been the final cause that lofty cities havebeen entirely demolished, and that an insolent army has driven thehostile plowshare over their walls. Compose your mind. An ardor of soulattacked me also in blooming youth, and drove me in a rage to thewriting of swift-footed iambics. Now I am desirous of exchangingseverity for good nature, provided that you will become my friend, aftermy having recanted my abuse, and restore me your affections.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XVII.TO TYNDARIS.The nimble Faunus often exchanges the Lycaean mountain for the pleasantLucretilis, and always defends my she-goats from the scorching summer,and the rainy winds. The wandering wives of the unsavory husband seekthe hidden strawberry-trees and thyme with security through the safegrove: nor do the kids dread the green lizards, or the wolves sacred toMars; whenever, my Tyndaris, the vales and the smooth rocks of thesloping Ustica have resounded with his melodious pipe. The gods are myprotectors. My piety and my muse are agreeable to the gods. Here plenty,rich with rural honors, shall flow to you, with her generous horn filledto the brim. Here, in a sequestered vale, you shall avoid the heat ofthe dog-star; and, on your Anacreontic harp, sing of Penelope and thefrail Circe striving for one lover; here you shall quaff, under theshade, cups of unintoxicating Lesbian. Nor shall the raging son ofSemele enter the combat with Mars; and unsuspected you shall not fearthe insolent Cyrus, lest he should savagely lay his intemperate hands onyou, who are by no means a match for him; and should rend the chapletthat is platted in your hair, and your inoffensive garment.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XVIII.TO VARUS.O Varus, you can plant no tree preferable to the sacred vine, about themellow soil of Tibur, and the walls of Catilus. For God hath renderedevery thing cross to the sober; nor do biting cares disperse anyotherwise [than by the use of wine]. Who, after wine, complains of thehardships of war or of poverty? Who does not rather [celebrate] thee,Father Bacchus, and thee, comely Venus? Nevertheless, the battle of theCentaurs with the Lapithae, which was fought in their cups, admonishesus not to exceed a moderate use of the gifts of Bacchus. And Bacchushimself admonishes us in his severity to the Thracians; when greedy tosatisfy their lusts, they make little distinction between right andwrong. O beauteous Bacchus, I will not rouse thee against thy will, norwill I hurry abroad thy [mysteries, which are] covered with variousleaves. Cease your dire cymbals, together with your Phrygian horn, whosefollowers are blind Self-love and Arrogance, holding up too high herempty head, and the Faith communicative of secrets, and more transparentthan glass.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XIX.TO GLYCERA.The cruel mother of the Cupids, and the son of the Theban Gemele, andlascivious ease, command me to give back my mind to its deserted loves.The splendor of Glycera, shining brighter than the Parian marble,inflames me: her agreeable petulance, and her countenance, too unsteadyto be beheld, inflame me. Venus, rushing on me with her whole force, hasquitted Cyprus; and suffers me not to sing of the Scythians, and theParthian, furious when his horse is turned for flight, or any subjectwhich is not to the present purpose. Here, slaves, place me a live turf;here, place me vervains and frankincense, with a flagon of two-year-oldwine. She will approach more propitious, after a victim has beensacrificed.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XX.TO MAECENAS.My dear knight Maecenas, you shall drink [at my house] ignoble Sabinewine in sober cups, which I myself sealed up in the Grecian cask, storedat the time, when so loud an applause was given to you in theamphitheatre, that the banks of your ancestral river, together with thecheerful echo of the Vatican mountain, returned your praises. You [whenyou are at home] will drink the Caecuban, and the grape which issqueezed in the Calenian press; but neither the Falernian vines, nor theFormian hills, season my cups.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXI.ON DIANA AND APOLLO.Ye tender virgins, sing Diana; ye boys, sing Apollo with his unshornhair, and Latona passionately beloved by the supreme Jupiter. Ye(virgins), praise her that rejoices in the rivers, and the thick groves,which project either from the cold Algidus, or the gloomy woods ofErymanthus, or the green Cragus. Ye boys, extol with equal praisesApollo's Delos, and his shoulder adorned with a quiver, and with hisbrother Mercury's lyre. He, moved by your intercession, shall drive awaycalamitous war, and miserable famine, and the plague from the Romanpeople and their sovereign Caesar, to the Persians and the Britons.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXII.TO ARISTIUS FUSCUS.The man of upright life and pure from wickedness, O Fuscus, has no needof the Moorish javelins, or bow, or quiver loaded with poisoned darts.Whether he is about to make his journey through the sultry Syrtes, orthe inhospitable Caucasus, or those places which Hydaspes, celebrated instory, washes. For lately, as I was singing my Lalage, and wanderedbeyond my usual bounds, devoid of care, a wolf in the Sabine wood fledfrom me, though I was unarmed: such a monster as neither the warlikeApulia nourishes in its extensive woods, nor the land of Juba, thedry-nurse of lions, produces. Place me in those barren plains, where notree is refreshed by the genial air; at that part of the world, whichclouds and an inclement atmosphere infest. Place me under the chariot ofthe too neighboring sun, in a land deprived of habitations; [there] willI love my sweetly-smiling, sweetly-speaking Lalage.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXIII.TO CHLOE.You shun me, Chloe, like a fawn that is seeking its timorous mother inthe pathless mountains, not without a vain dread of the breezes and thethickets: for she trembles both in her heart and knees, whether thearrival of the spring has terrified by its rustling leaves, or the greenlizards have stirred the bush. But I do not follow you, like a savagetigress, or a Gaetulian lion, to tear you to pieces. Therefore, quityour mother, now that you are mature for a husband.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXIV.TO VIRGIL.What shame or bound can there be to our affectionate regret for so deara person? O Melpomene, on whom your father has bestowed a clear voiceand the harp, teach me the mournful strains. Does then perpetual sleepoppress Quinctilius? To whom when will modesty, and uncorrupt faith thesister of Justice, and undisguised truth, find any equal? He diedlamented by many good men, but more lamented by none than by you, myVirgil. You, though pious, alas! in vain demand Quinctilius back fromthe gods, who did not lend him to us on such terms. What, though youcould strike the lyre, listened to by the trees, with more sweetnessthan the Thracian Orpheus; yet the blood can never return to the emptyshade, which Mercury, inexorable to reverse the fates, has with hisdreadful Caduceus once driven to the gloomy throng. This is hard: butwhat it is out of our power to amend, becomes more supportable bypatience.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXV.TO LYDIA.The wanton youths less violently shake thy fastened windows with theirredoubled knocks, nor do they rob you of your rest; and your door, whichformerly moved its yielding hinges freely, now sticks lovingly to itsthreshold. Less and less often do you now hear: "My Lydia, dost thousleep the live-long night, while I your lover am dying?" Now you are anold woman, it will be your turn to bewail the insolence of rakes, whenyou are neglected in a lonely alley, while the Thracian wind rages atthe Interlunium: when that hot desire and lust, which is wont to renderfurious the dams of horses, shall rage about your ulcerous liver: notwithout complaint, that sprightly youth rejoice rather in the verdantivy and growing myrtle, and dedicate sapless leaves to Eurus, thecompanion of winter.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXVI.TO AELIUS LAMIA.A friend to the Muses, I will deliver up grief and fears to the wantonwinds, to waft into the Cretan Sea; singularly careless, what king of afrozen region is dreaded under the pole, or what terrifies Tiridates. Osweet muse, who art delighted with pure fountains, weave together thesunny flowers, weave a chaplet for my Lamia. Without thee, my praisesprofit nothing. To render him immortal by new strains, to render himimmortal by the Lesbian lyre, becomes both thee and thy sisters.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXVII.TO HIS COMPANIONS.To quarrel over your cups, which were made for joy, is downrightThracian. Away with the barbarous custom, and protect modest Bacchusfrom bloody frays. How immensely disagreeable to wine and candles is thesabre of the Medes! O my companions, repress your wicked vociferations,and rest quietly on bended elbow. Would you have me also take my shareof stout Falernian? Let the brother of Opuntian Megilla then declare,with what wound he is blessed, with what dart he is dying.--What, do yourefuse? I will not drink upon any other condition. Whatever kind ofpassion rules you, it scorches you with the flames you need not beashamed of, and you always indulge in an honorable, an ingenuous love.Come, whatever is your case, trust it to faithful ears. Ah, unhappy! inwhat a Charybdis art thou struggling, O youth, worthy of a better flame!What witch, what magician, with his Thessalian incantations, what deitycan free you? Pegasus himself will scarcely deliver you, so entangled,from this three-fold chimera.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXVIII.ARCHYTAS.The [want of the] scanty present of a little sand near the Mantinianshore, confines thee, O Archytas, the surveyor of sea and earth, and ofthe innumerable sand: neither is it of any advantage to you, to haveexplored the celestial regions, and to have traversed the round world inyour imagination, since thou wast to die. Thus also did the father ofPelops, the guest of the gods, die; and Tithonus likewise was translatedto the skies, and Minos, though admitted to the secrets of Jupiter; andthe Tartarean regions are possessed of the son of Panthous, once moresent down to the receptacle of the dead; notwithstanding, having retakenhis shield from the temple, he gave evidence of the Trojan times, andthat he had resigned to gloomy death nothing but his sinews and skin; inyour opinion, no inconsiderable judge of truth and nature. But the gamenight awaits all, and the road of death must once be travelled. TheFuries give up some to the sport of horrible Mars: the greedy ocean isdestructive to sailors: the mingled funerals of young and old arecrowded together: not a single person does the cruel Proserpine pass by.The south wind, the tempestuous attendant on the setting Orion, has sunkme also in the Illyrian waves. But do not thou, O sailor, malignantlygrudge to give a portion of loose sand to my bones and unburied head.So, whatever the east wind shall threaten to the Italian sea, let theVenusinian woods suffer, while you are in safety; and manifold profit,from whatever port it may, come to you by favoring Jove, and Neptune,the defender of consecrated Tarentum. But if you, by chance, make lightof committing a crime, which will be hurtful to your innocent posterity,may just laws and haughty retribution await you. I will not be desertedwith fruitless prayers; and no expiations shall atone for you. Thoughyou are in haste, you need not tarry long: after having thrice sprinkledthe dust over me, you may proceed.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXIX.TO ICCIUS.O Iccius, you now covet the opulent treasures of the Arabians, and arepreparing vigorous for a war against the kings of Saba, hithertounconquered, and are forming chains for the formidable Mede. Whatbarbarian virgin shall be your slave, after you have killed herbetrothed husband? What boy from the court shall be made yourcup-bearer, with his perfumed locks, skilled to direct the Seric arrowswith his father's bow? Who will now deny that it is probable forprecipitate rivers to flow back again to the high mountains, and forTiber to change his course, since you are about to exchange the nobleworks of Panaetius, collected from all parts, together with the wholeSocratic family, for Iberian armor, after you had promised betterthings?       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXX.TO VENUS.O Venus, queen of Gnidus and Paphos, neglect your favorite Cyprus, andtransport yourself into the beautiful temple of Glycera, who is invokingyou with abundance of frankincense. Let your glowing son hasten alongwith you, and the Graces with their zones loosed, and the Nymphs, andYouth possessed of little charm without you and Mercury.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXXI.TO APOLLO.What does the poet beg from Phoebus on the dedication of his temple?What does he pray for, while he pours from the flagon the firstlibation? Not the rich crops of fertile Sardinia: not the goodly flocksof scorched Calabria: not gold, or Indian ivory: not those countries,which the still river Liris eats away with its silent streams. Let thoseto whom fortune has given the Calenian vineyards, prune them with ahooked knife; and let the wealthy merchant drink out of golden cups thewines procured by his Syrian merchandize, favored by the godsthemselves, inasmuch as without loss he visits three or four times ayear the Atlantic Sea. Me olives support, me succories and soft mallows.O thou son of Latona, grant me to enjoy my acquisitions, and to possessmy health, together with an unimpaired understanding, I beseech thee;and that I may not lead a dishonorable old age, nor one bereft of thelyre.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXXII.TO HIS LYRE.We are called upon. If ever, O lyre, in idle amusement in the shade withthee, we have played anything that may live for this year and many, comeon, be responsive to a Latin ode, my dear lyre--first tuned by a Lesbiancitizen, who, fierce in war, yet amid arms, or if he had made fast tothe watery shore his tossed vessel, sung Bacchus, and the Muses, andVenus, and the boy, her ever-close attendant, and Lycus, lovely for hisblack eyes and jetty locks. O thou ornament of Apollo, charming shell,agreeable even at the banquets of supreme Jove! O thou sweet alleviatorof anxious toils, be propitious to me, whenever duly invoking thee!       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXXIII.TO ALBIUS TIBULLUS.Grieve not too much, my Albius, thoughtful of cruel Glycera; nor chantyour mournful elegies, because, as her faith being broken, a younger manis more agreeable, than you in her eyes. A love for Cyrus inflamesLycoris, distinguished for her little forehead: Cyrus follows the roughPholoe; but she-goats shall sooner be united to the Apulian wolves, thanPholoe shall commit a crime with a base adulterer. Such is the will ofVenus, who delights in cruel sport, to subject to her brazen yokespersons and tempers ill suited to each other. As for myself, theslave-born Myrtale, more untractable than the Adriatic Sea that formsthe Calabrian gulfs, entangled me in a pleasing chain, at the very timethat a more eligible love courted my embraces.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXXIV.AGAINST THE EPICURIANS.A remiss and irregular worshiper of the gods, while I professed theerrors of a senseless philosophy, I am now obliged to set sail backagain, and to renew the course that I had deserted. For Jupiter, whousually cleaves the clouds with his gleaming lightning, lately drovehis thundering horses and rapid chariot through the clear serene; whichthe sluggish earth, and wandering rivers; at which Styx, and the horridseat of detested Taenarus, and the utmost boundary of Atlas were shaken.The Deity is able to make exchange between the highest and the lowest,and diminishes the exalted, bringing to light the obscure; rapaciousfortune, with a shrill whizzing, has borne off the plume from one head,and delights in having placed it on another.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXXV.TO FORTUNE.O Goddess, who presidest over beautiful Antium; thou, that art ready toexalt mortal man from the most abject state, or to convert superbtriumphs into funerals! Thee the poor countryman solicits with hisanxious vows; whosoever plows the Carpathian Sea with the Bithynianvessel, importunes thee as mistress of the ocean. Thee the rough Dacian,thee the wandering Scythians, and cities, and nations, and warlikeLatium also, and the mothers of barbarian kings, and tyrants clad inpurple, fear. Spurn not with destructive foot that column which nowstands firm, nor let popular tummult rouse those, who now rest quiet, toarms--to arms--and break the empire. Necessity, thy minister, alwaymarches before thee, holding in her brazen hand huge spikes and wedges,nor is the unyielding clamp absent, nor the melted lead. Thee Hopereverences, and rare Fidelity robed in a white garment; nor does sherefuse to bear thee company, howsoever in wrath thou change thy robe,and abandon the houses of the powerful. But the faithless crowd [ofcompanions], and the perjured harlot draw back. Friends, too faithlessto bear equally the yoke of adversity, when casks are exhausted, verydregs and all, fly off. Preserve thou Caesar, who is meditating anexpedition against the Britons, the furthest people in the world, andalso the new levy of youths to be dreaded by the Eastern regions, andthe Red Sea. Alas! I am ashamed of our scars, and our wickedness, and ofbrethren. What have we, a hardened age, avoided? What have we in ourimpiety left unviolated! From what have our youth restrained theirhands, out of reverence to the gods? What altars have they spared? Omayest thou forge anew our blunted swords on a different anvil againstthe Massagetae and Arabians.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXXVI.This is a joyful occasion to sacrifice both with incense and music ofthe lyre, and the votive blood of a heifer to the gods, the guardians ofNumida; who, now returning in safety from the extremest part of Spain,imparts many embraces to his beloved companions, but to none more thanhis dear Lamia, mindful of his childhood spent under one and the samegovernor, and of the gown, which they changed at the same time. Let notthis joyful day be without a Cretan mark of distinction; let us notspare the jar brought forth [from the cellar]; nor, Salian-like, letthere be any cessation of feet; nor let the toping Damalis conquerBassus in the Thracian Amystis; nor let there be roses wanting to thebanquet, nor the ever-green parsley, nor the short-lived lily. All thecompany will fix their dissolving eyes on Damalis; but she, moreluxuriant than the wanton ivy, will not be separated from her new lover.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXXVII.TO HIS COMPANIONS.Now, my companions, is the time to carouse, now to beat the ground witha light foot: now is the time that was to deck the couch of the godswith Salian dainties. Before this, it was impious to produce the oldCaecuban stored up by your ancestors; while the queen, with acontaminated gang of creatures, noisome through distemper, was preparinggiddy destruction for the Capitol and the subversion of the empire,being weak enough to hope for any thing, and intoxicated with herprospering fortune. But scarcely a single ship preserved from the flamesbated her fury; and Caesar brought down her mind, inflamed with Egyptianwine, to real fears, close pursuing her in her flight from Italy withhis galleys (as the hawk pursues the tender doves, or the nimble hunterthe hare in the plains of snowy Aemon), that he might throw into chainsthis destructive monster [of a woman]; who, seeking a more generousdeath, neither had an effeminate dread of the sword, nor repaired withher swift ship to hidden shores. She was able also to look upon herpalace, lying in ruins, with a countenance unmoved, and courageousenough to handle exasperated asps, that she might imbibe in her body thedeadly poison, being more resolved by having pre-meditated her death:for she was a woman of such greatness of soul, as to scorn to be carriedoff in haughty triumph, like a private person, by rough Liburnians.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXXVIII.TO HIS SERVANT.Boy, I detest the pomp of the Persians; chaplets, which are woven withthe rind of the linden, displease me; give up the search for the placewhere the latter rose abides. It is my particular desire that you makeno laborious addition to the plain myrtle; for myrtle is neitherunbecoming you a servant, nor me, while I quaff under this mantlingvine.       *       *       *       *       *THE SECOND BOOK OF THE ODES OF HORACE.ODE I.TO ASINIUS POLLIO.You are treating of the civil commotion, which began from the consulshipof Metelius, and the causes, and the errors, and the operations of thewar, and the game that fortune played, and the pernicious confederacy ofthe chiefs, and arms stained with blood not yet expiated--a work full ofdanger and hazard: and you are treading upon fires, hidden underdeceitful ashes: let therefore the muse that presides over severetragedy, be for a while absent from the theaters; shortly, when thouhast completed the narrative of the public affairs, you shall resumeyour great work in the tragic style of Athens, O Pollio, thou excellentsuccor to sorrowing defendants and a consulting senate; [Pollio,] towhom the laurel produced immortal honors in the Dalmatian triumph. Evennow you stun our ears with the threatening murmur of horns: now theclarions sound; now the glitter of arms affrights the flying steeds, anddazzles the sight of the riders. Now I seem to hear of great commandersbesmeared with, glorious dust, and the whole earth subdued, except thestubborn soul of Cato. Juno, and every other god propitious to theAfricans, impotently went off, leaving that land unrevenged; but soonoffered the descendants of the conquerors, as sacrifices to the manes ofJugurtha. What plain, enriched by Latin blood, bears not record, by itsnumerous sepulchres, of our impious battles, and of the sound of thedownfall of Italy, heard even by the Medes? What pool, what rivers, areunconscious of our deplorable war? What sea have not the Daunianslaughters discolored? What shore is unstained by our blood? Do not,however, rash muse, neglecting your jocose strains, resume the task ofCaean plaintive song, but rather with me seek measures of a lighterstyle beneath some love-sequestered grotto.       *       *       *       *       *ODE II.TO CRISPUS SALLUSTIUS.O Crispus Sallustius, thou foe to bullion, unless it derives splendorfrom a moderate enjoyment, there is no luster in money concealed in theniggard earth. Proculeius shall live an extended age, conspicuous forfatherly affection to brothers; surviving fame shall bear him on anuntiring wing. You may possess a more extensive dominion by controllinga craving disposition, than if you could unite Libya to the distantGades, and the natives of both the Carthages were subject to you alone.The direful dropsy increases by self-indulgence, nor extinguishes itsthirst, unless the cause of the disorder has departed from the veins,and the watery languor from the pallid body. Virtue, differing from thevulgar, excepts Phraates though restored to the throne of Cyrus, fromthe number of the happy; and teaches the populace to disuse false namesfor things, by conferring the kingdom and a safe diadem and theperpetual laurel upon him alone, who can view large heaps of treasurewith undazzled eye.       *       *       *       *       *ODE III.TO QUINTUS DELLIUS.O Dellius, since thou art born to die, be mindful to preserve a temperof mind even in times of difficulty, as well an restrained from insolentexultation in prosperity: whether thou shalt lead a life of continualsadness, or through happy days regale thyself with Falernian wine of theoldest date, at case reclined in some grassy retreat, where the loftypine and hoary poplar delight to interweave their boughs into ahospitable shade, and the clear current with trembling surface purlsalong the meandering rivulet. Hither order [your slaves] to bring thewine, and the perfumes, and the too short-lived flowers of the gratefulrose, while fortune, and age; and the sable threads of the three sisterspermit thee. You must depart from your numerous purchased groves; fromyour house also, and that villa, which the yellow Tiber washes, you mustdepart: and an heir shall possess these high-piled riches. It is of noconsequence whether you are the wealthy descendant of ancient Inachus,or whether, poor and of the most ignoble race, you live without acovering from the open air, since you are the victim of merciless Pluto.We are all driven toward the same quarter: the lot of all is shaken inthe urn; destined sooner or later to come forth, and embark us in[Charon's] boat for eternal exile.       *       *       *       *       *ODE IV.TO XANTHIAS PHOCEUS.Let not, O Xanthias Phoceus, your passion for your maid put you out ofcountenance; before your time, the slave Briseis moved the haughtyAchilles by her snowy complexion. The beauty of the captive Tecmessasmote her master, the Telamonian Ajax; Agamemnon, in the midst ofvictory, burned for a ravished virgin: when the barbarian troops fell bythe hands of their Thessalian conqueror, and Hector, vanquished, leftTroy more easily to be destroyed by the Grecians. You do not know thatperchance the beautiful Phyllis has parents of condition happy enough todo honor to you their son-in-law. Certainly she must be of royal race,and laments the unpropitiousness of her family gods. Be confident, thatyour beloved is not of the worthless crowd; nor that one so true, sounmercenary, could possibly be born of a mother to be ashamed of. I cancommend arms, and face, and well-made legs, quite chastely: avoid beingjealous of one, whose age is hastening onward to bring its eighthmastrum to a close.       *       *       *       *       *ODE V.Not yet is she fit to be broken to the yoke; not yet is she equal to theduties of a partner, nor can she support the weight of the bullimpetuously rushing to enjoyment. Your heifer's sole inclination isabout verdant fields, one while in running streams soothing the grievousheat; at another, highly delighted to frisk with the steerlings in themoist willow ground. Suppress your appetite for the immature grape;shortly variegated autumn will tinge for thee the lirid clusters with apurple hue. Shortly she shall follow you; for her impetuous time runson, and shall place to her account those years of which it abridges you;shortly Lalage with a wanton assurance will seek a husband, beloved in ahigher degree than the coy Pholoe, or even Chloris; shining as brightlywith her fair shoulder, as the spotless moon upon the midnight sea, oreven the Gnidian Gyges, whom if you should intermix in a company ofgirls, the undiscernible difference occasioned by his flowing locks anddoubtful countenance would wonderfully impose even on sagaciousstrangers.       *       *       *       *       *ODE VI.TO SEPTIMUS.Septimus, who art ready to go with me, even to Gades, and to theCantabrian, still untaught to bear our yoke, and the inhospitableSyrtes, where the Mauritanian wave perpetually boils. O may Tibur,founded by a Grecian colony, be the habitation of my old age! There letthere be an end to my fatigues by sea, and land, and war; whence if thecruel fates debar me, I will seek the river of Galesus, delightful forsheep covered with skins, and the countries reigned over byLacedaemonian Phalantus. That corner of the world smiles in my eyebeyond all others; where the honey yields not to the Hymettian, and theolive rivals the verdant Venafrian: where the temperature of the airproduces a long spring and mild winters, and Aulon friendly to thefruitful vine, envies not the Falernian grapes. That place, and thoseblest heights, solicit you and me; there you shall bedew the glowingashes of your poet friend with a tear due [to his memory].       *       *       *       *       *ODE VII.TO POMPEIUS VARUS.O thou, often reduced with me to the last extremity in the war whichBrutus carried on, who has restored thee as a Roman citizen, to the godsof thy country and the Italian air, Pompey, thou first of my companions;with whom I have frequently broken the tedious day in drinking, havingmy hair, shining with the Syrian maiobathrum, crowned [with flowers]!Together with thee did I experience the [battle of] Phillippi and aprecipitate flight, having shamefully enough left my shield; when valorwas broken, and the most daring smote the squalid earth with theirfaces. But Mercury swift conveyed me away, terrified as I was, in athick cloud through the midst of the enemy. Thee the reciprocating sea,with his tempestuous waves, bore back again to war. Wherefore render toJupiter the offering that is due, and deposit your limbs, wearied with atedious war, under my laurel, and spare not the casks reserved for you.Fill up the polished bowls with care-dispelling Massic: pour out theperfumed ointments from the capacious shells. Who takes care to quicklyweave the chaplets of fresh parsely or myrtle? Whom shall the Venuspronounce to be master of the revel? In wild carouse I will becomefrantic as the Bacchanalians. 'Tis delightful to me to play the madman,on the reception of my friends.       *       *       *       *       *ODE VIII.TO BARINE.If any punishment, Barine, for your violated oath had ever been ofprejudice to you: if you had become less agreeable by the blackness of asingle tooth or nail, I might believe you. But you no sooner have boundyour perfidious head with vows, but you shine out more charming by far,and come forth the public care of our youth. It is of advantage to youto deceive the buried ashes of your mother, and the silentconstellations of the night, together with all heaven, and the gods freefrom chill death. Venus herself, I profess, laughs at this; thegood-natured nymphs laugh, and cruel Cupid, who is perpetuallysharpening his burning darts on a bloody whetstone. Add to this, thatall our boys are growing up for you; a new herd of slaves is growing up;nor do the former ones quit the house of their impious mistress,notwithstanding they often have threatened it. The matrons are in dreadof you on account of their young ones; the thrifty old men are in dreadof you; and the girls but just married are in distress, lest your beautyshould slacken [the affections of] their husbands.       *       *       *       *       *ODE IX.TO TITUS VALGIUS.Showers do not perpetually pour down upon the rough fields, nor dovarying hurricanes forever harass the Caspian Sea; nor, my friendValgius, does the motionless ice remain fixed throughout all the months,in the regions of Armenia; nor do the Garganian oaks [always] laborunder the northerly winds, nor are the ash-trees widowed of theirleaves. But thou art continually pursuing Mystes, who is taken fromthee, with mournful measures: nor do the effects of thy love for himcease at the rising of Vesper, or when he flies the rapid approach ofthe sun. But the aged man who lived three generations, did not lamentthe amiable Antilochus all the years of his life: nor did his parents orhis Trojan sisters perpetually bewail the blooming Troilus. At lengththen desist from thy tender complaints; and rather let us sing the freshtrophies of Augustus Caesar, and the Frozen Niphates, and the riverMedus, added to the vanquished nations, rolls more humble tides, and theGelonians riding within a prescribed boundary in a narrow tract of land.       *       *       *       *       *ODE X.TO LICINIUS MURENA.O Licinius, you will lead a more correct course of life, by neitheralways pursuing the main ocean, nor, while you cautiously are in dreadof storms, by pressing too much upon the hazardous shore. Whosoeverloves the golden mean, is secure from the sordidness of an antiquatedcell, and is too prudent to have a palace that might expose him toenvy, if the lofty pine is more frequently agitated with winds, and hightowers fall down with a heavier ruin, and lightnings strike the summitsof the mountains. A well-provided breast hopes in adversity, and fearsin prosperity. 'Tis the same Jupiter, that brings the hideous wintersback, and that takes them away. If it is ill with us now, it will not beso hereafter. Apollo sometimes rouses the silent lyric muse, neitherdoes he always bend his bow. In narrow circumstances appear in highspirits, and undaunted. In the same manner you will prudently contractyour sails, which are apt to be too much swollen in a prosperous gale.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XI.TO QUINTIUS HIRPINUS.O Quintius Hirpinus, forbear to be inquisitive what the Cantabrian, andthe Scythian, divided from us by the interposed Adriatic, is meditating;neither be fearfully solicitous for the necessaries of a life, whichrequires but a few things. Youth and beauty fly swift away, whilesapless old age expels the wanton loves and gentle sleep. The same glorydoes not always remain to the vernal flowers, nor does the ruddy moonshine with one continued aspect; why, therefore, do you fatigue youmind, unequal to eternal projects? Why do we not rather (while it is inour power) thus carelessly reclining under a lofty plane-tree, or thispine, with our hoary locks made fragrant by roses, and anointed withSyrian perfume, indulge ourselves with generous wine? Bacchus dissipatespreying cares. What slave is here, instantly to cool some cups of ardentFalernian in the passing stream? Who will tempt the vagrant wanton Lydefrom her house? See that you bid her hasten with her ivory lyre,collecting her hair into a graceful knot, after the fashion of a Spartanmaid.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XII.TO MAECENAS.Do not insist that the long wars of fierce Numantia, or the formidableAnnibal, or the Sicilian Sea impurpled with Carthaginian blood, shouldbe adapted to the tender lays of the lyre: nor the cruel Lapithae, norHylaeus excessive in wine and the earth born youths, subdued byHerculean force, from whom the splendid habitation of old Saturn dreadeddanger. And you yourself, Maecenas, with more propriety shall recountthe battles of Caesar, and the necks of haughty kings led in triumphthrough the streets in historical prose. It was the muse's will that Ishould celebrate the sweet strains of my mistress Lycimnia, that Ishould celebrate her bright darting eyes, and her breast laudablyfaithful to mutual love: who can with a grace introduce her foot intothe dance, or, sporting, contend in raillery, or join arms with thebright virgins on the celebrated Diana's festival. Would you,[Maecenas,] change one of Lycimnia's tresses for all the rich Achaemenespossessed, or the Mygdonian wealth of fertile Phrygia, or all thedwellings of the Arabians replete with treasures? Especially when sheturns her neck to meet your burning kisses, or with a gentle crueltydenies, what she would more delight to have ravished than thepetitioner--or sometimes eagerly anticipates to snatch them her self.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XIII.TO A TREE.O tree, he planted thee on an unlucky day whoever did it first, and withan impious hand raised thee for the destruction of posterity, and thescandal of the village. I could believe that he had broken his ownfather's neck, and stained his most secret apartments with the midnightblood of his guest. He was wont to handle Colchian poisons, and whateverwickedness is anywhere conceived, who planted in my field thee, a sorrylog; thee, ready to fall on the head of thy inoffensive master. What weought to be aware of, no man is sufficiently cautious at all hours. TheCarthaginian sailor thoroughly dreads the Bosphorus; nor, beyond that,does he fear a hidden fate from any other quarter. The soldier dreadsthe arrows and the fleet retreat of the Parthian; the Parthian, chainsand an Italian prison; but the unexpected assault of death has carriedoff, and will carry off, the world in general. How near was I seeing thedominions of black Proserpine, and Aeacus sitting in judgment; theseparate abodes also of the pious, and Sappho complaining in her Aeohanlyre of her own country damsels; and thee, O Alcaeus, sounding in fullerstrains on thy golden harp the distresses of exile, and the distressesof war. The ghosts admire them both, while they utter strains worthy ofa sacred silence; but the crowded multitude, pressing with theirshoulders, imbibes, with a more greedy ear, battles and banishedtyrants. What wonder? Since the many headed monster, astonished at thoselays, hangs down his sable ears; and the snakes, entwined in the hair ofthe furies, are soothed. Moreover, Prometheus and the sire of Pelops aredeluded into an insensibility of their torments, by the melodious sound:nor is Orion any longer solicitous to harass the lions, or the fearfullynxes.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XIV.TO POSTUMUS.Alas! my Postumus, my Postumus, the fleeting years gilde on; nor willpiety cause any delay to wrinkles, and advancing old age, andinsuperable death. You could not, if you were to sacrifice every passingday three hundred bulls, render propitious pitiless Pluto, who confinesthe thrice-monstrous Geryon and Tityus with the dismal Stygian stream,namely, that stream which is to be passed over by all who are fed by thebounty of the earth, whether we be kings or poor ninds. In vain shall webe free from sanguinary Mars, and the broken billows of the hoarseAdriatic; in vain shall we be apprehensive for ourselves of the noxiousSouth, in the time of autumn. The black Cocytus wandering with languidcurrent, and the infamous race of Danaus, and Sisyphus, the son of theAeolus, doomed to eternal toil, must be visited; your land and house andpleasing wife must be left, nor shall any of those trees, which you arenursing, follow you, their master for a brief space, except the hatedcypresses; a worthier heir shall consume your Caecuban wines now guardedwith a hundred keys, and shall wet the pavement with the haughty wine,more exquisite than what graces pontifical entertainment.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XV.AGAINST THE LUXURY OF THE ROMANS.The palace-like edifices will in a short time leave but a few acres forthe plough; ponds of wider extent than the Lucrine lake will be everywhere to be seen; and the barren plane-tree will supplant the elms. Thenbanks of violets, and myrtle groves, and all the tribe of nosegays shalldiffuse their odors in the olive plantations, which were fruitful totheir preceding master. Then the laurel with dense boughs shall excludethe burning beams. It was not so prescribed by the institutes ofRomulus, and the unshaven Cato, and ancient custom. Their private incomewas contracted, while that of the community was great. No private menwere then possessed of galleries measured by ten-feet rules, whichcollected the shady northern breezes; nor did the laws permit them toreject the casual turf [for their own huts], though at the same timethey obliged them to ornament in the most sumptuous manner, with newstone, the buildings of the public, and the temples of the gods, at acommon expense.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XVI.TO GROSPHUS.O Grosphus, he that is caught in the wide Aegean Sea; when a blacktempest has obscured the moon, and not a star appears with steady lightfor the mariners, supplicates the gods for repose: for repose, Thracefurious in war; the quiver-graced Medes, for repose neither purchasableby jewels, nor by purple, nor by gold. For neither regal treasures northe consul's officer can remove the wretched tumults of the mind, northe cares that hover about splendid ceilings. That man lives happily ona little, who can view with pleasure the old-fashioned familysalt-cellar on his frugal board; neither anxiety nor sordid avarice robshim of gentle sleep. Why do we, brave for a short season, aim at manythings? Why do we change our own for climates heated by another sun?Whoever, by becoming an exile from his country, escaped likewise fromhimself? Consuming care boards even brazen-beaked ships: nor does itquit the troops of horsemen, for it is more fleet than the stags, morefleet than the storm-driving east wind. A mind that is cheerful in itspresent state, will disdain to be solicitous any further, and cancorrect the bitters of life with a placid smile. Nothing is on all handscompletely blessed. A premature death carried off the celebratedAchilles; a protracted old age wore down Tithonus; and time perhaps mayextend to me, what it shall deny to you. Around you a hundred flocksbleat, and Sicilian heifers low; for your use the mare, fit for theharness, neighs; wool doubly dipped in the African purple-dye, clothesyou: on me undeceitful fate has bestowed a small country estate, and theslight inspiration of the Grecian muse, and a contempt for the malignityof the vulgar.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XVII.TO MAECENAS.Why dost thoti kill me with thy complaints? 'Tis neither agreeable tothe gods, nor to me, that thou shouldest depart first, O Maecenas, thougrand ornament and pillar of my affairs. Alas! if an untimely blow hurryaway thee, a part of my soul, why do I the other moiety remain, my valuelost, nor any longer whole? That [fatal] day shall bring destructionupon us both. I have by no means taken a false oath: we will go, we willgo, whenever thou shalt lead the way, prepared to be fellow-travelers inthe last journey. Me nor the breath of the fiery Chimaera, norhundred-handed Gyges, were he to rise again, shall ever tear from thee:such is the will of powerful Justice, and of the Fates. Whether Libra ormalignant Scorpio had the ascendant at my natal hour, or Capricon theruler of the western wave, our horoscopes agree in a wonderful manner.Thee the benign protection of Jupiter, shining with friendly aspect,rescued from the baleful influence of impious Saturn, and retarded thewings of precipitate destiny, at the time the crowded people withresounding applauses thrice hailed you in the theatre: me the trunk of atree, falling upon my skull, would have dispatched, had not Faunus, theprotector of men of genius, with his right hand warded off the blow. Bethou mindful to pay the victims and the votive temple; I will sacrificean humble lamb.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XVIII.AGAINST AVARICE AND LUXURY.Nor ivory, nor a fretted ceiling adorned with gold, glitters in myhouse: no Hymettian beams rest upon pillars cut out of the extreme partsof Africa; nor, a pretended heir, have I possessed myself of the palaceof Attalus, nor do ladies, my dependants, spin Laconian purple for myuse. But integrity, and a liberal vein of genius, are mine: and the manof fortune makes his court to me, who am but poor. I importune the godsno further, nor do I require of my friend in power any largerenjoyments, sufficiently happy with my Sabine farm alone. Day is drivenon by day, and the new moons hasten to their wane. You put out marble tobe hewn, though with one foot in the grave; and, unmindful of asepulcher, are building houses; and are busy to extend the shore of thesea, that beats with violence at Baiae, not rich enough with the shoreof the mainland. Why is it, that through avarice you even pluck up thelandmarks of your neighbor's ground, and trespass beyond the bounds ofyour clients; and wife and husband are turned out, bearing in theirbosom their household gods and their destitute children? Nevertheless,no court more certainly awaits its wealthy lord, than the destined limitof rapacious Pluto. Why do you go on? The impartial earth is openedequally to the poor and to the sons of kings; nor has the life-guardferryman of hell, bribed with gold, re-conducted the artful Prometheus.He confines proud Tantalus; and the race of Tantalus, he condescends,whether invoked or not, to relieve the poor freed from their labors.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XIX.ON BACCHUS.A DITHYRAMBIC, OR DRINKING SONG.I saw Bacchus (believe it, posterity) dictating strains among the remoterocks, and the nymphs learning them, and the ears of the goat-footedsatyrs all attentive. Evoe! my mind trembles with recent dread, and mysoul, replete with Bacchus, has a tumultuous joy, Evoe! spare me,Bacchus; spare me, thou who art formidable for thy dreadful thyrsus. Itis granted me to sing the wanton Bacchanalian priestess, and thefountain of wine, and rivulets flowing with milk, and to tell again ofthe honeys distilling from the hollow trunks. It is granted me likewiseto celebrate the honor added to the constellations by your happy spouse,and the palace of Pentheus demolished with no light ruin, and theperdition of Thracian. Lycurgus. You command the rivers, you thebarbarian sea. You, moist with wine, on lonely mountain-tops bind thehair of your Thracian priestesses with a knot of vipers without hurt.You, when the impious band of giants scaled the realms of father Jupiterthrough the sky, repelled Rhoetus, with the paws and horrible jaw of thelion-shape [you had assumed]. Thou, reported to be better fitted fordances, and jokes and play, you were accounted insufficient for fight;yet it then appeared, you, the same deity, was the mediator of peace andwar. Upon you, ornamented with your golden horn, Orberus innocentlygazed, gently wagging his tail; and with his triple tongue licked yourfeet and legs, as you returned.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XX.TO MAECENAS.I, a two-formed poet, will be conveyed through the liquid air with novulgar or humble wing; nor will I loiter upon earth any longer; andsuperior to envy, I will quit cities. Not I, even I, the blood of lowparents, my dear Maecenas, shall die; nor shall I be restrained by theStygian wave. At this instant a rough skin settles upon my ankles, andall upwards I am transformed into a white bird, and the downy plumagearises over my fingers and shoulders. Now, a melodious bird, moreexpeditious than the Daepalean Icarus, I will visit the shores of themurmuring Bosphorus, and the Gzetulean Syrtes, and the Hyperboreanplains. Me the Colchian and the Dacian, who hides his fear of theMarsian cohort, land the remotest Gelonians, shall know: me the learnedSpaniard shall study, and he that drinks of the Rhone. Let there be nodirges, nor unmanly lamentations, nor bewailings at my imaginaryfuneral; suppress your crying, and forbear the superfluous honors of asepulcher.       *       *       *       *       *THE THIRD BOOK OF THE ODES OF HORACE.ODE I.ON CONTENTMENT.I abominate the uninitiated vulgar, and keep them at a distance.Preserve a religious silence: I, the priest of the Muses, sing tovirgins and boys verses not heard before. The dominion of dreadsovereigns is over their own subjects; that of Jupiter, glorious for hisconquest over the giants, who shakes all nature with his nod, is oversovereigns themselves. It happens that one man, arranges trees, inregular rows, to a greater extent than another; this man comes down intothe Campus [Martius] as a candidate of a better family; another vieswith him for morals and a better reputation; a third has a superiornumber of dependants; but Fate, by the impartial law of nature, isallotted both to the conspicuous and the obscure; the capacious urnkeeps every name in motion. Sicilian dainties will not force a deliciousrelish to that man, over whose impious neck the naked sword hangs: thesongs of birds and the lyre will not restore his sleep. Sleep disdainsnot the humble cottages and shady bank of peasants; he disdains notTempe, fanned by zephyrs. Him, who desires but a competency, neither thetempestuous sea renders anxious, nor the malign violence of Arcturussetting, or of the rising Kid; not his vineyards beaten down with hail,and a deceitful farm; his plantations at one season blaming the rains,at another, the influence of the constellations parching the grounds, atanother, the severe winters. The fishes perceive the seas contracted, bythe vast foundations that have been laid in the deep: hither numerousundertakers with their men, and lords, disdainful of the land, send downmortar: but anxiety and the threats of conscience ascend by the same wayas the possessor; nor does gloomy care depart from the brazen-beakedgalley, and she mounts behind the horseman. Since then nor Phrygianmarble, nor the use of purple more dazzling than the sun, nor theFalernian vine, nor the Persian nard, composes a troubled mind, whyshould I set about a lofty edifice with columns that excite envy, and inthe modern taste? Why should I exchange my Sabine vale for wealth, whichis attended with more trouble?       *       *       *       *       *ODE II.AGAINST THE DEGENERACY OF THE ROMAN YOUTH.Let the robust youth learn patiently to endure pinching want in theactive exercise of arms; and as an expert horseman, dreadful for hisspear, let him harass the fierce Parthians; and let him lead a lifeexposed to the open air, and familiar with dangers. Him, the consort andmarriageable virgin-daughter of some warring tyrant, viewing from thehostile walls, may sigh--- Alas! let not the affianced prince,inexperienced as he is in arms, provoke by a touch this terrible lion,whom bloody rage hurries through the midst of slaughter. It is sweet andglorious to die for one's country; death even pursues the man that fliesfrom him; nor does he spare the trembling knees of effeminate youth, northe coward back. Virtue, unknowing of base repulse, shines withimmaculate honors; nor does she assume nor lay aside the ensigns of herdignity, at the veering of the popular air. Virtue, throwing open heavento those who deserve not to die, directs her progress through paths ofdifficulty, and spurns with a rapid wing grovelling cowards and theslippery earth. There is likewise a sure reward for faithful silence. Iwill prohibit that man, who shall divulge the sacred rites of mysteriousCeres, from being under the same roof with me, or from setting sail withme in the same fragile bark: for Jupiter, when slighted, often joins agood man in the same fate with a bad one. Seldom hath punishment, thoughlame, of foot, failed to overtake the wicked.       *       *       *       *       *ODE III.ON STEADINESS AND INTEGRITY.Not the rage of the people pressing to hurtful measures, not the aspectof a threatening tyrant can shake from his settled purpose the man whois just and determined in his resolution; nor can the south wind, thattumultuous ruler of the restless Adriatic, nor the mighty hand ofthundering Jove; if a crushed world should fall in upon him, the ruinswould strike him undismayed. By this character Pollux, by this thewandering Hercules, arrived at the starry citadels; among whom Augustushas now taken his place, and quaffs nectar with empurpled lips. Thee, OFather Bacchus, meritorious for this virtue, thy tigers carried, drawingthe yoke with intractable neck; by this Romulus escaped Acheron on thehorses of Mars--Juno having spoken what the gods in full conclaveapprove: "Troy, Troy, a fatal and lewd judge, and a foreign woman, havereduced to ashes, condemned, with its inhabitants and fraudulent prince,to me and the chaste Minerva, ever since Laomedon disappointed the godsof the stipulated reward. Now neither the infamous guest of theLacedaemonian adulteress shines; nor does Priam's perjured family repelthe warlike Grecians by the aid of Hector, and that war, spun out tosuch a length by our factions, has sunk to peace. Henceforth, therefore,I will give up to Mars both my bitter resentment, and the detestedgrandson, whom the Trojan princes bore. Him will I suffer to enter thebright regions, to drink the juice of nectar, and to be enrolled amongthe peaceful order of gods. As long as the extensive sea rages betweenTroy and Rome, let them, exiles, reign happy in any other part of theworld: as long as cattle trample upon the tomb of Priam and Paris, andwild beasts conceal their young ones there with impunity, may theCapitol remain in splendor, and may brave Rome be able to give laws tothe conquered Medes. Tremendous let her extend her name abroad to theextremest boundaries of the earth, where the middle ocean separatesEurope from Africa, where the swollen Nile waters the plains; more bravein despising gold as yet undiscovered, and so best situated while hiddenin the earth, than in forcing it out for the uses of mankind, with ahand ready to make depredations on everything that is sacred. Whateverend of the world has made resistance, that let her reach with her arms,joyfully alert to visit, even that part where fiery heats rage madding;that where clouds and rains storm with unmoderated fury. But I pronouncethis fate to the warlike Romans, upon this condition; that neitherthrough an excess of piety, nor of confidence in their power, theybecome inclined to rebuild the houses of their ancestors' Troy. Thefortune of Troy, reviving under unlucky auspices, shall be repeated withlamentable destruction, I, the wife and sister of Jupiter, leading onthe victorious bands. Thrice, if a brazen wall should arise by means ofits founder Phoebus, thrice should it fall, demolished by my Grecians;thrice should the captive wife bewail her husband and her children."These themes ill suit the merry lyre. Whither, muse, are yougoing?--Cease, impertinent, to relate the language of the gods, and todebase great things by your trifling measures.       *       *       *       *       *ODE IV.TO CALLIOPE.Descend from heaven, queen Calliope, and come sing with your pipe alengthened strain; or, if you had now rather, with your clear voice, oron the harp or lute of Phoebus. Do ye hear? or does a pleasing frenzydelude me? I seem to hear [her], and to wander [with her] along thehallowed groves, through which pleasant rivulets and gales make theirway. Me, when a child, and fatigued with play, in sleep the woodlanddoves, famous in story, covered with green leaves in the Apulian Vultur,just without the limits of my native Apulia; so that it was matter ofwonder to all that inhabit the nest of lofty Acherontia, the BantineForests, and the rich soil of low Ferentum, how I could sleep with mybody safe from deadly vipers and ravenous bears; how I could be coveredwith sacred laurel and myrtle heaped together, though a child, notanimated without the [inspiration of the] gods. Yours, O ye muses, I amyours, whether I am elevated to the Sabine heights; or whether the coolPraeneste, or the sloping Tibur, or the watery Baiae have delighted me.Me, who am attached to your fountains and dances, not the army put toflight at Philippi, not the execrable tree, nor a Palinurus in theSicilian Sea has destroyed. While you shall be with me with pleasurewill I, a sailor, dare the raging Bosphorus; or, a traveler, the burningsands of the Assyrian shore: I will visit the Britons inhuman tostrangers, and the Concanian delighted [with drinking] the blood ofhorses; I will visit the quivered Geloni, and the Scythian river withouthurt. You entertained lofty Caesar, seeking to put an end to his toils,in the Pierian grotto, as soon as he had distributed in towns histroops, wearied by campaigning: you administer [to him] moderatecounsel, and graciously rejoice at it when administered. We are awarehow he, who rules the inactive earth and the stormy main, the citiesalso, and the dreary realms [of hell], and alone governs with arighteous sway both gods and the human multitude, how he took off theimpious Titans and the gigantic troop by his falling thunderbolts. Thathorrid youth, trusting to the strength of their arms, and the brethrenproceeding to place Pelion upon shady Olympus, had brought great dread[even] upon Jove. But what could Typhoeus, and the strong Mimas, or whatPorphyrion with his menacing statue; what Rhoetus, and Enceladus, afierce darter with trees uptorn, avail, though rushing violently againstthe sounding shield of Pallas? At one part stood the eager Vulcan, atanother the matron Juno, and he, who is never desirous to lay aside hisbow from his shoulders, Apollo, the god of Delos and Patara, who batheshis flowing hair in the pure dew of Castalia, and possesses the grovesof Lycia and his native wood. Force, void of conduct, falls by its ownweight; moreover, the gods promote discreet force to further advantage;but the same beings detest forces, that meditate every kind of impiety.The hundred-handed Gyges is an evidence of the sentiments I allege: andOrion, the tempter of the spotless Diana, destroyed by a virgin dart.The earth, heaped over her own monsters, grieves and laments heroffspring, sent to murky Hades by a thunderbolt; nor does the activefire consume Aetna that is placed over it, nor does the vulture desertthe liver of incontinent Tityus, being stationed there as an avenger ofhis baseness; and three hundred chains confine the amorous Pirithous.       *       *       *       *       *ODE V.ON THE RECOVERY OF THE STANDARDS FROM PHRAATES.We believe from his thundering that Jupiter has dominion in the heavens:Augustus shall be esteemed a present deity the Britons and terribleParthians being added to the empire. What! has any soldier of Crassuslived, a degraded husband with a barbarian wife? And has (O [corrupted]senate, and degenerate morals!) the Marsian and Apulian, unmindful ofthe sacred bucklers, of the [Roman] name and gown, and of eternal Vesta,grown old in the lands of hostile fathers-in-law, Jupiter and the citybeing in safety? The prudent mind of Regulus had provided against this,dissenting from ignominious terms, and inferring from such a precedentdestruction to the succeeding age, if the captive youth were not toperish unpitied. I have beheld, said he, the Roman standards affixed tothe Carthaginian temples, and their arms taken away from our soldierswithout bloodshed. I have beheld the arms of our citizens bound behindtheir free-born backs, and the gates [of the enemy] unshut, and thefields, which were depopulated by our battles, cultivated anew. Thesoldier, to be sure, ransomed by gold, will return a braverfellow!--No--you add loss to infamy; [for] neither does the wool oncestained by the dye of the sea-weed ever resume its lost color; nor doesgenuine valor, when once it has failed, care to resume its place inthose who have degenerated through cowardice. If the hind, disentangledfrom the thickset toils, ever fights, then indeed shall he be valorous,who has intrusted himself to faithless foes; and he shall trample uponthe Carthaginians in a second war, who dastardly has felt the thongswith his arms tied behind him, and has been afraid of death. He, knowingno other way to preserve his life, has confounded peace with war. Oscandal! O mighty Carthage, elevated to a higher pitch by Italy'sdisgraceful downfall! He _(Regulus)_ is reported to have rejected theembrace of his virtuous wife and his little sons like one degraded; andto have sternly fixed his manly countenance on the ground, until, as anadviser, by his counsel he confirmed the wavering senators, and amid hisweeping friends hastened away, a glorious exile. Notwithstanding he knewwhat the barbarian executioner was providing for him, yet he pushed fromhis opposing kindred and the populace retarding his return, in no othermanner, than if (after he had quitted the tedious business of hisclients, by determining their suit) he was only going to the Venafrianplains, or the Lacedaemonian Tarentum.       *       *       *       *       *ODE VI.TO THE ROMANS.Thou shalt atone, O Roman, for the sins of your ancestors, thoughinnocent, till you shall have repaired the temples and tottering shrinesof the gods, and their statues, defiled with sooty smoke. Thou boldestsway, because thou bearest thyself subordinate to the gods; to thissource refer every undertaking; to this, every event. The gods, becauseneglected, have inflicted many evils on calamitous Italy. Already hasMonaeses, and the band of Pacorus, twice repelled our inauspiciousattacks, and exults in having added the Roman spoils to their trivialcollars. The Dacian and Ethiopian have almost demolished the cityengaged in civil broils, the one formidable for his fleet, the othermore expert for missile arrows. The times, fertile in wickedness, havein the first place polluted the marriage state, and [thence] the issueand families. From this fountain perdition being derived, hasoverwhelmed the nation and people. The marriageable virgin delights tobe taught the Ionic dances, and even at this time is trained up in[seductive] arts, and cherishes unchaste desires from her very infancy.Soon after she courts younger debauchees when her husband is in hiscups, nor has she any choice, to whom she shall privately grant herforbidden pleasures when the lights are removed, but at the word ofcommand, openly, not without the knowledge of her husband, she will comeforth, whether it be a factor that calls for her, or the captain of aSpanish ship, the extravagant purchaser of her disgrace. It was not ayouth born from parents like these, that stained the sea withCarthaginian gore, and slew Pyrrhus, and mighty Antiochus, and terrificAnnibal; but a manly progeny of rustic soldiers, instructed to turn theglebe with Sabine spades, and to carry clubs cut [out of the woods] atthe pleasure of a rigid mother, what time the sun shifted the shadows ofthe mountains, and took the yokes from the wearied oxen, bringing on thepleasant hour with his retreating chariot. What does not wasting timedestroy? The age of our fathers, worse than our grandsires, produced usstill more flagitious, us, who are about to product am offspring morevicious [even than ourselves].       *       *       *       *       *ODE VII.TO ASTERIE.Why, O Asterie, do you weep for Gyges, a youth of inviolable constancy,whom the kindly zephyrs will restore to you in the beginning of theSpring, enriched with a Bithynian cargo? Driven as far as Oricum by thesouthern winds, after [the rising] of the Goat's tempestuousconstellation, he sleepless passes the cold nights in abundant weeping[for you]; but the agent of his anxious landlady slyly tempts him by athousand methods, informing him that [his mistress], Chloe, is sighingfor him, and burns with the same love that thou hast for him. Heremonstrates with him how a perfidious woman urged the credulousProetus, by false accusations, to hasten the death of the over-chasteBellerophon. He tells how Peleus was like to have been given up to theinfernal regions, while out of temperance he avoided the MagnesianHippolyte: and the deceiver quotes histories to him, that are lessonsfor sinning. In vain; for, heart-whole as yet, he receives his wordsdeafer than the Icarian rocks. But with regard to you, have a care lestyour neighbor Enipeus prove too pleasing. Though no other person equallyskillful to guide the steed, is conspicuous in the course, nor does anyone with equal swiftness swim down the Etrurian stream, yet secure yourhouse at the very approach of night, nor look down into the streets atthe sound of the doleful pipe; and remain inflexible toward him, thoughhe often upbraid thee with cruelty.       *       *       *       *       *ODE VIII.TO MAECENAS.O Maecenas, learned in both languages, you wonder what I, a single man,have to do on the calends of March; what these flowers mean, and thecenser replete with frankincense, and the coals laid upon the live turf.I made a vow of a joyous banquet, and a white goat to Bacchus, afterhaving been at the point of death by a blow from a tree. This day,sacred in the revolving year, shall remove the cork fastened with pitchfrom that jar, which was set to inhale the smoke in the consulship ofTullus. Take, my Maecenas, a hundred cups on account of the safety ofyour friend, and continue the wakeful lamps even to day-light: allclamor and passion be far away. Postpone your political cares withregard to the state: the army of the Dacian Cotison is defeated; thetroublesome Mede is quarreling with himself in a horrible [civil] war:the Cantabrian, our old enemy on the Spanish coast, is subject to us,though conquered by a long-disputed victory: now, too, the Scythians arepreparing to quit the field with their imbent bows. Neglectful, as aprivate person, forbear to be too solicitous lest the community in anywise suffer, and joyfully seize the boons of the present hour, and quitserious affairs.       *       *       *       *       *ODE IX.TO LYDIA.HORACE. As long as I was agreeable to thee, and no other youth morefavored was wont to fold his arms around thy snowy neck, I lived happierthan the Persian monarch.LYDIA. As long as thou hadst not a greater flame for any other, nor wasLydia below Chloe [in thine affections], I Lydia, of distinguished fame,flourished more eminent than the Roman Ilia.HOR. The Thracian Chloe now commands me, skillful in sweet modulations,and a mistress of the lyre; for whom I would not dread to die, if thefates would spare her, my surviving soul.LYD. Calais, the son of the Thurian Ornitus, inflames me with a mutualfire; for whom I would twice endure to die, if the fates would spare mysurviving youth.HOR. What! if our former love returns, and unites by a brazen yoke usonce parted? What if Chloe with her golden locks be shaken off, and thedoor again open to slighted Lydia.LYD. Though he is fairer than a star, thou of more levity than a cork,and more passionate than the blustering Adriatic; with thee I shouldlove to live, with thee I would cheerfully die.       *       *       *       *       *ODE X.TO LYCE.O Lyce, had you drunk from the remote Tanais, in a state of marriagewith tome barbarian, yet you might be sorry to expose me, prostratebefore your obdurate doors, to the north winds that have made thoseplaces their abode. Do you hear with what a noise your gate, with what[a noise] the grove, planted about your elegant buildings, rebellows tothe winds? And how Jupiter glazes the settled snow with his brightinfluence? Lay aside disdain, offensive to Venus, lest your rope shouldrun backward, while the wheel is revolving. Your Tyrrhenian father didnot beget you to be as inaccessible as Penelope to your wooers. O thoughneither presents, nor prayers, nor the violet-tinctured paleness of yourlovers, nor your husband smitten with a musical courtezan, bend you topity; yet [at length] spare your suppliants, you that are not softerthan the sturdy oak, nor of a gentler disposition than the Africanserpents. This side [of mine] will not always be able to endure yourthreshold, and the rain.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XI.TO MERCURY.O Mercury, for under thy instruction the ingenious Amphion moved rocksby his voice, you being his tutor; and though my harp, skilled insounding, with seven strings, formerly neither vocal nor pleasing, butnow agreeable both to the tables of the wealthy and the temples [of thegods]; dictate measures to which Lyde may incline her obstinate ears,who, like a filly of three years old, plays and frisks about in thespacious fields, inexperienced in nuptial loves, and hitherto unripe fora brisk husband. You are able to draw after your tigers and attendantwoods, and to retard rapid rivers. To your blandishments the enormousporter of the [infernal] palace yielded, though a hundred serpentsfortify his head, and a pestilential steam and an infectious poisonissue from his triple-tongued mouth. Moreover, Ixion and Tityus smiledwith a reluctant aspect: while you soothe the daughters of Danaus withyour delightful harmony, their vessel for some time remained dry. LetLyde hear of the crime, and the well-known punishment of the virgins,and the cask emptied by the water streaming through the bottom, and whatlasting fates await their misdeeds even beyond the grave. Impious! (forwhat greater impiety could they have committed?) Impious! who coulddestroy their bridegrooms with the cruel sword! One out of the many,worthy of the nuptial torch, was nobly false to her perjured parent, anda maiden illustrious to all posterity; she, who said to her youthfulhusband, "Arise! arise! lest an eternal sleep be given to you from ahand you have no suspicion of; disappoint your father-in-law and mywicked sisters, who, like lionesses having possessed themselves ofcalves (alas)! tear each of them to pieces; I, of softer mold than they,will neither strike thee, nor detain thee in my custody. Let my fatherload me with cruel chains, because out of mercy I spared my unhappyspouse; let him transport me even to the extreme Numidian plains.Depart, whither your feet and the winds carry you, while the night andVenus are favorable: depart with happy omen; yet, not forgetful of me,engrave my mournful story on my tomb."       *       *       *       *       *ODE XII.TO NEOBULE.It is for unhappy maidens neither to give indulgence to love, nor towash away cares with delicious wine; or to be dispirited out of dread ofthe lashes of an uncle's tongue. The winged boy of Venus, O Neobule, hasdeprived you of your spindle and your webs, and the beauty of Hebrusfrom Lipara of inclination for the labors of industrious Minerva, afterhe has bathed his anointed shoulders in the waters of the Tiber; abetter horseman than Bellerophon himself, neither conquered at boxing,nor by want of swiftness in the race: he is also skilled to strike withhis javelin the stags, flying through the open plains in frightenedherd, and active to surprise the wild boar lurking in the deep thicket.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XIII. TO THE BANDUSIAN FOUNTAIN.O thou fountain of Bandusia, clearer than glass, worthy of deliciouswine, not unadorned by flowers; to-morrow thou shalt be presented with akid, whose forehead, pouting with new horns, determines upon both loveand war in vain; for this offspring of the wanton flock shall tinge thycooling streams with scarlet blood. The severe season of the burningdog-star cannot reach thee; thou affordest a refreshing coolness to theoxen fatigued with the plough-share, and to the ranging flock. Thou alsoshalt become one of the famous fountains, through my celebrating the oakthat covers the hollow rock, whence thy prattling rills descend with abound.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XIV.TO THE ROMANS.Augustus Caesar, O ye people, who was lately said, like anotherHercules, to have sought for the laurel to be purchased only by death,revisits his domestic gods, victorious from the Spanish shore. Let thematron (_Livia_), to whom her husband alone is dear, come forth inpublic procession, having first performed her duty to the just gods; and(_Octavia_), the sister of our glorious general; the mothers also of themaidens and of the youths just preserved from danger, becomingly adornedwith supplicatory fillets. Ye, O young men, and young women latelymarried, abstain from ill-omened words. This day, to me a real festival,shall expel gloomy cares: I will neither dread commotions, nor violentdeath, while Caesar is in possession of the earth. Go, slave, and seekfor perfume and chaplets, and a cask that remembers the Marsian war, ifany vessel could elude the vagabond Spartacus. And bid the tunefulNeaera make haste to collect into a knot her auburn hair; _but_ if anydelay should happen from the surly porter, come away. Hoary hairmollifies minds that are fond of strife and petulant wrangling. I wouldnot have endured this treatment, warm with youth in the consulship ofPlancus.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XV.TO CHLORIS.You wife of the indigent Ibycus, at length put an end to yourwickedness, and your infamous practices. Cease to sport among thedamsels, and to diffuse a cloud among bright constellations, now on theverge of a timely death. If any thing will become Pholoe, it does notyou Chloris, likewise. Your daughter with more propriety attacks theyoung men's apartments, like a Bacchanalian roused up by the rattlingtimbrel. The love of Nothus makes her frisk about like a wantonshe-goat. The wool shorn near the famous Luceria becomes you nowantiquated: not musical instruments, or the damask flower of the rose,or hogsheads drunk down to the lees.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XVI.TO MAECENAS.A brazen tower, and doors of oak, and the melancholy watch of wakefuldogs, had sufficiently defended the imprisoned Danae from midnightgallants, had not Jupiter and Venus laughed at Acrisius, the anxiouskeeper of the immured maiden: [for they well knew] that the way would besafe and open, after the god had transformed himself into a bribe. Golddelights to penetrate through the midst of guards, and to break throughstone-walls, more potent than the thunderbolt. The family of the Grecianaugur perished, immersed in destruction on account of lucre. The man ofMacedon cleft the gates of the cities and subverted rival monarchs bybribery. Bribes enthrall fierce captains of ships. Care, and a thirstfor greater things, is the consequence of increasing wealth. Therefore,Maecenas, thou glory of the [Roman] knights, I have justly dreaded toraise the far-conspicuous head. As much more as any man shall denyhimself, so much more shall he receive from the gods. Naked as I am, Iseek the camps of those who covet nothing; and as a deserter, rejoice toquit the side of the wealthy: a more illustrious possessor of acontemptible fortune, than if I could be said to treasure up in mygranaries all that the industrious Apulian cultivates, poor amidabundance of wealth. A rivulet of clear water, and a wood of a fewacres, and a certain prospect of my good crop, are blessings unknown tohim who glitters in the proconsulship of fertile Africa: I am morehappily circumstanced. Though neither the Calabrian bees produce honey,nor wine ripens to age for me in a Formian cask, nor rich fleecesincrease in Gallic pastures; yet distressful poverty is remote; nor, ifI desired more, would you refuse to grant it me. I shall be better ableto extend my small revenues, by contracting my desires, than if I couldjoin the kingdom of Alyattes to the Phrygian plains. Much is wanting tothose who covet much. 'Tis well with him to whom God has given what isnecessary with a sparing hand.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XVII.TO AELIUS LAMIA.O Aelius, who art nobly descended from the ancient Lamus (forasmuch asthey report, that both the first of the Lamian family had their namehence, and all the race of the descendants through faithful recordsderives its origin from that founder, who is said to have possessed, asprince, the Formian walls, and Liris gliding on the shores of Marica--anextensive potentate). To-morrow a tempest sent from the east shall strewthe grove with many leaves, and the shore with useless sea-weed, unlessthat old prophetess of rain, the raven, deceives me. Pile up the drywood, while you may; to-morrow you shall indulge your genius with wine,and with a pig of two months old, with your slaves dismissed from theirlabors.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XVIII.TO FAUNUS.A HYMN.O Faunus, thou lover of the flying nymphs, benignly traverse my bordersand sunny fields, and depart propitious to the young offspring of myflocks; if a tender kid fall [a victim] to thee at the completion of theyear, and plenty of wines be not wanting to the goblet, the companion ofVenus, and the ancient altar smoke with liberal perfume. All the cattlesport in the grassy plain, when the nones of December return to thee;the village keeping holiday enjoys leisure in the fields, together withthe oxen free from toil. The wolf wanders among the fearless lambs; thewood scatters its rural leaves for thee, and the laborer rejoices tohave beaten the hated ground in triple dance.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XIX.TO TELEPHUS.How far Codrus, who was not afraid to die for his country, is removedfrom Inachus, and the race of Aeacus, and the battles also that werefought at sacred Troy--[these subjects] you descant upon; but at whatprice we may purchase a hogshead of Chian; who shall warm the water [forbathing]; who finds a house: and at what hour I am to get rid of thesePelignian colds, you are silent. Give me, boy, [a bumper] for the newmoon in an instant, give me one for midnight, and one for Murena theaugur. Let our goblets be mixed up with three or nine cups, according toevery one's disposition. The enraptured bard, who delights in theodd-numbered muses, shall call for brimmers thrice three. Each of theGraces, in conjunction with the naked sisters, fearful of broils,prohibits upward of three. It is my pleasure to rave; why cease thebreathings of the Phrygian flute? Why is the pipe hung up with thesilent lyre? I hate your niggardly handfuls: strew roses freely. Let theenvious Lycus hear the jovial noise; and let our fair neighbor,ill-suited to the old Lycus, [hear it.] The ripe Rhode aims at thee,Telephus, smart with thy bushy locks; at thee, bright as the clearevening star; the love of my Glycera slowly consumes me.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XX.TO PYRRHUS.Do you not perceive, O Pyrrhus, at what hazard yon are taking away thewhelps from a Gutulian lioness? In a little while you, a timorousravisher, shall fly from the severe engagement, when she shall marchthrough the opposing band of youths, re-demanding her beauteousNearchus; a grand contest, whether a greater share of booty shall fallto thee or to her! In the mean time, while you produce your swiftarrows, she whets her terrific teeth; while the umpire of the combat isreported to have placed the palm under his naked foot, and refreshed hisshoulder, overspread with his perfumed locks, with the gentle breeze:just such another was Nireus, or he that was ravished from the wateryIda.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXI.TO HIS JAR.O thou goodly cask, that wast brought to light at the same time with mein the consulship of Manlius, whether thou containest the occasion ofcomplaint, or jest, or broils and maddening amours, or gentle sleep;under whatever title thou preservest the choice Massic, worthy to beremoved on an auspicious day; descend, Corvinus bids me draw themellowest wine. He, though he is imbued in the Socratic lectures, willnot morosely reject thee. The virtue even of old Cato is recorded tohave been frequently warmed with wine. Thou appliest a gentle violenceto that disposition, which is in general of the rougher cast: Thourevealest the cares and secret designs of the wise, by the assistance ofmerry Bacchus. You restore hope and spirit to anxious minds, and givehorns to the poor man, who after [tasting] you neither dreads thediadems of enraged monarchs, nor the weapons of the soldiers. TheeBacchus, and Venus, if she comes in good-humor, and the Graces loth todissolve the knot [of their union], and living lights shall prolong,till returning Phoebus puts the stars to flight.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXII.TO DIANA.O virgin, protectress of the mountains and the groves, thou three-formedgoddess, who thrice invoked, hearest young women in labor, and savestthem from death; sacred to thee be this pine that overshadows my villa,which I, at the completion of every year, joyful will present with theblood of a boar-pig, just meditating his oblique attack.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXIII.TO PHIDYLE.My rustic Phidyle, if you raise your suppliant hands to heaven at thenew moon, and appease the household gods with frankincense, and thisyear's fruits, and a ravening swine; the fertile vine shall neitherfeel the pestilential south-west, nor the corn the barren blight, oryour dear brood the sickly season in the fruit-bearing autumn. For thedestined victim, which is pastured in the snowy Algidus among the oaksand holm trees, or thrives in the Albanian meadows, with its throatshall stain the axes of the priests. It is not required of you, who arecrowning our little gods with rosemary and the brittle myrtle, topropitiate them with a great slaughter of sheep. If an innocent handtouches a clear, a magnificent victim does not pacify the offendedPenates more acceptably, than a consecrated cake and crackling salt.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXIV.TO THE COVETOUS.Though, more wealthy than the unrifled treasures of the Arabians andrich India, you should possess yourself by your edifices of the wholeTyrrhenian and Apulian seas; yet, if cruel fate fixes its adamantinegrapples upon the topmost roofs, you shall not disengage your mind fromdread, nor your life from the snares of death. The Scythians that dwellin the plains, whose carts, according to their custom, draw theirvagrant habitations, live in a better manner; and [so do] the roughGetae, whose uncircumscribed acres produce fruits and corn free to all,nor is a longer than annual tillage agreeable, and a successor leaveshim who has accomplished his labor by an equal right. There theguiltless wife spares her motherless step-children, nor does theportioned spouse govern her husband, nor put any confidence in a sleekadulterer. Their dower is the high virtue of their parents, and achastity reserved from any other man by a steadfast security; and it, isforbidden to sin, or the reward is death. O if there be any one willingto remove our impious slaughters, and civil rage; if he be desirous tobe written FATHER OF THE STATE, on statues [erected to him], let himdare to curb insuperable licentiousness, and be eminent to posterity;since we (O injustice!) detest virtue while living, but invidiously seekfor her after she is taken out of our view. To what purpose are ourwoeful complaints, if sin is not cut off with punishment? Of whatefficacy are empty laws, without morals; if neither that part of theworld which is shut in by fervent heats, nor that side which bordersupon Boreas, and snows hardened upon the ground, keep off the merchant;[and] the expert sailors get the better of the horrible seas? Poverty, agreat reproach, impels us both to do and to suffer any thing, anddeserts the path of difficult virtue. Let us, then, cast our gems andprecious stones and useless gold, the cause of extreme evil, either intothe Capitol, whither the acclamations and crowd of applauding [citizens]call us, or into the adjoining ocean. If we are truly penitent for ourenormities, the very elements of depraved lust are to be erased, and theminds of too soft a mold should be formed by severer studies. The nobleyouth knows not how to keep his seat on horseback and is afraid to go ahunting, more skilled to play (if you choose it) with the Greciantrochus, or dice, prohibited by law; while the father's perjured faithcan deceive his partner and friend, and he hastens to get money for anunworthy heir. In a word, iniquitous wealth increases, yet something isever wanting to the incomplete fortune.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXV.TO BACCHUS.A DITHYRAMBIC.Whither, O Bacchus, art thou hurrying me, replete with your influence?Into what groves, into what recesses am I driven, actuated with uncommonspirit? In what caverns, meditating the immortal honor of illustriousCaesar, shall I be heard enrolling him among the stars and the councilof Jove? I will utter something extraordinary, new, hitherto unsung byany other voice. Thus the sleepless Bacchanal is struck with enthusiasm,casting her eyes upon Hebrus, and Thrace bleached with snow, and Rhodopetraversed by the feet of barbarians. How am I delighted in my rambles,to admire the rocks and the desert grove! O lord of the Naiads and theBacchanalian women, who are able with their hands to overthrow loftyash-trees; nothing little, nothing low, nothing mortal will I sing.Charming is the hazard, O Bacchus, to accompany the god, who binds histemples with the verdant vine-leaf.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXVI.TO VENUS.I lately lived a proper person for girls, and campaigned it not withouthonor; but now this wall, which guards the left side of [the statue] ofsea-born Venus, shall have my arms and my lyre discharged from warfare.Here, here, deposit the shining flambeaux, and the wrenching irons, andthe bows, that threatened the resisting doors. O thou goddess, whopossessest the blissful Cyprus, and Memphis free from Sithonian snow, Oqueen, give the haughty Chloe one cut with your high-raised lash.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXVII.TO GALATEA, UPON HER GOING TO SEA.Let the omen of the noisy screech-owl and a pregnant bitch, or a tawnywolf running down from the Lanuvian fields, or a fox with whelp conductthe impious [on their way]; may the serpent also break their undertakenjourney, if, like an arrow athwart the road, it has frightened thehorses. What shall I, a provident augur, fear? I will invoke from theeast, with my prayers, the raven forboding by his croaking, before thebird which presages impending showers, revisits the stagnant pools.Mayest thou be happy, O Galatea, wheresoever thou choosest to reside,and live mindful of me and neither the unlucky pye nor the vagrant crowforbids your going on. But you see, with what an uproar the prone Orionhastens on: I know what the dark bay of the Adriatic is, and in whatmanner Iapyx, [seemingly] serene, is guilty. Let the wives and childrenof our enemies feel the blind tumults of the rising south, and theroaring of the blackened sea, and the shores trembling with its lash.Thus too Europa trusted her fair side to the deceitful bull, and bold asshe was, turned pale at the sea abounding with monsters, and the cheatnow become manifest. She, who lately in the meadows was busied aboutflowers, and a composer of the chaplet meet for nymphs, saw nothing inthe dusky night put stars and water. Who as soon as she arrived atCrete, powerful with its hundred cities, cried out, overcome with rage,"O father, name abandoned by thy daughter! O my duty! Whence, whither amI come? One death is too little for virgins' crime. Am I awake, while Ideplore my base offense; or does some vain phantom, which, escaping fromthe ivory gate, brings on a dream, impose upon me, still free fromguilt. Was it better to travel over the tedious waves, or to gather thefresh flowers? If any one now would deliver up to me in my anger thisinfamous bull, I would do my utmost to tear him to pieces with steel,and break off the horns of the monster, lately so much beloved.Abandoned I have left my father's house, abandoned I procrastinate mydoom. O if any of the gods hear this, I wish I may wander naked amonglions: before foul decay seizes my comely cheeks, and moisture leavesthis tender prey, I desire, in all my beauty, to be the food of tigers.""Base Europa," thy absent father urges, "why do you hesitate to die? youmay strangle your neck suspended from this ash, with your girdle thathas commodiously attended you. Or if a precipice, and the rocks that areedged with death, please you, come on, commit yourself to the rapidstorm; unless you, that are of blood-royal, had rather card yourmistress's wool, and be given up as a concubine to some barbarian dame."As she complained, the treacherously-smiling Venus, and her son, withhis bow relaxed, drew near. Presently, when she had sufficiently ralliedher, "Refrain (she cried) from your rage and passionate chidings, sincethis detested bull shall surrender his horns to be torn in pieces byyou. Are you ignorant, that you are the wife of the invincible Jove?Cease your sobbing; learn duly to support your distinguished goodfortune. A division of the world shall bear your name."       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXVIII.TO LYDE.What can I do better on the festal day of Neptune? Quickly produce,Lyde, the hoarded Caecuban, and make an attack upon wisdom, ever on herguard. You perceive the noontide is on its decline; and yet, as if thefleeting day stood still, you delay to bring out of the store-house theloitering cask, [that bears its date] from the consul Bibulus. We willsing by turns, Neptune, and the green locks of the Nereids; you, shallchant, on your wreathed lyre, Latona and the darts of the nimbleCynthia; at the conclusion of your song, she also [shall be celebrated],who with her yoked swans visits Gnidos, and the shining Cyclades, andPaphos: the night also shall be celebrated in a suitable lay.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXIX.TO MAECENAS.O Maecenas, thou progeny of Tuscan kings, there has been a long whilefor you in my house some mellow wine in an unbroached hogshead, withrose-flowers and expressed essence for your hair. Disengage yourselffrom anything that may retard you, nor contemplate the ever marshyTibur, and the sloping fields of Aesula, and the hills of Telegonus theparricide. Leave abundance, which is the source of daintiness, and yonpile of buildings approaching near the lofty clouds: cease to admire thesmoke, and opulence, and noise of flourishing Rome. A change isfrequently agreeable to the rich, and a cleanly meal in the littlecottage of the poor has smoothed an anxious brow without carpets orpurple. Now the bright father of Andromeda displays his hidden fire; nowProcyon rages, and the constellation of the ravening Lion, as the sunbrings round the thirsty season. Now the weary shepherd with his languidflock seeks the shade, and the river, and the thickets of roughSylvanus; and the silent bank is free from the wandering winds. Youregard what constitution may suit the state, and are in an anxious dreadfor Rome, what preparations the Seres and the Bactrians subject toCyrus, and the factious Tanais are making. A wise deity shrouds inobscure darkness the events of the time to come, and smiles if a mortalis solicitous beyond the law of nature. Be mindful to manage duly thatwhich is present. What remains goes on in the manner of the river, atone time calmly gliding in the middle of its channel to the Tuscan Sea,at another, rolling along corroded stones, and stumps of trees, forcedaway, and cattle, and houses, not without the noise of mountains andneighboring woods, when the merciless deluge enrages the peacefulwaters. That man is master of himself and shall live happy, who has itin his power to say, "I have lived to-day: to-morrow let the Sire investthe heaven, either with a black cloud, or with clear sunshine;nevertheless, he shall not render ineffectual what is past, nor undo orannihilate what the fleeting hour has once carried off. Fortune, happyin the execution of her cruel office, and persisting to play herinsolent game, changes uncertain honors, indulgent now to me, by and byto another. I praise her, while she abides by me. If she moves her fleetwings, I resign what she has bestowed, and wrap myself up in my virtue,and court honest poverty without a portion. It is no business of mine,if the mast groan with the African storms, to have recourse to piteousprayers, and to make a bargain with my vows, that my Cyprian and Syrianmerchandize may not add to the wealth of the insatiable sea. Then thegale and the twin Pollux will carry me safe in the protection of a skiffwith two oars, through the tumultuous Aegean Sea."       *       *       *       *       *ODE XXX.ON HIS OWN WORKS.I have completed a monument more lasting than brass, and more sublimethan the regal elevation of pyramids, which neither the wasting shower,the unavailing north wind, nor an innumerable succession of years, andthe flight of seasons, shall be able to demolish. I shall not whollydie; but a great part of me shall escape Libitina. I shall continualy berenewed in the praises of posterity, as long as the priest shall ascendthe Capitol with the silent [vestal] virgin. Where the rapid Aufidusshall murmur, and where Daunus, poorly supplied with water, ruled over arustic people, I, exalted from a low degree, shall be acknowledged ashaving originally adapted the Aeolic verse to Italian measures.Melpomene, assume that pride which your merits have acquired, andwillingly crown my hair with the Delphic laurel.       *       *       *       *       *THE FOURTH BOOK OF THE ODES OF HORACE.ODE I.TO VENUS.After a long cessation, O Venus, again are you stirring up tumults?Spare me, I beseech you, I beseech you. I am not the man I was under thedominion of good-natured Cynara. Forbear, O cruel mother of softdesires, to bend one bordering upon fifty, now too hardened for softcommands: go, whither the soothing prayers of youths, invoke you. Moreseasonably may you revel in the house of Paulus Maximus, flying thitherwith your splendid swans, if you seek to inflame a suitable breast. Forhe is both noble and comely, and by no means silent in the cause ofdistressed defendants, and a youth of a hundred accomplishments; heshall bear the ensigns of your warfare far and wide; and whenever, moreprevailing than the ample presents of a rival, he shall laugh [at hisexpense], he shall erect thee in marble under a citron dome near theAlban lake. There you shall smell abundant frankincense, and shall becharmed with the mixed music of the lyre and Berecynthian pipe, notwithout the flageolet. There the youths, together with the tendermaidens, twice a day celebrating your divinity, shall, Salian-like, withwhite foot thrice shake the ground. As for me, neither woman, nor youth,nor the fond hopes of mutual inclination, nor to contend in wine, nor tobind my temples with fresh flowers, delight me [any longer]. But why;ah! why, Ligurinus, does the tear every now and then trickle down mycheeks? Why does my fluent tongue falter between my words with anunseemly silence? Thee in my dreams by night I clasp, caught [in myarms]; thee flying across the turf of the Campus Martius; thee I pursue,O cruel one, through the rolling waters.       *       *       *       *       *ODE II.TO ANTONIUS IULUS.Whoever endeavors, O Iulus, to rival Pindar, makes an effort on wingsfastened with wax by art Daedalean, about to communicate his name to theglassy sea. Like a river pouring down from a mountain, which suddenrains have increased beyond its accustomed banks, such the deep-mouthedPindar rages and rushes on immeasurable, sure to merit Apollo's laurel,whether he rolls down new-formed phrases through the daring dithyrambic,and is borne on in numbers exempt from rule: whether he sings the gods,and kings, the offspring of the gods, by whom the Centaurs perished witha just destruction, [by whom] was quenched the flame of the dreadfulChimaera; or celebrates those whom the palm, [in the Olympic games] atElis, brings home exalted to the skies, wrestler or steed, and presentsthem with a gift preferable to a hundred statues: or deplores someyouth, snatched [by death] from his mournful bride--he elevates both hisstrength, and courage, and golden morals to the stars, and rescues himfrom the murky grave. A copious gale elevates the Dircean swan, OAntonius, as often as he soars into the lofty regions of the clouds: butI, after the custom and manner of the Macinian bee, that laboriouslygathers the grateful thyme, I, a diminutive creature, compose elaborateverses about the grove and the banks of the watery Tiber. You, a poet ofsublimer style, shall sing of Caesar, whenever, graceful in hiswell-earned laurel, he shall drag the fierce Sygambri along the sacredhill; Caesar, than whom nothing greater or better the fates andindulgent gods ever bestowed on the earth, nor will bestow, though thetimes should return to their primitive gold. You shall sing both thefestal days, and the public rejoicings on account of the prayed-forreturn of the brave Augustus, and the forum free from law-suits. Then(if I can offer any thing worth hearing) a considerable portion of myvoice shall join [the general acclamation], and I will sing, happy atthe reception of Caesar, "O glorious day, O worthy thou to becelebrated." And while [the procession] moves along, shouts of triumphwe will repeat, shouts of triumph the whole city [will raise], and wewill offer frankincense to the indulgent gods. Thee ten bulls and asmany heifers shall absolve; me, a tender steerling, that, having lefthis dam, thrives in spacious pastures for the discharge of my vows,resembling [by the horns on] his forehead the curved light of the moon,when she appears of three days old, in which part he has a mark of asnowy aspect, being of a dun color over the rest of his body.       *       *       *       *       *ODE III.TO MELPOMENE.Him, O Melpomene, upon whom at his birth thou hast once looked withfavoring eye, the Isthmian contest shall not render eminent as awrestler; the swift horse shall not draw him triumphant in a Greciancar; nor shall warlike achievement show him in the Capitol, a generaladorned with the Delian laurel, on account of his having quashed theproud threats of kings: but such waters as flow through the fertileTiber, and the dense leaves of the groves, shall make him distinguishedby the Aeolian verse. The sons of Rome, the queen of cities, deign torank me among the amiable band of poets; and now I am less carped at bythe tooth of envy. O muse, regulating the harmony of the gilded shell! Othou, who canst immediately bestow, if thou please, the notes of theswan upon the mute fish! It is entirely by thy gift that I am markedout, as the stringer of the Roman lyre, by the fingers of passengers;that I breathe, and give pleasure (if I give pleasure), is yours.       *       *       *       *       *ODE IVTHE PRAISE OF DRUSUS.Like as the winged minister of thunder (to whom Jupiter, the sovereignof the gods, has assigned the dominion over the fleeting birds, havingexperienced his fidelity in the affair of the beauteous Ganymede), earlyyouth and hereditary vigor save impelled from his nest unknowing oftoil; and the vernal winds, the showers being now dispelled, taught him,still timorous, unwonted enterprises: in a little while a violentimpulse dispatched him, as an enemy against the sheepfolds, now anappetite for food and fight has impelled him upon the reluctantserpents;--or as a she-goat, intent on rich pastures, has beheld a younglion but just weaned from the udder of his tawny dam, ready to bedevoured by his newly-grown tooth: such did the Rhaeti and the Vindelicibehold Drusus carrying on the war under the Alps; whence this peoplederived the custom, which has always prevailed among them, of armingtheir right hands with the Amazonian ax, I have purposely omitted toinquire: (neither is it possible to discover everything.) But thosetroops, which had been for a long while and extensively victorious,being subdued by the conduct of a youth, perceived what a disposition,what a genius rightly educated under an auspicious roof, what thefatherly affection of Augustus toward the young Neros, could effect. Thebrave are generated by the brave and good; there is in steers, there isin horses, the virtue of their sires; nor do the courageous eaglesprocreate the unwarlike dove. But learning improves the innate force,and good discipline confirms the mind: whenever morals are deficient,vices disgrace what is naturally good. What thou owest, O Rome, to theNeros, the river Metaurus is a witness, and the defeated Asdrubal, andthat day illustrious by the dispelling of darkness from Italy, and whichfirst smiled with benignant victory; when the terrible African rodethrough the Latian cities, like a fire through the pitchy pines, or theeast wind through the Sicilian waves. After this the Roman youthincreased continually in successful exploits, and temples, laid waste bythe impious outrage of the Carthaginians, had the [statues of] theirgods set up again. And at length the perfidious Hannibal said; "We, likestags, the prey of rapacious wolves, follow of our own accord those,whom to deceive and escape is a signal triumph. That nation, which,tossed in the Etrurian waves, bravely transported their gods, and sons,and aged fathers, from the burned Troy to the Italian cities, like anoak lopped by sturdy axes in Algidum abounding in dusky leaves, throughlosses and through wounds derives strength and spirit from the verysteel. The Hydra did not with more vigor grow upon Hercules grieving tobe overcome, nor did the Colchians, or the Echionian Thebes, produce agreater prodigy. Should you sink it in the depth, it will come out morebeautiful: should you contend with it, with great glory will itoverthrow the conqueror unhurt before, and will fight battles to be thetalk of wives. No longer can I send boasting messengers to Carthage: allthe hope and success of my name is fallen, is fallen by the death ofAsdrubal. There is nothing, but what the Claudian hands will perform;which both Jupiter defends with his propitious divinity, and sagaciousprecaution conducts through the sharp trials of war."       *       *       *       *       *ODE V.TO AUGUSTUS.O best guardian of the Roman people, born under propitious gods, alreadyart thou too long absent; after having promised a mature arrival to thesacred council of the senators, return. Restore, O excellent chieftain,the light to thy country; for, like the spring, wherever thy countenancehas shone, the day passes more agreeably for the people, and the sun hasa superior lustre. As a mother, with vows, omens, and prayers, calls forher son (whom the south wind with adverse gales detains from his sweethome, staying more than a year beyond the Carpathian Sea), nor turnsaside her looks from the curved shore; in like manner, inspired withloyal wishes, his country seeks for Caesar. For, [under your auspices,]the ox in safety traverses the meadows: Ceres nourishes the ground; andabundant Prosperity: the sailors skim through the calm ocean: and Faithis in dread of being censured. The chaste family is polluted by noadulteries: morality and the law have got the better of that foul crime;the child-bearing women are commended for an offspring resembling [thefather; and] punishment presses as a companion upon guilt. Who can fearthe Parthian? Who, the frozen Scythian? Who, the progeny that roughGermany produces, while Caesar is in safety? Who cares for the war offierce Spain? Every man puts a period to the day amid his own hills, andweds the vine to the widowed elm-trees; hence he returns joyful to hiswine, and invites you, as a deity, to his second course; thee, with manya prayer, thee he pursues with wine poured out [in libation] from thecups; and joins your divinity to that of his household gods, in the samemanner as Greece was mindful of Castor and the great Hercules. May you,excellent chieftain, bestow a lasting festivity upon Italy! This is ourlanguage, when we are sober at the early day; this is our language, whenwe have well drunk, at the time the sun is beneath the ocean.       *       *       *       *       *ODE VI.HYMN TO APOLLO.Thou god, whom the offspring of Niobe experienced as avenger of apresumptuous tongue, and the ravisher Tityus, and also the ThessalianAchilles, almost the conqueror of lofty Troy, a warrior superior to allothers, but unequal to thee; though, son of the sea-goddess, Thetis, heshook the Dardanian towers, warring with his dreadful spear. He, as itwere a pine smitten with the burning ax, or a cypress prostrated by theeast wind, fell extended far, and reclined his neck in the Trojan dust.He would not, by being shut up in a [wooden] horse, that belied thesacred rights of Minerva, have surprised the Trojans reveling in an evilhour, and the court of Priam making merry in the dance; but openlyinexorable to his captives, (oh impious! oh!) would have burnedspeechless babes with Grecian fires, even him concealed in his mother'swomb: had not the father of the gods, prevailed upon by thy entreatiesand those of the beauteous Venus, granted to the affairs of Aeneas wallsfounded under happier auspices. Thou lyrist Phoebus, tutor of theharmonious Thalia, who bathest thy locks in the river Xanthus, Odelicate Agyieus, support the dignity of the Latian muse. Phoebus gaveme genius, Phoebus the art of composing verse, and the title of poet. Yevirgins of the first distinction, and ye youths born of illustriousparents, ye wards of the Delian goddess, who stops with her bow theflying lynxes, and the stags, observe the Lesbian measure, and themotion of my thumb; duly celebrating the son of Latona, duly[celebrating] the goddess that enlightens the night with her shiningcrescent, propitious to the fruits, and expeditious in rolling on theprecipitate months. Shortly a bride you will say: "I, skilled in themeasures of the poet Horace, recited an ode which was acceptable to thegods, when the secular period brought back the festal days."       *       *       *       *       *ODE VII.TO TORQUATUS.The snows are fled, the herbage now returns to the fields, and theleaves to the trees. The earth changes its appearance, and thedecreasing rivers glide along their banks: the elder Grace, togetherwith the Nymphs, and her two sisters, ventures naked to lead off thedance. That you are not to expect things permanent, the year, and thehour that hurries away the agreeable day, admonish us. The colds aremitigated by the zephyrs: the summer follows close upon the spring,shortly to die itself, as soon as fruitful autumn shall have shed itsfruits: and anon sluggish winter returns again. Nevertheless thequick-revolving moons repair their wanings in the skies; but when wedescend [to those regions] where pious Aeneas, where Tullus and thewealthy Ancus [have gone before us], we become dust and a mere shade.Who knows whether the gods above will add to this day's reckoning thespace of to-morrow? Every thing, which you shall indulge to your belovedsoul, will escape the greedy hands of your heir. When once, Torquatus,you shall be dead, and Minos shall have made his awful decisionsconcerning you; not your family, not you eloquence, not your piety shallrestore you. For neither can Diana free the chaste Hippolytus frominfernal darkness; nor is Theseus able to break off the Lethaean fettersfrom his dear Piri thous.       *       *       *       *       *ODE VIII.TO MARCIUS CENSORINUS.O Censorinus, liberally would I present my acquaintance with goblets andbeautiful vases of brass; I would present them with tripods, the rewardsof the brave Grecians: nor would you bear off the meanest of mydonations, if I were rich in those pieces of art, which eitherParrhasius or Scopas produced; the latter in statuary, the former inliquid colors, eminent to portray at one time a man, at another a god.But I have no store of this sort, nor do your circumstances orinclination require any such curiosities as these. You delight inverses: verses I can give, and set a value on the donation. Not marblesengraved with public inscriptions, by means of which breath and lifereturns to illustrious generals after their decease; not the precipitateflight of Hannibal, and his menaces retorted upon his own head: not theflames of impious Carthage * * * * more eminently set forth his praises,who returned, having gained a name from conquered Africa, than theCalabrlan muses; neither, should writings be silent, would you have anyreward for having done well. What would the son of Mars and Ilia be, ifinvidious silence had stifled the merits of Romulus? The force, andfavor, and voice of powerful poets consecrate Aecus, snatched from theStygian floods, to the Fortunate Islands. The muse forbids apraiseworthy man to die: the muse, confers the happiness of heaven. Thuslaborious Hercules has a place at the longed-for banquets of Jove:[thus] the sons of Tyndarus, that bright constellation, rescue shatteredvessels from the bosom of the deep: [and thus] Bacchus, his templesadorned with the verdant vine-branch, brings the prayers of his votariesto successful issues.       *       *       *       *       *ODE IX.TO MARCUS LOLLIUS.Lest you for a moment imagine that those words will be lost, which I,born on the far-resounding Aufidus, utter to be accompanied with thelyre, by arts hitherto undivulged--If Maeonian Homer possesses the firstrank, the Pindaric and Cean muses, and the menacing strains of Alcaeus,and the majestic ones of Stesichorus, are by no means obscure: neither,if Anacreon long ago sportfully sung any thing, has time destroyed it:even now breathes the love and live the ardors of the Aeolian maid,committed to her lyre. The Lacedaemonian Helen is not the only fair, whohas been inflamed by admiring the delicate ringlets of a gallant, andgarments embroidered with gold, and courtly accomplishments, andretinue: nor was Teucer the first that leveled arrows from the Cydonianbow: Troy was more than once harassed: the great Idomeneus and Stheneluswere not the only heroes that fought battles worthy to be recorded bythe muses: the fierce Hector, or the strenuous Deiphobus were not thefirst that received heavy blows in defense of virtuous wives andchildren. Many brave men lived before Agamemnon: but all of them,unlamented and unknown, are overwhelmed with endless obscurity, becausethey were destitute of a sacred bard. Valor, uncelebrated, differs butlittle from cowardice when in the grave. I will not [therefore], OLollius, pass you over in silence, uncelebrated in my writings, orsuffer envious forgetfulness with impunity to seize so many toils ofthine. You have a mind ever prudent in the conduct of affairs, andsteady alike amid success and trouble: you are an avenger of avariciousfraud, and proof against money, that attracts every thing; and a consulnot of one year only, but as often as the good and upright magistratehas preferred the honorable to the profitable, and has rejected with adisdainful brow the bribes of wicked men, and triumphant throughopposing bands has displayed his arms. You can not with propriety callhim happy, that possesses much; he more justly claims the title ofhappy, who understands how to make a wise use of the gifts of the gods,and how to bear severe poverty; and dreads a reproachful deed worse thandeath; such a man as this is not afraid to perish in the defense of hisdear friends, or of his country.       *       *       *       *       *ODE X.TO LIGURINUS.O cruel still, and potent in the endowments of beauty, when anunexpected plume shall come upon your vanity, and those locks, which nowwanton on your shoulders, shall fall off, and that color, which is nowpreferable to the blossom of the damask rose, changed, O Ligurinus,shall turn into a wrinkled face; [then] will you say (as often as yousee yourself, [quite] another person in the looking glass), Alas! whywas not my present inclination the same, when I was young? Or why do notmy cheeks return, unimpaired, to these my present sentiments?       *       *       *       *       *ODE XI.TO PHYLLIS.Phyllis, I have a cask full of Abanian wine, upward of nine years old; Ihave parsley in my garden, for the weaving of chaplets, I have a storeof ivy, with which, when you have bound your hair, you look so gay: thehouse shines cheerfully With plate: the altar, bound with chastevervain, longs to be sprinkled [with the blood] of a sacrificed lamb:all hands are busy: girls mingled with boys fly about from place toplace: the flames quiver, rolling on their summit the sooty smoke. Butyet, that you may know to what joys you are invited, the Ides are to becelebrated by you, the day which divides April, the month of sea-bornVenus; [a day,] with reason to be solemnized by me, and almost moresacred to me than that of my own birth; since from this day my dearMaecenas reckons his flowing years. A rich and buxom girl hath possessedherself of Telephus, a youth above your rank; and she holds him fast byan agreeable fetter. Consumed Phaeton strikes terror into ambitioushopes, and the winged Pegasus, not stomaching the earth-born riderBellerophon, affords a terrible example, that you ought always to pursuethings that are suitable to you, and that you should avoid adisproportioned match, by thinking it a crime to entertain a hope beyondwhat is allowable. Come then, thou last of my loves (for hereafter Ishall burn for no other woman), learn with me such measures, as thoumayest recite with thy lovely voice: our gloomy cares shall be mitigatedwith an ode.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XII.TO VIRGIL.The Thracian breezes, attendants on the spring, which moderate the deep,now fill the sails; now neither are the meadows stiff [with frost], norroar the rivers swollen with winter's snow. The unhappy bird, thatpiteotisly bemoans Itys, and is the eternal disgrace of the house ofCecrops (because she wickedly revenged the brutal lusts of kings), nowbuilds her nest. The keepers of the sheep play tunes upon the pipe amidthe tendar herbage, and delight that god, whom flocks and the shadyhills of Arcadia delight. The time of year, O Virgil, has brought on adrought: but if you desire to quaff wine from the Calenian press, you,that are a constant companion of young noblemen, must earn your liquorby [bringing some] spikenard: a small box of spikenard shall draw out acask, which now lies in the Sulpician store-house, bounteous in theindulgence of fresh hopes and efficacious in washing away thebitterness of cares. To which joys if you hasten, come instantly withyour merchandize: I do not intend to dip you in my cups scot-free, likea man of wealth, in a house abounding with plenty. But lay aside delay,and the desire of gain; and, mindful of the gloomy [funeral] flames,intermix, while you may, your grave studies with a little light gayety:it is delightful to give a loose on a proper occasion.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XIII.TO LYCE.The gods have heard my prayers, O Lyce; Lyce, the gods have heard myprayers, you are become an old woman, and yet you would fain seem abeauty; and you wanton and drink in an audacious manner; and when drunk,solicit tardy Cupid, with a quivering voice. He basks in the charmingcheeks of the blooming Chia, who is a proficient on the lyre. Theteasing urchin flies over blasted oaks, and starts back at the sight ofyou, because foul teeth, because wrinkles and snowy hair render youodious. Now neither Coan purples nor sparkling jewels restore thoseyears, which winged time has inserted in the public annals. Whither isyour beauty gone? Alas! or whither your bloom? Whither your gracefuldeportment? What have you [remaining] of her, of her, who breathedloves, and ravished me from myself? Happy next to Cynara, anddistinguished for an aspect of graceful ways: but the fates granted afew years only to Cynara, intending to preserve for a long time Lyce, torival in years the aged raven: that the fervid young fellows might see,not without excessive laughter, that torch, [which once so brightlyscorched,] reduced to ashes.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XIV.TO AUGUSTUS.What zeal of the senators, or what of the Roman people, by decreeing themost ample honors, can eternize your virtues, O Augustus, by monumentalinscriptions and lasting records? O thou, wherever the sun illuminatesthe habitable regions, greatest of princes, whom the Vindelici, thatnever experienced the Roman sway, have lately learned how powerful thouart in war! For Drusus, by means of your soldiery, has more than oncebravely overthrown the Genauni, an implacable race, and the rapidBrenci, and the citadels situated on the tremendous Alps. The elder ofthe Neros soon after fought a terrible battle, and, under yourpropitious auspices, smote the ferocious Rhoeti: how worthy ofadmiration in the field of battle, [to see] with what destruction heoppressed the brave, hearts devoted to voluntary death: just as thesouth wind harasses the untameable waves, when the dance of the Pleiadescleaves the clouds; [so is he] strenuous to annoy the troops of theenemy, and to drive his eager steed through the midst of flames. Thusthe bull-formed Aufidus, who washes the dominions of the Apulian Daunus,rolls along, when he rages and meditates an horrible deluge to thecultivated lands; when Claudius overthrew with impetuous might, the ironranks of the barbarians, and by mowing down both front and rear strewedthe ground, victorious without any loss; through you supplying them withtroops, you with councils, and your own guardian powers. For on thatday, when the suppliant Alexandria opened her ports, and deserted court,fortune, propitious to you in the third lustrum, has put a happy periodto the war, and has ascribed praise and wished-for honor to thevictories already obtained. O thou dread guardian of Italy and imperialRome, thee the Spaniard, till now unconquered, and the Mede, and theIndian, thee the vagrant Scythian admires; thee both the Nile, whoconceals his fountain heads, and the Danube; thee the rapid Tigris; theethe monster-bearing ocean, that roars against the remote Britons; theethe region of Gaul fearless of death, and that of hardy Iberia obeys;thee the Sicambrians, who delight in slaughter, laying aside their arms,revere.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XV.TO AUGUSTUS, ON THE RESTORATION OF PEACE.Phoebus chid me, when I was meditating to sing of battles And conqueredcities on the lyre: that I might not set my little sails along theTyrrhenian Sea. Your age, O Caesar, has both restored plenteous cropsto the fields, and has brought back to our Jupiter the standards tornfrom the proud pillars of the Parthians; and has shut up [the temple] ofJanus [founded by] Romulus, now free from war; and has imposed a duediscipline upon headstrong licentiousness, and has extirpated crimes,and recalled the ancient arts; by which the Latin name and strength ofItaly have increased, and the fame and majesty of the empire is extendedfrom the sun's western bed to the east. While Caesar is guardian ofaffairs, neither civil rage nor violence shall disturb tranquillity; norhatred which forges swords, and sets at variance unhappy states. Notthose, who drink of the deep Danube, shall now break the Julian edicts:not the Getae, not the Seres, nor the perfidious Persians, nor thoseborn upon the river Tanais. And let us, both on common and festal days,amid the gifts of joyous Bacchus, together with our wives and families,having first duly invoked the gods, celebrate, after the manner of ourancestors, with songs accompanied with Lydian pipes, our late valiantcommanders: and Troy, and Anchises, and the offspring of benign Venus.       *       *       *       *       *THE BOOK OF THE EPODES OF HORACE.ODE I.TO MAECENAS.Thou wilt go, my friend Maecenas, with Liburian galleys among thetowering forts of ships, ready at thine own [hazard] to undergo any ofCaesar's dangers. What shall I do? To whom life may be agreeable, if yousurvive; but, if otherwise, burdensome. Whether shall I, at yourcommand, pursue my ease, which can not be pleasing unless in yourcompany? Or shall I endure this toil with such a courage, as becomeseffeminate men to bear? I will bear it? and with an intrepid soul followyou, either through the summits of the Alps, and the inhospitableCaucus, or to the furthest western bay. You may ask how I, unwarlike andinfirm, can assist your labors by mine? While I am your companion, Ishall be in less anxiety, which takes possession of the absent in agreater measure. As the bird, that has unfledged young, is in a greaterdread of serpents' approaches, when they are left;--not that, if sheshould be present when they came, she could render more help. Not onlythis, but every other war, shall be cheerfully embraced by me for thehope of your favor; [and this,] not that my plows should labor, yoked toa greater number of mine own oxen; or that my cattle before thescorching dog-star should change the Calabrian for the Lucanianpastures: neither that my white country-box should equal the Circaeanwalls of lofty Tusculum. Your generosity has enriched me enough, andmore than enough: I shall never wish to amass, what either, like themiser Chremes, I may bury in the earth, or luxuriously squander, like aprodigal.       *       *       *       *       *ODE II.THE PRAISES OF A COUNTRY LIFE.Happy the man, who, remote from business, after the manner of theancient race of mortals, cultivates his paternal lands with his ownoxen, disengaged from every kind of usury; he is neither alarmed by thehorrible trump, as a soldier, nor dreads he the angry sea; he shuns boththe bar and the proud portals of citizens in power. Wherefore he eitherweds the lofty poplars to the mature branches of the vine; and, loppingoff the useless boughs with his pruning-knife, he ingrafts more fruitfulones: or he takes a prospect of the herds of his lowing cattle,wandering about in a lonely vale; or stores his honey, pressed [from thecombs], in clean vessels; or shears his tender sheep. Or, when autumnhas lifted up in the fields his head adorned with mellow fruits, howdoes he rejoice, while he gathers the grafted pears, and the grape thatvies with the purple, with which he may recompense thee, O Priapus, andthee, father Sylvanus, guardian of his boundaries! Sometimes he delightsto lie under an aged holm, sometimes on the matted grass: meanwhile thewaters glide along in their deep channels; the birds warble in thewoods; and the fountains murmur with their purling streams, whichinvites gentle slumbers. But when the wintery season of the tempestuousair prepares rains and snows, he either drives the fierce boars, withmany a dog, into the intercepting toils; or spreads his thin nets withthe smooth pole, as a snare for the voracious thrushes; or catches inhis gin the timorous hare, or that stranger the crane, pleasing rewards[for his labor]. Among such joys as these, who does not forget thosemischievous anxieties, which are the property of love. But if a chastewife, assisting on her part [in the management] of the house, andbeloved children (such as is the Sabine, or the sun-burned spouse of theindustrious Apulian), piles up the sacred hearth with old wood, just atthe approach of her weary husband; and, shutting up the fruitful cattlein the woven hurdles, milks dry their distended udders: and, drawingthis year's wine out of a well-seasoned cask, prepares the unboughtcollation: not the Lucrine oysters could delight me more, nor theturbot, nor the scar, should the tempestuous winter drive any from theeastern floods to this sea: not the turkey, nor the Asiatic wild-fowl,can come into my stomach more agreeably, than the olive gathered fromthe richest branches from the trees, or the sorrel that loves themeadows, or mallows salubrious for a sickly body, or a lamb slain at thefeast of Terminus, or a kid rescued from the wolf. Amid these dainties,how it pleases one to see the well-fed sheep hastening home! to see theweary oxen, with drooping neck, dragging the inverted ploughshare! andslaves, the test of a rich family, ranged about the smiling householdgods! When Alfius, the usurer, now on the point of turning countryman,had said this, he collected in all his money on the Ides; and endeavorsto put it out again at the Calends.       *       *       *       *       *ODE III.TO MAECENAS.If any person at any time with an impious hand has broken his agedfather's neck, let him eat garlic, more baneful than hemlock. Oh! thehardy bowels of the mowers! What poison is this that rages in myentrails? Has viper's blood, infused in these herbs, deceived me? Or hasCanidia dressed this baleful food? When Medea, beyond all the [other]argonauts, admired their handsome leader, she anointed Jason with this,as he was going to tie the untried yoke on the bulls: and havingrevenged herself on [Jason's] mistress, by making her presents besmearedwith this, she flew away on her winged dragon. Never did the steaminginfluence of any constellation so raging as this rest upon the thirstyAppulia: neither did the gift [_of Dejanira_] burn hotter upon theshoulders of laborious Hercules. But if ever, facetious Maecenas, youshould have a desire for any such stuff again, I wish that your girl mayoppose her hand to your kiss, and lie at the furthest part of the bed.       *       *       *       *       *ODE IV.TO MENAS.As great an enmity as is allotted by nature to wolves and lambs, [sogreat a one] have I to you, you that are galled at your back withSpanish cords, and on your legs with the hard fetter. Though,purse-proud with your riches, you strut along, yet fortune does notalter your birth. Do you not observe while you are stalking along thesacred way with a robe twice three ells long, how the most openindignation of those that pass and repass turns their looks on thee?This fellow, [say they,] cut with the triumvir's whips, even till thebeadle was sick of his office, plows a thousand acres of Falernian land,and wears out the Appian road with his nags; and, in despite of Otho,sits in the first rows [of the circus] as a knight of distinction. Towhat purpose is it, that so many brazen-beaked ships of immense bulkshould be led out against pirates and a band of slaves, while thisfellow, this is a military tribune?       *       *       *       *       *ODE V.THE WITCHES MANGLING A BOY.But oh, by all the gods in heaven, who rule the earth and human race,what means this tumult? And what the hideous looks of all these [hags,fixed] upon me alone? I conjure thee by thy children (if invoked Lucinawas ever present at any real birth of thine), I [conjure] thee by thisempty honor of my purple, by Jupiter, who must disapprove theseproceedings, why dost thou look at me as a step-mother, or as a wildbeast stricken with a dart? While the boy made these complaints with afaltering voice, he stood with his bandages of distinction taken fromhim, a tender frame, such as might soften the impious breasts of thecruel Thracians; Canidia, having interwoven her hair and uncombed headwith little vipers, orders wild fig-trees torn up from graves, ordersfuneral cypresses and eggs besmeared with the gore of a loathsome toad,and feathers of the nocturnal screech-owl, and those herbs, whichlolchos, and Spain, fruitful in poisons, transmits, and bones snatchedfrom the mouth of a hungry bitch, to be burned in Colchian flames. ButSagana, tucked up for expedition, sprinkling the waters of Avernus allover the house, bristles up with her rough hair like a sea-urchin, or aboar in the chase. Veia, deterred by no remorse of conscience, groaningwith the toil, dug up the ground with the sharp spade; where the boy,fixed in, might long be tormented to death at the sight of food variedtwo or three times in a day: while he stood out with his face, just asmuch at bodies suspended by the chin [in swimming] project from thewater, that his parched marrow and dried liver might be a charm forlove; when once the pupils of his eyes had wasted away, fixed on theforbidden food. Both the idle Naples, and every neighboring townbelieved, that Folia of Ariminum, [a witch] of masculine lust, was notabsent: she, who with her Thessalian incantations forces the charmedstars and the moon from heaven. Here the fell Canidia, gnawing herunpaired thumb with her livid teeth, what said she? or what did she notsay? O ye faithful witnesses to my proceedings, Night and Diana, whopresidest over silence, when the secret rites are celebrated: now, nowbe present, now turn your anger and power against the houses of ourenemies, while the savage wild beasts lie hid in the woods, dissolved insweet repose; let the dogs of Suburra (which may be matter of ridiculefor every body) bark at the aged profligate, bedaubed with ointment,such as my hands never made any more exquisite. What is the matter? Whyare these compositions less efficacious than those of the barbarianMedea? by means of which she made her escape, after having revengedherself on [Jason's] haughty mistress, the daughter of the mighty Creon;when the garment, a gift that was injected with venom, took off his newbride by its inflammatory power. And yet no herb, nor root hidden ininaccessible places, ever escaped my notice. [Nevertheless,] he sleepsin the perfumed bed of every harlot, from his forgetfulness [of me]. Ah!ah! he walks free [from my power] by the charms of some more knowingwitch. Varus, (oh you that will shortly have much to lament!) you shallcome back to me by means of unusual spells; nor shall you return toyourself by all the power of Marsian enchantments, I will prepare astronger philter: I will pour in a stronger philter for you, disdainfulas you are; and the heaven shall subside below the sea, with the earthextended over it, sooner than you shall not burn with love for me, inthe same manner as this pitch [burns] in the sooty flames. At thesewords, the boy no longer [attempted], as before, to move the impioushags by soothing expressions; but, doubtful in what manner he shouldbreak silence, uttered Thyestean imprecations. Potions [said he] have agreat efficacy in confounding right and wrong, but are not able toinvert the condition of human nature; I will persecute you with curses;and execrating detestation is not to be expiated by any victim.Moreover, when doomed to death I shall have expired, I will attend youas a nocturnal fury; and, a ghost, I will attack your faces with myhooked talons (for such is the power of those divinities, the Manes),and, brooding upon your restless breasts, I will deprive you of reposeby terror. The mob, from village to village, assaulting you on everyside with stones, shall demolish you filthy hags. Finally, the wolvesand Esquiline vultures shall scatter abroad your unburied limbs. Norshall this spectacle escape the observation of my parents, who, alas!must survive me.ODE. VI.AGAINST CASSIUS SEVERUS.O cur, thou coward against wolves, why dost thou persecute innocentstrangers? Why do you not, if you can, turn your empty yelpings hither,and attack me, who will bite again? For, like a Molossian, or tawnyLaconian dog, that is a friendly assistant to shepherds, I will drivewith erected ears through the deep snows every brute that shall gobefore me. You, when you have filled the grove with your fearfulbarking, you smell at the food that is thrown to you. Have a care, havea care; for, very bitter against bad men, I exert my ready horns uplift;like him that was rejected as a son-in-law by the perfidious Lycambes,or the sharp enemy of Bupalus. What, if any cur attack me with malignanttooth, shall I, without revenge, blubber like a boy?       *       *       *       *       *ODE VII.TO THE ROMAN PEOPLE.Whither, whither, impious men are you rushing? Or why are the swordsdrawn, that were [so lately] sheathed? Is there too little of Romanblood spilled upon land and sea? [And this,] not that the Romans mightburn the proud towers of envious Carthage, or that the Britons, hithertounassailed, might go down the sacred way bound in chains: but that,agreeably to the wishes of the Parthians, this city may fall by its ownmight. This custom [of warfare] never obtained even among either wolvesor savage lions, unless against a different species. Does blind phrenzy,or your superior valor, or some crime, hurry you on at this rate? Giveanswer. They are silent: and wan paleness infects their countenances,and their stricken souls are stupefied. This is the case: a cruelfatality and the crime of fratricide have disquieted the Romans, fromthat time when the blood of the innocent Remus, to be expiated by hisdescendants, was spilled upon the earth.       *       *       *       *       *ODE VIII.UPON A WANTON OLD WOMAN.Can you, grown rank with lengthened age, ask what unnerves my vigor?When your teeth are black, and old age withers your brow with wrinkles:and your back sinks between your staring hip-bones, like that of anunhealthy cow. But, forsooth! your breast and your fallen chest, fullwell resembling a broken-backed horse, provoke me; and a body flabby,and feeble knees supported by swollen legs. May you be happy: and maytriumphal statues adorn your funeral procession; and may no matronappear in public abounding with richer pearls. What follows, because theStoic treatises sometimes love to be on silken pillows? Are unlearnedconstitutions the less robust? Or are their limbs less stout? But foryou to raise an appetite, in a stomach that is nice, it is necessarythat you exert every art of language.       *       *       *       *       *ODE IX.TO MAECENAS.When, O happy Maecenas, shall I, overjoyed at Caesar's being victorious,drink with you under the stately dome (for so it pleases Jove) theCaecuban reserved for festal entertainments, while the lyre plays atune, accompanied with flutes, that in the Doric, these in the Phrygianmeasure? As lately, when the Neptunian admiral, driven from the sea,and his navy burned, fled, after having menaced those chains to Rome,which, like a friend, he had taken off from perfidious slaves. The Romansoldiers (alas! ye, our posterity, will deny the fact), enslaved to awoman, carry palisadoes and arms, and can be subservient to haggardeunuchs; and among the military standards, oh shame! the sun beholds an[Egyptian] canopy. Indignant at this the Gauls turned two thousand oftheir cavalry, proclaiming Caesar; and the ships of the hostile navy,going off to the left, lie by in port. Hail, god of triumph! Dost thoudelay the golden chariots and untouched heifers? Hail, god of triumph!You neither brought back a general equal [to Caesar] from the Jugurthinewar; nor from the African [war, him], whose valor raised him a monumentover Carthage. Our enemy, overthrown both by land and sea, has changedhis purple vestments for mourning. He either seeks Crete, famous for herhundred cities, ready to sail with unfavorable winds; or the Syrtes,harassed by the south; or else is driven by the uncertain sea. Bringhither, boy, larger bowls, and the Chian or Lesbian wine; or, what maycorrect this rising qualm of mine, fill me out the Caecuban. It is mypleasure to dissipate care and anxiety for Caesar's danger withdelicious wine.       *       *       *       *       *ODE X.AGAINST MAEVIUS.The vessel that carries the loathsome Maevius, makes her departure underan unlucky omen. Be mindful, O south wind, that you buffet it about withhorrible billows. May the gloomy east, turning up the sea, disperse itscables and broken oars. Let the north arise as mighty as when be rivesthe quivering oaks on the lofty mountains; nor let a friendly starappear through the murky night, in which the baleful Orion sets: nor lethim be conveyed in a calmer sea, than was the Grecian band ofconquerors, when Pallas turned her rage from burned Troy to the ship ofimpious Ajax. Oh what a sweat is coming upon your sailors, and what asallow paleness upon you, and that effeminate wailing, and those prayersto unregarding Jupiter; when the Ionian bay, roaring with thetempestuous south-west, shall break your keel. But if, extended alongthe winding shore, you shall delight the cormorants as a dainty prey, alascivious he-goat and an ewe-lamb shall be sacrificed to the Tempests.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XI.TO PECTIUS.It by no means, O Pectius, delights me as heretofore to write Lyricverses, being smitten with cruel love: with love, who takes pleasure toinflame me beyond others, either youths or maidens. This is the thirdDecember that has shaken the [leafy] honors from the woods, since Iceased to be mad for Inachia. Ah me! (for I am ashamed of so great amisfortune) what a subject of talk was I throughout the city! I repenttoo of the entertainments, at which both a languishing and silence andsighs, heaved from the bottom of my breast, discovered the lover. Assoon as the indelicate god [Bacchus] by the glowing wine had removed, asI grew warm, the secrets of [my heart] from their repository, I made mycomplaints, lamenting to you, "Has the fairest genius of a poor man noweight against wealthy lucre? Wherefore, if a generous indignation boilin my breast, insomuch as to disperse to the winds these disagreeableapplications, that give no ease to the desperate wound; the shame [ofbeing overcome] ending, shall cease to contest with rivals of such asort." When I, with great gravity, had applauded these resolutions inyour presence, being ordered to go home, I was carried with a wanderingfoot to posts, alas! to me not friendly, and alas! obdurate gates,against which I bruised my loins and side. Now my affections for thedelicate Lyciscus engross all my time; from them neither the unreservedadmonitions, nor the serious reprehensions of other friends can recallme [to my former taste for poetry]; but, perhaps, either a new flame forsome fair damsel, or for some graceful youth who binds his long hair ina knot, [may do so].       *       *       *       *       *ODE XII.TO A WOMAN WHOSE CHARMS WERE OVER.What would you be at, you woman fitter for the swarthy monsters? Why doyou send tokens, why billet-doux to me, and not to some vigorous youth,and of a taste not nice? For I am one who discerns a polypus, or fetidramminess, however concealed, more quickly than the keenest dog thecovert of the boar. What sweatiness, and how rank an odor every whererises from her withered limbs! when she strives to lay her furious ragewith impossibilities; now she has no longer the advantage of moistcosmetics, and her color appears as if stained with crocodile's ordure;and now, in wild impetuosity, she tears her bed, bedding, and all shehas. She attacks even my loathings in the most angry terms:--"You arealways less dull with Inachia than me: in her company you are threefoldcomplaisance; but you are ever unprepared to oblige me in a singleinstance. Lesbia, who first recommended you--so unfit a help in time ofneed--may she come to an ill end! when Coan Amyntas paid me hisaddresses; who is ever as constant in his fair one's service, as theyoung tree to the hill it grows on. For whom were labored the fleeces ofthe richest Tyrian dye? For you? Even so that there was not one incompany, among gentlemen of your own rank, whom his own wife admiredpreferably to you: oh, unhappy me, whom you fly, as the lamb dreads thefierce wolves, or the she-goats the lions!"       *       *       *       *       *ODE XIII.TO A FRIEND.A horrible tempest has condensed the sky, and showers and snows bringdown the atmosphere: now the sea, now the woods bellow with the ThracianNorth wind. Let us, my friends, take occasion from the day; and whileour knees are vigorous, and it becomes us, let old age with hiscontracted forehead become smooth. Do you produce the wine, that waspressed in the consulship of my Torquatus. Forbear to talk of any othermatters. The deity, perhaps, will reduce these [present evils], to yourformer [happy] state by a propitious change. Now it is fitting both tobe bedewed with Persian perfume, and to relieve our breasts of direvexations by the lyre, sacred to Mercury. Like as the noble Centaur,[Chiron,] sung to his mighty pupil: "Invincible mortal, son of thegoddess Thetis, the land of Assaracus awaits you, which the coldcurrents of little Scamander and swift-gliding Simois divide: whence thefatal sisters have broken off your return, by a thread that cannot bealtered: nor shall your azure mother convey you back to your home. There[then] by wine and music, sweet consolations, drive away every symptomof hideous melancholy."       *       *       *       *       *ODE XIV.TO MAECENAS.You kill me, my courteous Maecenas, by frequently inquiring, why asoothing indolence has diffused as great a degree of forgetfulness on myinmost senses, as if I had imbibed with a thirsty throat the cups thatbring on Lethean slumbers. For the god, the god prohibits me frombringing to a conclusion the verses I promised [you, namely those]iambics which I had begun. In the same manner they report that Anacreonof Teios burned for the Samian Bathyllus; who often lamented his love toan inaccurate measure on a hollow lyre. You are violently in loveyourself; but if a fairer flame did not burn besieged Troy, rejoice inyour lot. Phryne, a freed-woman, and not content with a single admirer,consumes me.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XV.TO NEAERA.It was night, and the moon shone in a serene sky among the lesser stars;when you, about to violate the divinity of the great gods, swore [to betrue] to my requests, embracing me with your pliant arms more closelythan the lofty oak is clasped by the ivy; that while the wolf shouldremain an enemy to the flock, and Orion, unpropitious to the sailors,should trouble the wintery sea, and while the air should fan theunshorn locks of Apollo, [so long you vowed] that this love should bemutual. O Neaera, who shall one day greatly grieve on account of mymerit: for, if there is any thing of manhood in Horace, he will notendure that you should dedicate your nights continually to another, whomyou prefer; and exasperated, he will look out for one who will returnhis love; and though an unfeigned sorrow should take possession of you,yet my firmness shall not give way to that beauty which has once givenme disgust. But as for you, whoever you be who are more successful [thanme], and now strut proud of my misfortune; though you be rich in flocksand abundance of land, and Pactolus flow for you, nor the mysteries ofPythagoras, born again, escape you, and you excel Nireus in beauty;alas! you shall [hereafter] bewail her love transferred elsewhere; but Ishall laugh in my turn.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XVI.TO THE ROMAN PEOPLE.Now is another age worn away by civil wars, and Rome herself falls byher own strength. Whom neither the bordering Marsi could destroy, northe Etrurian band of the menacing Porsena, nor the rival valor of Capua,nor the bold Spartacus, and the Gauls perfideous with their innovations;nor did the fierce Germany subdue with its blue-eyed youth, nor Annibal,detested by parents; but we, an impious race, whose blood is devoted toperdition, shall destroy her: and this land shall again be possessed bywild beasts. The victorious barbarian, alas! shall trample upon theashes of the city, and the horsemen shall smite it with the soundinghoofs; and (horrible to see!) he shall insultingly disperse the bones ofRomulus, which [as yet] are free from the injuries of wind and sun.Perhaps you all in general, or the better part of you, are inquisitiveto know, what may be expedient, in order to escape [such] dreadfulevils. There can be no determination better than this; namely, to gowherever our feet will carry us, wherever the south or boisteroussouth-west shall summon us through the waves; in the same manner as thestate of the Phocaeans fled, after having uttered execrations [againstsuch as should return], and left their fields and proper dwellings andtemples to be inhabited by boars and ravenous wolves. Is thisagreeable? has any one a better scheme to advise? Why do we delay to goon ship-board under an auspicious omen? But first let us swear to theseconditions--the stones shall swim upward, lifted from the bottom of thesea, as soon as it shall not be impious to return; nor let it grieve usto direct our sails homeward, when the Po shall wash the tops of theMatinian summits; or the lofty Apennine shall remove into the sea, or amiraculous appetite shall unite monsters by a strange kind of lust;Insomuch that tigers may delight to couple with hinds, and the dove bepolluted with the kite; nor the simple herds may dread the brindledlions, and the he-goat, grown smooth, may love the briny main. Afterhaving sworn to these things, and whatever else may cut off thepleasing: hope of returning, let us go, the whole city of us, or atleast that part which is superior to the illiterate mob: let the idleand despairing part remain upon these inauspicious habitations. Ye, thathave bravery, away with effeminate grief, and fly beyond the Tuscanshore. The ocean encircling the land awaits us; let us seek the happyplains and prospering Islands, where the untilled land yearly producescorn, and the unpruned vineyard punctually flourishes; and where thebranch of the never-failing olive blossoms forth, and the purple figadorns its native tree: honey distills from the hollow oaks; the lightwater bounds down from the high mountains with a murmuring pace. Therethe she-goats come to the milk-pails of their own accord, and thefriendly flock return with their udders distended; nor does the bear atevening growl about the sheepfold, nor does the rising ground swell withvipers; and many more things shall we, happy [Romans], view withadmiration: how neither the rainy east lays waste the corn-fields withprofuse showers, nor is the fertile seed burned by a dry glebe; the kingof gods moderating both [extremes]. The pine rowed by the Argonautsnever attempted to come hither; nor did the lascivious [Medea] ofColchis set her foot [in this place]: hither the Sidonian mariners neverturned their sail-yards, nor the toiling crew of Ulysses. No contagiousdistempers hurt the flocks; nor does the fiery violence of anyconstellation scorch the herd. Jupiter set apart these shores for apious people, when he debased the golden age with brass: with brass,then with iron he hardened the ages; from which there shall be a happyescape for the good, according to my predictions.       *       *       *       *       *ODE XVII.DIALOGUE BETWEEN HORACE AND CANIDIA.Now, now I yield to powerful science; and suppliant beseech thee by thedominions of Proserpine, and by the inflexible divinity of Diana, and bythe books of incantations able to call down the stars displaced from thefirmament; O Canidia, at length desist from thine imprecations, andquickly turn, turn back thy magical machine. Telephus moved [withcompassion] the grandson of Nereus, against whom he arrogantly had puthis troops of Mysians in battle-array, and against whom he had dartedhis sharp javelins. The Trojan matrons embalmed the body of theman-slaying Hector, which had been condemned to birds of prey, and dogs,after king [Priam], having left the walls of the city, prostratedhimself, alas! at the feet of the obstinate Achilles. The mariners ofthe indefatigable Ulysses, put off their limbs, bristled with the hardskins [of swine], at the will of Circe: then their reason and voice wererestored, and their former comeliness to their countenances. I havesuffered punishment enough, and more than enough, on thy account, O thouso dearly beloved by the sailors and factors. My vigor is gone away, andmy ruddy complexion has left me; my bones are covered with a ghastlyskin; my hair with your preparations is grown hoary. No ease respites mefrom my sufferings: night presses upon day, and day upon night: nor isit in my power to relieve my lungs, which are strained with gasping.Wherefore, wretch that I am, I am compelled to credit (what was denied,by me) that the charms of the Samnites discompose the breast, and thehead splits in sunder at the Marsian incantations. What wouldst thouhave more? O sea! O earth! I burn in such a degree as neither Herculesdid, besmeared with the black gore of Nessus, nor the fervid flameburning In the Sicilian Aetna. Yet you, a laboratory of Colchianpoisons, remain on fire, till I [reduced to] a dry ember, shall bewafted away by the injurious winds. What event, or what penalty awaitsme? Speak out: I will with honor pay the demanded mulct; ready to makean expiation, whether you should require a hundred steers, or chose tobe celebrated on a lying lyre. You, a woman of modesty, you, a woman ofprobity, shall traverse the stars, as a golden constellation. Castor andthe brother of the great Castor, offended at the infamy brought on[their sister] Helen, yet overcome by entreaty, restored to the poet hiseyes that were taken away from him. And do you (for it is in your power)extricate me from this frenzy; O you, that are neither defiled by familymeanness, nor skillful to disperse the ashes of poor people, after theyhave been nine days interred. You have an hospitable breast, andunpolluted hands; and Pactumeius is your son, and thee the midwife hastended; and, whenever you bring forth, you spring up with unabatedvigor.CANIDIA'S ANSWER.Why do you pour forth your entreaties to ears that are closely shut[against them]? The wintery ocean, with its briny tempests, does notlash rocks more deaf to the cries of the naked mariners. What, shallyou, without being made an example of, deride the Cotyttian mysteries,sacred to unrestrained love, which were divulged [by you]? And shallyou, [assuming the office] of Pontiff [with regard to my] Esquilianincantations, fill the city with my name unpunished? What did it availme to have enriched the Palignian sorceress [with my charms], and tohave prepared poison of greater expedition, if a slower fate awaits youthan is agreeable to my wishes? An irksome life shall be protracted byyou, wretch as you are, for this purpose, that you may perpetually beable to endure new tortures. Tantalus, the perfidious sire of Pelops,ever craving after the plenteous banquet [which is always before him],wishes for respite; Prometheus, chained to the vulture, wishes [forrest]; Sisyphus wishes to place the stone on the summit of the mountain:but the laws of Jupiter forbid. Thus you shall desire at one time toleap down from a high tower, at another to lay open your breast with theNoric sword; and, grieving with your tedious indisposition, shall tienooses about your neck in vain. I at that time will ride on your odiousshoulders; and the whole earth shall acknowledge my unexampled power.What shall I who can give motion to waxen images (as you yourself,inquisitive as you are, were convinced of) and snatch the moon fromheaven by my incantations; I, who can raise the dead after they areburned, and duly prepare the potion of love, shall I bewail the event ofmy art having no efficacy upon you?       *       *       *       *       *THE SECULAR POEM OF HORACE.TO APOLLO AND DIANA.Phoebus, and thou Diana, sovereign of the woods, ye illustriousornaments of the heavens, oh ever worthy of adoration, and ever adored,bestow what we pray for at this sacred season: at which the Sibyllineverses have given directions, that select virgins and chaste youthsshould sing a hymn to the deities, to whom the seven hills [of Rome] areacceptable. O genial sun, who in your splendid car draw forth andobscure the day, and who arise another and the same, may it never be inyour power to behold anything more glorious than the city of Rome! OIlithyia, of lenient power to produce the timely birth, protect thematrons [in labor]; whether you choose the title of Lucina, orGenitalis. O goddess multiply our offspring; and prosper the decrees ofthe senate in relation to the joining of women in wedlock, and thematrimonial law about to teem with a new race; that the statedrevolution of a hundred and ten years may bring back the hymns and thegames, three times by bright daylight restored to in crowds, and asoften in the welcome night. And you, ye fatal sisters, infallible inhaving predicted what is established, and what the settled order ofthings preserves, add propitious fates to those already past. Let theearth, fertile in fruits and flocks, present Ceres with a sheafy crown;may both salubrious rains and Jove's air cherish the young blood!Apollo, mild and gentle with your sheathed arrows, hear the suppliantyouths: O moon, thou horned queen of stars, hear the virgins. If Rome beyour work, and the Trojan troops arrived on the Tuscan shore (the part,commanded [by your oracles] to change their homes and city) by asuccessful navigation: for whom pious Aeneas, surviving his country,secured a free passage through Troy, burning not by his treachery, aboutto give them more ample possessions than those that were left behind. Oye deities, grant to the tractable youth probity of manners; to old age,ye deities, grant a pleasing retirement; to the Roman people, wealth,and progeny, and every kind of glory. And may the illustrious issue ofAnchises and Venus, who worships you with [offerings of] white bulls,reign superior to the warring enemy, merciful to the prostrate. Now theParthian, by sea and land, dreads our powerful forces and the Romanaxes: now the Scythians beg [to know] our commands, and the Indians butlately so arrogant. Now truth, and peace, and honor, and ancientmodesty, and neglected virtue dare to return, and happy plenty appears,with her horn full to the brim. Phoebus, the god of augury, andconspicuous for his shining bow, and dear to the nine muses, who by hissalutary art soothes the wearied limbs of the body; if he, propitious,surveys the Palatine altars--may he prolong the Roman affairs, and thehappy state of Italy to another lustrum, and to an improving age. Andmay Diana, who possesses Mount Aventine and Algidus, regard the prayersof the Quindecemvirs, and lend a gracious ear to the supplications ofthe youths. We, the choir taught to sing the praises of Phoebus andDiana, bear home with us a good and certain hope, that Jupiter, and allthe other gods, are sensible of these our supplications.       *       *       *       *       *THE FIRST BOOK OF THE SATIRES OF HORACE.SATIRE I._That all, but especially the covetous, think their own condition thehardest_.How comes it to pass, Maecenas, that no one lives content with hiscondition, whether reason gave it him, or chance threw it in his way[but] praises those who follow different pursuits? "O happy merchants!"says the soldier, oppressed with years, and now broken down in his limbsthrough excess of labor. On the other side, the merchant, when the southwinds toss his ship [cries], "Warfare is preferable;" for why? theengagement is begun, and in an instant there comes a speedy death or ajoyful victory. The lawyer praises the farmer's state when the clientknocks at his door by cock-crow. He who, having entered into arecognizance, is dragged from the country into the city, cries, "Thoseonly are happy who live in the city." The other instances of this kind(they are so numerous) would weary out the loquacious Fabius; not tokeep you in suspense, hear to what an issue I will bring the matter. Ifany god should say, "Lo! I will effect what you desire: you, that werejust now a soldier, shall be a merchant; you, lately a lawyer [shall be]a farmer. Do ye depart one way, and ye another, having exchanged theparts [you are to act] in life. How now! why do you stand?" They areunwilling; and yet it is in their power to be happy. What reason can beassigned, but that Jupiter should deservedly distend both his cheeks inindignation, and declare that for the future he will not be so indulgentas to lend an ear to their prayers? But further, that I may not run overthis in a laughing manner, like those [who treat] on ludicrous subjects(though what hinders one being merry, while telling the truth? asgood-natured teachers at first give cakes to their boys, that they maybe willing to learn their first rudiments: railery, however, apart, letus investigate serious matters). He that turns the heavy glebe with thehard ploughshare, this fraudulent tavern-keeper, the soldier, and thesailors, who dauntless run through every sea, profess that they enduretoil with this intention, that as old men they may retire into a secureresting place, when once they have gotten together a sufficientprovision.Thus the little ant (for she is an example), of great industry, carriesin her mouth whatever she is able, and adds to the heap which she pilesup, by no means ignorant and not careless for the future. Which [ant,nevertheless], as soon, as Aquarius saddens the changed year, nevercreeps abroad, but wisely makes use of those stores which were providedbeforehand: while neither sultry summer, nor winter, fire, ocean, sword,can drive you from gain. You surmount every obstacle, that no other manmay be richer than yourself. What pleasure is it for you, trembling todeposit an immense weight of silver and gold in the earth dug up bystealth? Because if you lessen it, it may be reduced to a paltryfarthing.But unless that be the case, what beauty has an accumulated hoard?Though your thrashing-floor should yield a hundred thousand bushels ofcorn, your belly will not on that account contain more than mine: justas if it were your lot to carry on your loaded shoulder the basket ofbread among slaves, you would receive no more [for your own share] thanhe who bore no part of the burthen. Or tell me, what is it to thepurpose of that man, who lives within the compass of nature, whether heplow a hundred or a thousand acres?"But it is still delightful to take out of a great hoard."While you leave us to take as much out of a moderate store, why shouldyou extol your granaries, more than our corn-baskets? As if you hadoccasion for no more than a pitcher or glass of water, and should say,"I had rather draw [so much] from a great river, than the very samequantity from this little fountain." Hence it comes to pass, that therapid Aufidus carries away, together with the bank, such men as anabundance more copious than what is just delights. But he who desiresonly so much as is sufficient, neither drinks water fouled with the mud,nor loses his life in the waves.But a great majority of mankind, misled by a wrong desire cry, "No sumis enough; because you are esteemed in proportion to what you possess."What can one do to such a tribe as this? Why, bid them be wretched,since their inclination prompts them to it. As a certain person isrecorded [to have lived] at Athens, covetous and rich, who was wont todespise the talk of the people in this manner: "The crowd hiss me; but Iapplaud myself at home, as soon as I contemplate my money in my chest."The thirsty Tantalus catches at the streams, which elude his lips. Whydo you laugh? The name changed, the tale is told of you. You sleep uponyour bags, heaped up on every side, gaping over them, and are obliged toabstain from them, as if they were consecrated things, or to amuseyourself with them as you would with pictures. Are you ignorant of whatvalue money has, what use it can afford? Bread, herbs, a bottle of winemay be purchased; to which [necessaries], add [such others], as, beingwithheld, human nature would be uneasy with itself. What, to watch halfdead with terror, night and day, to dread profligate thieves, fire, andyour slaves, lest they should run away and plunder you; is thisdelightful? I should always wish to be very poor in possessions heldupon these terms.But if your body should be disordered by being seized with a cold, orany other casualty should confine you to your bed, have you one thatwill abide by you, prepare medicines, entreat the physician that hewould set you upon your feet, and restore you to your children and dearrelations?Neither your wife, nor your son, desires your recovery; all yourneighbors, acquaintances, [nay the very] boys and girls hate you. Do youwonder that no one tenders you the affection which you do not merit,since you prefer your money to everything else? If you think to retain,and preserve as friends, the relations which nature gives you, withouttaking any pains; wretch that you are, you lose your labor equally, asif any one should train an ass to be obedient to the rein, and run inthe Campus [Martius]. Finally, let there be some end to your search;and, as your riches increase, be in less dread of poverty; and begin tocease from your toil, that being acquired which you coveted: nor do asdid one Umidius (it is no tedious story), who was so rich that hemeasured his money, so sordid that he never clothed him self any betterthan a slave; and, even to his last moments, was in dread lest want ofbread should oppress him: but his freed-woman, the bravest of all thedaughters of Tyndarus, cut him in two with a hatchet."What therefore do you persuade me to? That I should lead the life ofNaevius, or in such a manner as a Nomentanus?"You are going [now] to make things tally, that are contradictory intheir natures. When I bid you not be a miser, I do not order you tobecome a debauchee or a prodigal. There is some difference between thecase of Tanais and his son-in-law Visellius, there is a mean in things;finally, there are certain boundaries, on either side of which moralrectitude can not exist. I return now whence I digressed. Does no one,after the miser's example, like his own station, but rather praise thosewho have different pursuits; and pines, because his neighbor's she-goatbears a more distended udder: nor considers himself in relation to thegreater multitude of poor; but labors to surpass, first one and thenanother? Thus the richer man is always an obstacle to one that ishastening [to be rich]: as when the courser whirls along the chariotdismissed from the place of starting; the charioteer presses upon thosehorses which outstrip his own, despising him that is left behind comingon among the last. Hence it is, that we rarely find a man who can say hehas lived happy, and content with his past life, can retire from theworld like a satisfied guest. Enough for the present: nor will I add oneword more, lest you should suspect that I have plundered the escrutoireof the blear-eyed Crispinus.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE II._Bad men, when they avoid certain vices, fall into their oppositeextremes._The tribes of female flute-players, quacks, vagrants, mimics,blackguards; all this set is sorrowful and dejected on account of thedeath of the singer Tigellius; for he was liberal [toward them]. On theother hand, this man, dreading to be called a spendthrift, will not givea poor friend wherewithal to keep off cold and pinching hunger. If youask him why he wickedly consumes the noble estate of his grandfather andfather in tasteless gluttony, buying with borrowed money all sorts ofdainties; he answers, because he is unwilling to be reckoned sordid, orof a mean spirit: he is praised by some, condemned by others. Fufidius,wealthy in lands, wealthy in money put out at interest, is afraid ofhaving the character of a rake and spendthrift. This fellow deducts 5per cent. Interest from the principal [at the time of lending]; and, themore desperate in his circumstances any one is, the more severely bepinches him: he hunts out the names of young fellows that have just puton the toga virilis under rigid fathers. Who does not cry out, Osovereign Jupiter! when he has heard [of such knavery]? But [you willsay, perhaps,] this man expends upon himself in proportion to his gain.You can hardly believe how little a friend he is to himself: insomuchthat the father, whom Terence's comedy introduces as living miserableafter he had caused his son to run away from him, did not tormenthimself worse than he. Now if any one should ask, "To what does thismatter tend?" To this: while fools shun [one sort of] vices, they fallupon their opposite extremes. Malthinus walks with his garments trailingupon the ground; there is another droll fellow who [goes] with themtucked up even to his middle; Rufillus smells like perfume itself,Gorgonius like a he-goat. There is no mean. There are some who would notkeep company with a lady, unless her modest garment perfectly concealher feet. Another, again, will only have such as take their station in afilthy brothel. When a certain noted spark came out of a stew, thedivine Cato [greeted] him with this sentence: "Proceed (says he) in yourvirtuous course. For, when once foul lust has inflamed the veins, it isright for young fellows to come hither, in comparison of their meddlingwith other men's wives." I should not be willing to be commended on suchterms, says Cupiennius, an admirer of the silken vail.Ye, that do not wish well to the proceedings of adulterers, it is worthyour while to hear how they are hampered on all sides; and that theirpleasure, which happens to them but seldom, is interrupted with a greatdeal of pain, and often in the midst of very great dangers. One hasthrown himself headlong from the top of a house; another has beenwhipped almost to death: a third, in his flight, has fallen into amerciless gang of thieves: another has paid a fine, [to avoid] corporal[punishment]: the lowest servants have treated another with the vilestindignities. Moreover, this misfortune happened to a certain person, heentirely lost his manhood. Every body said, it was with justice: Galbadenied it.But how much safer is the traffic among [women] of the second rate! Imean the freed-women: after which Sallustius is not less mad, than hewho commits adultery. But if he had a mind to be good and generous, asfar as his estate and reason would direct him, and as far as a man mightbe liberal with moderation; he would give a sufficiency, not what wouldbring upon himself ruin and infamy. However, he hugs himself in this one[consideration]; this he delights in, this he extols: "I meddle with nomatron." Just as Marsaeus, the lover of Origo, he who gives his paternalestate and seat to an actress, says, "I never meddle with other men'swives." But you have with actresses, you have with common strumpets:whence your reputation derives a greater perdition, than your estate.What, is it abundantly sufficient to avoid the person, and not the[vice] which is universally noxious? To lose one's good name, tosquander a father's effects, is in all cases an evil. What is thedifference [then, with regard to yourself,] whether you sin with theperson of a matron, a maiden, or a prostitute?Villius, the son-in-law of Sylla (by this title alone he was misled),suffered [for his commerce] with Fausta, an adequate and more thanadequate punishment, by being drubbed and stabbed, while he was shutout, that Longarenus might enjoy her within. Suppose this [young man's]mind had addressed him in the words of his appetite, perceiving suchevil consequences: "What would you have? Did I ever, when my ardor wasat the highest, demand a woman descended from a great consul, andcovered with robes of quality?" What could he answer? Why, "the girl wassprung from an illustrious father." But how much better things, and howdifferent from this, does nature, abounding in stores of her own,recommend; if you would only make a proper use of them, and not confoundwhat is to be avoided with that which is desirable! Do you think it isof no consequence, whether your distresses arise from your own fault orfrom [a real deficiency] of things? Wherefore, that you may not repent[when it is too late], put a stop to your pursuit after matrons; whencemore trouble is derived, than you can obtain of enjoyment from success.Nor has [this particular matron], amid her pearls and emeralds, a softerthigh, or-limbs mere delicate than yours, Cerinthus; nay, theprostitutes are frequently preferable. Add to this, that [theprostitute] bears about her merchandize without any varnish, and openlyshows what she has to dispose of; nor, if she has aught more comely thanordinary, does she boast and make an ostentation of it, while she isindustrious to conceal that which is offensive. This is the custom withmen of fortune: when they buy horses, they inspect them covered: that,if a beautiful forehand (as often) be supported by a tender hoof, it maynot take in the buyer, eager for the bargain, because the back ishandsome, the head little, and the neck stately. This they dojudiciously. Do not you, [therefore, in the same manner] contemplate theperfections of each [fair one's] person with the eyes of Lynceus; but beblinder than Hypsaea, when you survey such parts as are deformed. [Youmay cry out,] "O what a leg! O, what delicate arms!" But [you suppress]that she is low-hipped, short-waisted, with a long nose, and a splayfoot. A man can see nothing but the face of a matron, who carefullyconceals her other charms, unless it be a Catia. But if you will seekafter forbidden charms (for the [circumstance of their being forbidden]makes you mad after them), surrounded as they are with a fortification,many obstacles will then be in your way: such as guardians, the sedan,dressers, parasites, the long robe hanging down to the ankles, andcovered with an upper garment; a multiplicity of circumstances, whichwill hinder you from having a fair view. The other throws no obstacle inyour way; through the silken vest you may discern her, almost as well asif she was naked; that she has neither a bad leg, nor a disagreeablefoot, you may survey her form perfectly with your eye. Or would youchoose to have a trick put upon you, and your money extorted, before thegoods are shown you? [But perhaps you will sing to me these verses outof Callimachus.] As the huntsman pursues the hare in the deep snow, butdisdains to touch it when it is placed before him: thus sings the rake,and applies it to himself; my love is like to this, for it passes overan easy prey, and pursues what flies from it. Do you hope that grief,and uneasiness, and bitter anxieties, will be expelled from your breastby such verses as these? Would It not be more profitable to inquire whatboundary nature has affixed to the appetites, what she can patiently dowithout, and what she would lament the deprivation of, and to separatewhat is solid from what is vain? What! when thirst parches your jaws,are you solicitous for golden cups to drink out of? What! when you arehungry, do you despise everything but peacock and turbot? When yourpassions are inflamed, and a common gratification is at hand, would yourather be consumed with desire than possess it? I would not: for I lovesuch pleasures as are of easiest attainment. But she whose language is,"By and by," "But for a small matter more," "If my husband should be outof the way." [is only] for petit-maitres: and for himself, Philodemussays, he chooses her, who neither stands for a great price, nor delaysto come when she is ordered. Let her be fair, and straight, and so fardecent as not to appear desirous of seeming fairer than nature has madeher. When I am in the company of such an one, she is my Ilia andAegeria; I give her any name. Nor am I apprehensive, while I am in hercompany, lest her husband should return from the country: the doorshould be broken open; the dog should bark; the house, shaken, shouldresound on all sides with a great noise; the woman, pale [with fear],should bound away from me; lest the maid, conscious [of guilt], shouldcry out, she is undone; lest she should be in apprehension for herlimbs, the detected wife for her portion, I for myself: lest I must runaway with my clothes all loose, and bare-footed, for fear my money, ormy person, or, finally my character should be demolished. It is adreadful thing to be caught; I could prove this, even if Fabius were thejudge.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE III._We might to connive at the faults of our friends, and all offences arenot to be ranked in the catalogue of crimes_.This is a fault common to all singers, that among their friends theynever are inclined to sing when they are asked, [but] unasked, theynever desist. Tigellius, that Sardinian, had this [fault]. Had Caesar,who could have forced him to compliance, besought him on account of hisfather's friendship and his own, he would have had no success; if hehimself was disposed, he would chant lo Bacche over and over, from thebeginning of an entertainment to the very conclusion of it; one while atthe deepest pitch of his voice, at another time with that which answersto the highest string of the tetrachord. There was nothing uniform inthat fellow; frequently would he run along, as one flying from an enemy;more frequently [he walked] as if he bore [in procession] the sacrificeof Juno: he had often two hundred slaves, often but ten: one whiletalking of kings and potentates, every thing that was magnificent; atanother--"Let me have a three-legged table, and a cellar of clean salt,and a gown which, though coarse, may be sufficient to keep out thecold." Had you given ten hundred thousand sesterces to this moderate manwho was content with such small matters, in five days' time there wouldbe nothing in his bags. He sat up at nights, [even] to day-light; hesnored out all the day. Never was there anything so inconsistent withitself. Now some person may say to me, "What are you? Have you nofaults?" Yes, others; but others, and perhaps of a less culpable nature.When Maenius railed at Novius in his absence: "Hark ye," says a certainperson, "are you ignorant of yourself? or do you think to imposeyourself upon us a person we do not know?" "As for me, I forgivemyself," quoth Maenius. This is a foolish and impious self-love, andworthy to be stigmatized. When you look over your own vices, winking atthem, as it were, with sore eyes; why are you with regard to those ofyour friends as sharp-sighted as an eagle, or the Epidaurian serpent?But, on the other hand, it is your lot that your friends should inquireinto your vices in turn. [A certain person] is a little too hasty in histemper; not well calculated for the sharp-witted sneers of these men: hemay be made a jest of because his gown hangs awkwardly, he [at the sametime] being trimmed in a very rustic manner, and his wide shoe hardlysticks to his foot. But he is so good, that no man can be better; but heis your friend; but an immense genius is concealed under this unpolishedperson of his. Finally, sift yourself thoroughly, whether nature hasoriginally sown the seeds of any vice in you, or even an ill-habit [hasdone it]. For the fern, fit [only] to be burned, overruns the neglectedfields.Let us return from our digression. As his mistress's disagreeablefailings escape the blinded lover, or even give him pleasure (as Hagna'swen does to Balbinus), I could wish that we erred in this manner withregard to friendship, and that virtue had affixed a reputableappellation to such an error. And as a father ought not to contemn hisson, if he has any defect, in the same manner we ought not [to contemn]our friend. The father calls his squinting boy a pretty leering rogue;and if any man has a little despicable brat, such as the abortiveSisyphus formerly was, he calls it a sweet moppet; this [child] withdistorted legs, [the father] in a fondling voice calls one of the Vari;and another, who is club-footed, he calls a Scaurus. [Thus, does] thisfriend of yours live more sparingly than ordinarily? Let him be styled aman of frugality. Is another impertinent, and apt to brag a little? Herequires to be reckoned entertaining to his friends. But [another] istoo rude, and takes greater liberties than are fitting. Let him beesteemed a man of sincerity and bravery. Is he too fiery, let him benumbered among persons of spirit. This method, in my opinion, bothunites friends, and preserves them in a state of union. But we invertthe very virtues themselves, and are desirous of throwing dirt upon theuntainted vessel. Does a man of probity live among us? he is a person ofsingular diffidence; we give him the name of a dull and fat-headedfellow. Does this man avoid every snare, and lay himself open to noill-designing villain; since we live amid such a race, where keen envyand accusations are flourishing? Instead of a sensible and wary man, wecall him a disguised and subtle fellow. And is any one more open, [andless reserved] than usual in such a degree as I often have presentedmyself to you, Maecenas, so as perhaps impertinently to interrupt aperson reading, or musing, with any kind of prate? We cry, "[thisfellow] actually wants common sense." Alas! how indiscreetly do weordain a severe law against ourselves! For no one Is born without vices:he is the best man who is encumbered with the least. When my dearfriend, as is just, weighs my good qualities against my bad ones, lethim, if he is willing to be beloved, turn the scale to the majority ofthe former (if I have indeed a majority of good qualities), on thiscondition, he shall be placed in the same balance. He who requires thathis friend should not take offence at his own protuberances, will excusehis friend's little warts. It is fair that he who entreats a pardon forhis own faults, should grant one in his turn.Upon the whole, forasmuch as the vice anger, as well as others inherentin foolish [mortals], cannot be totally eradicated, why does not humanreason make use of its own weights and measures; and so punish faults,as the nature of the thing demands? If any man should punish with thecross, a slave, who being ordered to take away the dish should gorgethe half-eaten fish and warm sauce; he would, among people in theirsenses, be called a madder man than Labeo. How much more irrational andheinous a crime is this! Your friend has been guilty of a small error(which, unless you forgive, you ought to be reckoned a sour, ill-naturedfellow), you hate and avoid him, as a debtor does Ruso; who, when thewoful calends come upon the unfortunate man, unless he procures theinterest or capital by hook or by crook, is compelled to hear hismiserable stories with his neck stretched out like a slave. [Should myfriend] in his liquor water my couch, or has he thrown down a jar carvedby the hands of Evander: shall he for this [trifling] affair, or becausein his hunger he has taken a chicken before me out of my part of thedish, be the less agreeable friend to me? [If so], what could I do if hewas guilty of theft, or had betrayed things committed to him inconfidence, or broken his word. They who are pleased [to rank all]faults nearly on an equality, are troubled when they come to the truthof the matter: sense and morality are against them, and utility itself,the mother almost of right and of equity.When [rude] animals, they crawled forth upon the first-formed earth, themute and dirty herd fought with their nails and fists for their acornand caves, afterward with clubs, and finally with arms which experiencehad forged: till they found out words and names, by which theyascertained their language and sensations: thenceforward they began toabstain from war, to fortify towns, and establish laws: that no personshould be a thief, a robber, or an adulterer. For before Helen's timethere existed [many] a woman who was the dismal cause of war: but thosefell by unknown deaths, whom pursuing uncertain venery, as the bull inthe herd, the strongest slew. It must of necessity be acknowledged, ifyou have a mind to turn over the aeras and anuals of the world, thatlaws were invented from an apprehension of the natural injustice [ofmankind]. Nor can nature separate what is unjust from what is just, inthe same manner as she distinguishes what is good from its reverse, andwhat is to be avoided from that which is to be sought, nor will reasonpersuade men to this, that he who breaks down the cabbage-stalk of hisneighbor, sins in as great a measure, and in the same manner, as he whosteals by night things consecrated to the gods. Let there be a settledstandard, that may inflict adequate punishments upon crimes, lest youshould persecute any one with the horrible thong, who is only deservingof a slight whipping. For I am not apprehensive, that you should correctwith the rod one that deserves to suffer severer stripes: since youassert that pilfering is an equal crime with highway robbery, andthreaten that you would prune off with an undistinguishing hook littleand great vices, if mankind were to give you the sovereignty over them.If he be rich, who is wise, and a good shoemaker, and alone handsome,and a king, why do you wish for that which you are possessed of? You donot understand what Chrysippus, the father [of your sect], says: "Thewise man never made himself shoes nor slippers: nevertheless, the wiseman is a shoemaker." How so? In the same manner, though Hermogenes besilent, he is a fine singer, notwithstanding, and an excellent musician:as the subtle [lawyer] Alfenus, after every instrument of his callingwas thrown aside, and his shop shut up, was [still] a barber; thus isthe wise man of all trades, thus is he a king. O greatest of greatkings, the waggish boys pluck you by the beard; whom unless you restrainwith your staff, you will be jostled by a mob all about you, and you maywretchedly bark and burst your lungs in vain. Not to be tedious: whileyou, my king, shall go to the farthing bath, and no guard shall attendyou, except the absurd Crispinus; my dear friends will both pardon me inany matter in which I shall foolishly offend, and I in turn willcheerfully put up with their faults; and though a private man, I shalllive more happily than you, a king.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE IV._He apologizes for the liberties taken by satiric poets in general, andparticularly by himself_.The poets Eupolis, and Cratinus, and Aristophanes, and others, who areauthors of the ancient comedy, if there was any person deserving to bedistinguished for being a rascal or a thief, an adulterer or acut-throat, or in any shape an infamous fellow, branded him with greatfreedom. Upon these [models] Lucilius entirely depends, having imitatedthem, changing only their feet and numbers: a man of wit, of greatkeenness, inelegant in the composition of verse: for in this respect hewas faulty; he would often, as a great feat, dictate two hundred versesin an hour, standing in the same position. As he flowed muddily, therewas [always] something that one would wish to remove; he was verbose,and too lazy to endure the fatigue of writing--of writing accurately:for, with regard to the quantity [of his works], I make no account ofit. See! Crispinus challenges me even for ever so little a wager. Take,if you dare, take your tablets, and I will take mine; let there be aplace, a time, and persons appointed to see fair play: let us see whocan write the most. The gods have done a good part by me, since theyhave framed me of an humble and meek disposition, speaking but seldom,briefly: but do you, [Crispinus,] as much as you will, imitate air whichis shut up in leathern bellows, perpetually putting till the firesoftens the iron. Fannius is a happy man, who, of his own accord, haspresented his manuscripts and picture [to the Palatine Apollo]; when nota soul will peruse my writings, who am afraid to rehearse in public, onthis account, because there are certain persons who can by no meansrelish this kind [of satiric writing], as there are very many whodeserve censure. Single any man out of the crowd; he either labors undera covetous disposition, or under wretched ambition. One is mad in lovewith married women, another with youths; a third the splendor of silvercaptivates: Albius is in raptures with brass; another exchanges hismerchandize from the rising sun, even to that with which the westernregions are warmed: but he is burried headlong through dangers, as dustwrapped up in a whirlwind; in dread lest he should lose anything out ofthe capital, or [in hope] that he may increase his store. All these areafraid of verses, they hate poets. "He has hay on his horn, [they cry;]avoid him at a great distance: if he can but raise a laugh for his owndiversion, he will not spare any friend: and whatever he has onceblotted upon his paper, he will take a pleasure in letting all the boysand old women know, as they return from the bakehouse or the lake." But,come on, attend to a few words on the other side of the question.In the first place, I will except myself out of the number of those Iwould allow to be poets: for one must not call it sufficient to tag averse: nor if any person, like me, writes in a style bordering onconversation, must you esteem him to be a poet. To him who has genius,who has a soul of a diviner cast, and a greatness of expression, givethe honor of this appellation. On this account some have raised thequestion, whether comedy be a poem or not; because an animated spiritand force is neither in the style, nor the subject-matter: bating thatit differs from prose by a certain measure, it is mere prose. But [onemay object to this, that even in comedy] an inflamed father rages,because his dissolute son, mad after a prostitute mistress, refuses awife with a large portion; and (what is an egregious scandal) ramblesabout drunk with flambeaux by day-light. Yet could Pomponius, were hisfather alive, hear less severe reproofs! Wherefore it is not sufficientto write verses merely in proper language; which if you take to pieces,any person may storm in the same manner as the father in the play. Iffrom these verses which I write at this present, or those that Luciliusdid formerly, you take away certain pauses and measures, and make thatword which was first in order hindermost, by placing the latter [words]before those that preceded [in the verse]; you will not discern thelimbs of a poet, when pulled in pieces, in the same manner as you wouldwere you to transpose ever so [these lines of Ennius]:    When discord dreadful bursts the brazen bars,    And shatters iron locks to thunder forth her wars.So far of this matter; at another opportunity [I may investigate]whether [a comedy] be a true poem or not: now I shall only consider thispoint, whether this [satiric] kind of writing be deservedly an object ofyour suspicion. Sulcius the virulent, and Caprius hoarse with theirmalignancy, walk [openly], and with their libels too [in their hands];each of them a singular terror to robbers: but if a man lives honestlyand with clean hands, he may despise them both. Though you be likehighwaymen, Coelus and Byrrhus, I am not [a common accuser], likeCaprius and Sulcius; why should you be afraid of me? No shop nor stallholds my books, which the sweaty hands of the vulgar and of HermogenesTigellius may soil. I repeat to nobody, except my intimates, and thatwhen I am pressed; nor any where, and before any body. There are manywho recite their writings in the middle of the forum; and who [do it]while bathing: the closeness of the place, [it seems,] gives melody tothe voice. This pleases coxcombs, who never consider whether they dothis to no purpose, or at an unseasonable time. But you, says he,delight to hurt people, and this you do out of a mischievousdisposition. From what source do you throw this calumny upon me? Is anyone then your voucher, with whom I have lived? He who backbites hisabsent friend; [nay more,] who does not defend, at another's accusinghim; who affects to raise loud laughs in company, and the reputation ofa funny fellow, who can feign things he never saw; who cannot keepsecrets; he is a dangerous man: be you, Roman, aware of him. You mayoften see it [even in crowded companies], where twelve sup together onthree couches; one of which shall delight at any rate to asperse therest, except him who furnishes the bath; and him too afterward in hisliquor, when truth-telling Bacchus opens the secrets of his heart. Yetthis man seems entertaining, and well-bred, and frank to you, who are anenemy to the malignant: but do I, if I have laughed because the fopRufillus smells all perfumes, and Gorgonius, like a he-goat, appearinsidious and a snarler to you? If by any means mention happen to bemade of the thefts of Petillius Capitolinus in your company, you defendhim after your manner: [as thus,] Capitolinus has had me for a companionand a friend from childhood, and being applied to, has done many thingson my account: and I am glad that he lives secure in the city; but Iwonder, notwithstanding, how he evaded that sentence. This is the veryessence of black malignity, this is mere malice itself: which crime,that it shall be far remote from my writings, and prior to them from mymind, I promise, if I can take upon me to promise any thing sincerely ofmyself. If I shall say any thing too freely, if perhaps too ludicrously,you must favor me by your indulgence with this allowance. For myexcellent father inured me to this custom, that by noting eachparticular vice I might avoid it by the example [of others]. When heexhorted me that I should live thriftily, frugally, and content withwhat he had provided for me; don't you see, [would he say,] howwretchedly the son of Albius lives? and how miserably Barrus? A stronglesson to hinder any one from squandering away his patrimony. When hewould deter me from filthy fondness for a light woman: [take care, saidhe,] that you do not resemble Sectanus. That I might not followadulteresses, when I could enjoy a lawful amour: the character cried he,of Trobonius, who was caught in the fact, is by no means creditable.The philosopher may tell you the reasons for what is better to beavoided, and what to be pursued. It is sufficient for me, if I canpreserve the morality traditional from my forefathers, and keep yourlife and reputation inviolate, so long as you stand in need of aguardian: so soon as age shall have strengthened your limbs and mind,you will swim without cork. In this manner he formed me, as yet a boy:and whether he ordered me to do any particular thing: You have anauthority for doing this: [then] he instanced some one of the selectmagistrates: or did he forbid me [any thing]; can you doubt, [says he,]whether this thing be dishonorable, and against your interest to bedone, when this person and the other is become such a burning shame forhis bad character [on these accounts]? As a neighboring funeraldispirits sick gluttons, and through fear of death forces them to havemercy upon themselves; so other men's disgraces often deter tender mindsfrom vices. From this [method of education] I am clear from all suchvices, as bring destruction along with them: by lighter foibles, andsuch as you may excuse, I am possessed. And even from these, perhaps, amaturer age, the sincerity of a friend, or my own judgment, may makegreat reductions. For neither when I am in bed, or in the piazzas, am Iwanting to myself: this way of proceeding is better; by doing such athing I shall live more comfortably; by this means I shall render myselfagreeable to my friends; such a transaction was not clever; what, shallI, at any time, imprudently commit any thing like it? These things Iresolve in silence by myself. When I have any leisure, I amuse myselfwith my papers. This is one of those lighter foibles [I was speakingof]: to which if you do not grant your indulgence, a numerous band ofpoets shall come, which will take my part (for we are many more innumber), and, like the Jews, we will force you to come over to ournumerous party.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE V._He describes a certain journey of his from Rome to Brundusium withgreat pleasantry_.Having left mighty Rome, Aricia received me in but a middling inn:Heliodorus the rhetorician, most learned in the Greek language, was myfellow-traveller: thence we proceeded to Forum-Appi, stuffed withsailors and surly landlords. This stage, but one for better travellersthan we, being laggard we divided into two; the Appian way is lesstiresome to bad travelers. Here I, on account of the water, which wasmost vile, proclaim war against my belly, waiting not without impatiencefor my companions while at supper. Now the night was preparing to spreadher shadows upon the earth, and to display the constellations in theheavens. Then our slaves began to be liberal of their abuse to thewatermen, and the watermen to our slaves. "Here bring to." "You arestowing in hundreds; hold, now sure there is enough." Thus while thefare is paid, and the mule fastened a whole hour is passed away. Thecursed gnats, and frogs of the fens, drive off repose. While thewaterman and a passenger, well-soaked with plenty of thick wine, viewith one another in singing the praises of their absent mistresses: atlength the passenger being fatigued, begins to sleep; and the lazywaterman ties the halter of the mule, turned out a-grazing, to a stone,and snores, lying flat on his back. And now the day approached, when wesaw the boat made no way; until a choleric fellow, one of thepassengers, leaps out of the boat, and drubs the head and sides of bothmule and waterman with a willow cudgel. At last we were scarcely setashore at the fourth hour. We wash our faces and hands in thy water, OFeronia. Then, having dined we crawled on three miles; and arrive underAnxur, which is built up on rocks that look white to a great distance.Maecenas was to come here, as was the excellent Cocceius. Both sentambassadors on matters of great importance, having been accustomed toreconcile friends at variance. Here, having got sore eyes, I was obligedto use the black ointment. In the meantime came Maecenas, and Cocceius,and Fonteius Capito along with them, a man of perfect polish, andintimate with Mark Antony, no man more so.Without regret we passed Fundi, where Aufidius Luscus was praetor,laughing at the honors of that crazy scribe, his praetexta, laticlave,and pan of incense. At our next stage, being weary, we tarry in the cityof the Mamurrae, Murena complimenting us with his house, and Capito withhis kitchen.The next day arises, by much the most agreeable to all: for Plotius, andVarius, and Virgil met us at Sinuessa; souls more candid ones thanwhich the world never produced, nor is there a person in the world morebound to them than myself. Oh what embraces, and what transports werethere! While I am in my senses, nothing can I prefer to a pleasantfriend. The village, which is next adjoining to the bridge of Campania,accommodated us with lodging [at night]; and the public officers withsuch a quantity of fuel and salt as they are obliged to [by law]. Fromthis place the mules deposited their pack-saddles at Capua betimes [inthe morning]. Maecenas goes to play [at tennis]; but I and Virgil to ourrepose: for to play at tennis is hurtful to weak eyes and feebleconstitutions.From this place the villa of Cocceius, situated above the Caudian inns,which abounds with plenty, receives us. Now, my muse, I beg of youbriefly to relate the engagement between the buffoon Sarmentus andMessius Cicirrus; and from what ancestry descended each began thecontest. The illustrious race of Messius-Oscan: Sarmentus's mistress isstill alive. Sprung from such families as these, they came to thecombat. First, Sarmentus: "I pronounce thee to have the look of a madhorse." We laugh; and Messius himself [says], "I accept your challenge:"and wags his head. "O!" cries he, "if the horn were not cut off yourforehead, what would you not do; since, maimed as you are, you bully atsuch a rate?" For a foul scar has disgraced the left part of Messius'sbristly forehead. Cutting many jokes upon his Campanian disease, andupon his face, he desired him to exhibit Polyphemus's dance: that he hadno occasion for a mask, or the tragic buskins. Cicirrus [retorted]largely to these: he asked, whether he had consecrated his chain to thehousehold gods according to his vow; though he was a scribe, [he toldhim] his mistress's property in him was not the less. Lastly, he asked,how he ever came to run away; such a lank meager fellow, for whom apound of corn [a-day] would be ample. We were so diverted, that wecontinued that supper to an unusual length.Hence we proceed straight on for Beneventum; where the bustling landlordalmost burned himself, in roasting some lean thrushes: for, the firefalling through the old kitchen [floor], the spreading flame made agreat progress toward the highest part of the roof. Then you might haveseen the hungry guests and frightened slaves snatching their supper out[of the flames], and everybody endeavoring to extinguish the fire.After this Apulia began to discover to me her well-known mountains,which the Atabulus scorches [with his blasts]: and through which weshould never have crept, unless the neighboring village of Trivicus hadreceived us, not without a smoke that brought tears into our eyes;occasioned by a hearth's burning some green boughs with the leaves uponthem. Here, like a great fool as I was, I wait till midnight for adeceitful mistress; sleep, however, overcomes me while meditating love;and disagreeable dreams make me ashamed of myself and every thing aboutme.Hence we were bowled away in chaises twenty-four miles, intending tostop at a little town, which one cannot name in a verse, but it iseasily enough known by description. For water is sold here, though theworst in the world; but their bread is exceeding fine, inasmuch that theweary traveler is used to carry it willingly on his shoulders; for [thebread] at Canusium is gritty; a pitcher of water is worth no more [thanit is here]: which place was formerly built by the valiant Diomedes.Here Varius departs dejected from his weeping friends.Hence we came to Rubi, fatigued: because we made a long journey, and itwas rendered still more troublesome by the rains. Next day the weatherwas better, the road worse, even to the very walls of Barium thatabounds in fish. In the next place Egnatia, which [seems to have] beenbuilt on troubled waters, gave us occasion for jests and laughter; forthey wanted to persuade us, that at this sacred portal the incensemelted without fire. The Jew Apella may believe this, not I. For I havelearned [from Epicurus], that the gods dwell in a state of tranquillity;nor, if nature effect any wonder, that the anxious gods send it from thehigh canopy of the heavens.Brundusium ends both my long journey, and my paper.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE VI._Of true nobility_.Not Maecenas, though of all the Lydians that ever inhabited the Tuscanterritories, no one is of a nobler family than yourself; and though youhave ancestors both on father's and mother's side, that in times pasthave had the command of mighty legions; do you, as the generality arewont, toss up your nose at obscure people, such as me, who has [only] afreed-man for my father: since you affirm that it is of no consequenceof what parents any man is born, so that he be a man of merit. Youpersuade yourself, with truth, that before the dominions of Tullius, andthe reign of one born a slave, frequently numbers of men descended fromancestors of no rank, have both lived as men of merit, and have beendistinguished by the greatest honors: [while] on the other handLaevinus, the descendant of that famous Valerius, by whose meansTarquinius Superbus was expelled from his kingdom, was not a farthingmore esteemed [on account of his family, even] in the judgment of thepeople, with whose disposition you are well acquainted; who oftenfoolishly bestow honors on the unworthy, and are from their stupidityslaves to a name: who are struck with admiration by inscriptions andstatues. What is it fitting for us to do, who are far, very far removedfrom the vulgar [in our sentiments]? For grant it, that the people hadrather confer a dignity on Laevinus than on Decius, who is a new man;and the censor Appius would expel me [the senate-house], because I wasnot sprung from a sire of distinction: and that too deservedly, inasmuchas I rested not content in my own condition. But glory drags in herdazzling car the obscure as closely fettered as those of nobler birth.What did it profit you, O Tullius, to resume the robe that you [wereforced] to lay aside, and become a tribune [again]? Envy increased uponyou, which had been less, it you had remained in a private station. Forwhen any crazy fellow has laced the middle of his leg with the sablebuskins, and has let flow the purple robe from his breast, heimmediately hears: "Who is this man? Whose son is he?" Just as if therebe any one, who labors under the same distemper as Barrus does, so thathe is ambitious of being reckoned handsome; let him go where he will, heexcites curiosity among the girls of inquiring into particulars; as whatsort of face, leg, foot, teeth, hair, he has. Thus he who engages to hiscitizens to take care of the city, the empire, and Italy, and thesanctuaries of the gods, forces every mortal to be solicitous, and toask from what sire he is descended, or whether he is base by theobscurity of his mother. What? do you, the son of a Syrus, a Dana, or aDionysius, dare to cast down the citizens of Rome from the [Tarpeian]rock, or deliver them up to Cadmus [the executioner]? But, [you maysay,] my colleague Novius sits below me by one degree: for he is onlywhat my father was. And therefore do you esteem yourself a Paulus or aMessala? But he (Novius), if two hundred carriages and three funeralswere to meet in the forum, could make noise enough to drown all theirhorns and trumpets: this [kind of merit] at least has its weight withus.Now I return to myself, who am descended from a freed-man; whom everybody nibbles at, as being descended from a freed-man. Now, because,Maecenas, I am a constant guest of yours; but formerly, because a Romanlegion was under my command, as being a military tribune. This lattercase is different from the former: for, though any person perhaps mightjustly envy me that post of honor, yet could he not do so with regard toyour being my friend! especially as you are cautious to admit such asare worthy; and are far from having any sinister ambitious views. I cannot reckon myself a lucky fellow on this account, as if it were byaccident that I got you for my friend; for no kind of accident threw youin my way. That best of men, Virgil, long ago, and after him, Varius,told you what I was. When first I came into your presence, I spoke a fewwords in a broken manner (for childish bashfulness hindered me fromspeaking more); I did not tell you that I was the issue of anillustrious father: I did not [pretend] that I rode about the country ona Satureian horse, but plainly what I really was; you answer (as yourcustom is) a few words: I depart: and you re-invite me after the ninthmonth, and command me to be in the number of your friends. I esteem it agreat thing that I pleased you, who distinguish probity from baseness,not by the illustriousness of a father, but by the purity of heart andfeelings.And yet if my disposition be culpable for a few faults, and those smallones, otherwise perfect (as if you should condemn moles scattered over abeautiful skin), if no one can justly lay to my charge avarice, norsordidness, nor impure haunts; if, in fine (to speak in my own praise),I live undefiled, and innocent, and dear to my friends; my father wasthe cause of all this: who though a poor man on a lean farm, wasunwilling to send me to a school under [the pedant] Flavius, where greatboys, sprung from great centurions, having their satchels and tabletsswung over their left arm, used to go with money in their hands the veryday it was due; but had the spirit to bring me a child to Rome, to betaught those arts which any Roman knight and senator can teach his ownchildren. So that, if any person had considered my dress, and the slaveswho attended me in so populous a city, he would have concluded thatthose expenses were supplied to me out of some hereditary estate. Hehimself, of all others the most faithful guardian, was constantly aboutevery one of my preceptors. Why should I multiply words? He preserved mechaste (which is the first honor or virtue) not only from every actualguilt, but likewise from [every] foul imputation, nor was he afraid lestany should turn it to his reproach, if I should come to follow abusiness attended with small profits, in capacity of an auctioneer, or(what he was himself) a tax-gatherer. Nor [had that been the case]should I have complained. On this account the more praise is due to him,and from me a greater degree of gratitude. As long as I am in my senses,I can never be ashamed of such a father as this, and therefore shall notapologize [for my birth], in the manner that numbers do, by affirming itto be no fault of theirs. My language and way of thinking is fardifferent from such persons. For if nature were to make us from acertain term of years to go over our past time again, and [suffer us] tochoose other parents, such as every man for ostentation's sake wouldwish for himself; I, content with my own, would not assume those thatare honored with the ensigns and seats of state; [for which I shouldseem] a madman in the opinion of the mob, but in yours, I hope a man ofsense; because I should be unwilling to sustain a troublesome burden,being by no means used to it. For I must [then] immediately set aboutacquiring a larger fortune, and more people must be complimented; andthis and that companion must be taken along, so that I could neithertake a jaunt into the country, or a journey by myself; more attendantsand more horses must be fed; coaches must be drawn. Now, if I please, Ican go as far as Tarentum on my bob-tail mule, whose loins theportmanteau galls with his weight, as does the horseman his shoulders.No one will lay to my charge such sordidness as he may, Tullius, to you,when five slaves follow you, a praetor, along the Tiburtian way,carrying a traveling kitchen, and a vessel of wine. Thus I live morecomfortably, O illustrious senator, than you, and than thousands ofothers. Wherever I have a fancy, I walk by myself: I inquire the priceof herbs and bread; I traverse the tricking circus, and the forum oftenin the evening: I stand listening among the fortune-tellers: thence Itake myself home to a plate of onions, pulse, and pancakes. My supper isserved up by three slaves; and a white stone slab supports two cups anda brimmer: near the salt-cellar stands a homely cruet with a littlebowl, earthen-ware from Campania. Then I go to rest; by no meansconcerned that I must rise in the morning, and pay a visit to the statueof Marsyas, who denies that he is able to bear the look of the youngerNovius. I lie a-bed to the fourth hour; after that I take a ramble, orhaving read or written what may amuse me in my privacy, I am anointedwith oil, but not with such as the nasty Nacca, when he robs the lamps.But when the sun, become more violent, has reminded me to go to bathe, Iavoid the Campus Martius and the game of hand-ball. Having dined in atemperate manner, just enough to hinder me from having an empty stomach,during the rest of the day I trifle in my own house. This is the life ofthose who are free from wretched and burthensome ambition: with suchthings as these I comfort myself, in a way to live more delightfullythan if my grandfather had been a quaestor, and father and uncle too.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE VII._He humorously describes a squabble betwixt Rupilius and Persius._In what manner the mongrel Persius revenged the filth and venom ofRupilius, surnamed King, is I think known to all the blind men andbarbers. This Persius, being a man of fortune, had very great businessat Clazomenae, and, into the bargain, certain troublesome litigationswith King; a hardened fellow, and one who was able to exceed even Kingin virulence; confident, blustering, of such a bitterness of speech,that he would outstrip the Sisennae and Barri, if ever so well equipped.I return to King. After nothing could be settled betwixt them (forpeople among whom adverse war breaks out, are proportionably vexatiouson the same account as they are brave. Thus between Hector, the son ofPriam, and the high-spirited Achilles, the rage was of so capital anature, that only the final destruction [one of them] could determineit; on no other account, than that valor in each of them wasconsummate. If discord sets two cowards to work; or if an engagementhappens between two that are not of a match, as that of Diomed and theLycian Glaucus; the worst man will walk off, [buying his peace] byvoluntarily sending presents), when Brutus held as praetor the fertileAsia, this pair, Rupilius and Persius, encountered; in such a manner,that [the gladiators] Bacchius and Bithus were not better matched.Impetuous they hurry to the cause, each of them a fine sight.Persius opens his case; and is laughed at by all the assembly; he extolsBrutus, and extols the guard; he styles Brutus the sun of Asia, and hisattendants he styles salutary stars, all except King; that he [he says,]came like that dog, the constellation hateful to husbandman: he pouredalong like a wintery flood, where the ax seldom comes.Then, upon his running on in so smart and fluent a manner, thePraenestine [king] directs some witticisms squeezed from the vineyard,himself a hardy vine-dresser, never defeated, to whom the passenger hadoften been obliged to yield, bawling cuckoo with roaring voice.But the Grecian Persius, as soon as he had been well sprinkled withItalian vinegar, bellows out: O Brutus, by the great gods I conjure you,who are accustomed to take off kings, why do you not dispatch this King?Believe me, this is a piece of work which of right belongs to you.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE VIII._Priapus complains that the Esquilian mount is infested with theincantations of sorceresses_.Formerly I was the trunk of a wild fig-tree, an useless log: when theartificer, in doubt whether he should make a stool or a Priapus of me,determined that I should be a god. Henceforward I became a god, thegreatest terror of thieves and birds: for my right hand restrainsthieves, and a bloody-looking pole stretched out from my frightfulmiddle: but a reed fixed upon the crown of my head terrifies themischievous birds, and hinders them from settling in these new gardens.Before this the fellow-slave bore dead corpses thrown out of theirnarrow cells to this place, in order to be deposited in paltry coffins.This place stood a common sepulcher for the miserable mob, for thebuffoon Pantelabus, and Nomentanus the rake. Here a column assigned athousand feet [of ground] in front, and three hundred toward the fields:that the burial-place should not descend to the heirs of the estate. Nowone may live in the Esquiliae, [since it is made] a healthy place; andwalk upon an open terrace, where lately the melancholy passengers beheldthe ground frightful with white bones; though both the thieves and wildbeasts accustomed to infest this place, do not occasion me so much careand trouble, as do [these hags], that turn people's minds by theirincantations and drugs. These I can not by any means destroy nor hinder,but that they will gather bones and noxious herbs, as soon as thefleeting moon has shown her beauteous face.I myself saw Canidia, with her sable garment tucked up, walk with barefeet and disheveled hair, yelling together with the elder Sagana.Paleness had rendered both of them horrible to behold. They began toclaw up the earth with their nails, and to tear a black ewe-lamb topieces with their teeth. The blood was poured into a ditch, that thencethey might charm out the shades of the dead, ghosts that were to givethem answers. There was a woolen effigy too, another of wax: the woolenone larger, which was to inflict punishment on the little one. The waxenstood in a suppliant posture, as ready to perish in a servile manner.One of the hags invokes Hecate, and the other fell Tisiphone. Then mightyou see serpents and infernal bitches wander about, and the moon withblushes hiding behind the lofty monuments, that she might not be awitness to these doings. But if I lie, even a tittle, may my head becontaminated with the white filth of ravens; and may Julius, and theeffeminate Miss Pediatous, and the knave Voranus, come to water upon me,and befoul me. Why should I mention every particular? viz. in whatmanner, speaking alternately with Sagana, the ghosts uttered dismal andpiercing shrieks; and how by stealth they laid in the earth a wolf'sbeard, with the teeth of a spotted snake; and how a great blaze flamedforth from the waxen image? And how I was shocked at the voices andactions of these two furies, a spectator however by no means incapableof revenge? For from my cleft body of fig-tree wood I uttered a loudnoise with as great an explosion as a burst bladder. But they ran intothe city: and with exceeding laughter and diversion might you have seenCanidia's artificial teeth, and Sagana's towering tete of false hairfalling off, and the herbs, and the enchanted bracelets from her arm.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE IX._He describes his sufferings from the loquacity of an impertinentfellow._I was accidentally going along the Via Sacra, meditating on some trifleor other, as is my custom, and totally intent upon it. A certain person,known to me by name only, runs up; and, having seized my hand, "How doyou do, my dearest fellow?" "Tolerably well," say I, "as times go; and Iwish you every thing you can desire." When he still followed me; "Wouldyou any thing?" said I to him. But, "You know me," says he: "I am a manof learning." "Upon that account," says I: "you will have more of myesteem." Wanting sadly to get away from him, sometimes I walked onapace, now and then I stopped, and I whispered something to my boy. Whenthe sweat ran down to the bottom of my ankles. O, said I to myself,Bolanus, how happy were you in a head-piece! Meanwhile he kept pratingon any thing that came uppermost, praised the streets, the city; and,when I made him no answer; "You want terribly," said he, "to get away; Iperceived it long ago; but you effect nothing. I shall still stick closeto you; I shall follow you hence: Where are you at present bound for?""There is no need for your being carried so much about: I want to see aperson, who is unknown to you: he lives a great way off across theTiber, just by Caesar's gardens." "I have nothing to do, and I am notlazy; I will attend you thither." I hang down my ears like an ass ofsurly disposition, when a heavier load than ordinary is put upon hisback. He begins again: "If I am tolerably acquainted with myself, youwill not esteem Viscus or Varius as a friend, more than me; for who canwrite more verses, or in a shorter time than I? Who can move his limbswith softer grace [in the dance]? And then I sing, so that evenHermogenes may envy."Here there was an opportunity of interrupting him. "Have you a mother,[or any] relations that are interested in your welfare?" "Not one haveI; I have buried them all." "Happy they! now I remain. Dispatch me: forthe fatal moment is at hand, which an old Sabine sorceress, havingshaken her divining urn, foretold when I was a boy; 'This child, neithershall cruel poison, nor the hostile sword, nor pleurisy, nor cough, northe crippling gout destroy: a babbler shall one day demolish him; if hebe wise, let him avoid talkative people, as soon as he comes to man'sestate.'"One fourth of the day being now passed, we came to Vesta's temple; and,as good luck would have it, he was obliged to appear to hisrecognizance; which unless he did, he must have lost his cause. "If youlove me," said he, "step in here a little." "May I die! if I be eitherable to stand it out, or have any knowledge of the civil laws: andbesides, I am in a hurry, you know whither." "I am in doubt what I shalldo," said he; "whether desert you or my cause." "Me, I beg of you." "Iwill not do it," said he; and began to take the lead of me. I (as it isdifficult to contend with one's master) follow him. "How stands it withMaecenas and you?" Thus he begins his prate again. "He is one of fewintimates, and of a very wise way of thinking. No man ever made use ofopportunity with more cleverness. You should have a powerful assistant,who could play an underpart, if you were disposed to recommend this man;may I perish, if you should not supplant all the rest!" "We do not livethere in the manner you imagine; there is not a house that is freer ormore remote from evils of this nature. It is never of any disservice tome, that any particular person is wealthier or a better scholar than Iam: every individual has his proper place." "You tell me a marvelousthing, scarcely credible." "But it is even so." "You the more inflame mydesires to be near his person." "You need only be inclined to it: suchis your merit, you will accomplish it: and he is capable of being won;and on that account the first access to him he makes difficult." "I willnot be wanting to myself: I will corrupt his servants with presents; ifI am excluded to-day, I will not desist; I will seek opportunities; Iwill meet him in the public streets; I will wait upon him home. Lifeallows nothing to mortals without great labor." While he was running onat this rate, lo! Fuscus Aristius comes up, a dear friend of mine, andone who knows the fellow well. We make a stop. "Whence come you? whitherare you going?" he asks and answers. I began to twitch him [by theelbow], and to take hold of his arms [that were affectedly] passive,nodding and distorting my eyes, that he might rescue me. Cruelly archhe laughs, and pretends not to take the hint: anger galled my liver."Certainly," [said I, "Fuscus,] you said that you wanted to communicatesomething to me in private." "I remember it very well; but will tell ityou at a better opportunity: to-day is the thirtieth sabbath. Would youaffront the circumcised Jews?" I reply, "I have no scruple [on thataccount]." "But I have: I am something weaker, one of the multitude. Youmust forgive me: I will speak with you on another occasion." And hasthis sun arisen so disastrous upon me! The wicked rogue runs away, andleaves me under the knife. But by luck his adversary met him: and,"Whither are you going, you infamous fellow?" roars he with a loudvoice: and, "Do you witness the arrest?" I assent. He hurries him intocourt: there is a great clamor on both sides, a mob from all parts. ThusApollo preserved me.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE X._He supports the judgment which he had before given of Lucilius, andintersperses some excellent precepts for the writing of Satire._To be sure I did say, that the verses of Lucilius did not run smoothly.Who is so foolish an admirer of Lucilius, that he would not own this?But the same writer is applauded in the same Satire, on account of hishaving lashed the town with great humor. Nevertheless granting him this,I will not therefore give up the other [considerations]; for at thatrate I might even admire the farces of Laberius, as fine poems. Hence itis by no means sufficient to make an auditor grim with laughter: and yetthere is some degree of merit even in this. There is need of concisenessthat the sentence may run, and not embarrass itself with verbiage, thatoverloads the sated ear; and sometimes a grave, frequently jocose styleis necessary, supporting the character one while of the orator and [atanother] of the poet, now and then that of a graceful rallier that curbsthe force of his pleasantry and weakens it on purpose. For ridiculeoften decides matters of importance more effectually and in a bettermanner, than severity. Those poets by whom the ancient comedy waswritten, stood upon this [foundation], and in this are they worthy ofimitation: whom neither the smooth-faced Hermogenes ever read, nor thatbaboon who is skilled in nothing but singing [the wanton compositionsof] Calvus and Catullus.But [Lucilius, say they,] did a great thing, when he intermixed Greekwords with Latin. O late-learned dunces! What! do you think that arduousand admirable, which was done by Pitholeo the Rhodian? But [still theycry] the style elegantly composed of both tongues is the more pleasant,as if Falernian wine is mixed with Chian. When you make verses, I askyou this question; were you to undertake the difficult cause of theaccused Petillius, would you (for instance), forgetful of your countryand your father, while Pedius, Poplicola, and Corvinus sweat throughtheir causes in Latin, choose to intermix words borrowed from abroad,like the double-tongued Canusinian. And as for myself, who was born onthis side the water, when I was about making Greek verses; Romulusappearing to me after midnight, when dreams are true, forbade me inwords to this effect; "You could not be guilty of more madness bycarrying timber into a wood, than by desiring to throng in among thegreat crowds of Grecian writers."While bombastical Alpinus murders Memnon, and while he deforms the muddysource of the Rhine, I amuse myself with these satires; which canneither be recited in the temple [of Apollo], as contesting for theprize when Tarpa presides as judge, nor can have a run over and overagain represented in the theatres. You, O Fundanius, of all menbreathing are the most capable of prattling tales in a comic vein, howan artful courtesan and a Davus impose upon an old Chremes. Pollio singsthe actions of kings in iambic measure; the sublime Varias composes themanly epic, in a manner that no one can equal: to Virgil the Muses,delighting in rural scenes, have granted the delicate and the elegant.It was this kind [of satiric writing], the Aticinian Varro and someothers having attempted it without success, in which I may have someslight merit, inferior to the inventor: nor would I presume to pull offthe [laurel] crown placed upon his brow with great applause.But I said that he flowed muddily, frequently indeed bearing along morethings which ought to be taken away than left. Be it so; do you, who area scholar, find no fault with any thing in mighty Homer, I pray? Doesthe facetious Lucilius make no alterations in the tragedies of Accius?Does not he ridicule many of Ennius' verses, which are too light forthe gravity [of the subject]? When he speaks of himself by no means assuperior to what he blames. What should hinder me likewise, when I amreading the works of Lucilius, from inquiring whether it be his[genius], or the difficult nature of his subject, that will not sufferhis verses to be more finished, and to run more smoothly than if someone, thinking it sufficient to conclude a something of six feet, be fondof writing two hundred verses before he eats, and as many after supper?Such was the genius of the Tuscan Cassius, more impetuous than a rapidriver; who, as it is reported, was burned [at the funeral pile] with hisown books and papers. Let it be allowed, I say, that Lucilius was ahumorous and polite writer; that he was also more correct than [Ennius],the author of a kind of poetry [not yet] well cultivated, nor attemptedby the Greeks, and [more correct likewise] than the tribe of our oldpoets: but yet he, if he had been brought down by the Fates to this ageof ours, would have retrenched a great deal from his writings: he wouldhave pruned off every thing that transgressed the limits of perfection;and, in the composition of verses, would often have scratched his head,and bit his nails to the quick.You that intend to write what is worthy to be read more than once, blotfrequently: and take no-pains to make the multitude admire you, contentwith a few [judicious] readers. What, would you be such a fool as to beambitious that your verses should be taught in petty schools? That isnot my case. It is enough for me, that the knight [Maecenas] applauds:as the courageous actress, Arbuscula, expressed herself, in contempt ofthe rest of the audience, when she was hissed [by the populace]. What,shall that grubworm Pantilius have any effect upon me? Or can it vex me,that Demetrius carps at me behind my back? or because the triflerFannius, that hanger-on to Hermogenes Tigellius, attempts to hurt me?May Plotius and Varius, Maecenas and Virgil, Valgius and Octaviusapprove these Satires, and the excellent Fuscus likewise; and I couldwish that both the Visci would join in their commendations: ambitionapart, I may mention you, O Pollio: you also, Messala, together withyour brother; and at the same time, you, Bibulus and Servius; and alongwith these you, candid Furnius; many others whom, though men of learningand my friends, I purposely omit--to whom I would wish these Satires,such as they are, may give satisfaction; and I should be chagrined, ifthey pleased in a degree below my expectation. You, Demetrius, and you,Tigellius, I bid lament among the forms of your female pupils.Go, boy, and instantly annex this Satire to the end of my book.       *       *       *       *       *THE SECOND BOOK OF THE SATIRES OF HORACE.SATIRE I._He supposes himself to consult with Trebatius, whether he should desistfrom writing satires, or not_.There are some persons to whom I seem too severe in [the writing of]satire, and to carry it beyond proper bounds: another set are ofopinion, that all I have written is nerveless, and that a thousandverses like mine may be spun out in a day. Trebatius, give me youradvice, what shall I do. Be quiet. I should not make, you say, verses atall. I do say so. May I be hanged, if that would not be best: but I cannot sleep. Let those, who want sound sleep, anointed swim thrice acrossthe Tiber: and have their clay well moistened with wine over-night. Or,if such a great love of scribbling hurries you on, venture to celebratethe achievements of the invincible Caesar, certain of bearing off amplerewards for your pains.Desirous I am, my good father, [to do this,] but my strength fails me,nor can any one describe the troops bristled with spears, nor the Gaulsdying on their shivered darts, nor the wounded Parthian falling from hishorse. Nevertheless you may describe him just and brave, as the wiseLucilius did Scipio. I will not be wanting to myself, when anopportunity presents itself: no verses of Horace's, unless well-timed,will gain the attention of Caesar; whom, [like a generous steed,] if youstroke awkwardly, he will kick upon you, being at all quarters on hisguard. How much better would this be, than to wound with severe satirePantolabus the buffoon, and the rake Nomentanus! when every body isafraid for himself, [lest he should be the next,] and hates you, thoughhe is not meddled with. What shall I do? Milonius falls a dancing themoment he becomes light-headed and warm, and the candles appearmultiplied. Castor delights in horsemanship: and he, who sprang from thesame egg, in boxing. As many thousands of people [as there are in theworld], so many different inclinations are there. It delights me tocombine words in meter, after the manner of Lucilius, a better man thanboth of us. He long ago communicated his secrets to his books, as tofaithful friends; never having recourse elsewhere, whether things wentwell or ill with him: whence it happens, that the whole life of this old[poet] is as open to the view, as if it had been painted en a votivetablet. His example I follow, though in doubt whether I am a Lucanian oran Apulian; for the Venusinian farmers plow upon the boundaries of bothcountries, who (as the ancient tradition has it) were sent, on theexpulsion of the Samnites, for this purpose, that the enemy might notmake incursions on the Romans, through a vacant [unguarded frontier]: orlest the Apulian nation, or the fierce Lucanian, should make aninvasion. But this pen of mine shall not willfully attack any manbreathing, and shall defend me like a sword that is sheathed in thescabbard which why should I attempt to draw, [while I am] safe fromhostile villains? O Jupiter, father and sovereign, may my weapon laidaside wear away with rust, and may no one injure me, who am desirous ofpeace? But that man shall provoke me (I give notice, that it is betternot to touch me) shall weep [his folly], and as a notorious charactershall be sung through all the streets of Rome.Cervius, when he is offended, threatens one with the laws and the[judiciary] urn; Canidia, Albutius' poison to those with whom she is atenmity, Turius [threatens] great damages, if you contest any thing whilehe is judge. How every animal terrifies those whom he suspects, withthat in which he is most powerful, and how strong natural instinctcommands this, thus infer with me.--The wolf attacks with his teeth, thebull with his horns. From what principle is this, if not a suggestionfrom within? Intrust that debauchee Scaeva with the custody of hisancient mother; his pious hand will commit no outrage. A wonder indeed!just as the wolf does not attack any one with his hoof, nor the bullwith his teeth; but the deadly hemlock in the poisoned honey will takeoff the old dame.That I may not be tedious, whether a placid old age awaits me, orwhether death now hovers about me with his sable wings; rich or poor, atRome or (if fortune should so order it) an exile abroad; whatever be thecomplexion of my life, I will write. O my child, I fear you can not belong, lived; and that some creature of the great ones will strike youwith the cold of death. What? when Lucilius had the courage to be thefirst in composing verses after this manner, and to pull off that mask,by means of which each man strutted in public view with a fair outside,though foul within; was Laelius, and he who derived a well deservedtitle from the destruction of Carthage, offended at his wit, or werethey hurt at Metellus being lashed, or Lupus covered over with hislampoons? But he took to task the heads of the people, and the peoplethemselves, class by class; in short, he spared none but virtue and herfriends. Yet, when the valorous Scipio, and the mild philosophicalLaelius, had withdrawn themselves from the crowd and the public scene,they used to divert themselves with him, and joke in a free manner,while a few vegetables were boiled [for supper]. Of whatever rank I am,though below the estate and wit of Lucilius, yet envy must be obliged toown that I have lived well with great men; and, wanting to fasten hertooth upon some weak part, will strike it against the solid: unless you,learned Trebatius, disapprove of any thing [I have said]. For my part, Ican not make any objection to this. But however, that forewarned you maybe upon your guard, lest in ignorance of our sacred laws should bringyou into trouble, [be sure of this] if any person shall make scandalousverses against a particular man, an action lies, and a sentence.Granted, if they are scandalous: but if a man composes good ones, and ispraised by such a judge as Caesar? If a man barks only at him whodeserves his invectives, while he himself is unblamable? The processwill be canceled with laughter: and you, being dismissed, may depart inpeace.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE II._On Frugality_.What and how great is the virtue to live on a little (this is nodoctrine of mine, but what Ofellus the peasant, a philosopher withoutrules and of a home-spun wit, taught me), learn, my good friends, notamong dishes and splendid tables; when the eye is dazzled with the vainglare, and the mind, intent upon false appearances, refuses [to admit]better things; but here, before dinner, discuss this point with me. Whyso? I will inform you, if I can. Every corrupted judge examines badlythe truth. After hunting the hare, or being wearied by an unruly horse,or (if the Roman exercise fatigues you, accustomed to act the Greek)whether the swift ball, while eagerness softens and prevents yourperceiving the severity of the game, or quoits (smite the yielding airwith the quoit) when exercise has worked of squeamishness, dry andhungry, [then let me see you] despise mean viands; and don't drinkanything but Hymettian honey qualified with Falernian wine. Your butleris abroad, and the tempestuous sea preserves the fish by its winterystorms; bread and salt will sufficiently appease an importunate stomach.Whence do you think this happens? and how is it obtained? The consummatepleasure is not in the costly flavor, but in yourself. Do you seek forsauce by sweating. Neither oysters, nor scar, nor the far-fetchedlagois, can give any pleasure to one bloated and pale throughintemperance. Nevertheless, if a peacock were served up, I should hardlybe able to prevent your gratifying the palate with that, rather than apullet, since you are prejudiced by the vanities of things; because thescarce bird is bought with gold, and displays a fine sight with itspainted tail, as if that were anything to the purpose. "What; do you eatthat plumage, which you extol? or has the bird the same beauty whendressed?" Since however there is no difference in the meat, in onepreferably to the other; it is manifest that you are imposed upon by thedisparity of their appearances. Be it so.By what gift are you able to distinguish, whether this lupus, that nowopens its jaws before us, was taken in the Tiber, or in the sea? whetherit was tossed between the bridges or at the mouth of the Tuscan river?Fool, you praise a mullet, that weighs three pounds; which you areobliged to cut into small pieces. Outward appearances lead you, I see.To what intent then do you contemn large lupuses? Because truly theseare by nature bulky, and those very light. A hungry stomach seldomloathes common victuals. O that I could see a swingeing mullet extendedon a swingeing dish! cries that gullet, which is fit for the voraciousharpies themselves. But O [say I] ye southern blasts, be present totaint the delicacies of the [gluttons]: though the boar and turbotnewly taken are rank, when surfeiting abundance provokes the sickstomach; and when the sated guttler prefers turnips and sharpelecampane. However, all [appearance of] poverty is not quite banishedfrom the banquets of our nobles; for there is, even at this day, a placefor paltry eggs and black olives. And it was not long ago, since thetable of Gallonius, the auctioneer, was rendered infamous, by having asturgeon, [served whole upon it]. What? was the sea at that time lessnutritive of turbots? The turbot was secure and the stork unmolested inher nest; till the praetorian [Sempronius], the inventor, first taughtyou [to eat them]. Therefore, if any one were to give it out thatroasted cormorants are delicious, the Roman youth, teachable indepravity, would acquiesce, in it.In the judgment of Ofellus, a sordid way of living will differ widelyfrom frugal simplicity. For it is to no purpose for you to shun thatvice [of luxury]; if you perversely fly to the contrary extreme.Avidienus, to whom the nickname of Dog is applied with propriety, eatsolives of five years old, and wild cornels, and can not bear to rack offhis wine unless it be turned sour, and the smell of his oil you can notendure: which (though clothed in white he celebrates the weddingfestival, his birthday, or any other festal days) he pours out himselfby little and little from a horn cruet, that holds two pounds, upon hiscabbage, [but at the same time] is lavish enough of his old vinegar.What manner of living therefore shall the wise man put in practice, andwhich of these examples shall he copy? On one side the wolf presses on,and the dog on the other, as the saying is. A person will be accounteddecent, if he offends not by sordidness, and is not despicable througheither extreme of conduct. Such a man will not, after the example, ofold Albutius, be savage while he assigns to his servants theirrespective offices; nor, like simple Naevius, will he offer greasy waterto his company: for this too is a great fault.Now learn what and how great benefits a temperate diet will bring alongwith it. In the first place, you will enjoy good health; for you maybelieve how detrimental a diversity of things is to any man, when yourecollect that sort of food, which by its simplicity sat so well uponyour stomach some time ago. But, when you have once mixed boiled androast together, thrushes and shell-fish; the sweet juices will turninto bile, and a thick phlegm will bring a jarring upon the stomach. Donot you see, how pale each guest rises from a perplexing variety ofdishes at an entertainment. Beside this, the body, overloaded with thedebauch of yesterday, depresses the mind along with it, and dashes tothe earth that portion of the divine spirit. Another man, as soon as hehas taken a quick repast, and rendered up his limbs to repose, risesvigorous to the duties of his calling. However, he may sometimes haverecourse to better cheer; whether the returning year shall bring on afestival, or if he have a mind to refresh his impaired body; and whenyears shall approach, and feeble age require to be used more tenderly.But as for you, if a troublesome habit of body, or creeping old age,should come upon you, what addition can be made to that soft indulgence,which you, now in youth and in health anticipate?Our ancestors praised a boar when it was stale not because they had nonoses; but with this view, I suppose, that a visitor coming later thanordinary [might partake of it], though a little musty, rather than thevoracious master should devour it all himself while sweet. I wish thatthe primitive earth had produced me among such heroes as these.Have you any regard for reputation, which affects the human ear moreagreeably than music? Great turbots and dishes bring great disgracealong with them, together with expense. Add to this, that your relationsand neighbors will be exasperated at you, while you will be at enmitywith yourself and desirous of death in vain, since you will not in yourpoverty have three farthings left to purchase a rope withal. Trausius,you say, may with justice be called to account in such language as this;but I possess an ample revenue, and wealth sufficient for threepotentates, Why then have you no better method of expending yoursuperfluities? Why is any man, undeserving [of distressedcircumstances], in want, while you abound: How comes it to pass, thatthe ancient temples of the gods are falling to ruin? Why do not you,wretch that you are, bestow something on your dear country, out of sovast a hoard? What, will matters always go well with you alone? O thou,that hereafter shalt be the great derision of thine enemies! which ofthe two shall depend upon himself in exigences with most certainty? Hewho has used his mind and high-swollen body to redundancies; or he who,contented with a little and provident for the future, like a Wise manin time of peace, shall make the necessary preparations for war?That you may the more readily give credit to these things: I myself,when a little boy, took notice that this Ofellua did not use hisunencumbered estate more profusely, than he does now it is reduced. Youmay see the sturdy husbandman laboring for hire in the land [once hisown, but now] assigned [to others], with his cattle and children,talking to this effect; I never ventured to eat any thing on a work-dayexcept pot-herbs, with a hock of smoke-dried bacon. And when a friendcame to visit me after a long absence, or a neighbor, an acceptableguest to me resting from work on account of the rain, we lived well; noton fishes fetched from the city, but on a pullet and a kid: then a driedgrape, and a nut, with a large fig, set off our second course. Afterthis, it was our diversion to have no other regulation in our cups, savethat against drinking to excess; then Ceres worshiped [with a libation],that the corn might arise in lofty stems, smoothed with wine themelancholy of the contracted brow. Let fortune rage, and stir up newtumults what can she do more to impair my estate? How much more savinglyhave either I lived, or how much less neatly have you gone, my children,since this new possessor came? For nature has appointed to be lord ofthis earthly property, neither him, nor me, nor any one. He drove usout: either iniquity or ignorance in the quirks of the law shall [do thesame] him: certainly in the end his long lived heir shall expel him. Nowthis field under the denomination of Umbrenus', lately it was Ofellus',the perpetual property of no man; for it turns to my use one while, andby and by to that of another. Wherefore, live undaunted; and opposegallant breasts against the strokes of adversity.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE III._Damasippus, in a conversation with Horace, proves this paradox of theStoic philosophy, that most men are actually mad_.You write so seldom, as not to call for parchment four times in theyear, busied in reforming your writings, yet are you angry withyourself, that indulging in wine and sleep you produce nothing worthy tobe the subject of conversation. What will be the consequence? But youtook refuge here, it seems, at the very celebration of the Saturnalia,out of sobriety. Dictate therefore something worthy of your promises;begin. There is nothing. The pens are found fault with to no purpose,and the harmless wall, which must have been built under the displeasureof gods and poets, suffers [to no end]. But you had the look of one thathad threatened many and excellent things, when once your villa hadreceived you, free from employment, under its warm roof. To what purposewas it to stow Plato upon Menander? Eupolis, Archilochus? For what enddid you bring abroad such companions? What? are you setting aboutappeasing envy by deserting virtue? Wretch, you will be despised. Thatguilty Siren, Sloth, must be avoided; or whatever acquisitions you havemade in the better part of your life, must with equanimity be given up.May the gods and godnesses, O Damasippus, present you with a barber foryour sound advice! But by what means did you get so well acquainted withme? Since all my fortunes were dissipated at the middle of the exchange,detached from all business of my own, I mind that of other people. Forformerly I used to take a delight in inquiring, in what vase the craftySisyphus might have washed his feet; what was carved in an unworkmanlikemanner, and what more roughly cast than it ought to be; being aconnoisseur, I offered a hundred thousand sesterces for such a statue; Iwas the only man who knew how to purchase gardens and fine seats to thebest advantage: whence the crowded ways gave me the surname ofMercurial. I know it well; and am amazed at your being cured of thatdisorder. Why a new disorder expelled the old one in a marvelous manner;as it is accustomed to do, when the pain of the afflicted side, or thehead, is turned upon the stomach; as it is with a man in a lethargy,when he turns boxer, and attacks his physician. As long as you donothing like this, be it even as you please. O my good friend, do notdeceive yourself; you likewise are mad, and it is almost "fools all," ifwhat Stertinius insists upon has any truth in it; from whom, being of ateachable disposition, I derived these admirable precepts, at the verytime when, having given me consolation, he ordered me to cultivate aphilosophical beard, and to return cheerfully from the Fabrician bridge.For when, my affairs being desperate, I had a mind to throw myself intothe river, having covered my head [for that purpose], he fortunately wasat my elbow; and [addressed me to this effect]: Take care, how do anything unworthy of yourself; a false shame, says he, afflicts you, whodread to be esteemed a madman among madmen. For in the first place, Iwill inquire, what it is to be mad: and, if this distemper be in youexclusively, I will not add a single word, to prevent you from dyingbravely.The school and sect of Chrysippus deem every man mad, whom vicious follyor the ignorance of truth drives blindly forward. This definition takesin whole nations, this even great kings, the wise man [alone] excepted.Now learn, why all those, who have fixed the name of madman upon you,are as senseless as yourself. As in the woods, where a mistake makespeople wander about from the proper path; one goes out of the way to theright, another to the left; there is the same blunder on both sides,only the illusion is in different directions: in this manner imagineyourself mad; so that he, who derides you, hangs his tail not one jotwiser than yourself. There is one species of folly, that dreads thingsnot in the least formidable; insomuch that it will complain of fires,and rocks, and rivers opposing it in the open plain; there is anotherdifferent from this, but not a whit more approaching to wisdom, thatruns headlong through the midst of flames and floods. Let the lovingmother, the virtuous sister, the father, the wife, together with all therelations [of a man possessed with this latter folly], cry out: "Here isa deep ditch; here is a prodigious rock; take care of yourself:" hewould give no more attention, than did the drunken Fufius some time ago,when he overslept the character of Ilione, twelve hundred Catieni at thesame time roaring out, _O mother, I call you to my aid_. I willdemonstrate to you, that the generality of all mankind are mad in thecommission of some folly similar to this.Damasippus is mad for purchasing antique statues: but is Damasippus'creditor in his senses? Well, suppose I should say to you: receive this,which you can never repay: will you be a madman, if you receive it; orwould you be more absurd for rejecting a booty, which propitious Mercuryoffers? Take bond, like the banker Nerius, for ten thousand sesterces;it will not signify: add the forms of Cicuta, so versed in the knottypoints of law: add a thousand obligations: yet this wicked Proteus willevade all these ties. When you shall drag him to justice, laughing as ifhis cheeks were none of his own; he will be transformed into a boar,sometimes into a bird, sometimes into a stone, and when he pleases Intoa tree. If to conduct one's affairs badly be the part of a madman; andthe reverse, that of a man well in his senses; brain of Perillius(believe me), who orders you [that sum of money], which you can neverrepay, is much more unsound [than yours].Whoever grows pale with evil ambition, or the love of money: whoever isheated with luxury, or gloomy superstition, or any other disease of themind, I command him to adjust his garment and attend: hither, all of ye,come near me in order, while I convince you that you are mad.By far the largest portion of hellebore is to be administered to thecovetous: I know not, whether reason does not consign all Anticyra totheir use. The heirs of Staberius engraved the sum [which he left them]upon his tomb: unless they had acted in this manner, they were under anobligation to exhibit a hundred pair of gladiators to the people, besidean entertainment according to the direction of Arrius; and as much cornas is cut in Africa. Whether I have willed this rightly or wrongly, itwas my will; be not severe against me, [cries the testator]. I imaginethe provident mind of Staberius foresaw this. What then did he moan,when he appointed by will that his heirs should engrave the sum of theirpatrimony upon his tomb-stone? As long as he lived, he deemed poverty agreat vice, and nothing did he more industriously avoid: insomuch that,had he died less rich by one farthing, the more Iniquitous would he haveappeared to himself. For every thing, virtue, fame, glory, divine andhuman affairs, are subservient to the attraction of riches; whichwhoever shall have accumulated, shall be illustrious, brave, just--What,wise too? Ay, and a king, and whatever else he pleases. This he was inhopes would greatly redound to his praise, as if it had been anacquisition of his virtue. In what respect did the Grecian Aristippusact like this; who ordered his slaves to throw away his gold in themidst of Libya; because, encumbered with the burden, they traveled tooslowly? Which is the greater madman of these two? An example is nothingto the purpose, that decides one controversy by creating another. If anyperson were to buy lyres, and [when he had bought them] to stow them inone place; though neither addicted to the lyre nor to any one musewhatsoever: if a man were [to buy] paring-knives and lasts, and were noshoemaker; sails fit for navigation, and were averse to merchandizing;he every where deservedly be styled delirious, and out of his senses.How does he differ from these, who boards up cash and gold [and] knowsnot how to use them when accumulated, and is afraid to touch them as ifthey were consecrated? If any person before a great heap of corn shouldkeep perpetual watch with a long club, and, though the owner of it, andhungry, should not dare to take a single grain from it; and shouldrather feed upon bitter leaves: if while a thousand hogsheads of Chian,or old Falernian, is stored up within (nay, that is nothing--threehundred thousand), he drink nothing, but what is mere sharp vinegarsagain--if, wanting but one year of eighty, he should lie upon straw, whohas bed-clothes rotting in his chest, the food of worms and moths; hewould seem mad, belike, but to few persons: because the greatest part ofmankind labors, under the same malady.Thou dotard, hateful to the gods, dost thou guard [these possessions],for fear of wanting thyself: to the end that thy son, or even thefreedman thy heir, should guzzle it all up? For how little will each daydeduct from your capital, if you begin to pour better oil upon yourgreens and your head, filthy with scurf not combed out? If any thing bea sufficiency, wherefore are you guilty of perjury [wherefore] do yourob, and plunder from all quarters? Are you in your senses? If you wereto begin to pelt the populace with stones, and the slaves, which youpurchased with your money; all the: very boys and girls will cry outthat you are a madman. When you dispatch your wife with a rope, and yourmother with poison, are you right in your head? Why not? You neither didthis at Argos, nor slew your mother with the sword, as the mad Orestesdid. What, do you imagine that he ran? mad after he had murdered hisparent; and that he was not driven mad by the wicked Furies, before hewarmed his sharp steel in his mother's throat? Nay, from the time thatOrestes is deemed to have been of a dangerous disposition, he didnothing in fact that you can blame; he did not dare to offer violencewith his sword to Pylades, nor to his sister Electra; he only gave illlanguage to both of them, by calling her a Fury, and him some other[opprobrious name], which, his violent choler suggested.Opimius, poor amid silver and gold hoarded up within, who used to drinkout of Campanian ware Veientine wine on holidays, and mere dregs oncommon days, was some time ago taken with a prodigious lethargy;insomuch that his heir was already scouring about his coffers and keys,in joy and triumph. His physician, a man of much dispatch and fidelity,raises him in this manner: he orders a table to be brought, and the bagsof money to be poured out, and several persons to approach in order tocount it: by this method he sets the man upon his legs again. And at thesame time he addresses him to this effect. Unless you guard your moneyyour ravenous heir will even now carry off these [treasures] of yours.What, while I am alive? That you may live, therefore, awake; do this.What would you have me do? Why your blood will fail you that are so muchreduced, unless food and some great restorative be administered to yourdecaying stomach. Do you hesitate? come on; take this ptisan made ofrice. How much did it cost? A trifle. How much then? Eight asses. Alas!what does it matter, whether I die of a disease, or by theft and rapine?Who then is sound? He, who is not a fool. What is the covetous man? Botha fool and a madman. What--if a man be not covetous, is he immediately[to be deemed] sound? By no means. Why so, Stoic? I will tell you. Sucha patient (suppose Craterus [the physician] said this) is not sick atthe heart. Is he therefore well, and shall he get up? No, he will forbidthat; because his side or his reins are harassed with an acute disease.[In like manner], such a man is not perjured, nor sordid; let him thensacrifice a hog to his propitious household gods. But he is ambitiousand assuming. Let him make a voyage [then] to Anticyra. For what is thedifference, whether you fling whatever you have into a gulf, or make nouse of your acquisitions?Servius Oppidius, rich in the possession of an ancient estate, isreported when dying to have divided two farms at Canusium between histwo sons, and to have addressed the boys, called to his bed-side, [inthe following manner]: When I saw you, Aulus, carry your playthings andnuts carelessly in your bosom, [and] to give them and game them away;you, Tiberius, count them, and anxious hide them in holes; I was afraidlest a madness of a different nature should possess you: lest you[Aulus], should follow the example of Nomentanus, you, [Tiberius], thatof Cicuta. Wherefore each of you, entreated by our household gods, doyou (Aulus) take care lest you lessen; you (Tiberius) lest you make thatgreater, which your father thinks and the purposes of nature determineto be sufficient. Further, lest glory should entice you, I will bindeach of you by an oath: whichever of you shall be an aedile or apraetor, let him be excommunicated and accursed. Would you destroy youreffects in [largesses of] peas, beans, and lupines, that you may stalkin the circus at large, or stand in a statue of brass, O madman,stripped of your paternal estate, stripped of your money? To the end,forsooth, that you may gain those applauses, which Agrippa gains, like acunning fox imitating a generous lion?O Agamemnon, why do you prohibit any one from burying Ajax? I am a king.I, a plebeian, make no further inquiry. And I command a just thing: but,if I seem unjust to any one, I permit you to speak your sentiments withimpunity. Greatest of kings, may the gods grant that, after the takingof Troy, you may conduct your fleet safe home: may I then have theliberty to ask questions, and reply in my turn? Ask. Why does Ajax, thesecond hero after Achilles, rot [above ground], so often renowned forhaving saved the Grecians; that Priam and Priam's people may exult inhis being unburied, by whose means so many youths have been deprived oftheir country's rites of sepulture. In his madness he killed a thousandsheep, crying out that he was destroying the famous Ulysses andMenelaus, together with me. When you at Aulis substituted your sweetdaughter in the place of a heifer before the altar, and, O impious one,sprinkled her head with the salt cake; did you preserve soundness ofmind? Why do you ask? What then did the mad Ajax do, when he slew theflock with his sword? He abstained from any violence to his wife andchild, though he had imprecated many curses on the sons of Atreus: heneither hurt Teucer, nor even Ulysses himself. But I, out of prudence,appeased the gods with blood, that I might loose the ships detained onan adverse shore. Yes, madman! with your own blood. With my own[indeed], but I was not mad. Whoever shall form images foreign fromreality, and confused in the tumult of impiety, will always be reckoneddisturbed in mind: and it will not matter, whether he go wrong throughfolly or through rage. Is Ajax delirious, while he kills the harmlesslambs? Are you right in your head, when you willfully commit a crime forempty titles? And is your heart pure, while it is swollen with the vice?If any person should take a delight to carry about with him in his sedana pretty lambkin; and should provide clothes, should provide maids andgold for it, as for a daughter, should call it Rufa and Rufilla, andshould destine it a wife for some stout husband; the praetor wouldtake power from him being interdicted, and the management of him woulddevolve to his relations, that were in their senses. What, if a mandevote his daughter instead of a dumb lambkin, is he right of mind?Never say it. Therefore, wherever there is a foolish depravity, therewill be the height of madness. He who is wicked, will be frantic too:Bellona, who delights in bloodshed, has thundered about him, whomprecarious fame has captivated.Now, come on, arraign with me luxury and Nomentanus; for reason willevince that foolish spendthrifts are mad. This fellow, as soon as hereceived a thousand talents of patrimony, issues an order that thefishmonger, the fruiterer, the poulterer, the perfumer, and the impiousgang of the Tuscan alley, sausage-maker, and buffoons, the wholeshambles, together with [all] Velabrum, should come to his house in themorning. What was the consequence? They came in crowds. The pander makesa speech: "Whatever I, or whatever each of these has at home, believe itto be yours: and give your order for it either directly, or to-morrow."Hear what reply the considerate youth made: "You sleep booted inLucanian snow, that I may feast on a boar: you sweep the wintry seas forfish: I am indolent, and unworthy to possess so much. Away with it: doyou take for your share ten hundred thousand sesterces; you as much; youthrice the sum, from whose house your spouse runs, when called for, atmidnight." The son of Aesopus, [the actor] (that he might, forsooth,swallow a million of sesterces at a draught), dissolved in vinegar aprecious pearl, which he had taken from the ear of Metella: how muchwiser was he [in doing this,] than if he had thrown the same into arapid river, or the common sewer? The progeny of Quintius Arrius, anillustrious pair of brothers, twins in wickedness and trifling and thelove of depravity, used to dine upon nightingales bought at a vastexpense: to whom do these belong? Are they in their senses? Are they tobe marked With chalk, or with charcoal?If an [aged person] with a long beard should take a delight to buildbaby-houses, to yoke mice to a go-cart, to play at odd and even, to rideupon a long cane, madness must be his motive. If reason shall evince,that to be in love is a more childish thing than these; and that thereis no difference whether you play the same games in the dust as whenthree years old, or whine in anxiety for the love of a harlot: I beg toknow, if you will act as the reformed Polemon did of old? Will you layaside those ensigns of your disease, your rollers, your mantle, yourmufflers; as he in his cups is said to have privately torn the chapletfrom his neck, after he was corrected by the speech of his fastingmaster? When you offer apples to an angry boy, he refuses them: here,take them, you little dog; he denies you: if you don't give them, hewants them. In what does an excluded lover differ [from such a boy];when he argues with himself whether he should go or not to that veryplace whither he was returning without being sent for, and cleaves tothe hated doors? "What shall I not go to her now, when she invites me ofher own accord? or shall I rather think of putting an end to my pains?She has excluded me; she recalls me: shall I return? No, not if shewould implore me." Observe the servant, not a little wiser: "O master,that which has neither moderation nor conduct, can not be guided byreason or method. In love these evils are inherent; war [one while],then peace again. If any one should endeavor to ascertain these things,that are various as the weather, and fluctuating by blind chance; hewill make no more of it, than if he should set about raving by rightreason and rule." What--when, picking the pippins from the Picenianapples, you rejoice if haply you have hit the vaulted roof; are youyourself? What--when you strike out faltering accents from yourantiquated palate, how much wiser are you than [a child] that buildslittle houses? To the folly [of love] add bloodshed, and stir the firewith a sword. I ask you, when Marius lately, after he had stabbedHellas, threw himself down a precipice, was he raving mad? Or will youabsolve the man from the imputation of a disturbed mind, and condemn himfor the crime, according to your custom, imposing, on things named thathave an affinity in signification?There was a certain freedman, who, an old man, ran about the streets ina morning fasting, with his hands washed, and prayed thus: "Snatch mealone from death" (adding some solemn vow), "me alone, for it is an easymatter for the gods:" this man was sound in both his ears and eyes; buthis master, when he sold him, would except his understanding, unless hewere fond of law-suits. This crowd too Chrysippus places in the fruitfulfamily of Menenius.O Jupiter, who givest and takest away great afflictions, (cries themother of a boy, now lying sick abed for five months), if this coldquartan ague should leave the child, in the morning of that day on whichyou enjoy a fast, he shall stand naked in the Tiber. Should chance orthe physician relieve the patient from his imminent danger, theinfatuated mother will destroy [the boy] placed on the cold bank, andwill bring back the fever. With what disorder of the mind is shestricken? Why, with a superstitious fear of the gods.These arms Stertinius, the eighth of the wise men, gave to me, as to afriend, that for the future I might not be roughly accosted withoutavenging myself. Whosoever shall call me madman, shall hear as much fromme [in return]; and shall learn to look back upon the bag that hangsbehind him.O Stoic, so may you, after your damage, sell all your merchandise thebetter: what folly (for, [it seems,] there are more kinds than one) doyou think I am infatuated with? For to myself I seem sound. What--whenmad Agave carries the amputated head of her unhappy son, does she thenseem mad to herself? I allow myself a fool (let me yield to the truth)and a madman likewise: only declare this, with what distemper of mindyou think me afflicted. Hear, then: in the first place you build; thatis, though from top to bottom you are but of the two-foot size youimitate the tall: and you, the same person, laugh at the spirit andstrut of Turbo in armor, too great for his [little] body: how are youless ridiculous than him? What--is it fitting that, in every thingMaecenas does, you, who are so very much unlike him and so much hisinferior, should vie with him? The young ones of a frog being in herabsence crushed by the foot of a calf, when one of them had made hisescape, he told his mother what a huge beast had dashed his brethren topieces. She began to ask, how big? Whether it were so great? puffingherself up. Greater by half. What, so big? when she had swelled herselfmore and more. If you should burst yourself, says he, you will not beequal to it. This image bears no great dissimilitude to you. Now addpoems (that is, add oil to the fire), which if ever any man in hissenses made, why so do you. I do not mention your horrid rage. Atlength, have done--your way of living beyond your fortune--confineyourself to your own affairs, Damasippus--those thousand passions forthe fair, the young. Thou greater madman, at last, spare thy inferior.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE IV._He ridicules the absurdity of one Catius, who placed the summit ofhuman felicity in the culinary art_.Whence, and whither, Catius? I have not time [to converse with you],being desirous of impressing on my memory some new precepts; such asexcel Pythagoras, and him that was accused by Anytus, and the learnedPlato. I acknowledge my offense, since I have interrupted you at sounlucky a juncture: but grant me your pardon, good sir, I beseech you.If any thing should have slipped you now, you will presently recollectit: whether this talent of yours be of nature, or of art, you areamazing in both. Nay, but I was anxious, how I might retain all [theseprecepts]; as being things of a delicate nature, and in a delicatestyle. Tell me the name of this man; and at the same time whether he isa Roman, or a foreigner? As I have them by heart, I will recite theprecepts: the author shall be concealed.Remember to serve up those eggs that are of an oblong make, as being ofsweeter flavor and more nutritive than the round ones: for, beingtough-shelled, they contain a male yelk. Cabbage that grows in drylands, is sweeter than that about town: nothing is more insipid than agarden much watered. If a visitor should come unexpectedly upon you inthe evening, lest the tough old hen prove disagreeable to his palate,you must learn to drown it in Falernian wine mixed [with water]: thiswill make it tender. The mushrooms that grow in meadows, are of the bestkind: all others are dangerously trusted. That man shall spend hissummers healthy who shall finish his dinners with mulberries black [withripeness], which he shall have gathered from the tree before the sunbecomes violent. Aufidius used to mix honey with strong Falernianinjudiciously; because it is right to commit nothing to the empty veins,but what is emollient: you will, with more propriety, wash your stomachwith soft mead. If your belly should be hard bound, the limpet andcoarse cockles will remove obstructions, and leaves of the small sorrel;but not without Coan white wine. The increasing moons swell thelubricating shell-fish. But every sea is not productive of the exquisitesorts. The Lucrine muscle is better than the Baian murex: [The best]oysters come from the Circaean promontory; cray-fish from Misenum: thesoft Tarentum plumes herself on her broad escalops. Let no onepresumptuously arrogate to himself the science of banqueting, unless thenice doctrine of tastes has been previously considered by him with exactsystem. Nor is it enough to sweep away a parcel of fishes from theexpensive stalls, [while he remains] ignorant for what sort stewed sauceis more proper, and what being roasted, the sated guest will presentlyreplace himself on his elbow. Let the boar from Umbria, and that whichhas been fed with the acorns of the scarlet oak, bend the round dishesof him who dislikes all flabby meat: for the Laurentian boar, fattenedwith flags and reeds, is bad. The vineyard does not always afford themost eatable kids. A man of sense will be fond of the shoulders of apregnant hare. What is the proper age and nature of fish and fowl,though inquired after, was never discovered before my palate. There aresome, whose genius invents nothing but new kinds of pastry. To wasteone's care upon one thing, is by no means sufficient; just as if anyperson should use all his endeavors for this only, that the wine be notbad; quite careless what oil he pours upon his fish. If you set outMassic wine in fair weather, should there be any thing thick in it, itwill be attenuated by the nocturnal air, and the smell unfriendly to thenerves will go off: but, if filtrated through linen, it will lose itsentire flavor. He, who skillfully mixes the Surrentine wine withFalernian lees, collects the sediment with a pigeon's egg: because theyelk sinks to the bottom, rolling down with it all the heterogeneousparts. You may rouse the jaded toper with roasted shrimps and Africancockles; for lettuce after wine floats upon the soured stomach: by hampreferably, and by sausages, it craves to be restored to its appetite:nay, it will prefer every thing which is brought smoking hot from thenasty eating-houses. It is worth while to be acquainted with the twokinds of sauce. The simple consists of sweet oil; which it will beproper to mix with rich wine and pickle, but with no other pickle thanthat by which the Byzantine jar has been tainted. When this, mingledwith shredded herbs, has boiled, and sprinkled with Corycian saffron,has stood, you shall over and above add what the pressed berry of theVenafran olive yields. The Tiburtian yield to the Picenian apples injuice, though they excel in look. The Venusian grape is proper for[preserving in] pots. The Albanian you had better harden in the smoke. Iam found to be the first that served up this grape with apples in neatlittle side-plates, to be the first [likewise that served up] wine-leesand herring-brine, and white pepper finely mixed with black salt. It isan enormous fault to bestow three thousand sesterces on the fish-market,and then to cramp the roving fishes in a narrow dish. It causes a greatnausea in the stomach, if even the slave touches the cup with greasyhands, while he licks up snacks, or if offensive grime has adhered tothe ancient goblet. In trays, in mats, in sawdust, [that are so] cheap,what great expense can there be? But, if they are neglected, it is aheinous shame. What, should you sweep Mosaic pavements with a dirtybroom made of palm, and throw Tyrian carpets over the unwashed furnitureof your couch! forgetting, that by how much less care and expense thesethings are attended, so much the more justly may [the want of them] becensured, than of those things which can not be obtained but at thetables of the rich?Learned Catius, entreated by our friendship and the gods, remember tointroduce me to an audience [with this great man], whenever you shall goto him. For, though by your memory you relate every thing to me, yet asa relater you can not delight me in so high a degree. Add to this thecountenance and deportment of the man; whom you, happy in having seen,do not much regard, because it has been your lot: but I have no smallsolicitude, that I may approach the distant fountain-heads, and imbibethe precepts of [such] a blessed life.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE V._In a humorous dialogue between Ulysses and Tiresias, he exposes thosearts which the fortune hunters make use of, in order to be appointed theheirs of rich old men_.Beside what you have told me, O Tiresias, answer to this petition ofmine: by what arts and expedients may I be able to repair my ruinedfortunes--why do you laugh? Does it already seem little to you, who arepracticed in deceit, to be brought back to Ithaca, and to behold [again]your family household gods? O you who never speak falsely to anyone, yousee how naked and destitute I return home, according to your prophecy:nor is either my cellar, or my cattle there, unembezzled by the suitors[of Penelope]. But birth and virtue, unless [attended] with substance,is viler than sea weed.Since (circumlocutions apart) you are in dread of poverty hear by whatmeans you may grow wealthy. If a thrush, or any [nice] thing for yourown private [eating], shall be given you; it must wing way to thatplace, where shines a great fortune, the possessor being an old man:delicious apples, and whatever dainties your well-cultivated groundbrings forth for you, let the rich man, as more to be reverenced thanyour household god, taste before him: and, though he be perjured, of nofamily, stained with his brother's blood, a runaway; if he desire it, donot refuse to go along with him, his companion on the outer side. What,shall I walk cheek by jole with a filthy Damas? I did not behave myselfin that manner at Troy, contending always with the best. You must thenbe poor. I will command my sturdy soul to bear this evil; I haveformerly endured even greater. Do thou, O prophet, tell me forthwith howI may amass riches and heaps of money. In troth I have told you, andtell you again. Use your craft to lie at catch for the last wills of oldmen: nor, if one or two cunning chaps escape by biting the bait off thehook, either lay aside hope, or quit the art, though disappointed inyour aim. If an affair, either of little or great consequence, shall becontested at any time at the bar; whichever of the parties live wealthywithout heirs, should he be a rogue, who daringly takes the law of abetter man, be thou his advocate: despise the citizen, who is superiorin reputation, and [the justness of] his cause, if at home he has a sonor a fruitful wife. [Address him thus:] "Quintus, for instance, orPublius (delicate ears delight in the prefixed name), your virtue hasmade me your friend. I am acquainted with the precarious quirks of thelaw; I can plead causes. Any one shall sooner snatch my eyes from me,than he shall despise or defraud you of an empty nut. This is my care,that you lose nothing, that you be not made a jest of." Bid him go home,and make much of himself. Be his solicitor yourself: persevere, and besteadfast: whether the glaring dog-star shall cleave the infant statues;or Furius, destined with his greasy paunch, shall spue white snow overthe wintery Alps. Do not you see (shall someone say, jogging the personthat stands next to him by the elbow) how indefatigable he is, howserviceable to his friends, how acute? [By this means] more tunniesshall swim in, and your fish-ponds will increase.Further, if any one in affluent circumstances has reared an ailing son,lest a too open complaisance to a single man should detect you, creepgradually into the hope [of succeeding him], and that you may be setdown as second heir; and, if any casualty ahould dispatch the boy toHades, you may come into the vacancy. This die seldom fails. Whoeverdelivers his will to you to read, be mindful to decline it, and push theparchment from you: [do it] however in such a manner, that you may catchwith an oblique glance, what the first page intimates to be in thesecond clause: run over with a quick eye, whether you are sole heir, orco-heir with many. Sometimes a well-seasoned lawyer, risen from aQuinquevir, shall delude the gaping raven; and the fortune-hunter Nasicashall be laughed at by Coranus.What, art thou in a [prophetic] raving; or dost thou play upon medesignedly, by uttering obscurities? O son of Laertes, whatever I shallsay will come to pass, or it will not: for the great Apollo gives me thepower to divine. Then, if it is proper, relate what that tale means.At that time when the youth dreaded by the Parthians, an offspringderived from the noble Aeneas, shall be mighty by land and sea; the talldaughter of Nasica, averse to pay the sum total of his debt, shall wedthe stout Coranus. Then the son-in-law shall proceed thus: he shalldeliver his will to his father-in-law, and entreat him to read it;Nasica will at length receive it, after it has been several timesrefused, and silently peruse it; and will find no other legacy left tohim and his, except leave to lament.To these [directions I have already given], I subjoin the [following]:if haply a cunning woman or a freedman have the management of an olddriveler, join with them as an associate: praise them, that you may bepraised in your absence. This too is of service; but to storm [thecapital] itself excels this method by far. Shall he, a dotard, scribblewretched verses? Applaud them. Shall he be given to pleasure? Take care[you do not suffer him] to ask you: of your own accord complaisantlydeliver up your Penelope to him, as preferable [to yourself]. What--doyou think so sober and so chaste a woman can be brought over, whom [somany] wooers could not divert from the right course. Because, forsooth,a parcel of young fellows came, who were too parsimonious to give agreat price, nor so much desirous of an amorous intercourse, as of thekitchen. So far your Penelope is a good woman: who, had she once tastedof one old [doting gallant], and shared with you the profit, like ahound, will never be frighted away from the reeking skin [of the newkilled game].What I am going to tell you happened when I was an old man. A wicked hagat Thebes was, according to her will, carried forth in this manner: herheir bore her corpse, anointed with a large quantity of oil, upon hisnaked shoulders; with the intent that, if possible, she might escapefrom him even when dead: because, I imagine, he had pressed upon her toomuch when living. Be cautious in your addresses: neither be wanting inyour pains, nor immoderately exuberant. By garrulity you will offend thesplenetic and morose. You must not, however, be too silent. Be Davus inthe play; and stand with your head on one side, much like one who is ingreat awe. Attack him with complaisance: if the air freshens, advise himcarefully to cover up his precious head: disengage him from the crowd byopposing your shoulders to it: closely attach your ear to him if chatty.Is he immoderately fond of being praised? Pay him home, till he shallcry out, with his hands lifted up to heaven, "Enough:" and puff up theswelling bladder with tumid speeches. When he shall have [at last]released you from your long servitude and anxiety; and being certainlyawake, you shall hear [this article in his will]? "Let Ulysses be heirto one fourth of my estate:" "is then my companion Damas now no more?where shall I find one so brave and so faithful?" Throw out [somethingof this kind] every now and then: and if you can a little, weep for him.It is fit to disguise your countenance, which [otherwise] would betrayyour joy. As for the monument, which is left to your own discretion,erect it without meanness. The neighborhood will commend the funeralhandsomely performed. If haply any of your co-heirs, being advanced inyears, should have a dangerous cough; whether he has a mind to be apurchaser of a farm or a house out of your share, tell him, you will[come to any terms he shall propose, and] make it over to him gladly fora trifling sum. But the Imperious Proserpine drags me hence. Live, andprosper.       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE VI._He sets the conveniences of a country retirement in opposition to thetroubles of a life in town_.This was [ever] among the number of my wishes: a portion of ground notover large, in which was a garden, and a fountain with a continualstream close to my house, and a little Woodland besides. The gods havedone more abundantly, and better, for me [than this]. It is well: O sonof Maia, I ask nothing more save that you would render these donationslasting to me. If I have neither made my estate larger by bad means, noram in a way to make it less by vice or misconduct; if I do not foolishlymake any petition of this sort--"Oh that that neighboring angle, whichnow spoils the; regularity of my field, could be added! Oh that someaccident would discover to me an urn [full] of money! as it did to him,who having found a treasure, bought that very ground he before tilled inthe capacity of an hired servant, enriched by Hercules' being hisfriend;" if what I have at present satisfies me grateful, I supplicateyou with this prayer: make my cattle fat for the use of their master,and every thing else, except my genius: and, as you are wont, be presentas my chief guardian. Wherefore, when I have removed myself from thecity to the mountains and my castle, (what can I polish, preferably tomy satires and prosaic muse?) neither evil ambition destroys me, nor theheavy south wind, nor the sickly autumn, the gain of baleful Libitina.Father of the morning, or Janus, if with more pleasure thou hearestthyself [called by that name], from whom men commence the toils ofbusiness, and of life (such is the will of the gods), be thou thebeginning of my song. At Rome you hurry me away to be bail; "Away,dispatch, [you cry,] lest any one should be beforehand with you in doingthat friendly office:" I must go, at all events, whether the north windsweep the earth, or winter contracts the snowy day into a narrowercircle. After this, having uttered in a clear and determinate manner[the legal form], which may be a detriment to me, I must bustle throughthe crowd; and must disoblige the tardy. "What is your will, madman, andwhat are you about, impudent fellow?" So one accosts me with hispassionate curses. "You jostle every thing that is in your way, if withan appointment full in your mind you are away to Maecenas." This pleasesme, and is like honey: I will not tell a lie. But by the time I reachedthe gloomy Esquiliae, a hundred affairs of other people's encompass meon every side: "Roscius begged that you would be with him at thecourt-house to-morrow before the second hour." "The secretariesrequested you would remember, Quintus, to return to-day about an affairof public concern, and of great consequence." "Get Maecenas to put hissignet to these tablets." Should one say, "I will endeavor at it:" "Ifyou will, you can," adds he; and is more earnest. The seventh yearapproaching to the eighth is now elapsed, from the time that Maecenasbegan to reckon me in the number of his friends; only thus far, as onehe would like to take along with him in his chariot, when he went ajourney, and to whom he would trust such kind of trifles as these: "Whatis the hour?" "Is Gallina, the Thracian, a match for [the gladiator]Syrus?" "The cold morning air begins to pinch those that are illprovided against it;"--and such things-as are well enough intrusted to aleaky ear. For all this time, every day and hour, I have been moresubjected to envy. "Our son of fortune here, says every body, witnessedthe shows in company with [Maecenas], and played with him in the CampusMartius." Does any disheartening report spread from the rostrum throughthe streets, whoever comes in my way consults me [concerning it]: "Goodsir, have you (for you must know, since you approach nearer the gods)heard any thing relating to the Dacians?" "Nothing at all for my part,"[I reply]. "How you ever are a sneerer!" "But may all the gods tortureme, if I know any thing of the matter." "What? will Caesar give thelands he promised the soldiers, in Sicily, or in Italy?" As I amswearing I know nothing about it, they wonder at me, [thinking] me, tobe sure, a creature of profound and extraordinary secrecy.Among things of this nature the day is wasted by me, mortified as I am,not without such wishes as these: O rural retirement, when shall Ibehold thee? and when shall it be in my power to pass through thepleasing oblivion of a life full of solicitude, one while with the booksof the ancients, another while in sleep and leisure? O when shall thebean related to Pythagoras, and at the same time herbs well larded withfat bacon, be set before me? O evenings, and suppers fit for gods! withwhich I and my friends regale ourselves in the presence of my householdgods; and feed my saucy slaves with viands, of which libations have beenmade. The guest, according to every one's inclination, takes off theglasses of different sizes, free from mad laws: whether one of a strongconstitution chooses hearty bumpers; or another more joyously getsmellow with moderate ones. Then conversation arises, not concerningother people's villas and houses, nor whether Lepos dances well or not;but we debate on what is more to our purpose, and what it is perniciousnot to know--whether men are made happier by riches or by virtue; orwhat leads us into intimacies, interest or moral rectitude; and what isthe nature of good, and what its perfection. Meanwhile, my neighborCervius prates away old stories relative to the subject. For, if any oneignorantly commends the troublesome riches of Aurelius, he thus begins:"On a time a country-mouse is reported to have received a city-mouseinto his poor cave, an old host, his old acquaintance; a blunt fellowand attentive to his acquisitions, yet so as he could [on occasion]enlarge his narrow soul in acts of hospitality. What need of many words?He neither grudged him the hoarded vetches, nor the long oats; andbringing in his mouth a dry plum, and nibbled scraps of bacon, presentedthem to him, being desirous by the variety of the supper to get thebetter of the daintiness of his guest, who hardly touched with hisdelicate tooth the several things: while the father of the familyhimself, extended on fresh straw, ate a spelt and darnel leaving thatwhich was better [for his guest]. At length the citizen addressing him,'Friend,' says he, 'what delight have you to live laboriously on theridge of a rugged thicket? Will you not prefer men and the city to thesavage woods? Take my advice, and go along with me: since mortal livesare allotted to all terrestrial animals, nor is there any escape fromdeath, either for the great or the small. Wherefore, my good friend,while it is in your power, live happy in joyous circumstances: livemindful of how brief an existence you are.' Soon as these speeches hadwrought upon the peasant, he leaps nimbly from his cave: thence theyboth pursue their intended journey, being desirous to steal under thecity walls by night. And now the night possessed the middle region ofthe heavens, when each of them set foot in a gorgeous palace, wherecarpets dyed with crimson grain glittered upon ivory couches, and manybaskets of a magnificent entertainment remained, which had yesterdaybeen set by in baskets piled upon one another. After he had placed thepeasant then, stretched at ease upon a splendid carpet; he bustles aboutlike an adroit host, and keeps bringing up one dish close upon another,and with an affected civility performs all the ceremonies, first tastingof every thing he serves up. He, reclined, rejoices in the change of hissituation, and acts the part of a boon companion in the good cheer: whenon a sudden a prodigious rattling of the folding doors shook them bothfrom their couches. Terrified they began to scamper all about the room,and more and more heartless to be in confusion, while the lofty houseresounded with [the barking of] mastiff dogs; upon which, says thecountry-mouse, 'I have no desire for a life like this; and so farewell:my wood and cave, secure from surprises, shall with homely tares comfortme.'"       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE VII._One of Horace's slaves, making use of that freedom which was allowedthem at the Saturnalia, rates his master in a droll and severe manner_.I have a long while been attending [to you], and would fain speak a fewwords [in return; but, being] a slave, I am afraid. What, Davus? Yes,Davus, a faithful servant to his master and an honest one, at leastsufficiently so: that is, for you to think his life in no danger. Well(since our ancestors would have it so), use the freedom of Decemberspeak on.One part of mankind are fond of their vices with some constancy andadhere to their purpose: a considerable part fluctuates; one whileembracing the right, another while liable to depravity. Priscus,frequently observed with three rings, sometimes with his left hand bare,lived so irregularly that he would change his robe every hour; from amagnificent edifice, he would on a sudden hide himself in a place,whence a decent freedman could scarcely come out in a decent manner; onewhile he would choose to lead the life of a rake at Rome, another whilethat of a teacher at Athens; born under the evil influence of everyVertumnus. That buffoon, Volanerius, when the deserved gout had crippledhis fingers, maintained [a fellow] that he had hired at a daily price,who took up the dice and put them into a box for him: yet by how muchmore constant was he in his vice, by so much less wretched was he thanthe former person, who is now in difficulties by too loose, now by tootight a rein."Will you not tell to-day, you varlet, whither such wretched stuff asthis tends?" "Why, to you, I say." "In what respect to me, scoundrel?""You praise the happiness and manners of the ancient [Roman] people; andyet, if any god were on a sudden to reduce you to to them, you, the sameman, would earnestly beg to be excused; either because you are notreally of opinion that what you bawl about is right; or because you areirresolute in defending the right, and hesitate, in vain desirous toextract your foot from the mire. At Rome, you long for the country; whenyou are in the country, fickle, you extol the absent city to the skies.If haply you are invited out nowhere to supper, you praise your quietdish of vegetables; and as if you ever go abroad upon compulsion, youthink yourself so happy, and do so hug yourself, that you are obliged todrink out nowhere. Should Maecenas lay his commands on you to come late,at the first lighting up of the lamps, as his guest; 'Will nobody bringthe oil with more expedition? Does any body hear?' You stutter with amighty bellowing, and storm with rage. Milvius, and the buffoons [whoexpected to sup with you], depart, after having uttered curses notproper to be repeated. Any one may say, for I own [the truth], that I ameasy to be seduced by my appetite; I snuff up my nose at a savory smell:I am weak, lazy; and, if you have a mind to add any thing else, I am asot. But seeing you are as I am, and perhaps something worse, why do youwillfully call me to an account as if you were the better man; and, withspecious phrases, disguise your own vice? What, if you are found out tobe a greater fool than me, who was purchased for five hundred drachmas?Forbear to terrify me with your looks; restrain your hand and youranger, while I relate to you what Crispinus' porter taught me."Another man's wife captivates you; a harlot, Davus: which of us sinsmore deservingly of the cross? When keen nature inflames me, any commonwench that picks me up, dismisses me neither dishonored, nor caringwhether a richer or a handsomer man enjoys her next. You, when you havecast off your ensigns of dignity, your equestrian ring and your Romanhabit, turn out from a magistrate a wretched Dama, hiding with a capeyour perfumed head: are you not really what you personate? You areintroduced, apprehensive [of consequences]; and, as you are altercatingWith your passions, your bones shake with fear. What is the differencewhether you go condemned [like a gladiator], to be galled with scourges,or slain with the sword; or be closed up in a filthy chest, where [themaid], concious of her mistress' crime, has stowed you? Has not thehusband of the offending dame a just power over both; against theseducer even a juster? But she neither changes her dress, nor place, norsins to that excess [which you do]; since the woman is in dread of you,nor gives any credit to you, though you profess to love her. You must gounder the yoke knowingly, and put all your fortune, your life, andreputation, together with your limbs, into the power of an enragedhusband. Have you escaped? I suppose, then, you will be afraid [for thefuture]; and, being warned, will be cautious. No, you will seek occasionwhen you may be again in terror, and again may be likely to perish. O sooften a slave! What beast, when it has once escaped by breaking itstoils, absurdly trusts itself to them again? You say, "I am noadulterer." Nor, by Hercules, am I a thief, when I wisely pass by thesilver vases. Take away the danger, and vagrant nature will springforth, when restraints are removed. Are you my superior, subjected asyou are, to the dominion of so many things and persons, whom thepraetor's rod, though placed on your head three or four times over, cannever free from this wretched solicitude? Add, to what has been saidabove, a thing of no less weight; whether he be an underling, who obeysthe master-slave (as it is your custom to affirm), or only afellow-slave, what am I in respect of you? You, for example, who havethe command of me, are in subjection to other things, and are led about,like a puppet movable by means of wires not its own."Who then is free? The wise man, who has dominion over himself; whomneither poverty, nor death, nor chains affright; brave in the checkingof his appetites, and in contemning honors; and, perfect in himself,polished and round as a globe, so that nothing from without can retard,in consequence of its smoothness; against whom misfortune ever advancesineffectually. Can you, out of these, recognize any thing applicable toyourself? A woman demands five talents of you, plagues you, and afteryou are turned out of doors, bedews you with cold water: she calls youagain. Rescue your neck from this vile yoke; come, say, I am free, I amfree. You are not able: for an implacable master oppresses your mind,and claps the sharp spurs to your jaded appetite, and forces you onthough reluctant. When you, mad one, quite languish at a picture byPausias; how are you less to blame than I, when I admire the combats ofFulvius and Rutuba and Placideianus, with their bended knees, painted incrayons or charcoal, as if the men were actually engaged, and push andparry, moving their weapons? Davus is a scoundrel and a loiterer; butyou have the character of an exquisite and expert connoisseur inantiquities. If I am allured by a smoking pasty, I am a good-for-nothingfellow: does your great virtue and soul resist delicate entertainments?Why is a tenderness for my belly too destructive for me? For my backpays for it. How do you come off with more impunity, since you hankerafter such dainties as can not be had for a little expense? Then thosedelicacies, perpetually taken, pall upon the stomach; and your mistakenfeet refuse to support your sickly body. Is that boy guilty, who bynight pawns a stolen scraper for some grapes? Has he nothing servileabout him, who in indulgence to his guts sells his estates? Add to this,that you yourself can not be an hour by yourself, nor dispose of yourleisure in a right manner; and shun yourself as a fugitive and vagabond,one while endeavoring with wine, another while with sleep, to cheatcare--in vain: for the gloomy companion presses upon you, and pursuesyou in your flight."Where can I get a stone?" "What occasion is there for it?" "Where somedarts?" "The man is either mad, or making verses." "If you do not takeyourself away in an instant, you shall go [and make] a ninth laborer atmy Sabine estate."       *       *       *       *       *SATIRE VIII._A smart description of a miser ridiculously acting the extravagant._How did the entertainment of that happy fellow Nasidienus please you?for yesterday, as I was seeking to make you my guest, you were said tobe drinking there from mid-day. [It pleased me so], that I never washappier in my life. Say (if it be not troublesome) what food firstcalmed your raging appetite.In the first place, there was a Lucanian boar, taken when the gentlesouth wind blew, as the father of the entertainment affirmed; around itsharp rapes, lettuces, radishes; such things as provoke a languidappetite; skirrets, anchovies, dregs of Coan wine. These once removed,one slave, tucked high with a purple cloth, wiped the maple table, and asecond gathered up whatever lay useless, and whatever could offend theguests; swarthy Hydaspes advances like an Attic maid with Ceres' sacredrites, bearing wines of Caecubum; Alcon brings those of Chios, undamagedby the sea. Here the master [cries], "Maecenas, if Alban or Falernianwine delight you more than those already brought, we have both."Ill-fated riches! But, Fundanius, I am impatient to know, who weresharers in this feast where you fared so well.I was highest, and next me was Viscus Thurinus, and below, if Iremember, was Varius; with Servilius Balatro, Vibidius, whom Maecenashad brought along with him, unbidden guests. Above [Nasidienus] himselfwas Nomentanus, below him Porcius, ridiculous for swallowing whole cakesat once. Nomentanus [was present] for this purpose, that if any thingshould chance to be unobserved, he might show it with his pointingfinger. For the other company, we, I mean, eat [promiscuously] of fowls,oysters, fish, which had concealed in them a juice far different fromthe known: as presently appeared, when he reached to me the entrails ofa plaice and of a turbot, such as had never been tasted before. Afterthis he informed me that honey-apples were most ruddy when gatheredunder the waning moon. What difference this makes you will hear bestfrom himself. Then [says] Vibidius to Balatro; "If we do not drink tohis cost, we shall die in his debt;" and he calls for larger tumblers. Apaleness changed the countenance of our host, who fears nothing so muchas hard drinkers: either because they are more freely censorious; orbecause heating wines deafen the subtle [judgment of the] palate.Vibidius and Balatro, all following their example, pour whole casks intoAlliphanians; the guests of the lowest couch did no hurt to the flagons.A lamprey is brought in, extended in a dish, in the midst of floatingshrimps. Whereupon, "This," says the master, "was caught when pregnant;which, after having young, would have been less delicate in its flesh."For these a sauce is mixed up; with oil which the best cellar ofVenafrum pressed, with pickle from the juices of the Iberian fish, withwine of five years old, but produced on this side the sea, while it isboiling (after it is boiled, the Chian wine suits it so well, that noother does better than it) with white pepper, and vinegar which, bybeing vitiated, turned sour the Methymnean grape. I first showed the wayto stew in it the green rockets and bitter elecampane: Curtillus, [tostew in it] the sea-urchins unwashed, as being better than the picklewhich the sea shell-fish yields.In the mean time the suspended tapestry made a heavy downfall upon thedish, bringing along with it more black dust than the north wind everraises on the plains of Campania. Having been fearful of somethingworse, as soon as we perceive there was no danger, we rise up. Rufus,hanging his head, began to weep, as if his son had come to an untimelydeath: what would have been the end, had not the discreet Nomentanusthus raised his friend! "Alas! O fortune, what god is more cruel to usthan thou? How dost thou always take pleasure in sporting with humanaffairs!" Varius could scarcely smother a laugh with his napkin.Balatro, sneering at every thing, observed: "This is the condition ofhuman life, and therefore a suitable glory will never answer your labor.Must you be rent and tortured with all manner of anxiety, that I may beentertained sumptuously; lest burned bread, lest ill-seasoned soupshould be set before us; that all your slaves should wait, properlyattired and neat? Add, besides, these accidents; if the hangings shouldtumble down, as just now, if the groom slipping with his foot shouldbreak a dish. But adversity is wont to disclose, prosperity to conceal,the abilities of a host as well as of a general." To this Nasidienus:"May the gods give you all the blessings, whatever you can pray for, youare so good a man and so civil a guest;" and calls for his sandals. Thenon every couch you might see divided whispers buzzing in each secretear.I would not choose to have seen any theatrical entertainments soonerthan these things. But come, recount what you laughed at next. WhileVibidius is inquiring of the slaves, whether the flagon was also broken,because cups were not brought when he called for them; and while a laughis continued on feigned pretences, Balatro seconding it; you Nasidienus,return with an altered countenance, as if to repair your ill-fortune byart. Then followed the slaves, bearing on a large charger the severallimbs of a crane besprinkled with much salt, not without flour, and theliver of a white goose fed with fattening figs, and the wings of harestorn off, as a much daintier dish than if one eats them with the loins.Then we saw blackbirds also set before us with scorched breasts, andring-doves without the rumps: delicious morsels! did not the master giveus the history of their causes and natures: whom we in revenge fledfrom, so as to taste nothing at all; as if Canidia, more venomous thanAfrican serpents, had poisoned them with her breath.       *       *       *       *       *THE FIRST BOOK OF THE EPISTLES OF HORACE.EPISTLE I.TO MAECENAS._The poet renounces all verses of a ludicrous turn, and resolves toapply himself wholly to the study of philosophy, which teaches to bridlethe desires, and to postpone every thing to virtue._Maecenas, the subject of my earliest song, justly entitled to my latest,dost thou seek to engage me again in the old lists, having been triedsufficiently, and now presented with the foils? My age is not the same,nor is my genius. Veianius, his arms consecrated on a pillar ofHercules' temple, lives snugly retired in the country, that he may notfrom the extremity of the sandy amphitheater so often supplicate thepeople's favor. Some one seems frequently to ring in my purified ear:"Wisely in time dismiss the aged courser, lest, an object of derision,he miscarry at last, and break his wind." Now therefore I lay aside bothverses, and all other sportive matters; my study and inquiry is afterwhat is true and fitting, and I am wholly engaged in this: I lay up, andcollect rules which I may be able hereafter to bring into use. And lestyou should perchance ask under what leader, in what house [ofphilosophy], I enter myself a pupil: addicted to swear implicitly to theipse-dixits of no particular master, wherever the weather drives me, Iam carried a guest. One while I become active, and am plunged in thewaves of state affairs, a maintainer and a rigid partisan of strictvirtue; then again I relapse insensibly into Aristippus' maxims, andendeavor to adapt circumstances to myself, not myself to circumstances.As the night seems long to those with whom a mistress has broken herappointment, and the day slow to those who owe their labor; as the yearmoves lazy with minors, whom the harsh guardianship of their mothersconfines; so all that time to me flows tedious and distasteful, whichdelays my hope and design of strenuously executing that which is ofequal benefit to the poor and to the rich, which neglected will be ofequal detriment to young and to old. It remains, that I conduct andcomfort myself by these principles; your sight is not so piercing asthat of Lynceus; you will not however therefore despise being anointed,if you are sore-eyed: nor because you despair of the muscles of theinvincible Glycon, will you be careless of preserving your body from theknotty gout. There is some point to which we may reach, if we can go nofurther. Does your heart burn with avarice, and a wretched desire ofmore? Spells there are, and incantations, with which you may mitigatethis pain, and rid yourself of a great part of the distemper. Do youswell with the love of praise? There are certain purgations which canrestore you, a certain treatise, being perused thrice with purity ofmind. The envious, the choleric, the indolent, the slave to wine, towomen--none is so savage that he can not be tamed, if he will only lenda patient ear to discipline.It is virtue, to fly vice; and the highest wisdom, to have lived freefrom folly. You see with what toil of mind and body you avoid thosethings which you believe to be the greatest evils, a small fortune and ashameful repulse. An active merchant, you run to the remotest Indies,fleeing poverty through sea, through rocks, through flames. And will younot learn, and hear, and be advised by one who is wiser, that you may nolonger regard those things which you foolishly admire and wish for? Whatlittle champion of the villages and of the streets would scorn beingcrowned at the great Olympic games, who had the hopes and happyopportunity of victory without toil? Silver is less valuable than gold,gold than virtue. "O citizens, citizens, money is to be sought first;virtue after riches:" this the highest Janus from the lowest inculcates;young men and old repeat these maxims, having their bags andaccount-books hung on the left arm. You have soul, have breeding, haveeloquence and honor: yet if six or seven thousand sesterces be wantingto complete your four hundred thousand, you shall be a plebeian. Butboys at play cry, "You shall be king, if you will do right." Let this bea [man's] brazen wall, to be conscious of no ill, to turn pale with noguilt. Tell me, pray is the Roscian law best, or the boy's song whichoffers the kingdom to them that do right, sung by the manly Curii andCamilli? Does he advise you best, who says, "Make a fortune; a fortune,if you can, honestly; if not, a fortune by any means"--that you may viewfrom a nearer bench the tear-moving poems of Puppius; or he, who stillanimates and enables you to stand free and upright, a match for haughtyfortune?If now perchance the Roman people should ask me, why I do not enjoy thesame sentiments with them, as [I do the same] porticoes, nor pursue orfly from whatever they admire or dislike; I will reply, as the cautiousfox once answered the sick lion: "Because the foot-marks all lookingtoward you, and none from you, affright me." Thou art a monster withmany heads. For what shall I follow, or whom? One set of men delight tofarm the public revenues: there are some, who would inveigle covetouswidows with sweet-meats and fruits, and insnare old men, whom they wouldsend [like fish] into their ponds: the fortunes of many grow byconcealed usury. But be it, that different men are engaged in differentemployments and pursuits: can the same persons continue an hour togetherapproving the same things? If the man of wealth has said, "No bay in theworld outshines delightful Baiae," the lake and the sea presently feelthe eagerness of their impetuous master: to whom, if a vicious humorgives the omen, [he will cry,]--"to-morrow, workmen, ye shall conveyhence your tools to Teanum." Has he in his hall the genial bed? He saysnothing is preferable to, nothing better than a single life. If he hasnot, he swears the married only are happy. With what noose can I holdthis Proteus, varying thus his forms? What does the poor man? Laugh [athim too]: is he not forever changing his garrets, beds, baths, barbers?He is as much surfeited in a hired boat, as the rich man is, whom hisown galley conveys.If I meet you with my hair cut by an uneven barber, you laugh [at me]:if I chance to have a ragged shirt under a handsome coat, or if mydisproportioned gown fits me ill, you laugh. What [do you do], when myjudgment contradicts itself? it despises what it before desired; seeksfor that which lately it neglected; is all in a ferment, and isinconsistent in the whole tenor of life; pulls down, builds up, changessquare to round. In this case, you think I am mad in the common way, andyou do not laugh, nor believe that I stand in need of a physician, orof a guardian assigned by the praetor; though you are the patron of myaffairs, and are disgusted at the ill-pared nail of a friend thatdepends upon you, that reveres you.In a word, the wise man is inferior to Jupiter alone, is rich, free,honorable, handsome, lastly, king of kings; above all, he is sound,unless when phlegm is troublesome.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE II.TO LOLLIUS._He prefers Homer to all the philosophers, as a moral writer, andadvises an early cultivation of virtue_.While you, great Lollius, declaim at Rome, I at Praeneste have perusedover again the writer of the Trojan war; who teaches more clearly, andbetter than Chrysippus and Crantor, what is honorable, what shameful,what profitable, what not so. If nothing hinders you, hear why I havethus concluded. The story is which, on account of Paris's intrigue,Greece is stated to be wasted in a tedious war with the barbarians,contains the tumults of foolish princes and people. Antenor gives hisopinion for cutting off the cause of the war. What does Paris? He cannot be brought to comply, [though it be in order] that he may reignsafe, and live happy. Nestor labors to compose the differences betweenAchilles and Agamemnon: love inflames one; rage both in common. TheGreeks suffer for what their princes act foolishly. Within the walls ofIlium, and without, enormities are committed by sedition, treachery,injustice, and lust, and rage.Again, to show what virtue and what wisdom can do, he has propoundedUlysses an instructive pattern: who, having subdued Troy, wisely got aninsight into the constitutions and customs of many nations; and, whilefor himself and his associates he is contriving a return, endured manyhardships on the spacious sea, not to be sunk by all the waves ofadversity. You are well acquainted with the songs of the Sirens, andCirce's cups: of which, if he had foolishly and greedily drunk alongwith his attendants, he had been an ignominious and senseless slaveunder the command of a prostitute: he had lived a filthy dog, or a hogdelighting in mire.We are a mere number and born to consume the fruits of the earth; likePenelope's suitors, useless drones; like Alcinous' youth, employed abovemeasure in pampering their bodies; whose glory was to sleep tillmid-day, and to lull their cares to rest by the sound of the harp.Robbers rise by night, that they may cut men's throats; and will not youawake to save yourself? But, if you will not when you are in health, youwill be forced to take exercise when you are in a dropsy; and unlessbefore day you call for a book with a light, unless you brace your mindwith study and honest employments, you will be kept awake and tormentedwith envy or with love. For why do you hasten to remove things that hurtyour eyes, but if any thing gnaws your mind, defer the time of curing itfrom year to year? He has half the deed done, who has made a beginning.Boldly undertake the study of true wisdom: begin it forthwith. He whopostpones the hour of living well, like the hind [in the fable], waitstill [all the water in] the river be run off: whereas it flows, and willflow, ever rolling on.Money is sought, and a wife fruitful in bearing children, and wildwoodlands are reclaimed by the plow. [To what end all this?] He, thathas got a competency, let him wish for no more. Not a house and farm,nor a heap of brass and gold, can remove fevers from the body of theirsick master, or cares from his mind. The possessor must be well, if hethinks of enjoying the things which he has accumulated. To him that is aslave to desire or to fear, house and estate do just as much good aspaintings to a sore-eyed person, fomentations to the gout, music to earsafflicted with collected matter. Unless the vessel be sweet, whateveryou pour into it turns sour. Despise pleasures, pleasure bought withpain is hurtful. The covetous man is ever in want; set a certain limitto your wishes. The envious person wastes at the thriving condition ofanother: Sicilian tyrants never invented a greater torment than envy. Hewho will not curb his passion, will wish that undone which his grief andresentment suggested, while he violently plies his revenge with unsatedrancor. Rage is a short madness. Rule your passion, which commands, ifit do not obey; do you restrain it with a bridle, and with fetters. Thegroom forms the docile horse, while his neck is yet tender, to go theway which his rider directs him: the young hound, from the time that hebarked at the deer's skin in the hall, campaigns it in the woods. Now,while you are young, with an untainted mind Imbibe instruction: nowapply yourself to the best [masters of morality]. A cask will longpreserve the flavor, with which when new it was once impregnated. But ifyou lag behind, or vigorously push on before, I neither wait for theloiterer, nor strive to overtake those that precede me.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE III.TO JULIUS FLORUS._After inquiring about Claudius Tiberius Nero, and some of his friends,he exhorts Florus to the study of philosophy_.I long to know, Julius Florus, in what regions of the earth Claudius,the step-son of Augustus, is waging war. Do Thrace and Hebrus, boundwith icy chains, or the narrow sea running between the neighboringtowers, or Asia's fertile plains and hills detain you? What works is thestudious train planning? In this too I am anxious--who takes uponhimself to write the military achievements of Augustus? Who diffusesinto distant ages his deeds in war and peace? What is Titius about, whoshortly will be celebrated by every Roman tongue; who dreaded not todrink of the Pindaric spring, daring to disdain common waters and openstreams: how does he do? How mindful is he of me? Does he employ himselfto adapt Theban measures to the Latin lyre, under the direction of hismuse? Or does he storm and swell in the pompous style of traffic art?What is my Celsus doing? He has been advised, and the advice is stilloften to be repeated, to acquire stock of his own, and forbear to touchwhatever writings the Palatine Apollo has received: lest, if it chancethat the flock of birds should some time or other come to demand theirfeathers, he, like the daw stripped of his stolen colors, be exposed toridicule. What do you yourself undertake? What thyme are you busyhovering about? Your genius is not small, is not uncultivated norinelegantly rough. Whether you edge your tongue for [pleading] causes,or whether you prepare to give counsel in the civil law, or whether youcompose some lovely poem; you will bear off the first prize of thevictorious ivy. If now you could quit the cold fomentations of care;whithersoever heavenly wisdom would lead you, you would go. Let us,both small and great, push forward in this work, in this pursuit: if toour country, if to ourselves we would live dear.You must also write me word of this, whether Munatiua is of as muchconcern to you as he ought to be? Or whether the ill-patchedreconciliation in vain closes, and is rent asunder again? But, whetherhot blood, or inexperience in things, exasperates you, wild as courserswith unsubdued neck, in whatever place you live, too worthy to break thefraternal bond, a devoted heifer is feeding against your return.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE IV.TO ALBIUS TIBULLUS._He declares his accomplishments; and, after proposing the thought ofdeath, converts it into an occasion of pleasantry_.Albius, thou candid critic of my discourses, what shall I say you arenow doing in the country about Pedum? Writing what may excel the worksof Cassius Parmensis; or sauntering silently among the healthful groves,concerning yourself about every thing worthy a wise and good man? Youwere not a body without a mind. The gods have given you a beautifulform, the gods [have given] you wealth, and the faculty of enjoying it.What greater blessing could a nurse solicit for her beloved child, thanthat he might be wise, and able to express his sentiments; and thatrespect, reputation, health might happen to him in abundance, and decentliving, with a never-failing purse?In the midst of hope and care, in the midst of fears and disquietudes,think every day that shines upon you is the last. [Thus] the hour, whichshall not be expected, will come upon you an agreeable addition.When you have a mind to laugh, you shall see me fat and sleek with goodkeeping, a hog of Epicurus' herd.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE V.TO TORQUATUS._He invites him to a frugal entertainment, but a cleanly and cheerfulone_.If you can repose yourself as my guest upon Archias' couches, and arenot afraid to make a whole meal on all sorts of herbs from a moderatedish; I will expect you, Torquatus, at my house about sun set. You shalldrink wine poured into the vessel in the second consulship of Taurus,produced between the fenny Minturnae and Petrinum of Sinuessa. If youhave any thing better, send for it; or bring your commands. Brightshines my hearth, and my furniture is clean for you already. Dismissairy hopes, and contests about riches, and Moschus' cause. To-morrow, afestal day on account of Caesar's birth, admits of indulgence andrepose. We shall have free liberty to prolong the summer evening withfriendly conversation. To what purpose have I fortune, if I may not useit? He that is sparing out of regard to his heir, and too niggardly, isnext neighbor to a madman. I will begin to drink and scatter flowers,and I will endure even to be accounted foolish. What does not winefreely drunken enterprise? It discloses secrets; commands our hopes tobe ratified; pushes the dastard on to the fight; removes the pressurefrom troubled minds; teaches the arts. Whom have not plentiful cups madeeloquent? Whom have they not [made] free and easy under pinchingpoverty?I, who am both the proper person and not unwilling, am charged to takecare of these matters; that no dirty covering on the couch, no foulnapkin contract your nose into wrinkles; and that the cup and the dishmay show you to yourself; that there be no one to carry abroad what issaid among faithful friends; that equals may meet and be joined withequals I will add to you Butra, and Septicius, and Sabinus, unless abetter entertainment and a mistress more agreeable detain him. There isroom also for many introductions: but goaty ramminess is offensive inover-crowded companies.Do you write word, what number you would be; and setting aside business,through the back-door give the slip to your client who keeps guard inyour court.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE VI.TO NUMICIUS._That a wise man is in love with nothing but virtue_.To admire nothing is almost the one and only thing, Numicius, which canmake and keep a man happy. There are who view this sun, and the stars,and the seasons retiring at certain periods, untainted with any fear.What do you think of the gifts of the earth? What of the sea, thatenriches the remote Arabians and Indians? What of scenical shows, theapplause and favors of the kind Roman? In what manner do you think theyare to be looked upon, with what apprehensions and countenance? He thatdreads the reverse of these, admires them almost in the same way as hethat desires them; fear alike disturbs both ways: an unforeseen turn ofthings equally terrifies each of them: let a man rejoice or grieve,desire or fear; what matters it--if, whatever he perceives better orworse than his expectations, with downcast look he be stupefied in mindand body? Let the wise man bear the name of fool, the just of unjust; ifhe pursue virtue itself beyond proper bounds.Go now, look with transport upon silver, and antique marble, and brazenstatues, and the arts: admire gems, and Tyrian dyes: rejoice, that athousand eyes are fixed upon you while you speak: industrious repairearly to the forum, late to your house, that Mutus may not reap moregrain [than you] from his lands gained in dowry, and (unbecoming, sincehe sprung from meaner parents) that he may not be an object ofadmiration to you rather than you to him. Whatever is in the earth, timewill bring forth into open day light; will bury and hide things, thatnow shine brightest. When Agrippa's portico, and the Appian way, shallhave beheld you well known; still it remains for you to go where Numaand Ancus are arrived. If your side or your reins are afflicted with anacute disease, seek a remedy from the disease. Would you live happily?Who would not? If virtue alone can confer this, discarding pleasures,strenuously pursue it. Do you think virtue mere words, as a grove istrees? Be it your care that no other enter the port before you; that youlose not your traffic with Cibyra, with Bithynia. Let the round sum of athousand talents be completed; as many more; further, let a thirdthousand succeed, and the part which may square the heap. For why,sovereign money gives a wife with a [large] portion, and credit, andfriends, and family, and beauty; and [the goddesses], Persuasion andVenus, graced the well-moneyed man. The king of the Cappadocians, richin slaves, is in want of coin; be not you like him. Lucullus, as theysay, being asked if he could lend a hundred cloaks for the stage, "Howcan I so many?" said he: "yet I will see, and send as many as I have;" alittle after he writes that he had five thousand cloaks in his house;they might take part of them, or all. It is a scanty house, where thereare not many things superfluous, and which escape the owner's notice,and are the gain of pilfering slaves. If then wealth alone can make andkeep a man happy, be first in beginning this work, be last in leaving itoff. If appearances and popularity make a man fortunate, let as purchasea slave to dictate [to us] the names [of the citizens], to jog us on theleft-side, and to make us stretch our hand over obstacles: "This man hasmuch interest in the Fabian, that in the Veline tribe; this will givethe fasces to any one, and, indefatigably active, snatch the curuleivory from whom he pleases; add [the names of] father, brother:according as the age of each is, so courteously adopt him. If he whofeasts well, lives well; it is day, let us go whither our appetite leadsus: let us fish, let us hunt, as did some time Gargilius: who orderedhis toils, hunting-spears, slaves, early in the morning to pass throughthe crowded forum and the people: that one mule among many, in the sightof the people, might return loaded with a boar purchased with money. Letus bathe with an indigested and full-swollen stomach, forgetting what isbecoming, what not; deserving to be enrolled among the citizens ofCaere; like the depraved crew of Ulysses of Ithaca, to whom forbiddenpleasure was dearer than their country. If, as Mimnermus thinks, nothingis pleasant without love and mirth, live in love and mirth.Live: be happy. If you know of any thing preferable to these maxims,candidly communicate it: if not, with me make use of these.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE VII.TO MAECENAS._He apologizes to Maecenas for his long absence from Rome; andacknowledges his favors to him in such a manner as to declare libertypreferable to all other blessings_.Having promised you that I would be in the country but five days, falseto my word, I am absent the whole of August. But, if you would have melive sound and in perfect health, the indulgence which you grant me,Maecenas, when I am ill, you will grant me [also] when I am afraid ofbeing ill: while [the time of] the first figs, and the [autumnal] heatgraces the undertaker with his black attendants; while every father andmother turn pale with fear for their children; and while over-acteddiligence, and attendance at the forum, bring on fevers and unsealwills. But, if the winter shall scatter snow upon the Alban fields, yourpoet will go down to the seaside, and be careful of himself, and readbundled up; you, dear friend, he will revisit with the zephyrs, if youwill give him leave, and with the first swallow.You have made me rich, not in the manner in which the Calabrian hostbids [his guest] eat of his pears. "Eat, pray, sir." "I have hadenough." "But take away with you what quantity you will." "You are verykind." "You will carry them no disagreeable presents to your littlechildren." "I am as much obliged by your offer, as if I were sent awayloaded." "As you please: you leave them to be devoured to-day by thehogs." The prodigal and fool gives away what he despises and hates; thereaping of favors like these has produced, and ever will produce,ungrateful men. A good and wise man professes himself ready to dokindness to the deserving; and yet is not ignorant, how true coinsdiffer from lupines. I will also show myself deserving of the honor ofbeing grateful. But if you would not have me depart any whither, youmust restore my vigorous constitution, the black locks [that grew] on mynarrow forehead: you must restore to me the power of talking pleasantly:you must restore to me the art of laughing with becoming ease, andwhining over my liquor at the jilting of the wanton Cynara.A thin field-mouse had by chance crept through a narrow cranny into achest of grain; and, having feasted itself, in vain attempted to comeout again, with its body now stuffed full. To which a weasel at adistance cries, "If you would escape thence, repair lean to the narrowhole which you entered lean." If I be addressed with this similitude, Iresign all; neither do I, sated with delicacies, cry up the calm reposeof the vulgar, nor would I change my liberty and ease for the riches ofthe Arabians. You have often commended me for being modest; when presentyou heard [from me the appellations of] king and father, nor am I a wordmore sparing in your absence. Try whether I can cheerfully restore whatyou have given me. Not amiss [answered] Telemachus, son of the patientUlysses: "The country of Ithaca is not proper for horses, as beingneither extended into champaign fields, nor abounding with much grass:Atrides, I will leave behind me your gifts, [which are] more proper foryourself." Small things best suit the small. No longer does imperialRome please me, but unfrequented Tibur, and unwarlike Tarentum.Philip, active and strong, and famed for pleading causes, whilereturning from his employment about the eighth hour, and now of a greatage, complaining that the Carinae were too far distant from the forum;spied, as they say, a person clean shaven in a barber's empty shed,composedly paring his own nails with a knife. "Demetrius," [says he,](this slave dexterously received his master's orders,) "go inquire, andbring me word from what house, who he is, of what fortune, who is hisfather, or who is his patron." He goes, returns, and relates, that "heis by name, Vulteius Maena, an auctioneer, of small fortune, of acharacter perfectly unexceptionable, that he could upon occasion plybusily, and take his ease, and get, and spend; delighting in humblecompanions and a settled dwelling, and (after business ended) in theshows, and the Campus Martius.""I would inquire of him himself all this, which you report; bid him cometo sup with me." Maena can not believe it; he wonders silently withinhimself. Why many words? He answers, "It is kind." "Can he deny me?""The rascal denies, and disregards or dreads you." In the morning Philipcomes unawares upon Vulteius, as he is selling brokery-goods to thetunic'd populace, and salutes him first. He pleads to Philip hisemployment, and the confinement of his business, in excuse for nothaving waited upon him in the morning; and afterward, for not seeing himfirst. "Expect that I will excuse you on this condition, that you supwith me to-day." "As you please." "Then you will come after the ninthhour: now go: strenuously increase your stock." When they were come tosupper, having discoursed of things of a public and private nature, atlength he is dismissed to go to sleep. When he had often been seen, torepair like a fish to the concealed hook, in the morning a client, andnow as a constant guest; he is desired to accompany [Philip] to hiscountry-seat near the city, at the proclaiming of the Latin festivals.Mounted on horseback, he ceases not to cry up the Sabine fields and air.Philip sees it, and smiles: and, while he is seeking amusement anddiversion for himself out of every thing, while he makes him a presentof seven thousand sesterces, and promises to lend him seven thousandmore: he persuades him to purchase a farm: he purchases one. That I maynot detain you with a long story beyond what is necessary, from a smartcit he becomes a downright rustic, and prates of nothing but furrows andvineyards; prepares his elms; is ready to die with eager diligence, andgrows old through a passionate desire of possessing. But when his sheepwere lost by theft, his goats by distemper, his harvest deceived hishopes, his ox was killed with plowing; fretted with these losses, atmidnight he snatches his nag, and in a passion makes his way to Philip'shouse. Whom as soon as Philip beheld, rough and unshaven, "Vulteius,"said he, "you seem to me to be too laborious and earnest." "In truth,patron," replied he, "you would call me a wretch, if you would apply tome my true name. I beseech and conjure you then, by your genius and yourright hand and your household gods, restore me to my former life." Assoon as a man perceives, how much the things he has discarded excelthose which he pursues, let him return in time, and resume those whichhe relinquished.It is a truth, that every one ought to measure himself by his own properfoot and standard.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE VIII.TO CELSUS ALBINOVANUS._That he was neither well in body, nor in mind; that Celtics should bearhis prosperity with moderation_.My muse at my request, give joy and wish success to Celsus Albinovanus,the attendant and the secretary of Nero. If he shall inquire, what I amdoing, say that I, though promising many and fine things, yet liveneither well [according to the rules of strict philosophy], noragreeably; not because the hail has crushed my vines, and the heat hasnipped my olives; nor because my herds are distempered in distantpastures; but because, less sound in my mind than in my whole body, Iwill hear nothing, learn nothing which may relieve me, diseased as I am;that I am displeased with my faithful physicians, am angry with myfriends for being industrious to rouse me from a fatal lethargy; that Ipursue things which have done me hurt, avoid things which I am persuadedwould be of service, inconstant as the wind, at Rome am in love withTibur, at Tibur with Rome. After this, inquire how he does; how hemanages his business and himself; how he pleases the young prince andhis attendants. If he shall say, well; first congratulate him, thenremember to whisper this admonition in his ears: As you, Celsus, bearyour fortunes, so will we bear you.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE IX.TO CLAUDIUS TIBERIUS NERO._He recommends Septimius to him_.Of all the men in the world Septimius surely, O Claudius, knows how muchregard you have for me. For when he requests, and by his entreaties in amanner compels me, to undertake to recommend and introduce him to you,as one worthy of the confidence and the household of Nero, who is wontto choose deserving objects, thinking I discharge the office of anintimate friend; he sees and knows better than myself what I can do. Isaid a great deal, indeed, in order that I might come off excused: but Iwas afraid, lest I should be suspected to pretend my interest was lessthan it is, to be a dissembler of my own power, and ready to servemyself alone. So, avoiding the reproach of a greater fault, I have putin for the prize of town-bred confidence. If then you approve of modestybeing superseded at the pressing entreaties of a friend, enrol thisperson among your retinue, and believe him to be brave and good.EPISTLE X.TO ARISTIUS FUSCUS._He praises a country before a city life, as more agreeable to nature,and more friendly to liberty_.We, who love the country, salute Fuscus that loves the town; in thispoint alone [being] much unlike, but in other things almost twins, ofbrotherly sentiments: whatever one denies the other too [denies]; weassent together: like old and constant doves, you keep the nest; Ipraise the rivulets, the rocks overgrown with moss, and the groves ofthe delightful country. Do you ask why? I live and reign, as soon as Ihave quitted those things which you extol to the skies with joyfulapplause. And, like a priest's, fugitive slave I reject luscious wafers,I desire plain bread, which is more agreeable now than honied cakes.If we must live suitably to nature, and a plot of ground is to be firstsought to raise a house upon, do you know any place preferable to theblissful country? Is there any spot where the winters are moretemperate? where a more agreeable breeze moderates the rage of theDog-star, and the season of the Lion, when once that furious sign hasreceived the scorching sun? Is there a place where envious care lessdisturbs our slumbers? Is the grass inferior in smell or beauty to theLibyan pebbles? Is the water, which strives to burst the lead in thestreets, purer than that which trembles in murmurs down its slopingchannel? Why, trees are nursed along the variegated columns [of thecity]; and that house is commended, which has a prospect of distantfields. You may drive out nature with a fork, yet still she will return,and, insensibly victorious, will break through [men's] improperdisgusts.Not he who is unable to compare the fleeces that drink up the dye ofAquinum with the Sidonian purple, will receive a more certain damageand nearer to his marrow, than he who shall not be able to distinguishfalse from true. He who has been overjoyed by prosperity, will beshocked by a change of circumstances. If you admire any thing [greatly],you will be unwilling to resign it. Avoid great things; under a meanroof one may outstrip kings, and the favorites of kings, in one's life.The stag, superior in fight, drove the horse from the common pasture,till the latter, worsted in the long contest, implored the aid of manand received the bridle; but after he had parted an exulting conquerorfrom his enemy, he could not shake the rider from his back, nor the bitfrom his mouth. So he who, afraid of poverty, forfeits his liberty, morevaluable than mines, avaricious wretch, shall carry a master, and shalleternally be a slave, for not knowing how to use a little. When a man'scondition does not suit him, it will be as a shoe at any time; which, iftoo big for his foot, will throw him down; if too little, will pinchhim. [If you are] cheerful under your lot, Aristius, you will livewisely; nor shall you let me go uncorrected, if I appear to scrapetogether more than enough and not have done. Accumulated money is themaster or slave of each owner, and ought rather to follow than to leadthe twisted rope.These I dictated to thee behind the moldering temple of Vacuna; in allother things happy, except that thou wast not with me.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE XI.TO BULLATIUS._Endeavoring to recall him back to Rome from Asia, whither he hadretreated through his weariness of the civil wars, he advises him toease the disquietude of his mind not by the length of his journey, butby forming his mind into a right disposition_.What, Bullatius, do you think of Chios, and of celebrated Lesbos? Whatof neat Samos? What of Sardis, the royal residence of Croesus? What ofSmyrna, and Colophon? Are they greater or less than their fame? Are theyall contemptible in comparison of the Campus Martius and the riverTiber? Does one of Attalus' cities enter into your wish? Or do youadmire Lebedus, through a surfeit of the sea and of traveling? You knowwhat Lebedus is; it is a more unfrequented town than Gabii and Fidenae;yet there would I be willing to live; and, forgetful of my friends andforgotten by them, view from land Neptune raging at a distance. Butneither he who comes to Rome from Capua, bespattered with rain and mire,would wish to live in an inn; nor does he, who has contracted a cold,cry up stoves and bagnios as completely furnishing a happy life: nor, ifthe violent south wind has tossed you in the deep, will you thereforesell your ship on the other side of the Aegean Sea. On a man sound inmind Rhodes and beautiful Mitylene have such an effect, as a thick cloakat the summer solstice, thin drawers in snowy weather, [bathing in] theTiber in winter, a fire in the month of August. While it is permitted,and fortune preserves a benign aspect, let absent Samos, and Chios, andRhodes, be commended by you here at Rome. Whatever prosperous; hourProvidence bestows upon you, receive it with a thankful hand: and defernot [the enjoyment of] the comforts of life, till a year be at an end;that in whatever place you are, you may say you have lived withsatisfaction. For if reason and discretion, not a place that commands aprospect of the wide-extended sea, remove our cares; they change theirclimate, not their disposition, who run beyond the sea: a busy idlenessharrasses us: by ships and by chariots we seek to live happily. What youseek is here [at home], is at Ulubrae, if a just temper of mind is notwanting to you.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE XII.TO ICCIUS._Leader the appearance of praising the man's parsimony, he archlyridicules it; introduces Grosphus to him, and concludes with a fewarticles of news concerning the Roman affairs_.O Iccius, if you rightly enjoy the Sicilian products, which you collectfor Agrippa, it is not possible that greater affluence can be given youby Jove. Away with complaints! for that man is by no means poor, who hasthe use or everything, he wants. If it is well with your belly, yourback, and your feet, regal wealth can add nothing greater. If perchanceabstemious amid profusion you live upon salad and shell-fish, you willcontinue to live in such a manner, even if presently fortune shall flowupon you in a river of gold; either because money can not change thenatural disposition, or because it is your opinion that all things areinferior to virtue alone. Can we wonder that cattle feed upon themeadows and corn-fields of Democritus, while his active soul is abroad[traveling] without his body? When you, amid such great impurity andinfection of profit, have no taste for any thing trivial, but still mind[only] sublime things: what causes restrain the sea, what rules theyear, whether the stars spontaneously or by direction wander about andare erratic, what throws obscurity on the moon, and what brings out herorb, what is the intention and power of the jarring harmony of things,whether Empedocles or the clever Stertinius be in the wrong.However, whether you murder fishes, or onions and garlic, receivePompeius Grosphus; and, if he asks any favor, grant it him frankly:Grosphus will desire nothing but what is right and just. The proceeds offriendship are cheap, when good men want any thing.But that you may not be ignorant in what situation the Roman affairsare; the Cantabrians have fallen by the valor of Agrippa, the Armeniansby that of Claudius Nero: Phraates has, suppliant on his knees, admittedthe laws and power of Caesar. Golden plenty has poured out the fruits ofItaly from a full horn.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE XIII.TO VINNIUS ASINA._Horace cautions him to present his poems to Augustus at a properopportunity, and with due decorum_.As on your setting out I frequently and fully gave you instructions,Vinnius, that you would present these volumes to Augustus sealed up ifhe shall be in health, if in spirits, finally, if he shall ask for them:do not offend out of zeal to me, and industriously bring an odium uponmy books [by being] an agent of violent officiousness. If haply theheavy load of my paper should gall you, cast it from you, rather thanthrow down your pack in a rough manner where you are directed to carryit, and turn your paternal name of Asina into a jest, and make yourselfa common story. Make use of your vigor over the hills, the rivers, andthe fens. As soon as you have achieved your enterprise, and arrivedthere, you must keep your burden in this position; lest you happen tocarry my bundle of books under your arm, as a clown does a lamb, or asdrunken Pyrrhia [in the play does] the balls of pilfered wool, or as atribe-guest his slippers with his fuddling-cap. You must not tellpublicly, how you sweated with carrying those verses, which may detainthe eyes and ears of Caesar. Solicited with much entreaty, do your best.Finally, get you gone, farewell: take care you do not stumble, and breakmy orders.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE XIV.TO HIS STEWARD._He upbraids his levity for contemning a country life, which had beenhis choice, and being eager to return to Rome_.Steward of my woodlands and little farm that restores me to myself,which you despise, [though formerly] inhabited by five families, andwont to send five good senators to Varia: let us try, whether I withmore fortitude pluck the thorns out of my mind, or you out of my ground:and whether Horace or his estate be in a better condition.Though my affection and solicitude for Lamia, mourning for his brother,lamenting inconsolably for his brother's loss, detain me; neverthelessmy heart and soul carry me thither and long to break through thosebarriers that obstruct my way. I pronounce him the happy man who dwellsin the country, you him [who lives] in the city. He to whom hisneighbor's lot is agreeable, must of consequence dislike his own. Eachof us is a fool for unjustly blaming the innocent place. The mind is infault, which never escapes from itself. When you were a drudge at everyone's beck, you tacitly prayed for the country: and now, [beingappointed] my steward, you wish for the city, the shows, and the baths.You know I am consistent with myself, and loth to go, wheneverdisagreeable business drags me to Rome. We are not admirers of the samethings: henoe you and I disagree. For what you reckon desert andinhospitable wilds, he who is of my way of thinking calls delightfulplaces; and dislikes what you esteem pleasant. The bagnio, I perceive,and the greasy tavern raise your inclination for the city: and this,because my little spot will sooner yield frankincense and pepper thangrapes; nor is there a tavern near, which can supply you with wine; nora minstrel harlot, to whose thrumming you may dance, cumbersome to theground: and yet you exercise with plowshares the fallows that have beena long while untouched, you take due care of the ox when unyoked, andgive him his fill with leaves stripped [from the boughs]. The sluicegives an additional trouble to an idle fellow, which, if a shower fall,must be taught by many a mound to spare the sunny meadow.Come now, attend to what hinders our agreeing. [Me,] whom fine garmentsand dressed locks adorned, whom you know to have pleased venal Cynarawithout a present, whom [you have seen] quaff flowing Falernian fromnoon--a short supper [now] delights, and a nap upon the green turf bythe stream side; nor is it a shame to have been gay, but not to breakoff that gayety. There there is no one who reduces my possessions withenvious eye, nor poisons them with obscure malice and biting slander;the neighbors smile at me removing clods and stones. You had rather bemunching your daily allowance with the slaves in town; you earnestlypray to be of the number of these: [while my] cunning foot-boy enviesyou the use of the firing, the flocks and the garden. The lazy ox wishesfor the horse's trappings: the horse wishes to go to plow. But I shallbe of opinion, that each of them ought contentedly to exercise that artwhich he understands.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE XV.TO C. NEUMONIUS VALA._Preparing to go to the baths either at Velia or Salernum, he inquiresafter the healthfulness and agreeableness of the places_.It is your part, Vala, to write to me (and mine to give credit to yourinformation) what sort of a winter is it at Velia, what the air atSalernum, what kind of inhabitants the country consists of, and how theroad is (for Antonius Musa [pronounces] Baiae to be of no service to me;yet makes me obnoxious to the place, when I am bathed in cold watereven in the midst of the frost [by his prescription]. In truth thevillage murmers at their myrtle-groves being deserted and the sulphurouswaters, said to expel lingering disorders from the nerves, despised;envying those invalids, who have the courage to expose their head andbreast to the Clusian springs, and retire to Gabii and [such] coldcountries. My course must be altered, and my horse driven beyond hisaccustomed stages. Whither are you going? will the angry rider say,pulling in the left-hand rein, I am not bound for Cumae or Baiae:--butthe horse's ear is in the bit.) [You must inform me likewise] which ofthe two people is supported by the greatest abundance of corn; whetherthey drink rainwater collected [in reservoirs], or from perennial wellsof never-failing water (for as to the wine of that part I give myself notrouble; at my country-seat I can dispense and bear with any thing: butwhen I have arrived at a sea-port, I insist upon that which is generousand mellow, such as may drive away my cares, such as may flow into myveins and animal spirits with a rich supply of hope, such as may supplyme with words, such as may make me appear young to my Lucanianmistress). Which tract of land produces most hares, which boars: whichseas harbor the most fishes and sea-urchins, that I may be able toreturn home thence in good case, and like a Phaeacian.When Maenius, having bravely made away with his paternal and maternalestates, began to be accounted a merry fellow--a vagabond droll, who hadno certain place of living; who, when dinnerless, could not distinguisha fellow-citizen from an enemy; unmerciful in forging any scandalagainst any person; the pest, and hurricane, and gulf of the market;whatever he could get, he gave to his greedy gut. This fellow, when hehad extorted little or nothing from the favorers of his iniquity, orthose that dreaded it, would eat up whole dishes of coarse tripe andlamb's entrails; as much as would have sufficed three bears; then truly,[like] reformer Bestius, would he say, that the bellies of extravagantfellows ought to be branded with a red-hot iron. The same man [however],when he had reduced to smoke and ashes whatever more considerable bootyhe had gotten; 'Faith, said he, I do not wonder if some persons eat uptheir estates; since nothing is better than a fat thrush, nothing finerthan a lage sow's paunch. In fact, I am just such another myself; for,when matters are a little deficient, I commend, the snug and homelyfare, of sufficient resolution amid mean provisions; but, if any thingbe offered better and more delicate, I, the same individual, cry out,that ye are wise and alone live well, whose wealth and estate areconspicuous from the elegance of your villas.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE XVI.TO QUINCTIUS._He describes to Quinctius the form, situation, and advantages of hiscountry house: then declares that probity consists in the consciousnessof good works; liberty, in probity_.Ask me not, my best Quinctius, whether my farm maintains its master withcorn-fields, or enriches him with olives, or with fruits, or meadowland, or the elm tree clothed with vines: the shape and situation of myground shall be described to you at large.There is a continued range of mountains, except where they are separatedby a shadowy vale; but in such a manner, that the approaching sun viewsit on the right side, and departing in his flying car warms the left.You would commend its temperature. What? If my [very] briers produce inabundance the ruddy cornels and damsens? If my oak and holm treeaccommodate my cattle with plenty of acorns, and their master with acopious shade? You would say that Tarentum, brought nearer [to Rome],shone in its verdant beauty. A fountain too, deserving to give name to ariver, insomuch that Hebrus does not surround Thrace more cool or morelimpid, flows salubrious to the infirm head, salubrious to the bowels.These sweet, yea now (if you will credit me) these delightful retreatspreserve me to you in a state of health [even] in the September season.You live well, if you take care to support the character which you bear.Long ago, all Rome has proclaimed you happy: but I am apprehensive, lestyou should give more credit concerning yourself to any one thanyourself; and lest you should imagine a man happy, who differs from thewise and good; or, because the people pronounce you sound and perfectlywell, lest you dissemble the lurking fever at meal-times, until atrembling seize your greased hands. The false modesty of fools concealsulcers [rather than have them cured]. If any one should mention battleswhich you had fought by land and sea, and in such expressions as theseshould soothe your listening ears: "May Jupiter, who consults the safetyboth of you and of the city, keep it in doubt, whether the people bemore solicitous for your welfare, or you for the people's;" you mightperceive these encomiums to belong [only] to Augustus when you sufferyourself to be termed a philosopher, and one of a refined life; say,pr'ythee, would you answer [to these appellations] in your own name? Tobe sure--I like to be called a wise and good man, as well as you. He whogave this character to-day, if he will, can take it away to-morrow: asthe same people, if they have conferred the consulship on an unworthyperson, may take it away from him: "Resign; it is ours," they cry: I doresign it accordingly, and chagrined withdraw. Thus if they should callme rogue, deny me to be temperate, assert that I had strangled my ownfather with a halter; shall I be stung, and change color at these falsereproaches? Whom does false honor delight, or lying calumny terrify,except the vicious and sickly-minded? Who then is a good man? He whoobserves the decrees of the senate, the laws and rules of justice; bywhose arbitration many and important disputes are decided; by whosesurety private property, and by whose testimony causes are safe. Yet[perhaps] his own family and all the neighborhood observe this man,specious in a fair outside, [to be] polluted within. If a slave shouldsay to me, "I have not committed a robbery, nor run away:" "You haveyour reward; you are not galled with the lash," I reply. "I have notkilled any man:" "You shall not [therefore] feed the carrion crows onthe cross." I am a good man, and thrifty: your Sabine friend denies, andcontradicts the fact. For the wary wolf dreads the pitfall, and the hawkthe suspected snares, and the kite the concealed hook. The good, [on thecontrary,] hate to sin from the love of virtue; you will commit no crimemerely for the fear of punishment. Let there be a prospect of escaping,you will confound sacred and profane things together. For, when from athousand bushels of beans you filch one, the loss in that case to me isless, but not your villainy. The honest man, whom every forum and everycourt of justice looks upon with reverence, whenever he makes anatonement to the gods with a wine or an ox; after he has pronounced in aclear distinguishable voice, "O father Janus, O Apollo;" moves his lipsas one afraid of being heard; "O fair Laverna put it in my power todeceive; grant me the appearance of a just and upright man: throw acloud of night over my frauds." I do not see how a covetous man can bebetter, how more free than a slave, when he stoops down for the sake ofa penny, stuck in the road [for sport]. For he who will be covetous,will also be anxious: but he that lives in a state of anxiety, willnever in my estimation be free. He who is always in a hurry, andimmersed in the study of augmenting his fortune, has lost the arms, anddeserted the post of virtue. Do not kill your captive, if you can sellhim: he will serve you advantageously: let him, being inured todrudgery, feed [your cattle], and plow; let him go to sea, and winter inthe midst of the waves; let him be of use to the market, and import cornand provisions. A good and wise man will have courage to say, "Pentheus,king of Thebes, what indignities will you compel me to suffer andendure. 'I will take away your goods:' my cattle, I suppose, my land, mymovables and money: you may take them. 'I will confine you withhandcuffs and fetters under a merciless jailer.' The deity himself willdischarge me, whenever I please." In my opinion, this is his meaning; Iwill die. Death is the ultimate boundary of human matters.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE XVII.TO SCAEVA._That a life of business is preferable to a private and inactive one;the friendship of great men is a laudable acquisition, yet their favorsare ever to be solicited with modesty and caution_.Though, Scaeva, you have sufficient prudence of your own, and well knowhow to demean yourself toward your superiors; [yet] hear what are thesentiments of your old crony, who himself still requires teaching, justas if a blind man should undertake to show the way: however see, if evenI can advance any thing, which you may think worth your while to adoptas your own.If pleasant rest, and sleep till seven o'clock, delight you; if dust andthe rumbling of wheels, if the tavern offend you, I shall order you offfor Ferentinum. For joys are not the property of the rich alone: norhas he lived ill, who at his birth and at his death has passedunnoticed. If you are disposed to be of service to your friends, and totreat yourself with somewhat more indulgence, you, being poor, must payyour respects to the great. Aristippus, if he could dine to hissatisfaction on herbs, would never frequent [the tables] of the great.If he who blames me, [replies Aristippus,] knew how to live with thegreat, he would scorn his vegetables. Tell me, which maxim and conductof the two you approve; or, since you are my junior, hear the reason whyAristippus' opinion is preferable; for thus, as they report, he baffledthe snarling cynic: "I play the buffoon for my own advantage, you [toplease] the populace. This [conduct of mine] is better and far morehonorable; that a horse may carry and a great man feed me, pay court tothe great: you beg for refuse, an inferior to the [poor] giver; thoughyou pretend you are in want of nothing." As for Aristippus, everycomplexion of life, every station and circumstance sat gracefully uponhim, aspiring in general to greater things, yet equal to the present: onthe other hand, I shall be much surprised, if a contrary way of lifeshould become [this cynic], whom obstinacy clothes with a double rag.The one will not wait for his purple robe; but dressed in any thing,will go through the most frequented places, and without awkwardnesssupport either character: the other will shun the cloak wrought atMiletus with greater aversion than [the bite of] dog or viper; he willdie with cold, unless you restore him his ragged garment; restore it,and let him live like a fool as he is. To perform exploits, and show thecitizens their foes in chains, reaches the throne of Jupiter, and aimsat celestial honors. To have been acceptable to the great, is not thelast of praises. It is not every man's lot to gain Corinth. He[prudently] sat still who was afraid lest he should not succeed: be itso; what then? Was it not bravely done by him, who carried his point?Either here therefore, or nowhere, is what we are investigating. The onedreads the burden, as too much for a pusillanimous soul and a weakconstitution; the other under takes, and carries it through. Eithervirtue is an empty name, or the man who makes the experiment deservedlyclaims the honor and the reward.Those who mention nothing of their poverty before their lord, will gainmore than the importunate. There is a great difference between modestlyaccepting, or seizing by violence But this was the principle and sourceof every thing [which I alleged]. He who says, "My sister is without aportion, my mother poor, and my estate neither salable nor sufficientfor my support," cries out [in effect], "Give me a morsel of bread:"another whines, "And let the platter be carved out for me with half ashare of the bounty." But if the crow could have fed in silence, hewould have had better fare, and much less of quarreling and of envy.A companion taken [by his lord] to Brundusium, or the pleasantSurrentum, who complains of the ruggedness of the roads and the bittercold and rains, or laments that his chest is broken open and hisprovisions stolen; resembles the well-known tricks of a harlot, weepingfrequently for her necklace, frequently for a garter forcibly taken fromher; so that at length no credit is given to her real griefs and losses.Nor does he, who has been once ridiculed in the streets, care to lift upa vagrant with a [pretended] broken leg; though abundant tears shouldflow from him; though, swearing by holy Osiris, he says, "Believe me, Ido not impose upon you; O cruel, take up the lame." "Seek out for astranger," cries the hoarse neighborhood.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE XVIII.TO LOLLIUS._He treats at large upon the cultivation of the favor of great men; andconcludes with a few words concerning the acquirement of peace of mind_.If I rightly know your temper, most ingenuous Lollius, you will bewareof imitating a flatterer, while you profess yourself a friend. As amatron is unlike and of a different aspect from a strumpet, so will atrue friend differ from the toad-eater. There is an opposite vice tothis, rather the greater [of the two]; a clownish, inelegant, anddisagreeable bluntness, which would recommend itself by an unshaven faceand black teeth; while it desires to be termed pure freedom and truesincerity. Virtue is the medium of the two vices; and equally remotefrom either. The one is over-prone to complaisance, and a jester of thelowest, couch, he so reverences the rich man's nod, so repeats hisspeeches, and catches up his falling words; that you would take him fora school-boy saying his lesson to a rigid master, or a player acting anunderpart; another often wrangles about a goat's hair, and armed engagesfor any trifle: "That I, truly, should not have the first credit; andthat I should not boldly speak aloud, what is my real sentiment--[uponsuch terms], another life would be of no value." But what is the subjectof this controversy? Why, whether [the gladiator] Castor or Dolichos bethe cleverer fellow; whether the Minucian, or the Appian, be the betterroad to Brundusium.Him whom pernicious lust, whom quick-dispatching dice strips, whomvanity dresses out and perfumes beyond his abilities, whom insatiablehunger and thirst after money, Whom a shame and aversion to povertypossess, his rich friend (though furnished with a half-score more vices)hates and abhors; or if he does not hate, governs him; and, like a piousmother, would have him more wise and virtuous than himself; and sayswhat is nearly true: "My riches (think not to emulate me) admit ofextravagance; your income is but small: a scanty gown becomes a prudentdependant: cease to vie with me." Whomsoever Eutrapelus had a mind topunish, he presented with costly garments. For now [said he] happy inhis fine clothes, he will assume new schemes and hopes; he will sleeptill daylight; prefer a harlot to his honest-calling; run into debt; andat last become a gladiator, or drive a gardener's hack for hire.Do not you at any time pry into his secrets; and keep close what isintrusted to you, though put to the torture, by wine or passion. Neithercommend your own inclinations, nor find fault with those of others; nor,when he is disposed to hunt, do you make verses. For by such means theamity of the twins Zethus and Amphion, broke off; till the lyre,disliked by the austere brother, was silent. Amphion is thought to havegiven way to his brother's humors; so do you yield to the gentledictates of your friend in power: as often as he leads forth his dogsinto the fields and his cattle laden with Aetolian nets, arise and layaside the peevishness of your unmannerly muse, that you may sup togetheron the delicious fare purchased by your labor; an exercise habitual tothe manly Romans, of service to their fame and life and limbs:especially when you are in health, and are able either to excel the dogin swiftness, or the boar in strength. Add [to this], that there is noone who handles martial weapons more gracefully. You well know, withwhat acclamations of the spectators you sustain the combats in theCampus Marcius: in fine, as yet a boy, you endured a bloody campaign andthe Cantabrian wars, beneath a commander, who is now replacing thestandards [recovered] from the Parthian temples: and, if any thing iswanting, assigns it to the Roman arms. And that you may not withdrawyourself, and inexcusably be absent; though you are careful to donothing out of measure, and moderation, yet you sometimes amuse yourselfat your country-seat. The [mock] fleet divides the little boats [intotwo squadrons]: the Actian sea-fight is represented by boys under yourdirection in a hostile form: your brother is the foe, your lake theAdriatic; till rapid victory crowns the one or the other with her bays.Your patron, who will perceive that you come into his taste, willapplaud your sports with both his hands.Moreover, that I may advise you (if in aught you stand in need of anadviser), take great circumspection what you say to any man, and towhom. Avoid an inquisitive impertinent, for such a one is also atattler, nor do open ears faithfully retain what is intrusted to them;and a word, once sent abroad, flies irrevocably.Let no slave within the marble threshold of your honored friend inflameyour heart; lest the owner of the beloved damsel gratify you with sotrifling a present, or, mortifying [to your wishes], torment you [with arefusal].Look over and over again [into the merits of] such a one, as yourecommend; lest afterward the faults of others strike you with shame. Weare sometimes imposed upon, and now and then introduce an unworthyperson. Wherefore, once deceived, forbear to defend one who suffers byhis own bad conduct; but protect one whom you entirely know, and withconfidence guard him with your patronage, if false accusations attackhim: who being bitten with the tooth of calumny, do you not perceivethat the same danger is threatening you? For it is your own concern,when the adjoining wall is on fire: and flames neglected are wont togain strength.The attending of the levee of a friend in power seems delightful to theunexperienced; the experienced dreads it. Do you, while your vessel isin the main, ply your business, lest a changing gale bear you backagain.The melancholy hate the merry, and the jocose the melancholy; thevolatile [dislike] the sedate, the indolent the stirring and vivacious:the quaffers of pure Falernian from midnight hate one who shirks histurn; notwithstanding you swear you are afraid of the fumes of wine bynight. Dispel gloominess from your forehead: the modest man generallycarries the look of a sullen one; the reserved, of a churl.In every thing you must read and consult the learned, by what means youmay be enabled to pass your life in an agreeable manner: that insatiabledesire may not agitate and torment you, nor the fear and hope of thingsthat are but of little account: whether learning acquires virtue, ornature bestows it? What lessens cares, what may endear you to yourself?What perfectly renders the temper calm; honor or enticing lucre, or asecret passage and the path of an unnoticed life?For my part, as often as the cooling rivulet Digentia refreshes me(Digentia, of which Mandela drinks, a village wrinkled with cold); what,my friend, do you think are my sentiments, what do you imagine I prayfor? Why, that my fortune may remain as it is now; or even [if it besomething] less: and that I may live to myself, what remains of my time,if the gods will that aught do remain: that I may have a good store ofbooks, and corn provided for the year; lest I fluctuate in suspense ofeach uncertain hour. But it is sufficient to sue Jove [for theseexternals], which he gives and takes away [at pleasure]; let him grantlife, let him grant wealth: I myself will provide equanimity of temper.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE XIX.TO MAECENAS._He shows the folly of some persons who would imitate; and the envy ofothers who would censure him_.O learned Maecenas, if you believe old Gratinus, no verses which arewritten by water-drinkers can please, or be long-lived. Ever sinceBacchus enlisted the brain-sick poets among the Satyrs and the Fauns,the sweet muses have usually smelt of wine in the morning. Homer, by hisexcessive praises of wine, is convicted as a booser: father Enniushimself never sallied forth to sing of arms, unless in drink. "I willcondemn the sober to the bar and the prater's bench, and deprive theabstemious of the power of singing."As soon as he gave out this edict, the poets did not cease to contend inmidnight cups, and to smell of them by day. What! if any savage, by astern countenance and bare feet, and the texture of a scanty gown,should imitate Cato; will he represent the virtue and morals of Cato?The tongue that imitated Timagenes was the destruction of the Moor,while he affected to be humorous, and attempted to seem eloquent. Theexample that is imitable in its faults, deceives [the ignorant]. Soh! ifI was to grow up pale by accident, [these poetasters] would drink theblood-thinning cumin. O ye imitators, ye servile herd, how often yourbustlings have stirred my bile, how often my mirth!I was the original, who set my free footsteps upon the vacant sod; Itrod not in the steps of others. He who depends upon himself, as leader,commands the swarm. I first showed to Italy the Parian iambics:following the numbers and spirit of Archilochus, but not his subject andstyle, which afflicted Lycambes. You must not, however, crown me with amore sparing wreath, because I was afraid to alter the measure andstructure of his verse: for the manly Sappho governs her muse by themeasures of Archilochus, so does Alcaeus; but differing from him in thematerials and disposition [of his lines], neither does he seek for afather-in-law whom he may defame with his fatal lampoons, nor does hetie a rope for his betrothed spouse in scandalous verse. Him too, nevercelebrated by any other tongue, I the Roman lyrist first made known. Itdelights me, as I bring out new productions, to be perused by the eyes,and held in the hands of the ingenuous.Would you know why the ungrateful reader extols and is fond of manyworks at home, unjustly decries them without doors? I hunt not after theapplause of the inconstant vulgar, at the expense of entertainments, andfor the bribe of a worn-out colt: I am not an auditor of noble writers,nor a vindictive reciter, nor condescend to court the tribes and desksof the grammarians. Hence are these tears. If I say that "I am ashamedto repeat my worthless writings to crowded theatres, and give an air ofconsequence to trifles:" "You ridicule us," says [one of them], "and youreserve those pieces for the ears of Jove: you are confident that it isyou alone that can distill the poetic honey, beautiful in your owneyes." At these words I am afraid to turn up my nose; and lest I shouldbe torn by the acute nails of my adversary, "This place isdisagreeable," I cry out, "and I demand a prorogation of the contest."For contest is wont to beget trembling emulation and strife, and strifecruel enmities and funereal war.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE XX.TO HIS BOOK._In vain he endeavors to retain his book, desirous of getting abroad;tells it what trouble it is to undergo, and imparts some things to besaid of him to posterity._You seem, my book, to look wistfully at Janus and Vertumnus; to the endthat you may be set out for sale, neatly polished by the pumice-stone ofthe Sosii. You hate keys and seals, which are agreeable to a modest[volume]; you grieve that you are shown but to a few, and extol publicplaces; though educated in another manner. Away with you, whither youare so solicitous of going down: there will be no returning for you,when you are once sent out. "Wretch that I am, what have I done? Whatdid I want?"--you will say: when any one gives you ill treatment, andyou know that you will be squeezed into small compass, as soon as theeager reader is satiated. But, if the augur be not prejudiced byresentment of your error, you shall be caressed at Rome [only] till youryouth be passed. When, thumbed by the hands of the vulgar, you begin togrow dirty; either you shall in silence feed the grovelling book-worms,or you shall make your escape to Utica, or shall be sent bound toIlerda. Your disregarded adviser shall then laugh [at you]: as he, whoin a passion pushed his refractory ass over the precipice. For who wouldsave [an ass] against his will? This too awaits you, that falteringdotage shall seize on you, to teach boys their rudiments in the skirtsof the city. But when the abating warmth of the sun shall attract moreears, you shall tell them, that I was the son of a freedman, andextended my wings beyond my nest; so that, as much as you take away frommy family, you may add to my merit: that I was in favor with the firstmen in the state, both in war and peace; of a short stature, graybefore my time, calculated for sustaining heat, prone to passion, yet soas to be soon appeased. If any one should chance to inquire my age; lethim know that I had completed four times eleven Decembers, in the yearin which Lollius admitted Lepidus as his colleague.       *       *       *       *       *THE SECOND BOOK OF THE EPISTLES OF HORACE.EPISTLE I.TO AUGUSTUS._He honors him with the highest compliments; then treats copiously ofpoetry, its origin, character, and excellence_.Since you alone support so many and such weighty concerns, defend Italywith your arms, adorn it by your virtue, reform it by your laws; Ishould offend, O Caesar, against the public interests, if I were totrespass upon your time with a long discourse.Romulus, and father Bacchus, and Castor and Pollux, after greatachievements, received into the temples of the gods, while they wereimproving the world and human nature, composing fierce dissensions,settling property, building cities, lamented that the esteem which theyexpected was not paid in proportion to their merits. He who crushed thedire Hydra, and subdued the renowned monsters by his forefated labor,found envy was to be tamed by death [alone]. For he burns by his verysplendor, whose superiority is oppressive to the arts beneath him: afterhis decease, he shall be had in honor. On you, while present among us,we confer mature honors, and rear altars where your name is to be swornby; confessing that nothing equal to you has hitherto risen, or willhereafter rise. But this your people, wise and just in one point (forpreferring you to our own, you to the Grecian heroes), by no meansestimate other things with like proportion and measure: and disdain anddetest every thing, but what they see removed from earth and alreadygone by; such favorers are they of antiquity, as to assert that theMuses [themselves] upon Mount Alba, dictated the twelve tables,forbidding to trangress, which the decemviri ratified; the leagues ofour kings concluded with the Gabii, or the rigid Sabines; the records ofthe pontifices, and the ancient volumes of the augurs.If, because the most ancient writings of the Greeks are also the best,Roman authors are to be weighed in the same scale, there is no need weshould say much: there is nothing hard in the inside of an olive,nothing [hard] in the outside of a nut. We are arrived at the highestpitch of success [in arts]: we paint, and sing, and wrestle moreskillfully than the annointed Greeks. If length of time makes poemsbetter, as it does wine, I would fain know how many years will stamp avalue upon writings. A writer who died a hundred years ago, is he to bereckoned among the perfect and ancient, or among the mean and modernauthors? Let some fixed period exclude all dispute. He is an old andgood writer who completes a hundred years. What! one that died a monthor a year later, among whom is he to be ranked? Among the old poets, oramong those whom both the present age and posterity will disdainfullyreject? He may fairly be placed among the ancients, who is youngereither by a short month only, or even by a whole year. I take theadvantage of this concession, and pull away by little and little, as [ifthey were] the hairs of a horse's tail: and I take away a single one andthen again another single one; till, like a tumbling heap, [myadversary], who has recourse to annals and estimates excellence by theyear, and admires nothing but what Libitina has made sacred, falls tothe ground.Ennius the wise, the nervous, and (as our critics say) a second Homer,seems lightly to regard what becomes of his promises and Pythagoreandreams. Is not Naevius in people's hands, and sticking almost fresh intheir memory? So sacred is every ancient poem. As often as a debatearises, whether this poet or the other be preferable; Pacuvius bearsaway the character of a learned, Accius, of a lofty writer; Afranius'gown is said to have fitted Menander; Plautus, to hurry after thepattern of the Sicilian Epicharmus; Caecilius, to excel in gravity,Terence in contrivance. These mighty Rome learns by heart, and these sheviews crowded in her narrow theater; these she esteems and accounts herpoets from Livy the writer's age down to our time. Sometimes thepopulace see right; sometimes they are wrong. If they admire and extolthe ancient poets so as to prefer nothing before, to compare nothingwith them, they err; if they think and allow that they express somethings in an obsolete, most in a stiff, many in a careless manner; theyboth think sensibly, and agree with me, and determine with the assent ofJove himself. Not that I bear an ill-will against Livy's epics, andwould doom them to destruction, which I remember the severe Orbiliustaught me when a boy; but they should seem correct, beautiful, and verylittle short of perfect, this I wonder at: among which if by chance abright expression shines forth, and if one line or two [happen to be]somewhat terse and musical, this unreasonably carries off and sells thewhole poem. I am disgusted that any thing should be found fault with,not because it is a lumpish composition or inelegant, but because it ismodern; and that not a favorable allowance, but honor and rewards aredemanded for the old writers. Should I scruple, whether or not Atta'sdrama trod the saffron and flowers in a proper manner, almost all thefathers would cry out that modesty was lost; since I attempted to findfault with those pieces which the pathetic Aesopus, which the skillfulRoscius acted: either because they esteem nothing right, but what haspleased themselves; or because they think it disgraceful to submit totheir juniors, and to confess, now they are old, that what they learnedwhen young is deserving only to be destroyed. Now he who extols Numa'sSalian hymn, and would alone seem to understand that which, as well asme, he is ignorant of, does not favor and applaud the buried geniuses,but attacks ours, enviously hating us moderns and every thing of ours.Whereas if novelty had been detested by the Greeks as much as by us,what at this time would there have been ancient? Or what what wouldthere have been for common use to read and thumb, common to every body.When first Greece, her wars being over, began to trifle, and throughprosperity to glide into folly; she glowed with the love, one while ofwrestlers, another while of horses; was fond of artificers in marble, orin ivory, or in brass; hung her looks and attention upon a picture; wasdelighted now with musicians, now with tragedians; as if an infant girlshe sported under the nurse; soon cloyed, she abandoned what [before]she earnestly desired. What is there that pleases or is odious, whichyou may not think mutable? This effect had happy times of peace, andfavorable gales [of fortune].At Rome it was long pleasing and customary to be up early with opendoors, to expound the laws to clients; to lay out money cautiously upongood securities: to hear the elder, and to tell the younger by whatmeans their fortunes might increase and pernicious luxury be diminished.The inconstant people have changed their mind, and glow with a universalardor for learning: young men and grave fathers sup crowned with leaves,and dictate poetry. I myself, who affirm that I write no verses, amfound more false than the Parthians: and, awake before the sun is risen,I call for my pen and papers and desk. He that is ignorant of a ship isafraid to work a ship; none but he who has learned, dares administer[even] southern wood to the sick; physicians undertake what belongs tophysicians; mechanics handle tools; but we, unlearned and learned,promiscuously write poems.Yet how great advantages this error and this slight madness has, thuscompute: the poet's mind is not easily covetous; fond of verses, hestudies this alone; he laughs at losses, flights of slaves, fires; hecontrives no fraud against his partner, or his young ward; he lives onhusks, and brown bread; though dastardly and unfit for war, he is usefulat home, if you allow this, that great things may derive assistance fromsmall ones. The poet fashions the child's tender and lisping mouth, andturns his ear even at this time from obscene language; afterward also heforms his heart with friendly precepts, the corrector of his rudeness,and envy, and passion; he records virtuous actions, he instructs therising age with approved examples, he comforts the indigent and thesick. Whence should the virgin, stranger to a husband, with the chasteboys, learn the solemn prayer, had not the muse given a poet? The chorusentreats the divine aid, and finds the gods propitious; sweet in learnedprayer, they implore the waters of the heavens; avert diseases, driveoff impending dangers, obtain both peace and years enriched with fruits.With song the gods above are appeased, with song the gods below.Our ancient swains, stout and happy with a little, after the grain waslaid up, regaling in a festival season their bodies and even theirminds, patient of hardships through the hope of their ending, with theirslaves and faithful wife, the partners of their labors, atoned with ahog [the goddess] Earth, with milk Silvanus, with flowers and wine thegenius that reminds us of our short life. Invented by this custom, theFemminine licentiousness poured forth its rustic taunts in alternatestanzas; and this liberty, received down through revolving years,sported pleasingly; till at length the bitter raillery began to beturned into open rage, and threatening with impunity to stalk throughreputable families. They, who suffered from its bloody tooth smartedwith the pain; the unhurt likewise were concerned for the commoncondition: further also, a law and a penalty were enacted, which forbadethat any one should be stigmatized in lampoon. Through fear of thebastinado, they were reduced to the necessity of changing their manner,and of praising and delighting.Captive Greece took captive her fierce conqueror, and introduced herarts into rude Latium. Thus flowed off the rough Saturnian numbers, anddelicacy expelled the rank venom: but for a long time there remained,and at this day remain traces of rusticity. For late [the Roman writer]applied his genius to the Grecian pages; and enjoying rest after thePunic wars, began to search what useful matter Sophocles, and Thespis,and Aeschylus afforded: he tried, too, if he could with dignitytranslate their works; and succeeded in pleasing himself, being bynature [of a genius] sublime and strong; for he breathes a spirit tragicenough, and dares successfully; but fears a blot, and thinks itdisgraceful in his writings.Comedy is believed to require the least pains, because it fetches itssubjects from common life; but the less indulgence It meets with, themore labor it requires. See how Plautus supports the character of alover under age, how that of a covetous father, how those of a cheatingpimp: how Dossennus exceeds all measure in his voracious parasites; withhow loose a sock he runs over the stage: for he is glad to put the moneyin his pocket, after this regardless whether his play stand or fall.Him, whom glory in her airy car has brought upon the stage, the carelessspectator dispirits, the attentive renders more diligent: so slight, sosmall a matter it is, which overturns or raises a mind covetous ofpraise! Adieu the ludicrous business [of dramatic writing], if applausedenied brings me back meagre, bestowed [makes me] full of flesh andspirits.This too frequently drives away and deters even an adventurous poet?that they who are in number more, in worth and rank inferior, unlearnedand foolish, and (if the equestrian order dissents) ready to fall toblows, in the midst of the play, call for either a bear or boxers; forin these the mob delight. Nay, even all the pleasures of our knights isnow transferred from the ear to the uncertain eye, and their vainamusements. The curtains are kept down for four hours or more, whiletroops of horse and companies of foot flee over the stage: next isdragged forward the fortune of kings, with their hands bound behindthem; chariots, litters, carriages, ships hurry on; captive ivory,captive Corinth, is borne along. Democritus, if he were on earth, wouldlaugh; whether a panther a different genus confused with the camel, or awhite elephant attracted the eye of the crowd. He would view the peoplemore attentively than the sports themselves, as affording him morestrange sights than the actor: and for the writers, he would think theytold their story to a deaf ass. For what voices are able to overbear thedin with which our theatres resound? You would think the groves ofGarganus, or the Tuscan Sea, was roaring; with so great noise are viewedthe shows and contrivances, and foreign riches: with which the actorbeing daubed over, as soon as he appears upon the stage, each right handencounters with the left. Has he said any thing yet? Nothing at all.What then pleases? The cloth imitating [the color of] violets, with thedye of Tarentum.And, that you may not think I enviously praise those kinds of writingwhich I decline undertaking, when others handle them well: that poet tome seems able to walk upon an extended rope, who with his fictionsgrieves my soul, enrages, soothes, fills it with false terrors, as anenchanter; and sets me now in Thebes, now in Athens.But of those too, who had rather trust themselves with a reader, thanbear the disdain of an haughty spectator, use a little care; if youwould fill with books [the library you have erected], an offering worthyof Apollo, and add an incentive to the poets, that with greatereagerness they may apply to verdant Helicon.We poets, it is true (that I may hew down my own vineyards), often doourselves many mischiefs, when we present a work to you while thoughtfulor fatigued; when we are pained, if my friend has dared to find faultwith one line; when, unasked, we read over again passages alreadyrepeated: when we lament that our labors do not appear, and war poems,spun out in a fine thread: when we hope the thing will come to this,that as soon as you are apprised we are penning verses, you will kindlyof yourself send for us and secure us from want, and oblige us to write.But yet it is worth while to know, who shall be the priests of yourvirtue signalized in war and at home, which is not to be trusted to anunworthy poet. A favorite of king Alexander the Great was thatChoerilus, who to his uncouth and ill-formed verses owed the many pieceshe received of Philip's royal coin. But, as ink when touched leavesbehind it a mark and a blot, so writers as it were stain shining actionswith foul poetry. That same king, who prodigally bought so dear soridiculous a poem, by an edict forbade that any one beside Apellesshould paint him, or that any other than Lysippus should mold brass forthe likeness of the valiant Alexander. But should you call that facultyof his, so delicate in discerning other arts, to [judge of] books and ofthese gifts of the muses, you would swear he had been born in the grossair of the Boeotians. Yet neither do Virgil and Varius, your belovedpoets, disgrace your judgment of them, and the presents which they havereceived with great honor to the donor; nor do the features ofillustrious men appear more lively when expressed by statues of brass,than their manners and minds expressed by the works of a poet. Nor wouldI rather compose such tracts as these creeping on the ground, thanrecord deeds of arms, and the situations of countries, and rivers, andforts reared upon mountains, and barbarous kingdoms, and wars brought toa conclusion through the whole world under your auspices, and thebarriers that confine Janus the guardian of peace, and Rome treaded bythe Parthians under your government, if I were but able to do as much asI could wish. But neither does your majesty admit of humble poetry, nordares my modesty attempt a subject which my strength is unable tosupport. Yet officiousness foolishly disgusts the person whom it loves;especially when it recommends itself by numbers, and the art [ofwriting]. For one learns sooner, and more willingly remembers, thatwhich a man derides, than that which he approves and venerates. I valuenot the zeal that gives me uneasiness; nor do I wish to be set out anywhere in wax with a face formed for the worse, nor to be celebrated inill-composed verses; lest I blush, when presented with the gross gift;and, exposed in an open box along with my author, be conveyed into thestreet that sells frankincense, and spices, and pepper, and whatever iswrapped up in impertinent writings.       *       *       *       *       *EPISTLE II.TO JULIUS FLORUS._In apologizing for not having written to him, he shows that thewell-ordering of life is of more importance than the composition ofverses_.O Florus, faithful friend to the good and illustrious Nero, if by chanceany one should offer to sell you a boy born at Tibur and Gabii, andshould treat with you in this manner; "This [boy who is] bothgood-natured and well-favored from head to foot, shall become and beyours for eight thousand sesterces; a domestic slave, ready in hisattendance at his master's nod; initiated in the Greek language, of acapacity for any art; you may shape out any thing with [such] moistclay; besides, he will sing in an artless manner, but yet entertainingto one drinking. Lavish promises lessen credit, when any one cries upextravagantly the wares he has for sale, which he wants to put off. Noemergency obliges me [to dispose of him]: though poor, I am in nobody'sdebt. None of the chapmen would do this for you; nor should every bodyreadily receive the same favor from me. Once, [in deed,] he [loitered onan errand]; and (as it happens) absconded, being afraid of the lash thathangs in the staircase. Give me your money, if this runaway trick, whichI have expected, does not offend you." In my opinion, the man may takehis price, and be secure from any punishment: you wittingly purchased agood-for-nothing boy: the condition of the contract was told you.Nevertheless you prosecute this man, and detain him in an unjust suit.I told you, at your setting out, that I was indolent: I told you I wasalmost incapable of such offices: that you might not chide me in angrymood, because no letter [from me] came to hand. What then have Iprofited, if you nevertheless arraign the conditions that make for me?On the same score too you complain, that, being worse than my word, I donot send you the verses you expected.A soldier of Lucullus, [having run through] a great many hardships, wasrobbed of his collected stock to a penny, as he lay snoring in the nightquite fatigued: after this, like a ravenous wolf, equally exasperated athimself and the enemy, eager, with his hungry fangs, he beat off a royalguard from a post (as they report) very strongly fortified, and wellsupplied with stores. Famous on account of this exploit, he is adornedwith honorable rewards, and receives twenty thousand sesterces into thebargain. It happened about this time that his officer being inclined tobatter down a certain fort, began to encourage the same man, with wordsthat might even have given courage to a coward: "Go, my brave fellow,whither your valor calls you: go with prosperous step, certain toreceive ample rewards for your merit. Why do you hesitate?" Upon this,he arch, though a rustic: "He who has lost his purse, will go whitheryou wish," says he.It was my lot to have Rome for my nurse, and to be instructed [from theIliad] how much the exasperated Achilles prejudiced the Greeks. GoodAthens give me some additional learning: that is to say, to be able todistinguish a right line from a curve, and seek after truth in thegroves of Academus. But the troublesome times removed me from thatpleasant spot; and the tide of a civil war carried me away,unexperienced as I was, into arms, [into arms] not likely to be a matchfor the sinews of Augustus Caesar. Whence, as soon as [the battle of]Philippi dismissed me in an abject condition, with my wings clipped, anddestitute both of house and land, daring poverty urged me on to thecomposition of verses: but now, having more than is wanted, whatmedicines would be efficacious enough to cure my madness, if I did notthink it better to rest than to write verses.The advancing years rob us of every thing: they have taken away mymirth, my gallantry, my revelings, and play: they are now proceeding toforce poetry from me. What would you have me do?In short, all persons do not love and admire the same things. Ye delightin the ode: one man is pleased with iambics; another with satireswritten in the manner of Bion, and virulent wit. Three guests scarcelycan be found to agree, craving very different dishes with variouspalate. What shall I give? What shall I not give? You forbid, whatanother demands: what you desire, that truly is sour and disgustful tothe [other] two.Beside other [difficulties], do you think it practicable for me towrite poems at Rome, amid so many solicitudes and so many fatigues? Onecalls me as his security, another to hear his works, all business elseapart; one lives on the mount of Quirinus, the other in the extremity ofthe Aventine; both must be waited on. The distances between them, yousee, are charmingly commodious. "But the streets are clear, so thatthere can be no obstacle to the thoughtful."--A builder in heat hurriesalong with his mules and porters: the crane whirls aloft at one time astone, at another a great piece of timber: the dismal funerals disputethe way with the unwieldy carriages: here runs a mad dog, there rushes asow begrimed with mire. Go now, and meditate with yourself yourharmonious verses. All the whole choir of poets love the grove, andavoid cities, due votaries to Bacchus delighting in repose and shade.Would you have me, amid so great noise both by night and day, [attempt]to sing, and trace the difficult footsteps of the poets? A genius whohas chosen quiet Athens for his residence, and has devoted seven yearsto study, and has grown old in books and study, frequently walks forthmore dumb than a statue, and shakes the people's sides with laughter:here, in the midst of the billows and tempests of the city, can I bethought capable of connecting words likely to wake the sound of thelyre?At Rome there was a rhetorician, brother to a lawyer: [so fond of eachother were they,] that they would hear nothing but the mere praises ofeach other: insomuch, that the latter appeared a Gracchus to the former,the former a Mucius to the latter. Why should this frenzy affect theobstreperous poets in a less degree? I write odes, another elegies: awork wonderful to behold, and burnished by the nine muses! Observefirst, with what a fastidious air, with what importance we survey thetemple [of Apollo] vacant for the Roman poets. In the next place you mayfollow (if you are at leisure) and hear what each produces, andwherefore each weaves for himself the crown. Like Samnite gladiators inslow duel, till candle-light, we are beaten and waste out the enemy withequal blows: I came off Alcaeus, in his suffrage; he is mine, who? Whywho but Callimachus? Or, if he seems to make a greater demand, hebecomes Mimnermus, and grows in fame by the chosen appellation. Much doI endure in order to pacify this passionate race of poets, when I amwriting; and submissive court the applause of the people; [but,] havingfinished my studies and recovered my senses, I the same man can nowboldly stop my open ears against reciters.Those who make bad verses are laughed at: but they are pleased inwriting, and reverence themselves; and if you are silent, they, happy,fall to praising of their own accord whatever they have written. But hewho desires to execute a genuine poem, will with his papers assume thespirit of an honest critic: whatever words shall have but littleclearness and elegance, or shall be without weight and held unworthy ofestimation, he will dare to displace: though they may recede withreluctance, and still remain in the sanctuary of Vesta: those that havebeen long hidden from the people he kindly will drag forth, and bring tolight those expressive denominations of things that were used by theCatos and Cethegi of ancient times, though now deformed dust andneglected age presses upon them: he will adopt new words, which use, theparent [of language], shall produce: forcible and perspicuous, andbearing the utmost similitude to a limpid stream, he will pour out histreasures, and enrich Latium with a comprehensive language. Theluxuriant he will lop, the too harsh he will soften with a sensiblecultivation: those void of expression he will discard: he will exhibitthe appearance of one at play; and will be [in his invention] on therack, like [a dancer on the stage], who one while affects the motions ofa satyr, at another of a clumsy cyclops.I had rather be esteemed a foolish and dull writer, while my faultsplease myself, or at least escape my notice, than be wise and smart forit. There lived at Argos a man of no mean rank, who imagined that he washearing some admirable tragedians, a joyful sitter and applauder in anempty theater: who [nevertheless] could support the other duties of lifein a just manner; a truly honest neighbor, an amiable host, kind towardhis wife, one who could pardon his slaves, nor would rave at thebreaking of a bottle-seal: one who [had sense enough] to avoid aprecipice, or an open well. This man, being cured at the expense and bythe care of his relations, when he had expelled by the means of purehellebore the disorder and melancholy humor, and returned to himself;"By Pollux, my friends (said he), you have destroyed, not saved me; fromwhom my pleasure is thus taken away, and a most agreeable delusion ofmind removed by force."In a word, it is of the first consequence to be wise in the rejectionof trifles, and leave childish play to boys for whom it is in season,and not to scan words to be set to music for the Roman harps, but[rather] to be perfectly an adept in the numbers and proportions of reallife. Thus therefore I commune with myself, and ponder these things insilence: "If no quantity of water would put an end to your thirst, youwould tell it to your physicians. And is there none to whom you dareconfess, that the more you get the more you crave? If you had a woundwhich was not relieved by a plant or root prescribed to you, you wouldrefuse being doctored with a root or plant that did no good. You haveheard that vicious folly left the man, on whom the gods conferredwealth; and though you are nothing wiser, since you become richer, willyou nevertheless use the same monitors as before? But could riches makeyou wise, could they make you less covetous and mean-spirited, you wellmight blush, if there lived on earth one more avaricious than yourself."If that be any man's property, which he has bought by the pound andpenny, [and] there be some things to which (if you give credit to thelawyers) possession gives a claim, [then] the field that feeds you isyour own; and Orbius' steward, when he harrows the corn which is soon togive you flour, finds you are [in effect] the proper master. You giveyour money; you receive grapes, pullets, eggs, a hogshead of strongwine: certainly in this manner you by little and little purchase thatfarm, for which perhaps the owner paid three hundred thousand sesterces,or more. What does it signify, whether you live on what was paid for theother day, or a long while ago? He who purchased the Aricinian andVeientine fields some time since, sups on bought vegetables, however hemay think otherwise; boils his pot with bought wood at the approach ofthe chill evening. But he calls all that his own, as far as where theplanted poplar prevents quarrels among neighbors by a determinatelimitation: as if anything were a man's property, which in a moment ofthe fleeting hour, now by solicitations, now by sale, now by violence,and now by the supreme lot [of all men], may change masters and comeinto another's jurisdiction. Thus since the perpetual possession isgiven to none, and one man's heir urges on another's, as wave impelswave, of what importance are houses, or granaries; or what the Lucanianpastures joined to the Calabrian; if Hades, inexorable to gold, mowsdown the great together with the small?Gems, marble, ivory, Tuscan statues, pictures, silver-plate, robes dyedwith Getulian purple, there are who can not acquire; and there areothers, who are not solicitous of acquiring. Of two brothers, why oneprefers lounging, play, and perfume, to Herod's rich palm-tree groves;why the other, rich and uneasy, from the rising of the light to theevening shade, subdues his woodland with fire and steel: our attendantgenius knows, who governs the planet of our nativity, the divinity [thatpresides] over human nature, who dies with each individual, of variouscomplexion, white and black.I will use, and take out from my moderate stock, as much as my exigencedemands: nor will I be under any apprehensions what opinion my heirshall hold concerning me, when he shall, find [I have left him] no morethan I had given me. And yet I, the same man, shall be inclined to knowhow far an open and cheerful person differs from a debauchee, and howgreatly the economist differs from the miser. For there is somedistinction whether you throw away your money in a prodigal manner, ormake an entertainment without grudging, nor toil to accumulate more; orrather, as formerly in Minerva's holidays, when a school-boy, enjoys bystarts the short and pleasant vacation.Let sordid poverty be far away. I, whether borne in a large or smallvessel, let me be borne uniform and the same. I am not wafted withswelling sail before the north wind blowing fair: yet I do not bear mycourse of life against the adverse south. In force, genius, figure,virtue, station, estate, the last of the first-rate, [yet] still beforethose of the last.You are not covetous, [you say]:--go to.--What then? Have the rest ofyour vices fled from you, together with this? Is your breast free fromvain ambition? Is it free from the fear of death and from anger? Can youlaugh at dreams, magic terrors, wonders, witches, nocturnal goblins, andThessalian prodigies? Do you number your birth-days with a gratefulmind? Are you forgiving to your friends? Do you grow milder and betteras old age approaches? What profits you only one thorn eradicated out ofmany? If you do not know how to live in a right manner, make way forthose that do. You have played enough, eaten and drunk enough, it istime for you to walk off: lest having tippled too plentifully, that agewhich plays the wanton with more propriety, and drive you [off thestage].       *       *       *       *       *HORACE'S BOOK UPON THE ART OF POETRY.TO THE PISOS.If a painter should wish to unite a horse's neck to a human head, andspread a variety of plumage over limbs [of different animals] taken fromevery part [of nature], so that what is a beautiful woman in the upperpart terminates unsightly in an ugly fish below; could you, my friends,refrain from laughter, were you admitted to such a sight? Believe, yePisos, the book will be perfectly like such a picture, the ideas ofwhich, like a sick man's dreams, are all vain and fictitious: so thatneither head nor foot can correspond to any one form. "Poets andpainters [you will say] have ever had equal authority for attempting anything." We are conscious of this, and this privilege we demand and allowin turn: but not to such a degree, that the tame should associate withthe savage; nor that serpents should be coupled with birds, lambs withtigers.In pompous introductions, and such as promise a great deal, it generallyhappens that one or two verses of purple patch-work, that may make agreat show, are tagged on; as when the grove and the altar of Diana andthe meandering of a current hastening through pleasant fields, or theriver Rhine, or the rainbow is described. But here there was no room forthese [fine things]: perhaps, too, you know how to draw a cypress: butwhat is that to the purpose, if he, whe is painted for the given price,is [to be represented as] swimming hopeless out of a shipwreck? A largevase at first was designed: why, as the wheel revolves, turns out alittle pitcher? In a word, be your subject what it will, let it bemerely simple and uniform.The great majority of us poets, father, and youths worthy such afather, are misled by the appearance of right. I labor to be concise, Ibecome obscure: nerves and spirit fail him, that aims at the easy: one,that pretends to be sublime, proves bombastical: he who is too cautiousand fearful of the storm, crawls along the ground: he who wants to varyhis subject in a marvelous manner, paints the dolphin in the woods, theboar in the sea. The avoiding of an error leads to a fault, if it lackskill.A statuary about the Aemilian school shall of himself, with singularskill, both express the nails, and imitate in brass the flexible hair;unhappy yet in the main, because he knows not how to finish a completepiece. I would no more choose to be such a one as this, had I a mind tocompose any thing, than to live with a distorted nose, [though]remarkable for black eyes and jetty hair.Ye who write, make choice of a subject suitable to your abilities; andrevolve in your thoughts a considerable time what your strengthdeclines, and what it is able to support. Neither elegance of style, nora perspicuous disposition, shall desert the man, by whom the subjectmatter is chosen judiciously.This, or I am mistaken, will constitute the merit and beauty ofarrangement, that the poet just now say what ought just now to be said,put off most of his thoughts, and waive them for the present.In the choice of his words, too, the author of the projected poem mustbe delicate and cautious, he must embrace one and reject another: youwill express yourself eminently well, if a dexterous combination shouldgive an air of novelty to a well-known word. If it happen to benecessary to explain some abstruse subjects by new invented terms; itwill follow that you must frame words never heard of by theold-fashioned Cethegi: and the license will be granted, if modestlyused: and the new and lately-formed words will have authority, if theydescend from a Greek source, with a slight deviation. But why should theRomans grant to Plutus and Caecilius a privilege denied to Virgil andVarius? Why should I be envied, if I have it in my power to acquire afew words, when the language of Cato and Ennius has enriched our nativetongue, and produced new names of things? It has been, and ever will be,allowable to coin a word marked with the stamp in present request. Asleaves in the woods are changed with the fleeting years; the earliestfall off first: in this manner words perish with old age, and thoselately invented nourish and thrive, like men in the time of youth. We,and our works, are doomed to death: Whether Neptune, admitted into thecontinent, defends our fleet from the north winds, a kingly work; or thelake, for a long time unfertile and fit for oars, now maintains itsneighboring cities and feels the heavy plow; or the river, taught to runin a more convenient channel, has changed its course which was sodestructive to the fruits. Mortal works must perish: much less can thehonor and elegance of language be long-lived. Many words shall revive,which now have fallen off; and many which are now in esteem shall falloff, if it be the will of custom, in whose power is the decision andright and standard of language.Homer has instructed us in what measure the achievements of kings, andchiefs, and direful war might be written.Plaintive strains originally were appropriated to the unequal numbers[of the elegiac]: afterward [love and] successful desires were included.Yet what author first published humble elegies, the critics dispute, andthe controversy still waits the determination of a judge.Rage armed Archilochus with the iambic of his own invention. The sockand the majestic buskin assumed this measure as adapted for dialogue,and to silence the noise of the populace, and calculated for action.To celebrate gods, and the sons of gods, and the victorious wrestler,and the steed foremost in the race, and the inclination of youths, andthe free joys of wine, the muse has alotted to the lyre.If I am incapable and unskilful to observe the distinction described,and the complexions of works [of genius], why am I accosted by the nameof "Poet?" Why, out of false modesty, do I prefer being ignorant tobeing learned?A comic subject will not be handled in tragic verse: in like manner thebanquet of Thyestes will not bear to be held in familiar verses, andsuch as almost suit the sock. Let each peculiar species [of writing]fill with decorum its proper place. Nevertheless sometimes even comedyexalts her voice, and passionate Chremes rails in a tumid strain: and atragic writer generally expresses grief in a prosaic style. Telephus andPeleus, when they are both in poverty and exile, throw aside their rantsand gigantic expressions if they have a mind to move the heart of thespectator with their complaint.It is not enough that poems be beautiful; let them be tender andaffecting, and bear away the soul of the auditor whithersoever theyplease. As the human countenance smiles on those that smile, so does itsympathize with those that weep. If you would have me weep you mustfirst express the passion of grief yourself; then, Telephus or Peleus,your misfortunes hurt me: if you pronounce the parts assigned you ill, Ishall either fall asleep or laugh.Pathetic accents suit a melancholy countenance; words full of menace, anangry one; wanton expressions, a sportive look; and serious matter, anaustere one. For nature forms us first within to every modification ofcircumstances; she delights or impels us to anger, or depresses us tothe earth and afflicts us with heavy sorrow: then expresses thoseemotions of the mind by the tongue, its interpreter. If the words bediscordant to the station of the speaker, the Roman knights and plebianswill raise an immoderate laugh. It will make a wide difference, whetherit be Davus that speaks, or a hero; a man well-stricken in years, or ahot young fellow in his bloom; and a matron of distinction, or anofficious nurse; a roaming merchant, or the cultivator of a verdantlittle farm; a Colchian, or an Assyrian; one educated at Thebes, or oneat Argos.You, that write, either follow tradition, or invent such fables as arecongruous to themselves. If as poet you have to represent the renownedAchilles; let him be indefatigable, wrathful, inexorable, courageous,let him deny that laws were made for him, let him arrogate every thingto force of arms. Let Medea be fierce and untractable, Ino an object ofpity, Ixion perfidious, Io wandering, Orestes in distress.If you offer to the stage any thing unattempted, and venture to form anew character; let it be preserved to the last such as it set out at thebeginning, and be consistent with itself. It is difficult to write withpropriety on subjects to which all writers have a common claim; and youwith more prudence will reduce the Iliad into acts, than if you firstintroduce arguments unknown and never treated of before. A public storywill become your own property, if you do not dwell upon the whole circleof events, which is paltry and open to every one; nor must you be sofaithful a translator, as to take the pains of rendering [the original]word for word; nor by imitating throw yourself into straits, whenceeither shame or the rules of your work may forbid you to retreat.Nor must you make such an exordium, as the Cyclic writer of old: "I willsing the fate of Priam, and the noble war." What will this boasterproduce worthy of all this gaping? The mountains are in labor, aridiculous mouse will be brought forth. How much more to the purpose he,who attempts nothing improperly? "Sing for me, my muse, the man who,after the time of the destruction of Troy, surveyed the manners andcities of many men." He meditates not [to produce] smoke from a flash,but out of smoke to elicit fire, that he may thence bring forth hisinstances of the marvelous with beauty, [such as] Antiphates, Scylla,the Cyclops, and Charybdis. Nor does he date Diomede's return fromMeleager's death, nor trace the rise of the Trojan war from [Leda's]eggs: he always hastens on to the event; and hurries away his reader inthe midst of interesting circumstances, no otherwise than as if theywere [already] known; and what he despairs of, as to receiving a polishfrom his touch, he omits; and in such a manner forms his fictions, sointermingles the false with the true, that the middle is notinconsistent with the beginning, nor the end with the middle.Do you attend to what I, and the public in my opinion, expect from you[as a dramatic writer]. If you are desirous of an applauding spectator,who will wait for [the falling of] the curtain, and till the choruscalls out "your plaudits;" the manners of every age must be marked byyou, and a proper decorum assigned to men's varying dispositions andyears. The boy, who is just able to pronounce his words, and prints theground with a firm tread, delights to play with his fellows, andcontracts and lays aside anger without reason, and is subject to changeevery hour. The beardless youth, his guardian being at lengthdischarged, joys in horses, and dogs, and the verdure of the sunnyCampus Martius; pliable as wax to the bent of vice, rough to advisers, aslow provider of useful things, prodigal of his money, high-spirited,and amorous, and hasty in deserting the objects of his passion. [Afterthis,] our inclinations being changed, the age and spirit of manhoodseeks after wealth, and [high] connections, is subservient to points ofhonor; and is cautious of committing any action, which he wouldsubsequently be industrious to correct. Many inconviences encompass aman in years; either because he seeks [eagerly] for gain, and abstainsfrom what he has gotten, and is afraid to make use of it; or because hetransacts every thing in a timorous and dispassionate manner, dilatory,slow in hope, remiss, and greedy of futurity. Peevish, querulous, apanegyrist of former times when he was a boy, a chastiser and censurerof his juniors. Our advancing years bring many advantages along withthem. Many our declining ones take away. That the parts [therefore]belonging to age may not be given to youth, and those of a man to a boy,we must dwell upon those qualities which are joined and adapted to eachperson's age.An action is either represented on the stage, or being done elsewhere isthere related. The things which enter by the ear affect the mind morelanguidly, than such as are submitted to the faithful eyes, and what aspectator presents to himself. You must not, however, bring upon thestage things fit only to be acted behind the scenes: and you must takeaway from view many actions, which elegant description may soon afterdeliver in presence [of the spectators]. Let not Medea murder her sonsbefore the people; nor the execrable Atreus openly dress human entrails:nor let Progue be metamorphosed into a bird, Cadmus into a serpent.Whatever you show to me in this manner, not able to give credit to, Idetest.Let a play which would be inquired after, and though seen, representedanew, be neither shorter nor longer than the fifth act. Neither let agod interfere, unless a difficulty worthy a god's unraveling shouldhappen; nor let a fourth person be officious to speak.Let the chorus sustain the part and manly character of an actor: nor letthem sing any thing between the acts which is not conducive to, andfitly coherent with, the main design. Let them both patronize the good,and give them friendly advice, and regulate the passionate, and love toappease those who swell [with rage]: let them praise the repast of ashort meal, and salutary effects of justice, laws, and peace with heropen gates; let them conceal what is told to them in confidence, andsupplicate and implore the gods that prosperity may return to thewretched, and abandon the haughty. The flute, (not as now, begirt withbrass and emulous of the trumpet, but) slender and of simple form, withfew stops, was of service to accompany and assist the chorus, and withits tone was sufficient to fill the rows that were not as yet toocrowded, where an audience, easily numbered, as being small and sober,chaste and modest, met together. But when the victorious Romans began toextend their territories, and an ampler wall encompassed the city, andtheir genius was indulged on festivals by drinking wine in the day-timewithout censure; a greater freedom arose both, to the numbers [ofpoetry], and the measure [of music]. For what taste could an unletteredclown and one just dismissed from labors have, when in company with thepolite; the base, with the man of honor? Thus the musician added nowmovements and a luxuriance to the ancient art, and strutting backwardand forward, drew a length of train over the stage; thus likewise newnotes were added to the severity of the lyre, and precipitate eloquenceproduced an unusual language [in the theater]: and the sentiments [ofthe chorus, then] expert in teaching useful things and prescient offuturity, differ hardly from the oracular Delphi.The poet, who first tried his skill in tragic verse for the paltry[prize of a] goat, soon after exposed to view wild satyrs naked, andattempted raillery with severity, still preserving the gravity [oftragedy]: because the spectator on festivals, when heated with wine anddisorderly, was to be amused with captivating shows and agreeablenovelty. But it will be expedient so to recommend the bantering, so therallying satyrs, so to turn earnest into jest; that none who shall beexhibited as a god, none who is introduced as a hero lately conspicuousin regal purple and gold, may deviate into the low style of obscure,mechanical shops; or, [on the contrary,] while he avoids the ground,effect cloudy mist and empty jargon. Tragedy disdaining to prate forthtrivial verses, like a matron commanded to dance on the festival days,will assume an air of modesty, even in the midst of wanton satyrs. As awriter of satire, ye Pisos, I shall never be fond of unornamented andreigning terms: nor shall I labor to differ so widely from thecomplexion of tragedy, as to make no distinction, whether Davus be thespeaker. And the bold Pythias, who gained a talent by gulling Simo; orSilenus, the guardian and attendant of his pupil-god [Bacchus]. I wouldso execute a fiction taken from a well-known story, that any body mightentertain hopes of doing the same thing; but, on trial, should sweat andlabor in vain. Such power has a just arrangement and connection of theparts: such grace may be added to subjects merely common. In myjudgment the Fauns, that are brought out of the woods, should not be toogamesome with their tender strains, as if they were educated in thecity, and almost at the bar; nor, on the other hand; should blunder outtheir obscene and scandalous speeches. For [at such stuff] all areoffended, who have a horse, a father, or an estate: nor will theyreceive with approbation, nor give the laurel crown, as the purchasersof parched peas and nuts are delighted with.A long syllable put after a short one is termed an iambus, a livelymeasure, whence also it commanded the name of trimeters to be added toiambics, though it yielded six beats of time, being similar to itselffrom first to last. Not long ago, that it might come somewhat slower andwith more majesty to the ear, it obligingly and contentedly admittedinto its paternal heritage the steadfast spondees; agreeing however, bysocial league, that it was not to depart from the second and fourthplace. But this [kind of measure] rarely makes its appearance in thenotable trimeters of Accius, and brands the verse of Ennius brought uponthe stage with a clumsy weight of spondees, with the imputation of beingtoo precipitate and careless, or disgracefully accuses him of ignorancein his art.It is not every judge that discerns inharmonious verses, and anundeserved indulgence is [in this case] granted to the Roman poets. Butshall I on this account run riot and write licentiously? Or should not Irather suppose, that all the world are to see my faults; secure, andcautious [never to err] but with hope of being pardoned? Though,perhaps, I have merited no praise, I have escaped censure.Ye [who are desirous to excel,] turn over the Grecian models by night,turn them by day. But our ancestors commended both the numbers ofPlautus, and his strokes of pleasantry; too tamely, I will not sayfoolishly, admiring each of them; if you and I but know how todistinguish a coarse joke from a smart repartee, and understand theproper cadence, by [using] our fingers and ears.Thespis is said to have invented a new kind of tragedy, and to havecarried his pieces about in carts, which [certain strollers], who hadtheir faces besmeared with lees of wine, sang and acted. After himAeschylus, the inventor of the vizard mask and decent robe, laid thestage over with boards of a tolerable size, and taught to speak in loftytone, and strut in the buskin. To these succeeded the old comedy, notwithout considerable praise: but its personal freedom degenerated intoexcess and violence, worthy to be regulated by law; a law was madeaccordingly, and the chorus, the right of abusing being taken away,disgracefully became silent.Our poets have left no species [of the art] unattempted; nor have thoseof them merited the least honor, who dared to forsake the footsteps ofthe Greeks, and celebrate domestic facts; whether they have instructedus in tragedy, of comedy. Nor would Italy be raised higher by valor andfeats of arms, than by its language, did not the fatigue and tediousnessof using the file disgust every one of our poets. Do you, the decendantsof Pompilius, reject that poem, which many days and many a blot have notten times subdued to the most perfect accuracy. Because Democritusbelieves that genius is more successful than wretched art, and excludesfrom Helicon all poets who are in their senses, a great number do notcare to part with their nails or beard, frequent places of solitude,shun the baths. For he will acquire, [he thinks,] the esteem and titleof a poet, if he neither submits his head, which is not to be cured byeven three Anticyras, to Licinius the barber. What an unlucky fellow amI, who am purged for the bile in spring-time! Else nobody would composebetter poems; but the purchase is not worth the expense. Therefore Iwill serve instead of a whetstone, which though not able of itself tocut, can make steel sharp: so I, who can write no poetry myself, willteach the duty and business [of an author]; whence he may be stockedwith rich materials; what nourishes and forms the poet; what givesgrace, what not; what is the tendency of excellence, what that of error.To have good sense, is the first principle and fountain of writing well.The Socratic papers will direct you in the choice of your subjects; andwords will spontaneously accompany the subject, when it is wellconceived. He who has learned what he owes to his country, and what tohis friends; with what affection a parent, a brother, and a stranger,are to be loved; what is the duty of a senator, what of a judge; whatthe duties of a general sent out to war; he, [I say,] certainly knowshow to give suitable attributes to every character. I should direct thelearned imitator to have a regard to the mode of nature and manners, andthence draw his expressions to the life. Sometimes a play, that isshowy with common-places, and where the manners are well marked, thoughof no elegance, without force or art, gives the people much higherdelight and more effectually commands their attention, than verse voidof matter, and tuneful trifles.To the Greeks, covetous of nothing but praise, the muse gave genius; tothe Greeks the power of expressing themselves in round periods. TheRoman youth learn by long computation to subdivide a pound into anhundred parts. Let the son of Albinus tell me, if from five ounces onebe subtracted, what remains? He would have said the third of apound.--Bravely done! you will be able to take care of your own affairs.An ounce is added: what will that be? Half a pound. When this sordidrust and hankering after wealth has once tainted their minds, can weexpect that such verses should be made as are worthy of being anointedwith the oil of cedar, and kept in the well-polished cypress?Poets wish either to profit or to delight; or to deliver at once boththe pleasures and the necessaries of life. Whatever precepts you give,be concise; that docile minds may soon comprehend what is said, andfaithfully retain it. All superfluous instructions flow from the toofull memory. Let what ever is imagined for the sake of entertainment,have as much likeness to truth as possible; let not your play demandbelief for whatever [absurdities] it is inclinable [to exhibit]: nortake out of a witch's belly a living child that she had dined upon. Thetribes of the seniors rail against every thing that is void ofedification: the exalted knights disregard poems which are austere. Hewho joins the instructive with the agreeable, carries off every vote, bydelighting and at the same time admonishing the reader. This book gainsmoney for the Sosii; this crosses the sea, and continues to its renownedauthor a lasting duration.Yet there are faults, which we should be ready to pardon: for neitherdoes the string [always] form the sound which the hand and conception[of the performer] intends, but very often returns a sharp note when hedemands a flat; nor will the bow always hit whatever mark it threatens.But when there is a great majority of beauties in a poem, I will not beoffended with a few blemishes, which either inattention has dropped, orhuman nature has not sufficiently provided against. What therefore [isto be determined in this matter]? As a transcriber, if he still commitsthe same fault though he has been reproved, is without excuse; and theharper who always blunders on the same string, is sure to be laughed at;so he who is excessively deficient becomes another Choerilus; whom, whenI find him tolerable in two or three places, I wonder at with laughter;and at the same time am I grieved whenever honest Homer grows drowsy?But it is allowable, that sleep should steal upon [the progress of] aking work.As is painting, so is poetry: some pieces will strike you more if youstand near, and some, if you are at a greater distance: one loves thedark; another, which is not afraid of the critic's subtle judgment,chooses to be seen in the light; the one has pleased once, the otherwill give pleasure if ten times repeated.O ye elder of the youths, though you are framed to a right judgment byyour father's instructions, and are wise in yourself, yet take thistruth along with you, [and] remember it; that in certain things a mediumand tolerable degree of eminence may be admitted: a counselor andpleader at the bar of the middle rate is far removed from the merit ofeloquent Messala, nor has so much knowledge of the law as CasseliusAulus, but yet he is in request; [but] a mediocrity in poets neithergods, nor men, nor [even] the booksellers' shops have endured. As at anagreeable entertainment discordant music, and muddy perfume, and poppiesmixed with Sardinian honey give offense, because the supper might havepassed without them; so poetry, created and invented for the delight ofour souls, if it comes short ever so little of the summit, sinks to thebottom.He who does not understand the game, abstains from the weapons of theCampus Martius: and the unskillful in the tennis-ball, the quoit, andthe troques keeps himself quiet; lest the crowded ring should raise alaugh at his expense: notwithstanding this, he who knows nothing ofverses presumes to compose. Why not! He is free-born, and of a goodfamily; above all, he is registered at an equestrian sum of moneys, andclear from every vice. You, [I am persuaded,] will neither say nor doany thing in opposition to Minerva: such is your judgment, such yourdisposition. But if ever you shall write anything, let it be submittedto the ears of Metius [Tarpa], who is a judge, and your father's, andmine; and let it be suppressed till the ninth year, your papers beingheld up within your own custody. You will have it in your power to blotout what you have not made public: a word ice sent abroad can neverreturn.Orpheus, the priest and Interpreter of the gods, deterred the savagerace of men from slaughters and inhuman diet; once said to tame tigersand furious lions: Amphion too, the builder of the Theban wall, was saidto give the stones moon with the sound of his lyre, and to lead themwhithersover he would, by engaging persuasion. This was deemed wisdom ofyore, to distinguish the public from private weal; things sacred fromthings profane; to prohibit a promiscuous commerce between the sexes; togive laws to married people; to plan out cities; to engrave laws on[tables of] wood. Thus honor accrued to divine poets, and their songs.After these, excellent Homer and Tyrtaeus animated the manly mind tomartial achievements with their verses. Oracles were delivered inpoetry, and the economy of life pointed out, and the favor of sovereignprinces was solicited by Pierian drains, games were instituted, and a[cheerful] period put to the tedious labors of the day; [this I remindyou of,] lest haply you should be ashamed of the lyric muse, and Apollothe god of song.It has been made a question, whether good poetry be derived from natureor from art. For my part, I can neither conceive what study can dowithout a rich [natural] vein, nor what rude genius can avail of itself:so much does the one require the assistance of the other, and soamicably do they conspire [to produce the same effect]. He who isindustrious to reach the wished-for goal, has done and suffered muchwhen a boy; he has sweated and shivered with cold; he has abstained fromlove and wine; he who sings the Pythian strains, was a learner first,and in awe of a master. But [in poetry] it is now enough for a man tosay of himself: "I make admirable verses: a murrain seize the hindmost:it is scandalous for me to be outstripped, and fairly to Acknowledgethat I am ignorant of that which I never learned."As a crier who collects the crowd together to buy his goods, so a poetrich in land, rich in money put out at interest, invites flatterers tocome [and praise his works] for a reward. But if he be one who is wellable to set out an elegant table, and give security for a poor man, andrelieve when entangled in glaomy law-suits; I shall wonder if with hiswealth he can distinguish a true friend from false one. You, whetheryou have made, or intend to make, a present to any one, do not bring himfull of joy directly to your finished verses: for then he will cry out,"Charming, excellent, judicious," he will turn pale; at some parts hewill even distill the dew from his friendly eyes; he will jump about; hewill beat the ground [with ecstasy]. As those who mourn at funerals forpay, do and say more than those that are afflicted from their hearts; sothe sham admirer is more moved than he that praises with sincerity.Certain kings are said to ply with frequent bumpers, and by wine maketrial of a man whom they are sedulous to know whether he be worthy oftheir friendship or not. Thus, if you compose verses, let not the fox'sconcealed intentions impose upon you.If you had recited any thing to Quintilius, he would say, "Alter, Ipray, this and this:" if you replied, you could do it no better, havingmade the experiment twice or thrice in vain; he would order you to blotout, and once more apply to the anvil your ill-formed verses: if youchoose rather to defend than correct a fault, he spent not a word morenor fruitless labor, but you alone might be fond of yourself and yourown works, without a rival. A good and sensible man will censurespiritless verses, he will condemn the rugged, on the incorrect he willdraw across a black stroke with his pen; he will lop off ambitious [andredundant] ornaments; he will make him throw light on the parts that arenot perspicuous; he will arraign what is expressed ambiguously; he willmark what should be altered; [in short,] he will be an Aristarchus: hewill not say, "Why should I give my friend offense about mere trifles?"These trifles will lead into mischiefs of serious consequence, when oncemade an object of ridicule, and used in a sinister manner.Like one whom an odious plague or jaundice, fanatic phrensy or lunacy,distresses; those who are wise avoid a mad poet, and are afraid to touchhim; the boys jostle him, and the incautious pursue him. If, like afowler intent upon his game, he should fall into a well or a ditch whilehe belches out his fustian verses and roams about, though he should cryout for a long time, "Come to my assistance, O my countrymen;" not onewould give himself the trouble of taking him up. Were any one to takepains to give him aid, and let down a rope; "How do you know, but hethrew himself in hither on purpose?" I shall say: and will relate thedeath of the Sicilian poet. Empedocles, while he was ambitious of beingesteemed an immortal god, in cold blood leaped into burning Aetna. Letpoets have the privilege and license to die [as they please]. He whosaves a man against his will, does the same with him who kills him[against his will]. Neither is it the first time that he has behaved inthis manner; nor, were he to be forced from his purposes, would he nowbecome a man, and lay aside his desire of such a famous death. Neitherdoes it appear sufficiently, why he makes verses: whether he has defiledhis father's ashes, or sacrilegiously removed the sad enclosure of thevindictive thunder: it is evident that he is mad, and like a bear thathas burst through the gates closing his den, this unmerciful rehearserchases the learned and unlearned. And whomsoever he seizes, he fastenson and assassinates with recitation: a leech that will not quit theskin, till satiated with blood.THE ENDEnd of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Works of Horace, by Horace*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WORKS OF HORACE ******** This file should be named 14020.txt or 14020.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/4/0/2/14020/Produced by Juliet Sutherland and the Online Distributed ProofreadingTeamUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of South Sea Tales, by Jack LondonThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: South Sea TalesAuthor: Jack LondonRelease Date: February, 1998 [EBook #1208]Posting Date: November 8, 2009Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SOUTH SEA TALES ***Produced by Theresa ArmaoSOUTH SEA TALESBy Jack LondonCONTENTSThe House of MapuhiThe Whale ToothMauki"Yah! Yah! Yah!"The HeathenThe Terrible SolomonsThe Inevitable White ManThe Seed of McCoyTHE HOUSE OF MAPUHIDespite the heavy clumsiness of her lines, the Aorai handled easily inthe light breeze, and her captain ran her well in before he hove to justoutside the suck of the surf. The atoll of Hikueru lay low on the water,a circle of pounded coral sand a hundred yards wide, twenty miles incircumference, and from three to five feet above high-water mark. On thebottom of the huge and glassy lagoon was much pearl shell, and from thedeck of the schooner, across the slender ring of the atoll, the diverscould be seen at work. But the lagoon had no entrance for even a tradingschooner. With a favoring breeze cutters could win in through thetortuous and shallow channel, but the schooners lay off and on outsideand sent in their small boats.The Aorai swung out a boat smartly, into which sprang half a dozenbrown-skinned sailors clad only in scarlet loincloths. They took theoars, while in the stern sheets, at the steering sweep, stood a youngman garbed in the tropic white that marks the European. The goldenstrain of Polynesia betrayed itself in the sun-gilt of his fair skinand cast up golden sheens and lights through the glimmering blue of hiseyes. Raoul he was, Alexandre Raoul, youngest son of Marie Raoul,the wealthy quarter-caste, who owned and managed half a dozen tradingschooners similar to the Aorai. Across an eddy just outside theentrance, and in and through and over a boiling tide-rip, the boatfought its way to the mirrored calm of the lagoon. Young Raoul leapedout upon the white sand and shook hands with a tall native. The man'schest and shoulders were magnificent, but the stump of a right arm,beyond the flesh of which the age-whitened bone projected severalinches, attested the encounter with a shark that had put an end to hisdiving days and made him a fawner and an intriguer for small favors."Have you heard, Alec?" were his first words. "Mapuhi has found apearl--such a pearl. Never was there one like it ever fished up inHikueru, nor in all the Paumotus, nor in all the world. Buy it from him.He has it now. And remember that I told you first. He is a fool and youcan get it cheap. Have you any tobacco?"Straight up the beach to a shack under a pandanus tree Raoul headed.He was his mother's supercargo, and his business was to comb all thePaumotus for the wealth of copra, shell, and pearls that they yieldedup.He was a young supercargo, it was his second voyage in such capacity,and he suffered much secret worry from his lack of experience in pricingpearls. But when Mapuhi exposed the pearl to his sight he managed tosuppress the startle it gave him, and to maintain a careless, commercialexpression on his face. For the pearl had struck him a blow. It waslarge as a pigeon egg, a perfect sphere, of a whiteness that reflectedopalescent lights from all colors about it. It was alive. Never hadhe seen anything like it. When Mapuhi dropped it into his hand he wassurprised by the weight of it. That showed that it was a good pearl. Heexamined it closely, through a pocket magnifying glass. It was withoutflaw or blemish. The purity of it seemed almost to melt into theatmosphere out of his hand. In the shade it was softly luminous,gleaming like a tender moon. So translucently white was it, that whenhe dropped it into a glass of water he had difficulty in finding it. Sostraight and swiftly had it sunk to the bottom that he knew its weightwas excellent."Well, what do you want for it?" he asked, with a fine assumption ofnonchalance."I want--" Mapuhi began, and behind him, framing his own dark face, thedark faces of two women and a girl nodded concurrence in what he wanted.Their heads were bent forward, they were animated by a suppressedeagerness, their eyes flashed avariciously."I want a house," Mapuhi went on. "It must have a roof of galvanizediron and an octagon-drop-clock. It must be six fathoms long with a porchall around. A big room must be in the centre, with a round table in themiddle of it and the octagon-drop-clock on the wall. There must be fourbedrooms, two on each side of the big room, and in each bedroom must bean iron bed, two chairs, and a washstand. And back of the house must bea kitchen, a good kitchen, with pots and pans and a stove. And you mustbuild the house on my island, which is Fakarava.""Is that all?" Raoul asked incredulously."There must be a sewing machine," spoke up Tefara, Mapuhi's wife."Not forgetting the octagon-drop-clock," added Nauri, Mapuhi's mother."Yes, that is all," said Mapuhi.Young Raoul laughed. He laughed long and heartily. But while he laughedhe secretly performed problems in mental arithmetic. He had never builta house in his life, and his notions concerning house building werehazy. While he laughed, he calculated the cost of the voyage to Tahitifor materials, of the materials themselves, of the voyage back againto Fakarava, and the cost of landing the materials and of building thehouse. It would come to four thousand French dollars, allowing a marginfor safety--four thousand French dollars were equivalent to twentythousand francs. It was impossible. How was he to know the value of sucha pearl? Twenty thousand francs was a lot of money--and of his mother'smoney at that."Mapuhi," he said, "you are a big fool. Set a money price."But Mapuhi shook his head, and the three heads behind him shook withhis."I want the house," he said. "It must be six fathoms long with a porchall around--""Yes, yes," Raoul interrupted. "I know all about your house, but itwon't do. I'll give you a thousand Chili dollars."The four heads chorused a silent negative."And a hundred Chili dollars in trade.""I want the house," Mapuhi began."What good will the house do you?" Raoul demanded. "The first hurricanethat comes along will wash it away. You ought to know.""Captain Raffy says it looks like a hurricane right now.""Not on Fakarava," said Mapuhi. "The land is much higher there. On thisisland, yes. Any hurricane can sweep Hikueru. I will have the house onFakarava. It must be six fathoms long with a porch all around--"And Raoul listened again to the tale of the house. Several hours hespent in the endeavor to hammer the house obsession out of Mapuhi'smind; but Mapuhi's mother and wife, and Ngakura, Mapuhi's daughter,bolstered him in his resolve for the house. Through the open doorway,while he listened for the twentieth time to the detailed description ofthe house that was wanted, Raoul saw his schooner's second boat draw upon the beach. The sailors rested on the oars, advertising haste to begone. The first mate of the Aorai sprang ashore, exchanged a word withthe one-armed native, then hurried toward Raoul. The day grew suddenlydark, as a squall obscured the face of the sun. Across the lagoon Raoulcould see approaching the ominous line of the puff of wind."Captain Raffy says you've got to get to hell outa here," was the mate'sgreeting. "If there's any shell, we've got to run the risk ofpicking it up later on--so he says. The barometer's dropped totwenty-nine-seventy."The gust of wind struck the pandanus tree overhead and tore through thepalms beyond, flinging half a dozen ripe cocoanuts with heavy thuds tothe ground. Then came the rain out of the distance, advancing with theroar of a gale of wind and causing the water of the lagoon to smoke indriven windrows. The sharp rattle of the first drops was on the leaveswhen Raoul sprang to his feet."A thousand Chili dollars, cash down, Mapuhi," he said. "And two hundredChili dollars in trade.""I want a house--" the other began."Mapuhi!" Raoul yelled, in order to make himself heard. "You are afool!"He flung out of the house, and, side by side with the mate, fought hisway down the beach toward the boat. They could not see the boat. Thetropic rain sheeted about them so that they could see only the beachunder their feet and the spiteful little waves from the lagoon thatsnapped and bit at the sand. A figure appeared through the deluge. Itwas Huru-Huru, the man with the one arm."Did you get the pearl?" he yelled in Raoul's ear."Mapuhi is a fool!" was the answering yell, and the next moment theywere lost to each other in the descending water.Half an hour later, Huru-Huru, watching from the seaward side of theatoll, saw the two boats hoisted in and the Aorai pointing her noseout to sea. And near her, just come in from the sea on the wings of thesquall, he saw another schooner hove to and dropping a boat into thewater. He knew her. It was the OROHENA, owned by Toriki, the half-castetrader, who served as his own supercargo and who doubtlessly was eventhen in the stern sheets of the boat. Huru-Huru chuckled. He knew thatMapuhi owed Toriki for trade goods advanced the year before.The squall had passed. The hot sun was blazing down, and the lagoon wasonce more a mirror. But the air was sticky like mucilage, and the weightof it seemed to burden the lungs and make breathing difficult."Have you heard the news, Toriki?" Huru-Huru asked. "Mapuhi has founda pearl. Never was there a pearl like it ever fished up in Hikueru, noranywhere in the Paumotus, nor anywhere in all the world. Mapuhi is afool. Besides, he owes you money. Remember that I told you first. Haveyou any tobacco?"And to the grass shack of Mapuhi went Toriki. He was a masterful man,withal a fairly stupid one. Carelessly he glanced at the wonderfulpearl--glanced for a moment only; and carelessly he dropped it into hispocket."You are lucky," he said. "It is a nice pearl. I will give you credit onthe books.""I want a house," Mapuhi began, in consternation. "It must be sixfathoms--""Six fathoms your grandmother!" was the trader's retort. "You want topay up your debts, that's what you want. You owed me twelve hundreddollars Chili. Very well; you owe them no longer. The amount is squared.Besides, I will give you credit for two hundred Chili. If, when I getto Tahiti, the pearl sells well, I will give you credit for anotherhundred--that will make three hundred. But mind, only if the pearl sellswell. I may even lose money on it."Mapuhi folded his arms in sorrow and sat with bowed head. He had beenrobbed of his pearl. In place of the house, he had paid a debt. Therewas nothing to show for the pearl."You are a fool," said Tefara."You are a fool," said Nauri, his mother. "Why did you let the pearlinto his hand?""What was I to do?" Mapuhi protested. "I owed him the money. He knew Ihad the pearl. You heard him yourself ask to see it. I had not told him.He knew. Somebody else told him. And I owed him the money.""Mapuhi is a fool," mimicked Ngakura.She was twelve years old and did not know any better. Mapuhi relievedhis feelings by sending her reeling from a box on the ear; while Tefaraand Nauri burst into tears and continued to upbraid him after the mannerof women.Huru-Huru, watching on the beach, saw a third schooner that he knewheave to outside the entrance and drop a boat. It was the Hira, wellnamed, for she was owned by Levy, the German Jew, the greatest pearlbuyer of them all, and, as was well known, Hira was the Tahitian god offishermen and thieves."Have you heard the news?" Huru-Huru asked, as Levy, a fat man withmassive asymmetrical features, stepped out upon the beach. "Mapuhi hasfound a pearl. There was never a pearl like it in Hikueru, in all thePaumotus, in all the world. Mapuhi is a fool. He has sold it to Torikifor fourteen hundred Chili--I listened outside and heard. Toriki islikewise a fool. You can buy it from him cheap. Remember that I told youfirst. Have you any tobacco?""Where is Toriki?""In the house of Captain Lynch, drinking absinthe. He has been there anhour."And while Levy and Toriki drank absinthe and chaffered over the pearl,Huru-Huru listened and heard the stupendous price of twenty-fivethousand francs agreed upon.It was at this time that both the OROHENA and the Hira, running in closeto the shore, began firing guns and signalling frantically. The threemen stepped outside in time to see the two schooners go hastily aboutand head off shore, dropping mainsails and flying jibs on the run inthe teeth of the squall that heeled them far over on the whitened water.Then the rain blotted them out."They'll be back after it's over," said Toriki. "We'd better be gettingout of here.""I reckon the glass has fallen some more," said Captain Lynch.He was a white-bearded sea-captain, too old for service, who had learnedthat the only way to live on comfortable terms with his asthma was onHikueru. He went inside to look at the barometer."Great God!" they heard him exclaim, and rushed in to join him atstaring at a dial, which marked twenty-nine-twenty.Again they came out, this time anxiously to consult sea and sky.The squall had cleared away, but the sky remained overcast. The twoschooners, under all sail and joined by a third, could be seen makingback. A veer in the wind induced them to slack off sheets, and fiveminutes afterward a sudden veer from the opposite quarter caught allthree schooners aback, and those on shore could see the boom-tacklesbeing slacked away or cast off on the jump. The sound of the surf wasloud, hollow, and menacing, and a heavy swell was setting in. A terriblesheet of lightning burst before their eyes, illuminating the dark day,and the thunder rolled wildly about them.Toriki and Levy broke into a run for their boats, the latter amblingalong like a panic-stricken hippopotamus. As their two boats swept outthe entrance, they passed the boat of the Aorai coming in. In the sternsheets, encouraging the rowers, was Raoul. Unable to shake the vision ofthe pearl from his mind, he was returning to accept Mapuhi's price of ahouse.He landed on the beach in the midst of a driving thunder squall that wasso dense that he collided with Huru-Huru before he saw him."Too late," yelled Huru-Huru. "Mapuhi sold it to Toriki for fourteenhundred Chili, and Toriki sold it to Levy for twenty-five thousandfrancs. And Levy will sell it in France for a hundred thousand francs.Have you any tobacco?"Raoul felt relieved. His troubles about the pearl were over. He need notworry any more, even if he had not got the pearl. But he did not believeHuru-Huru. Mapuhi might well have sold it for fourteen hundred Chili,but that Levy, who knew pearls, should have paid twenty-five thousandfrancs was too wide a stretch. Raoul decided to interview Captain Lynchon the subject, but when he arrived at that ancient mariner's house, hefound him looking wide-eyed at the barometer."What do you read it?" Captain Lynch asked anxiously, rubbing hisspectacles and staring again at the instrument."Twenty-nine-ten," said Raoul. "I have never seen it so low before.""I should say not!" snorted the captain. "Fifty years boy and man on allthe seas, and I've never seen it go down to that. Listen!"They stood for a moment, while the surf rumbled and shook the house.Then they went outside. The squall had passed. They could see theAorai lying becalmed a mile away and pitching and tossing madly inthe tremendous seas that rolled in stately procession down out of thenortheast and flung themselves furiously upon the coral shore. One ofthe sailors from the boat pointed at the mouth of the passage and shookhis head. Raoul looked and saw a white anarchy of foam and surge."I guess I'll stay with you tonight, Captain," he said; then turned tothe sailor and told him to haul the boat out and to find shelter forhimself and fellows."Twenty-nine flat," Captain Lynch reported, coming out from another lookat the barometer, a chair in his hand.He sat down and stared at the spectacle of the sea. The sun came out,increasing the sultriness of the day, while the dead calm still held.The seas continued to increase in magnitude."What makes that sea is what gets me," Raoul muttered petulantly."There is no wind, yet look at it, look at that fellow there!"Miles in length, carrying tens of thousands of tons in weight, itsimpact shook the frail atoll like an earthquake. Captain Lynch wasstartled."Gracious!" he bellowed, half rising from his chair, then sinking back."But there is no wind," Raoul persisted. "I could understand it if therewas wind along with it.""You'll get the wind soon enough without worryin' for it," was the grimreply.The two men sat on in silence. The sweat stood out on their skin inmyriads of tiny drops that ran together, forming blotches of moisture,which, in turn, coalesced into rivulets that dripped to the ground. Theypanted for breath, the old man's efforts being especially painful. Asea swept up the beach, licking around the trunks of the cocoanuts andsubsiding almost at their feet."Way past high water mark," Captain Lynch remarked; "and I've been hereeleven years." He looked at his watch. "It is three o'clock."A man and woman, at their heels a motley following of brats and curs,trailed disconsolately by. They came to a halt beyond the house, and,after much irresolution, sat down in the sand. A few minutes lateranother family trailed in from the opposite direction, the men and womencarrying a heterogeneous assortment of possessions. And soon severalhundred persons of all ages and sexes were congregated about thecaptain's dwelling. He called to one new arrival, a woman with a nursingbabe in her arms, and in answer received the information that her househad just been swept into the lagoon.This was the highest spot of land in miles, and already, in many placeson either hand, the great seas were making a clean breach of the slenderring of the atoll and surging into the lagoon. Twenty miles aroundstretched the ring of the atoll, and in no place was it more than fiftyfathoms wide. It was the height of the diving season, and from all theislands around, even as far as Tahiti, the natives had gathered."There are twelve hundred men, women, and children here," said CaptainLynch. "I wonder how many will be here tomorrow morning.""But why don't it blow?--that's what I want to know," Raoul demanded."Don't worry, young man, don't worry; you'll get your troubles fastenough."Even as Captain Lynch spoke, a great watery mass smote the atoll.The sea water churned about them three inches deep under the chairs. Alow wail of fear went up from the many women. The children, with claspedhands, stared at the immense rollers and cried piteously. Chickens andcats, wading perturbedly in the water, as by common consent, with flightand scramble took refuge on the roof of the captain's house. A Paumotan,with a litter of new-born puppies in a basket, climbed into a cocoanuttree and twenty feet above the ground made the basket fast. The motherfloundered about in the water beneath, whining and yelping.And still the sun shone brightly and the dead calm continued. They satand watched the seas and the insane pitching of the Aorai. Captain Lynchgazed at the huge mountains of water sweeping in until he could gazeno more. He covered his face with his hands to shut out the sight; thenwent into the house."Twenty-eight-sixty," he said quietly when he returned.In his arm was a coil of small rope. He cut it into two-fathom lengths,giving one to Raoul and, retaining one for himself, distributed theremainder among the women with the advice to pick out a tree and climb.A light air began to blow out of the northeast, and the fan of it onhis cheek seemed to cheer Raoul up. He could see the Aorai trimming hersheets and heading off shore, and he regretted that he was not on her.She would get away at any rate, but as for the atoll--A sea breachedacross, almost sweeping him off his feet, and he selected a tree. Thenhe remembered the barometer and ran back to the house. He encounteredCaptain Lynch on the same errand and together they went in."Twenty-eight-twenty," said the old mariner. "It's going to be fair hellaround here--what was that?"The air seemed filled with the rush of something. The house quivered andvibrated, and they heard the thrumming of a mighty note of sound. Thewindows rattled. Two panes crashed; a draught of wind tore in, strikingthem and making them stagger. The door opposite banged shut, shatteringthe latch. The white door knob crumbled in fragments to the floor.The room's walls bulged like a gas balloon in the process of suddeninflation. Then came a new sound like the rattle of musketry, as thespray from a sea struck the wall of the house. Captain Lynch lookedat his watch. It was four o'clock. He put on a coat of pilot cloth,unhooked the barometer, and stowed it away in a capacious pocket.Again a sea struck the house, with a heavy thud, and the light buildingtilted, twisted, quarter around on its foundation, and sank down, itsfloor at an angle of ten degrees.Raoul went out first. The wind caught him and whirled him away. He notedthat it had hauled around to the east. With a great effort he threwhimself on the sand, crouching and holding his own. Captain Lynch,driven like a wisp of straw, sprawled over him. Two of the Aorai'ssailors, leaving a cocoanut tree to which they had been clinging, cameto their aid, leaning against the wind at impossible angles and fightingand clawing every inch of the way.The old man's joints were stiff and he could not climb, so the sailors,by means of short ends of rope tied together, hoisted him up the trunk,a few feet at a time, till they could make him fast, at the top of thetree, fifty feet from the ground. Raoul passed his length of ropearound the base of an adjacent tree and stood looking on. The wind wasfrightful. He had never dreamed it could blow so hard. A sea breachedacross the atoll, wetting him to the knees ere it subsided into thelagoon. The sun had disappeared, and a lead-colored twilight settleddown. A few drops of rain, driving horizontally, struck him. The impactwas like that of leaden pellets. A splash of salt spray struck his face.It was like the slap of a man's hand. His cheeks stung, and involuntarytears of pain were in his smarting eyes. Several hundred natives hadtaken to the trees, and he could have laughed at the bunches of humanfruit clustering in the tops. Then, being Tahitian-born, he doubled hisbody at the waist, clasped the trunk of his tree with his hands, pressedthe soles of his feet against the near surface of the trunk, and beganto walk up the tree. At the top he found two women, two children, and aman. One little girl clasped a housecat in her arms.From his eyrie he waved his hand to Captain Lynch, and that doughtypatriarch waved back. Raoul was appalled at the sky. It had approachedmuch nearer--in fact, it seemed just over his head; and it had turnedfrom lead to black. Many people were still on the ground grouped aboutthe bases of the trees and holding on. Several such clusters werepraying, and in one the Mormon missionary was exhorting. A weird sound,rhythmical, faint as the faintest chirp of a far cricket, enduring butfor a moment, but in the moment suggesting to him vaguely the thoughtof heaven and celestial music, came to his ear. He glanced about him andsaw, at the base of another tree, a large cluster of people holding onby ropes and by one another. He could see their faces working and theirlips moving in unison. No sound came to him, but he knew that they weresinging hymns.Still the wind continued to blow harder. By no conscious process couldhe measure it, for it had long since passed beyond all his experience ofwind; but he knew somehow, nevertheless, that it was blowing harder. Notfar away a tree was uprooted, flinging its load of human beings tothe ground. A sea washed across the strip of sand, and they were gone.Things were happening quickly. He saw a brown shoulder and a black headsilhouetted against the churning white of the lagoon. The nextinstant that, too, had vanished. Other trees were going, falling andcriss-crossing like matches. He was amazed at the power of the wind. Hisown tree was swaying perilously, one woman was wailing and clutching thelittle girl, who in turn still hung on to the cat.The man, holding the other child, touched Raoul's arm and pointed. Helooked and saw the Mormon church careering drunkenly a hundred feetaway. It had been torn from its foundations, and wind and sea wereheaving and shoving it toward the lagoon. A frightful wall of watercaught it, tilted it, and flung it against half a dozen cocoanut trees.The bunches of human fruit fell like ripe cocoanuts. The subsiding waveshowed them on the ground, some lying motionless, others squirming andwrithing. They reminded him strangely of ants. He was not shocked.He had risen above horror. Quite as a matter of course he noted thesucceeding wave sweep the sand clean of the human wreckage. A thirdwave, more colossal than any he had yet seen, hurled the church intothe lagoon, where it floated off into the obscurity to leeward,half-submerged, reminding him for all the world of a Noah's ark.He looked for Captain Lynch's house, and was surprised to find it gone.Things certainly were happening quickly. He noticed that many of thepeople in the trees that still held had descended to the ground. Thewind had yet again increased. His own tree showed that. It no longerswayed or bent over and back. Instead, it remained practicallystationary, curved in a rigid angle from the wind and merely vibrating.But the vibration was sickening. It was like that of a tuning-fork orthe tongue of a jew's-harp. It was the rapidity of the vibration thatmade it so bad. Even though its roots held, it could not stand thestrain for long. Something would have to break.Ah, there was one that had gone. He had not seen it go, but there itstood, the remnant, broken off half-way up the trunk. One did not knowwhat happened unless he saw it. The mere crashing of trees and wailsof human despair occupied no place in that mighty volume of sound. Hechanced to be looking in Captain Lynch's direction when it happened. Hesaw the trunk of the tree, half-way up, splinter and part withoutnoise. The head of the tree, with three sailors of the Aorai and the oldcaptain sailed off over the lagoon. It did not fall to the ground, butdrove through the air like a piece of chaff. For a hundred yards hefollowed its flight, when it struck the water. He strained his eyes, andwas sure that he saw Captain Lynch wave farewell.Raoul did not wait for anything more. He touched the native and madesigns to descend to the ground. The man was willing, but his women wereparalyzed from terror, and he elected to remain with them. Raoul passedhis rope around the tree and slid down. A rush of salt water went overhis head. He held his breath and clung desperately to the rope. Thewater subsided, and in the shelter of the trunk he breathed once more.He fastened the rope more securely, and then was put under by anothersea. One of the women slid down and joined him, the native remaining bythe other woman, the two children, and the cat.The supercargo had noticed how the groups clinging at the bases of theother trees continually diminished. Now he saw the process work outalongside him. It required all his strength to hold on, and the womanwho had joined him was growing weaker. Each time he emerged from a seahe was surprised to find himself still there, and next, surprised tofind the woman still there. At last he emerged to find himself alone.He looked up. The top of the tree had gone as well. At half its originalheight, a splintered end vibrated. He was safe. The roots still held,while the tree had been shorn of its windage. He began to climb up. Hewas so weak that he went slowly, and sea after sea caught him before hewas above them. Then he tied himself to the trunk and stiffened his soulto face the night and he knew not what.He felt very lonely in the darkness. At times it seemed to him that itwas the end of the world and that he was the last one left alive. Stillthe wind increased. Hour after hour it increased. By what he calculatedwas eleven o'clock, the wind had become unbelievable. It was a horrible,monstrous thing, a screaming fury, a wall that smote and passed on butthat continued to smite and pass on--a wall without end. It seemed tohim that he had become light and ethereal; that it was he that was inmotion; that he was being driven with inconceivable velocity throughunending solidness. The wind was no longer air in motion. It had becomesubstantial as water or quicksilver. He had a feeling that he couldreach into it and tear it out in chunks as one might do with the meat inthe carcass of a steer; that he could seize hold of the wind and hang onto it as a man might hang on to the face of a cliff.The wind strangled him. He could not face it and breathe, for it rushedin through his mouth and nostrils, distending his lungs like bladders.At such moments it seemed to him that his body was being packed andswollen with solid earth. Only by pressing his lips to the trunk of thetree could he breathe. Also, the ceaseless impact of the wind exhaustedhim. Body and brain became wearied. He no longer observed, nolonger thought, and was but semiconscious. One idea constitutedhis consciousness: SO THIS WAS A HURRICANE. That one idea persistedirregularly. It was like a feeble flame that flickered occasionally.From a state of stupor he would return to it--SO THIS WAS A HURRICANE.Then he would go off into another stupor.The height of the hurricane endured from eleven at night till three inthe morning, and it was at eleven that the tree in which clung Mapuhiand his women snapped off. Mapuhi rose to the surface of the lagoon,still clutching his daughter Ngakura. Only a South Sea islander couldhave lived in such a driving smother. The pandanus tree, to which heattached himself, turned over and over in the froth and churn; and itwas only by holding on at times and waiting, and at other times shiftinghis grips rapidly, that he was able to get his head and Ngakura's to thesurface at intervals sufficiently near together to keep the breath inthem. But the air was mostly water, what with flying spray and sheetedrain that poured along at right angles to the perpendicular.It was ten miles across the lagoon to the farther ring of sand. Here,tossing tree trunks, timbers, wrecks of cutters, and wreckage of houses,killed nine out of ten of the miserable beings who survived the passageof the lagoon. Half-drowned, exhausted, they were hurled into this madmortar of the elements and battered into formless flesh. But Mapuhi wasfortunate. His chance was the one in ten; it fell to him by the freakageof fate. He emerged upon the sand, bleeding from a score of wounds.Ngakura's left arm was broken; the fingers of her right hand werecrushed; and cheek and forehead were laid open to the bone. He clutcheda tree that yet stood, and clung on, holding the girl and sobbing forair, while the waters of the lagoon washed by knee-high and at timeswaist-high.At three in the morning the backbone of the hurricane broke. By five nomore than a stiff breeze was blowing. And by six it was dead calm andthe sun was shining. The sea had gone down. On the yet restless edge ofthe lagoon, Mapuhi saw the broken bodies of those that had failed in thelanding. Undoubtedly Tefara and Nauri were among them. He went along thebeach examining them, and came upon his wife, lying half in and half outof the water. He sat down and wept, making harsh animal noises after themanner of primitive grief. Then she stirred uneasily, and groaned. Helooked more closely. Not only was she alive, but she was uninjured. Shewas merely sleeping. Hers also had been the one chance in ten.Of the twelve hundred alive the night before but three hundred remained.The Mormon missionary and a gendarme made the census. The lagoon wascluttered with corpses. Not a house nor a hut was standing. In the wholeatoll not two stones remained one upon another. One in fifty of thecocoanut palms still stood, and they were wrecks, while on not one ofthem remained a single nut.There was no fresh water. The shallow wells that caught the surfaceseepage of the rain were filled with salt. Out of the lagoon a fewsoaked bags of flour were recovered. The survivors cut the hearts out ofthe fallen cocoanut trees and ate them. Here and there they crawledinto tiny hutches, made by hollowing out the sand and covering over withfragments of metal roofing. The missionary made a crude still, but hecould not distill water for three hundred persons. By the end of thesecond day, Raoul, taking a bath in the lagoon, discovered that histhirst was somewhat relieved. He cried out the news, and thereupon threehundred men, women, and children could have been seen, standing up totheir necks in the lagoon and trying to drink water in through theirskins. Their dead floated about them, or were stepped upon where theystill lay upon the bottom. On the third day the people buried their deadand sat down to wait for the rescue steamers.In the meantime, Nauri, torn from her family by the hurricane, had beenswept away on an adventure of her own. Clinging to a rough plank thatwounded and bruised her and that filled her body with splinters, shewas thrown clear over the atoll and carried away to sea. Here, under theamazing buffets of mountains of water, she lost her plank. She was anold woman nearly sixty; but she was Paumotan-born, and she had neverbeen out of sight of the sea in her life. Swimming in the darkness,strangling, suffocating, fighting for air, she was struck a heavy blowon the shoulder by a cocoanut. On the instant her plan was formed,and she seized the nut. In the next hour she captured seven more. Tiedtogether, they formed a life-buoy that preserved her life while at thesame time it threatened to pound her to a jelly. She was a fat woman,and she bruised easily; but she had had experience of hurricanes, andwhile she prayed to her shark god for protection from sharks, she waitedfor the wind to break. But at three o'clock she was in such a stuporthat she did not know. Nor did she know at six o'clock when the deadcalm settled down. She was shocked into consciousness when she wasthrown upon the sand. She dug in with raw and bleeding hands and feetand clawed against the backwash until she was beyond the reach of thewaves.She knew where she was. This land could be no other than the tiny isletof Takokota. It had no lagoon. No one lived upon it.Hikueru was fifteen miles away. She could not see Hikueru, but sheknew that it lay to the south. The days went by, and she lived on thecocoanuts that had kept her afloat. They supplied her with drinkingwater and with food. But she did not drink all she wanted, nor eat allshe wanted. Rescue was problematical. She saw the smoke of the rescuesteamers on the horizon, but what steamer could be expected to come tolonely, uninhabited Takokota?From the first she was tormented by corpses. The sea persisted inflinging them upon her bit of sand, and she persisted, until herstrength failed, in thrusting them back into the sea where the sharkstore at them and devoured them. When her strength failed, the bodiesfestooned her beach with ghastly horror, and she withdrew from them asfar as she could, which was not far.By the tenth day her last cocoanut was gone, and she was shrivellingfrom thirst. She dragged herself along the sand, looking for cocoanuts.It was strange that so many bodies floated up, and no nuts. Surely,there were more cocoanuts afloat than dead men! She gave up at last, andlay exhausted. The end had come. Nothing remained but to wait for death.Coming out of a stupor, she became slowly aware that she was gazing at apatch of sandy-red hair on the head of a corpse. The sea flung the bodytoward her, then drew it back. It turned over, and she saw that it hadno face. Yet there was something familiar about that patch ofsandy-red hair. An hour passed. She did not exert herself to make theidentification. She was waiting to die, and it mattered little to herwhat man that thing of horror once might have been.But at the end of the hour she sat up slowly and stared at the corpse.An unusually large wave had thrown it beyond the reach of the lesserwaves. Yes, she was right; that patch of red hair could belong to butone man in the Paumotus. It was Levy, the German Jew, the man who hadbought the pearl and carried it away on the Hira. Well, one thing wasevident: The Hira had been lost. The pearl buyer's god of fishermen andthieves had gone back on him.She crawled down to the dead man. His shirt had been torn away, and shecould see the leather money belt about his waist. She held her breathand tugged at the buckles. They gave easier than she had expected, andshe crawled hurriedly away across the sand, dragging the belt after her.Pocket after pocket she unbuckled in the belt and found empty. Wherecould he have put it? In the last pocket of all she found it, the firstand only pearl he had bought on the voyage. She crawled a few feetfarther, to escape the pestilence of the belt, and examined the pearl.It was the one Mapuhi had found and been robbed of by Toriki. Sheweighed it in her hand and rolled it back and forth caressingly. But init she saw no intrinsic beauty. What she did see was the house Mapuhiand Tefara and she had builded so carefully in their minds. Each timeshe looked at the pearl she saw the house in all its details, includingthe octagon-drop-clock on the wall. That was something to live for.She tore a strip from her ahu and tied the pearl securely about herneck. Then she went on along the beach, panting and groaning, butresolutely seeking for cocoanuts. Quickly she found one, and, as sheglanced around, a second. She broke one, drinking its water, which wasmildewy, and eating the last particle of the meat. A little later shefound a shattered dugout. Its outrigger was gone, but she was hopeful,and, before the day was out, she found the outrigger. Every find was anaugury. The pearl was a talisman. Late in the afternoon she saw a woodenbox floating low in the water. When she dragged it out on the beach itscontents rattled, and inside she found ten tins of salmon. She openedone by hammering it on the canoe. When a leak was started, she drainedthe tin. After that she spent several hours in extracting the salmon,hammering and squeezing it out a morsel at a time.Eight days longer she waited for rescue. In the meantime she fastenedthe outrigger back on the canoe, using for lashings all the cocoanutfibre she could find, and also what remained of her ahu. The canoe wasbadly cracked, and she could not make it water-tight; but a calabashmade from a cocoanut she stored on board for a bailer. She was hard putfor a paddle. With a piece of tin she sawed off all her hair close tothe scalp. Out of the hair she braided a cord; and by means of the cordshe lashed a three-foot piece of broom handle to a board from the salmoncase.She gnawed wedges with her teeth and with them wedged the lashing.On the eighteenth day, at midnight, she launched the canoe through thesurf and started back for Hikueru. She was an old woman. Hardship hadstripped her fat from her till scarcely more than bones and skin and afew stringy muscles remained. The canoe was large and should have beenpaddled by three strong men.But she did it alone, with a make-shift paddle. Also, the canoe leakedbadly, and one-third of her time was devoted to bailing. By cleardaylight she looked vainly for Hikueru. Astern, Takokota had sunkbeneath the sea rim. The sun blazed down on her nakedness, compellingher body to surrender its moisture. Two tins of salmon were left, and inthe course of the day she battered holes in them and drained the liquid.She had no time to waste in extracting the meat. A current was settingto the westward, she made westing whether she made southing or not.In the early afternoon, standing upright in the canoe, she sightedHikueru. Its wealth of cocoanut palms was gone. Only here and there, atwide intervals, could she see the ragged remnants of trees. The sightcheered her. She was nearer than she had thought. The current wassetting her to the westward. She bore up against it and paddled on. Thewedges in the paddle lashing worked loose, and she lost much time, atfrequent intervals, in driving them tight. Then there was the bailing.One hour in three she had to cease paddling in order to bail. And allthe time she drifted to the westward.By sunset Hikueru bore southeast from her, three miles away. There wasa full moon, and by eight o'clock the land was due east and two milesaway. She struggled on for another hour, but the land was as far away asever. She was in the main grip of the current; the canoe was too large;the paddle was too inadequate; and too much of her time and strengthwas wasted in bailing. Besides, she was very weak and growing weaker.Despite her efforts, the canoe was drifting off to the westward.She breathed a prayer to her shark god, slipped over the side, and beganto swim. She was actually refreshed by the water, and quickly left thecanoe astern. At the end of an hour the land was perceptibly nearer.Then came her fright. Right before her eyes, not twenty feet away, alarge fin cut the water. She swam steadily toward it, and slowly itglided away, curving off toward the right and circling around her. Shekept her eyes on the fin and swam on. When the fin disappeared, shelay face downward in the water and watched. When the fin reappeared sheresumed her swimming. The monster was lazy--she could see that. Withoutdoubt he had been well fed since the hurricane. Had he been very hungry,she knew he would not have hesitated from making a dash for her. He wasfifteen feet long, and one bite, she knew, could cut her in half.But she did not have any time to waste on him. Whether she swam or not,the current drew away from the land just the same. A half hour wentby, and the shark began to grow bolder. Seeing no harm in her he drewcloser, in narrowing circles, cocking his eyes at her impudently ashe slid past. Sooner or later, she knew well enough, he would get upsufficient courage to dash at her. She resolved to play first. It was adesperate act she meditated. She was an old woman, alone in the sea andweak from starvation and hardship; and yet she, in the face of this seatiger, must anticipate his dash by herself dashing at him. She swam on,waiting her chance. At last he passed languidly by, barely eight feetaway. She rushed at him suddenly, feigning that she was attacking him.He gave a wild flirt of his tail as he fled away, and his sandpaperhide, striking her, took off her skin from elbow to shoulder. He swamrapidly, in a widening circle, and at last disappeared.In the hole in the sand, covered over by fragments of metal roofing,Mapuhi and Tefara lay disputing."If you had done as I said," charged Tefara, for the thousandth time,"and hidden the pearl and told no one, you would have it now.""But Huru-Huru was with me when I opened the shell--have I not told youso times and times and times without end?""And now we shall have no house. Raoul told me today that if you had notsold the pearl to Toriki--""I did not sell it. Toriki robbed me.""--that if you had not sold the pearl, he would give you five thousandFrench dollars, which is ten thousand Chili.""He has been talking to his mother," Mapuhi explained. "She has an eyefor a pearl.""And now the pearl is lost," Tefara complained."It paid my debt with Toriki. That is twelve hundred I have made,anyway.""Toriki is dead," she cried. "They have heard no word of his schooner.She was lost along with the Aorai and the Hira. Will Toriki pay you thethree hundred credit he promised? No, because Toriki is dead. And hadyou found no pearl, would you today owe Toriki the twelve hundred? No,because Toriki is dead, and you cannot pay dead men.""But Levy did not pay Toriki," Mapuhi said. "He gave him a piece ofpaper that was good for the money in Papeete; and now Levy is dead andcannot pay; and Toriki is dead and the paper lost with him, and thepearl is lost with Levy. You are right, Tefara. I have lost the pearl,and got nothing for it. Now let us sleep."He held up his hand suddenly and listened. From without came a noise,as of one who breathed heavily and with pain. A hand fumbled against themat that served for a door."Who is there?" Mapuhi cried."Nauri," came the answer. "Can you tell me where is my son, Mapuhi?"Tefara screamed and gripped her husband's arm."A ghost!" she chattered. "A ghost!"Mapuhi's face was a ghastly yellow. He clung weakly to his wife."Good woman," he said in faltering tones, striving to disguise his vice,"I know your son well. He is living on the east side of the lagoon."From without came the sound of a sigh. Mapuhi began to feel elated. Hehad fooled the ghost."But where do you come from, old woman?" he asked."From the sea," was the dejected answer."I knew it! I knew it!" screamed Tefara, rocking to and fro."Since when has Tefara bedded in a strange house?" came Nauri's voicethrough the matting.Mapuhi looked fear and reproach at his wife. It was her voice that hadbetrayed them."And since when has Mapuhi, my son, denied his old mother?" the voicewent on."No, no, I have not--Mapuhi has not denied you," he cried. "I am notMapuhi. He is on the east end of the lagoon, I tell you."Ngakura sat up in bed and began to cry. The matting started to shake."What are you doing?" Mapuhi demanded."I am coming in," said the voice of Nauri.One end of the matting lifted. Tefara tried to dive under the blankets,but Mapuhi held on to her. He had to hold on to something. Together,struggling with each other, with shivering bodies and chattering teeth,they gazed with protruding eyes at the lifting mat. They saw Nauri,dripping with sea water, without her ahu, creep in. They rolled overbackward from her and fought for Ngakura's blanket with which to covertheir heads."You might give your old mother a drink of water," the ghost saidplaintively."Give her a drink of water," Tefara commanded in a shaking voice."Give her a drink of water," Mapuhi passed on the command to Ngakura.And together they kicked out Ngakura from under the blanket. A minutelater, peeping, Mapuhi saw the ghost drinking. When it reached outa shaking hand and laid it on his, he felt the weight of it and wasconvinced that it was no ghost. Then he emerged, dragging Tefara afterhim, and in a few minutes all were listening to Nauri's tale. And whenshe told of Levy, and dropped the pearl into Tefara's hand, even she wasreconciled to the reality of her mother-in-law."In the morning," said Tefara, "you will sell the pearl to Raoul forfive thousand French.""The house?" objected Nauri."He will build the house," Tefara answered. "He ways it will cost fourthousand French. Also will he give one thousand French in credit, whichis two thousand Chili.""And it will be six fathoms long?" Nauri queried."Ay," answered Mapuhi, "six fathoms.""And in the middle room will be the octagon-drop-clock?""Ay, and the round table as well.""Then give me something to eat, for I am hungry," said Nauri,complacently. "And after that we will sleep, for I am weary. Andtomorrow we will have more talk about the house before we sell thepearl. It will be better if we take the thousand French in cash. Moneyis ever better than credit in buying goods from the traders."THE WHALE TOOTHIt was in the early days in Fiji, when John Starhurst arose in themission house at Rewa Village and announced his intention of carryingthe gospel throughout all Viti Levu. Now Viti Levu means the "GreatLand," it being the largest island in a group composed of many largeislands, to say nothing of hundreds of small ones. Here and there onthe coasts, living by most precarious tenure, was a sprinkling ofmissionaries, traders, beche-de-mer fishers, and whaleship deserters.The smoke of the hot ovens arose under their windows, and the bodies ofthe slain were dragged by their doors on the way to the feasting.The Lotu, or the Worship, was progressing slowly, and, often, incrablike fashion. Chiefs, who announced themselves Christians andwere welcomed into the body of the chapel, had a distressing habit ofbacksliding in order to partake of the flesh of some favorite enemy. Eator be eaten had been the law of the land; and eat or be eaten promisedto remain the law of the land for a long time to come. There werechiefs, such as Tanoa, Tuiveikoso, and Tuikilakila, who had literallyeaten hundreds of their fellow men. But among these gluttons RaUndreundre ranked highest. Ra Undreundre lived at Takiraki. He kept aregister of his gustatory exploits. A row of stones outside his housemarked the bodies he had eaten. This row was two hundred and thirtypaces long, and the stones in it numbered eight hundred and seventy-two.Each stone represented a body. The row of stones might have been longer,had not Ra Undreundre unfortunately received a spear in the small of hisback in a bush skirmish on Somo Somo and been served up on the table ofNaungavuli, whose mediocre string of stones numbered only forty-eight.The hard-worked, fever-stricken missionaries stuck doggedly to theirtask, at times despairing, and looking forward for some specialmanifestation, some outburst of Pentecostal fire that would bring aglorious harvest of souls. But cannibal Fiji had remained obdurate. Thefrizzle-headed man-eaters were loath to leave their fleshpots so long asthe harvest of human carcases was plentiful. Sometimes, when the harvestwas too plentiful, they imposed on the missionaries by letting the wordslip out that on such a day there would be a killing and a barbecue.Promptly the missionaries would buy the lives of the victims with sticktobacco, fathoms of calico, and quarts of trade beads. Natheless thechiefs drove a handsome trade in thus disposing of their surplus livemeat. Also, they could always go out and catch more.It was at this juncture that John Starhurst proclaimed that he wouldcarry the Gospel from coast to coast of the Great Land, and that hewould begin by penetrating the mountain fastnesses of the headwaters ofthe Rewa River. His words were received with consternation.The native teachers wept softly. His two fellow missionaries strove todissuade him. The King of Rewa warned him that the mountain dwellerswould surely kai-kai him--kai-kai meaning "to eat"--and that he, theKing of Rewa, having become Lotu, would be put to the necessity of goingto war with the mountain dwellers. That he could not conquer them hewas perfectly aware. That they might come down the river and sack RewaVillage he was likewise perfectly aware. But what was he to do? If JohnStarhurst persisted in going out and being eaten, there would be a warthat would cost hundreds of lives.Later in the day a deputation of Rewa chiefs waited upon John Starhurst.He heard them patiently, and argued patiently with them, though heabated not a whit from his purpose. To his fellow missionaries heexplained that he was not bent upon martyrdom; that the call had comefor him to carry the Gospel into Viti Levu, and that he was merelyobeying the Lord's wish.To the traders who came and objected most strenuously of all, he said:"Your objections are valueless. They consist merely of the damage thatmay be done your businesses. You are interested in making money, butI am interested in saving souls. The heathen of this dark land must besaved."John Starhurst was not a fanatic. He would have been the first man todeny the imputation. He was eminently sane and practical.He was sure that his mission would result in good, and he hadprivate visions of igniting the Pentecostal spark in the souls of themountaineers and of inaugurating a revival that would sweep down out ofthe mountains and across the length and breadth of the Great Land fromsea to sea and to the isles in the midst of the sea. There were nowild lights in his mild gray eyes, but only calm resolution and anunfaltering trust in the Higher Power that was guiding him.One man only he found who approved of his project, and that was Ra Vatu,who secretly encouraged him and offered to lend him guides to the firstfoothills. John Starhurst, in turn, was greatly pleased by Ra Vatu'sconduct. From an incorrigible heathen, with a heart as black as hispractices, Ra Vatu was beginning to emanate light. He even spoke ofbecoming Lotu. True, three years before he had expressed a similarintention, and would have entered the church had not John Starhurstentered objection to his bringing his four wives along with him. RaVatu had had economic and ethical objections to monogamy. Besides, themissionary's hair-splitting objection had offended him; and, to provethat he was a free agent and a man of honor, he had swung his huge warclub over Starhurst's head. Starhurst had escaped by rushing in underthe club and holding on to him until help arrived. But all that was nowforgiven and forgotten. Ra Vatu was coming into the church, not merelyas a converted heathen, but as a converted polygamist as well. He wasonly waiting, he assured Starhurst, until his oldest wife, who was verysick, should die.John Starhurst journeyed up the sluggish Rewa in one of Ra Vatu'scanoes. This canoe was to carry him for two days, when, the head ofnavigation reached, it would return. Far in the distance, liftedinto the sky, could be seen the great smoky mountains that marked thebackbone of the Great Land. All day John Starhurst gazed at them witheager yearning.Sometimes he prayed silently. At other times he was joined in prayer byNarau, a native teacher, who for seven years had been Lotu, ever sincethe day he had been saved from the hot oven by Dr. James Ellery Brownat the trifling expense of one hundred sticks of tobacco, two cottonblankets, and a large bottle of painkiller. At the last moment, aftertwenty hours of solitary supplication and prayer, Narau's ears hadheard the call to go forth with John Starhurst on the mission to themountains."Master, I will surely go with thee," he had announced.John Starhurst had hailed him with sober delight. Truly, the Lord waswith him thus to spur on so broken-spirited a creature as Narau."I am indeed without spirit, the weakest of the Lord's vessels," Narauexplained, the first day in the canoe."You should have faith, stronger faith," the missionary chided him.Another canoe journeyed up the Rewa that day. But it journeyed anhour astern, and it took care not to be seen. This canoe was also theproperty of Ra Vatu. In it was Erirola, Ra Vatu's first cousin andtrusted henchman; and in the small basket that never left his hand wasa whale tooth. It was a magnificent tooth, fully six inches long,beautifully proportioned, the ivory turned yellow and purple with age.This tooth was likewise the property of Ra Vatu; and in Fiji, when sucha tooth goes forth, things usually happen. For this is the virtue ofthe whale tooth: Whoever accepts it cannot refuse the request that mayaccompany it or follow it. The request may be anything from a human lifeto a tribal alliance, and no Fijian is so dead to honor as to deny therequest when once the tooth has been accepted. Sometimes the requesthangs fire, or the fulfilment is delayed, with untoward consequences.High up the Rewa, at the village of a chief, Mongondro by name, JohnStarhurst rested at the end of the second day of the journey. In themorning, attended by Narau, he expected to start on foot for the smokymountains that were now green and velvety with nearness. Mongondro wasa sweet-tempered, mild-mannered little old chief, short-sightedand afflicted with elephantiasis, and no longer inclined toward theturbulence of war. He received the missionary with warm hospitality,gave him food from his own table, and even discussed religious matterswith him. Mongondro was of an inquiring bent of mind, and pleasedJohn Starhurst greatly by asking him to account for the existence andbeginning of things. When the missionary had finished his summary ofthe Creation according to Genesis, he saw that Mongondro was deeplyaffected. The little old chief smoked silently for some time. Then hetook the pipe from his mouth and shook his head sadly."It cannot be," he said. "I, Mongondro, in my youth, was a good workmanwith the adze. Yet three months did it take me to make a canoe--a smallcanoe, a very small canoe. And you say that all this land and water wasmade by one man--""Nay, was made by one God, the only true God," the missionaryinterrupted."It is the same thing," Mongondro went on, "that all the land and allthe water, the trees, the fish, and bush and mountains, the sun, themoon, and the stars, were made in six days! No, no. I tell you that inmy youth I was an able man, yet did it require me three months for onesmall canoe. It is a story to frighten children with; but no man canbelieve it.""I am a man," the missionary said."True, you are a man. But it is not given to my dark understanding toknow what you believe.""I tell you, I do believe that everything was made in six days.""So you say, so you say," the old cannibal murmured soothingly.It was not until after John Starhurst and Narau had gone off to bedthat Erirola crept into the chief's house, and, after diplomatic speech,handed the whale tooth to Mongondro.The old chief held the tooth in his hands for a long time. It was abeautiful tooth, and he yearned for it. Also, he divined the requestthat must accompany it. "No, no; whale teeth were beautiful," andhis mouth watered for it, but he passed it back to Erirola with manyapologies.                           *****In the early dawn John Starhurst was afoot, striding along the bushtrail in his big leather boots, at his heels the faithful Narau, himselfat the heels of a naked guide lent him by Mongondro to show the way tothe next village, which was reached by midday. Here a new guide showedthe way. A mile in the rear plodded Erirola, the whale tooth in thebasket slung on his shoulder. For two days more he brought up themissionary's rear, offering the tooth to the village chiefs. But villageafter village refused the tooth. It followed so quickly the missionary'sadvent that they divined the request that would be made, and would havenone of it.They were getting deep into the mountains, and Erirola took a secrettrail, cut in ahead of the missionary, and reached the stronghold of theBuli of Gatoka. Now the Buli was unaware of John Starhurst's imminentarrival. Also, the tooth was beautiful--an extraordinary specimen, whilethe coloring of it was of the rarest order. The tooth was presentedpublicly. The Buli of Gatoka, seated on his best mat, surrounded by hischief men, three busy fly-brushers at his back, deigned to receive fromthe hand of his herald the whale tooth presented by Ra Vatu and carriedinto the mountains by his cousin, Erirola. A clapping of hands went upat the acceptance of the present, the assembled headman, heralds, andfly-brushers crying aloud in chorus:"A! woi! woi! woi! A! woi! woi! woi! A tabua levu! woi! woi! A mudua,mudua, mudua!'"Soon will come a man, a white man," Erirola began, after the properpause. "He is a missionary man, and he will come today. Ra Vatu ispleased to desire his boots. He wishes to present them to his goodfriend, Mongondro, and it is in his mind to send them with the feetalong in them, for Mongondro is an old man and his teeth are not good.Be sure, O Buli, that the feet go along in the boots. As for the rest ofhim, it may stop here."The delight in the whale tooth faded out of the Buli's eyes, and heglanced about him dubiously. Yet had he already accepted the tooth."A little thing like a missionary does not matter," Erirola prompted."No, a little thing like a missionary does not matter," the Bulianswered, himself again. "Mongondro shall have the boots. Go, you youngmen, some three or four of you, and meet the missionary on the trail. Besure you bring back the boots as well.""It is too late," said Erirola. "Listen! He comes now."Breaking through the thicket of brush, John Starhurst, with Narau closeon his heels, strode upon the scene. The famous boots, having filled inwading the stream, squirted fine jets of water at every step. Starhurstlooked about him with flashing eyes. Upborne by an unwavering trust,untouched by doubt or fear, he exulted in all he saw. He knew thatsince the beginning of time he was the first white man ever to tread themountain stronghold of Gatoka.The grass houses clung to the steep mountain side or overhung therushing Rewa. On either side towered a mighty precipice. At the best,three hours of sunlight penetrated that narrow gorge. No cocoanutsnor bananas were to be seen, though dense, tropic vegetation overraneverything, dripping in airy festoons from the sheer lips of theprecipices and running riot in all the crannied ledges. At the far endof the gorge the Rewa leaped eight hundred feet in a single span, whilethe atmosphere of the rock fortress pulsed to the rhythmic thunder ofthe fall.From the Buli's house, John Starhurst saw emerging the Buli and hisfollowers."I bring you good tidings," was the missionary's greeting."Who has sent you?" the Buli rejoined quietly."God.""It is a new name in Viti Levu," the Buli grinned. "Of what islands,villages, or passes may he be chief?""He is the chief over all islands, all villages, all passes," JohnStarhurst answered solemnly. "He is the Lord over heaven and earth, andI am come to bring His word to you.""Has he sent whale teeth?" was the insolent query."No, but more precious than whale teeth is the--""It is the custom, between chiefs, to send whale teeth," the Buliinterrupted."Your chief is either a niggard, or you are a fool, to come empty-handedinto the mountains. Behold, a more generous than you is before you."So saying, he showed the whale tooth he had received from Erirola.Narau groaned."It is the whale tooth of Ra Vatu," he whispered to Starhurst. "I knowit well. Now are we undone.""A gracious thing," the missionary answered, passing his hand throughhis long beard and adjusting his glasses. "Ra Vatu has arranged that weshould be well received."But Narau groaned again, and backed away from the heels he had dogged sofaithfully."Ra Vatu is soon to become Lotu," Starhurst explained, "and I have comebringing the Lotu to you.""I want none of your Lotu," said the Buli, proudly. "And it is in mymind that you will be clubbed this day."The Buli nodded to one of his big mountaineers, who stepped forward,swinging a club. Narau bolted into the nearest house, seeking to hideamong the woman and mats; but John Starhurst sprang in under the cluband threw his arms around his executioner's neck. From this point ofvantage he proceeded to argue. He was arguing for his life, and he knewit; but he was neither excited nor afraid."It would be an evil thing for you to kill me," he told the man. "I havedone you no wrong, nor have I done the Buli wrong."So well did he cling to the neck of the one man that they dared notstrike with their clubs. And he continued to cling and to dispute forhis life with those who clamored for his death."I am John Starhurst," he went on calmly. "I have labored in Fiji forthree years, and I have done it for no profit. I am here among you forgood. Why should any man kill me? To kill me will not profit any man."The Buli stole a look at the whale tooth. He was well paid for the deed.The missionary was surrounded by a mass of naked savages, all strugglingto get at him. The death song, which is the song of the oven, wasraised, and his expostulations could no longer be heard. But socunningly did he twine and wreathe his body about his captor's that thedeath blow could not be struck. Erirola smiled, and the Buli grew angry."Away with you!" he cried. "A nice story to go back to the coast--adozen of you and one missionary, without weapons, weak as a woman,overcoming all of you.""Wait, O Buli," John Starhurst called out from the thick of the scuffle,"and I will overcome even you. For my weapons are Truth and Right, andno man can withstand them.""Come to me, then," the Buli answered, "for my weapon is only a poormiserable club, and, as you say, it cannot withstand you."The group separated from him, and John Starhurst stood alone, facing theBuli, who was leaning on an enormous, knotted warclub."Come to me, missionary man, and overcome me," the Buli challenged."Even so will I come to you and overcome you," John Starhurst madeanswer, first wiping his spectacles and settling them properly, thenbeginning his advance.The Buli raised the club and waited."In the first place, my death will profit you nothing," began theargument."I leave the answer to my club," was the Buli's reply.And to every point he made the same reply, at the same time watching themissionary closely in order to forestall that cunning run-in under thelifted club. Then, and for the first time, John Starhurst knew that hisdeath was at hand. He made no attempt to run in. Bareheaded, he stood inthe sun and prayed aloud--the mysterious figure of the inevitable whiteman, who, with Bible, bullet, or rum bottle, has confronted the amazedsavage in his every stronghold. Even so stood John Starhurst in the rockfortress of the Buli of Gatoka."Forgive them, for they know not what they do," he prayed. "O Lord! Havemercy upon Fiji. Have compassion for Fiji. O Jehovah, hear us for Hissake, Thy Son, whom Thou didst give that through Him all men might alsobecome Thy children. From Thee we came, and our mind is that to Theewe may return. The land is dark, O Lord, the land is dark. But Thou artmighty to save. Reach out Thy hand, O Lord, and save Fiji, poor cannibalFiji."The Buli grew impatient."Now will I answer thee," he muttered, at the same time swinging hisclub with both hands.Narau, hiding among the women and the mats, heard the impact of theblow and shuddered. Then the death song arose, and he knew his belovedmissionary's body was being dragged to the oven as he heard the words:"Drag me gently. Drag me gently.""For I am the champion of my land.""Give thanks! Give thanks! Give thanks!"Next, a single voice arose out of the din, asking:"Where is the brave man?"A hundred voices bellowed the answer:"Gone to be dragged into the oven and cooked.""Where is the coward?" the single voice demanded."Gone to report!" the hundred voices bellowed back. "Gone to report!Gone to report!"Narau groaned in anguish of spirit. The words of the old song were true.He was the coward, and nothing remained to him but to go and report.MAUKIHe weighed one hundred and ten pounds. His hair was kinky and negroid,and he was black. He was peculiarly black. He was neither blue-black norpurple-black, but plum-black. His name was Mauki, and he was the sonof a chief. He had three tambos. Tambo is Melanesian for taboo, andis first cousin to that Polynesian word. Mauki's three tambos wereas follows: First, he must never shake hands with a woman, nor have awoman's hand touch him or any of his personal belongings; secondly, hemust never eat clams nor any food from a fire in which clams had beencooked; thirdly, he must never touch a crocodile, nor travel in a canoethat carried any part of a crocodile even if as large as a tooth.Of a different black were his teeth, which were deep black, or, perhapsbetter, LAMP-black. They had been made so in a single night, by hismother, who had compressed about them a powdered mineral which wasdug from the landslide back of Port Adams. Port Adams is a salt-watervillage on Malaita, and Malaita is the most savage island in theSolomons--so savage that no traders or planters have yet gained afoothold on it; while, from the time of the earliest beche-de-merfishers and sandalwood traders down to the latest labor recruitersequipped with automatic rifles and gasolene engines, scores of whiteadventurers have been passed out by tomahawks and soft-nosed Sniderbullets. So Malaita remains today, in the twentieth century, thestamping ground of the labor recruiters, who farm its coasts forlaborers who engage and contract themselves to toil on the plantationsof the neighboring and more civilized islands for a wage of thirtydollars a year. The natives of those neighboring and more civilizedislands have themselves become too civilized to work on plantations.Mauki's ears were pierced, not in one place, nor two places, but in acouple of dozen places. In one of the smaller holes he carried a claypipe. The larger holes were too large for such use. The bowl of the pipewould have fallen through. In fact, in the largest hole in each earhe habitually wore round wooden plugs that were an even four inches indiameter. Roughly speaking, the circumference of said holes was twelveand one-half inches. Mauki was catholic in his tastes. In the varioussmaller holes he carried such things as empty rifle cartridges,horseshoe nails, copper screws, pieces of string, braids of sennit,strips of green leaf, and, in the cool of the day, scarlet hibiscusflowers. From which it will be seen that pockets were not necessary tohis well-being. Besides, pockets were impossible, for his only wearingapparel consisted of a piece of calico several inches wide. A pocketknife he wore in his hair, the blade snapped down on a kinky lock. Hismost prized possession was the handle of a china cup, which he suspendedfrom a ring of turtle-shell, which, in turn, was passed through thepartition-cartilage of his nose.But in spite of embellishments, Mauki had a nice face. It was reallya pretty face, viewed by any standard, and for a Melanesian it was aremarkably good-looking face. Its one fault was its lack of strength. Itwas softly effeminate, almost girlish. The features were small, regular,and delicate. The chin was weak, and the mouth was weak. There was nostrength nor character in the jaws, forehead, and nose. In the eyes onlycould be caught any hint of the unknown quantities that were so large apart of his make-up and that other persons could not understand. Theseunknown quantities were pluck, pertinacity, fearlessness, imagination,and cunning; and when they found expression in some consistent andstriking action, those about him were astounded.Mauki's father was chief over the village at Port Adams, and thus, bybirth a salt-water man, Mauki was half amphibian. He knew the way of thefishes and oysters, and the reef was an open book to him. Canoes, also,he knew. He learned to swim when he was a year old. At seven years hecould hold his breath a full minute and swim straight down to bottomthrough thirty feet of water. And at seven years he was stolen bythe bushmen, who cannot even swim and who are afraid of salt water.Thereafter Mauki saw the sea only from a distance, through rifts in thejungle and from open spaces on the high mountain sides. He became theslave of old Fanfoa, head chief over a score of scattered bush-villageson the range-lips of Malaita, the smoke of which, on calm mornings,is about the only evidence the seafaring white men have of the teeminginterior population. For the whites do not penetrate Malaita. They triedit once, in the days when the search was on for gold, but they alwaysleft their heads behind to grin from the smoky rafters of the bushmen'shuts.When Mauki was a young man of seventeen, Fanfoa got out of tobacco. Hegot dreadfully out of tobacco. It was hard times in all his villages.He had been guilty of a mistake. Suo was a harbor so small that a largeschooner could not swing at anchor in it. It was surrounded by mangrovesthat overhung the deep water. It was a trap, and into the trap sailedtwo white men in a small ketch. They were after recruits, and theypossessed much tobacco and trade goods, to say nothing of three riflesand plenty of ammunition. Now there were no salt-water men living atSuo, and it was there that the bushmen could come down to the sea. Theketch did a splendid traffic. It signed on twenty recruits the firstday. Even old Fanfoa signed on. And that same day the score of newrecruits chopped off the two white men's head, killed the boat's crew,and burned the ketch. Thereafter, and for three months, there wastobacco and trade goods in plenty and to spare in all the bush villages.Then came the man-of-war that threw shells for miles into the hills,frightening the people out of their villages and into the deeper bush.Next the man-of-war sent landing parties ashore. The villages were allburned, along with the tobacco and trade stuff.The cocoanuts and bananas were chopped down, the taro gardens uprooted,and the pigs and chickens killed.It taught Fanfoa a lesson, but in the meantime he was out of tobacco.Also, his young men were too frightened to sign on with the recruitingvessels. That was why Fanfoa ordered his slave, Mauki, to be carrieddown and signed on for half a case of tobacco advance, along withknives, axes, calico, and beads, which he would pay for with his toilon the plantations. Mauki was sorely frightened when they brought him onboard the schooner. He was a lamb led to the slaughter. White men wereferocious creatures. They had to be, or else they would not make apractice of venturing along the Malaita coast and into all harbors, twoon a schooner, when each schooner carried from fifteen to twenty blacksas boat's crew, and often as high as sixty or seventy black recruits. Inaddition to this, there was always the danger of the shore population,the sudden attack and the cutting off of the schooner and all hands.Truly, white men must be terrible. Besides, they were possessed of suchdevil-devils--rifles that shot very rapidly many times, things of ironand brass that made the schooners go when there was no wind, and boxesthat talked and laughed just as men talked and laughed.Ay, and he had heard of one white man whose particular devil-devil wasso powerful that he could take out all his teeth and put them back atwill.Down into the cabin they took Mauki. On deck, the one white man keptguard with two revolvers in his belt. In the cabin the other white mansat with a book before him, in which he inscribed strange marks andlines. He looked at Mauki as though he had been a pig or a fowl, glancedunder the hollows of his arms, and wrote in the book. Then he held outthe writing stick and Mauki just barely touched it with his hand, in sodoing pledging himself to toil for three years on the plantations of theMoongleam Soap Company. It was not explained to him that the will ofthe ferocious white men would be used to enforce the pledge, and that,behind all, for the same use, was all the power and all the warships ofGreat Britain.Other blacks there were on board, from unheard-of far places, and whenthe white man spoke to them, they tore the long feather from Mauki'shair, cut that same hair short, and wrapped about his waist a lava-lavaof bright yellow calico.After many days on the schooner, and after beholding more land andislands than he had ever dreamed of, he was landed on New Georgia, andput to work in the field clearing jungle and cutting cane grass. For thefirst time he knew what work was. Even as a slave to Fanfoa he had notworked like this. And he did not like work. It was up at dawn and in atdark, on two meals a day. And the food was tiresome. For weeks at a timethey were given nothing but sweet potatoes to eat, and for weeks ata time it would be nothing but rice. He cut out the cocoanut from theshells day after day; and for long days and weeks he fed the firesthat smoked the copra, till his eyes got sore and he was set tofelling trees. He was a good axe-man, and later he was put in thebridge-building gang. Once, he was punished by being put in theroad-building gang. At times he served as boat's crew in the whaleboats, when they brought in copra from distant beaches or when the whitemen went out to dynamite fish.Among other things he learned beche-de-mer English, with which he couldtalk with all white men, and with all recruits who otherwise would havetalked in a thousand different dialects. Also, he learned certain thingsabout the white men, principally that they kept their word. If they tolda boy he was going to receive a stick of tobacco, he got it. If theytold a boy they would knock seven bells out of him if he did a certainthing, when he did that thing, seven bells invariably were knocked outof him. Mauki did not know what seven bells were, but they occurredin beche-de-mer, and he imagined them to be the blood and teeth thatsometimes accompanied the process of knocking out seven bells. One otherthing he learned: no boy was struck or punished unless he did wrong.Even when the white men were drunk, as they were frequently, they neverstruck unless a rule had been broken.Mauki did not like the plantation. He hated work, and he was the sonof a chief. Furthermore, it was ten years since he had been stolen fromPort Adams by Fanfoa, and he was homesick. He was even homesick for theslavery under Fanfoa. So he ran away. He struck back into the bush, withthe idea of working southward to the beach and stealing a canoe in whichto go home to Port Adams.But the fever got him, and he was captured and brought back more deadthan alive.A second time he ran away, in the company of two Malaita boys. They gotdown the coast twenty miles, and were hidden in the hut of a Malaitafreeman, who dwelt in that village. But in the dead of night two whitemen came, who were not afraid of all the village people and who knockedseven bells out of the three runaways, tied them like pigs, andtossed them into the whale boat. But the man in whose house they hadhidden--seven times seven bells must have been knocked out of him fromthe way the hair, skin, and teeth flew, and he was discouraged for therest of his natural life from harboring runaway laborers.For a year Mauki toiled on. Then he was made a house-boy, and had goodfood and easy times, with light work in keeping the house clean andserving the white men with whiskey and beer at all hours of the day andmost hours of the night. He liked it, but he liked Port Adams more. Hehad two years longer to serve, but two years were too long for him inthe throes of homesickness. He had grown wiser with his year of service,and, being now a house-boy, he had opportunity. He had the cleaning ofthe rifles, and he knew where the key to the store room was hung. Heplanned to escape, and one night ten Malaita boys and one boy from SanCristoval sneaked from the barracks and dragged one of the whale boatsdown to the beach. It was Mauki who supplied the key that opened thepadlock on the boat, and it was Mauki who equipped the boat with a dozenWinchesters, an immense amount of ammunition, a case of dynamite withdetonators and fuse, and ten cases of tobacco.The northwest monsoon was blowing, and they fled south in the nighttime, hiding by day on detached and uninhabited islets, or draggingtheir whale boat into the bush on the large islands. Thus they gainedGuadalcanar, skirted halfway along it, and crossed the IndispensableStraits to Florida Island. It was here that they killed the SanCristoval boy, saving his head and cooking and eating the rest of him.The Malaita coast was only twenty miles away, but the last night astrong current and baffling winds prevented them from gaining across.Daylight found them still several miles from their goal. But daylightbrought a cutter, in which were two white men, who were not afraid ofeleven Malaita men armed with twelve rifles. Mauki and his companionswere carried back to Tulagi, where lived the great white master of allthe white men. And the great white master held a court, after which,one by one, the runaways were tied up and given twenty lashes each,and sentenced to a fine of fifteen dollars. They were sent back to NewGeorgia, where the white men knocked seven bells out of them all aroundand put them to work. But Mauki was no longer house-boy. He was put inthe road-making gang. The fine of fifteen dollars had been paid by thewhite men from whom he had run away, and he was told that he would haveto work it out, which meant six months' additional toil. Further, hisshare of the stolen tobacco earned him another year of toil.Port Adams was now three years and a half away, so he stole a canoe onenight, hid on the islets in Manning Straits, passed through theStraits, and began working along the eastern coast of Ysabel, only tobe captured, two-thirds of the way along, by the white men on MeringeLagoon. After a week, he escaped from them and took to the bush. Therewere no bush natives on Ysabel, only salt-water men, who were allChristians. The white men put up a reward of five-hundred sticks oftobacco, and every time Mauki ventured down to the sea to steal a canoehe was chased by the salt-water men. Four months of this passed, when,the reward having been raised to a thousand sticks, he was caught andsent back to New Georgia and the road-building gang. Now a thousandsticks are worth fifty dollars, and Mauki had to pay the reward himself,which required a year and eight months' labor. So Port Adams was nowfive years away.His homesickness was greater than ever, and it did not appeal to him tosettle down and be good, work out his four years, and go home. Thenext time, he was caught in the very act of running away. His case wasbrought before Mr. Haveby, the island manager of the Moongleam SoapCompany, who adjudged him an incorrigible. The Company had plantationson the Santa Cruz Islands, hundreds of miles across the sea, and thereit sent its Solomon Islands' incorrigibles. And there Mauki was sent,though he never arrived. The schooner stopped at Santa Anna, and in thenight Mauki swam ashore, where he stole two rifles and a case of tobaccofrom the trader and got away in a canoe to Cristoval. Malaita was now tothe north, fifty or sixty miles away. But when he attempted the passage,he was caught by a light gale and driven back to Santa Anna, wherethe trader clapped him in irons and held him against the return of theschooner from Santa Cruz. The two rifles the trader recovered, but thecase of tobacco was charged up to Mauki at the rate of another year. Thesum of years he now owed the Company was six.On the way back to New Georgia, the schooner dropped anchor in MarauSound, which lies at the southeastern extremity of Guadalcanar. Maukiswam ashore with handcuffs on his wrists and got away to the bush. Theschooner went on, but the Moongleam trader ashore offered a thousandsticks, and to him Mauki was brought by the bushmen with a year andeight months tacked on to his account. Again, and before the schoonercalled in, he got away, this time in a whale boat accompanied by a caseof the trader's tobacco. But a northwest gale wrecked him upon Ugi,where the Christian natives stole his tobacco and turned him over to theMoongleam trader who resided there. The tobacco the natives stole meantanother year for him, and the tale was now eight years and a half."We'll send him to Lord Howe," said Mr. Haveby. "Bunster is there, andwe'll let them settle it between them. It will be a case, I imagine, ofMauki getting Bunster, or Bunster getting Mauki, and good riddance ineither event."If one leaves Meringe Lagoon, on Ysabel, and steers a course due north,magnetic, at the end of one hundred and fifty miles he will lift thepounded coral beaches of Lord Howe above the sea. Lord Howe is a ring ofland some one hundred and fifty miles in circumference, several hundredyards wide at its widest, and towering in places to a height of ten feetabove sea level. Inside this ring of sand is a mighty lagoon studdedwith coral patches. Lord Howe belongs to the Solomons neithergeographically nor ethnologically. It is an atoll, while the Solomonsare high islands; and its people and language are Polynesian, while theinhabitants of the Solomons are Melanesian.Lord Howe has been populated by the westward Polynesian drift whichcontinues to this day, big outrigger canoes being washed upon itsbeaches by the southeast trade. That there has been a slight Melanesiandrift in the period of the northwest monsoon, is also evident.Nobody ever comes to Lord Howe, or Ontong-Java as it is sometimescalled. Thomas Cook & Son do not sell tickets to it, and tourists do notdream of its existence. Not even a white missionary has landed on itsshore. Its five thousand natives are as peaceable as they are primitive.Yet they were not always peaceable. The Sailing Directions speak ofthem as hostile and treacherous. But the men who compile the SailingDirections have never heard of the change that was worked in the heartsof the inhabitants, who, not many years ago, cut off a big bark andkilled all hands with the exception of the second mate. The survivorcarried the news to his brothers. The captains of three tradingschooners returned with him to Lord Howe. They sailed their vesselsright into the lagoon and proceeded to preach the white man's gospelthat only white men shall kill white men and that the lesser breeds mustkeep hands off. The schooners sailed up and down the lagoon, harryingand destroying. There was no escape from the narrow sand-circle, nobush to which to flee. The men were shot down at sight, and there wasno avoiding being sighted. The villages were burned, the canoes smashed,the chickens and pigs killed, and the precious cocoanut trees choppeddown. For a month this continued, when the schooner sailed away; but thefear of the white man had been seared into the souls of the islandersand never again were they rash enough to harm one.Max Bunster was the one white man on Lord Howe, trading in the pay ofthe ubiquitous Moongleam Soap Company. And the Company billeted himon Lord Howe, because, next to getting rid of him, it was the mostout-of-the-way place to be found. That the Company did not get rid ofhim was due to the difficulty of finding another man to take his place.He was a strapping big German, with something wrong in his brain.Semi-madness would be a charitable statement of his condition. He wasa bully and a coward, and a thrice-bigger savage than any savage on theisland.Being a coward, his brutality was of the cowardly order. When hefirst went into the Company's employ, he was stationed on Savo. When aconsumptive colonial was sent to take his place, he beat him up with hisfists and sent him off a wreck in the schooner that brought him.Mr. Haveby next selected a young Yorkshire giant to relieve Bunster. TheYorkshire man had a reputation as a bruiser and preferred fighting toeating. But Bunster wouldn't fight. He was a regular little lamb--forten days, at the end of which time the Yorkshire man was prostrated by acombined attack of dysentery and fever. Then Bunster went for him, amongother things getting him down and jumping on him a score or so of times.Afraid of what would happen when his victim recovered. Bunster fled awayin a cutter to Guvutu, where he signalized himself by beating up a youngEnglishman already crippled by a Boer bullet through both hips.Then it was that Mr. Haveby sent Bunster to Lord Howe, the falling-offplace. He celebrated his landing by mopping up half a case of gin and bythrashing the elderly and wheezy mate of the schooner which had broughthim. When the schooner departed, he called the kanakas down to the beachand challenged them to throw him in a wrestling bout, promising a caseof tobacco to the one who succeeded. Three kanakas he threw, but waspromptly thrown by a fourth, who, instead of receiving the tobacco, gota bullet through his lungs.And so began Bunster's reign on Lord Howe. Three thousand people livedin the principal village; but it was deserted, even in broad day, whenhe passed through. Men, women, and children fled before him. Even thedogs and pigs got out of the way, while the king was not above hidingunder a mat. The two prime ministers lived in terror of Bunster, whonever discussed any moot subject, but struck out with his fists instead.And to Lord Howe came Mauki, to toil for Bunster for eight long yearsand a half. There was no escaping from Lord Howe. For better or worse,Bunster and he were tied together. Bunster weighed two hundred pounds.Mauki weighed one hundred and ten. Bunster was a degenerate brute. ButMauki was a primitive savage. While both had wills and ways of theirown.Mauki had no idea of the sort of master he was to work for. He had hadno warnings, and he had concluded as a matter of course that Bunsterwould be like other white men, a drinker of much whiskey, a ruler and alawgiver who always kept his word and who never struck a boy undeserved.Bunster had the advantage. He knew all about Mauki, and gloated over thecoming into possession of him. The last cook was suffering from a brokenarm and a dislocated shoulder, so Bunster made Mauki cook and generalhouse-boy.And Mauki soon learned that there were white men and white men. On thevery day the schooner departed he was ordered to buy a chicken fromSamisee, the native Tongan missionary. But Samisee had sailed acrossthe lagoon and would not be back for three days. Mauki returned withthe information. He climbed the steep stairway (the house stood on pilestwelve feet above the sand), and entered the living room to report.The trader demanded the chicken. Mauki opened his mouth to explain themissionary's absence. But Bunster did not care for explanations. Hestruck out with his fist. The blow caught Mauki on the mouth and liftedhim into the air. Clear through the doorway he flew, across the narrowveranda, breaking the top railing, and down to the ground.His lips were a contused, shapeless mass, and his mouth was full ofblood and broken teeth."That'll teach you that back talk don't go with me," the trader shouted,purple with rage, peering down at him over the broken railing.Mauki had never met a white man like this, and he resolved to walk smalland never offend. He saw the boat boys knocked about, and one ofthem put in irons for three days with nothing to eat for the crime ofbreaking a rowlock while pulling. Then, too, he heard the gossip of thevillage and learned why Bunster had taken a third wife--by force, as waswell known. The first and second wives lay in the graveyard, under thewhite coral sand, with slabs of coral rock at head and feet. They haddied, it was said, from beatings he had given them. The third wife wascertainly ill-used, as Mauki could see for himself.But there was no way by which to avoid offending the white man whoseemed offended with life. When Mauki kept silent, he was struck andcalled a sullen brute. When he spoke, he was struck for giving backtalk. When he was grave, Bunster accused him of plotting and gave him athrashing in advance; and when he strove to be cheerful and to smile,he was charged with sneering at his lord and master and given a taste ofstick. Bunster was a devil.The village would have done for him, had it not remembered the lessonof the three schooners. It might have done for him anyway, if there hadbeen a bush to which to flee. As it was, the murder of the white men,of any white man, would bring a man-of-war that would kill the offendersand chop down the precious cocoanut trees. Then there were the boatboys, with minds fully made up to drown him by accident at the firstopportunity to capsize the cutter. Only Bunster saw to it that the boatdid not capsize.Mauki was of a different breed, and escape being impossible whileBunster lived, he was resolved to get the white man. The trouble wasthat he could never find a chance. Bunster was always on guard. Dayand night his revolvers were ready to hand. He permitted nobody to passbehind his back, as Mauki learned after having been knocked down severaltimes. Bunster knew that he had more to fear from the good-natured, evensweet-faced, Malaita boy than from the entire population of Lord Howe;and it gave added zest to the programme of torment he was carrying out.And Mauki walked small, accepted his punishments, and waited.All other white men had respected his tambos, but not so Bunster.Mauki's weekly allowance of tobacco was two sticks. Bunster passed themto his woman and ordered Mauki to receive them from her hand. But thiscould not be, and Mauki went without his tobacco. In the same way he wasmade to miss many a meal, and to go hungry many a day. He was ordered tomake chowder out of the big clams that grew in the lagoon. This he couldnot do, for clams were tambo. Six times in succession he refused totouch the clams, and six times he was knocked senseless. Bunster knewthat the boy would die first, but called his refusal mutiny, and wouldhave killed him had there been another cook to take his place.One of the trader's favorite tricks was to catch Mauki's kinky locks andbat his head against the wall. Another trick was to catch Mauki unawaresand thrust the live end of a cigar against his flesh. This Bunstercalled vaccination, and Mauki was vaccinated a number of times a week.Once, in a rage, Bunster ripped the cup handle from Mauki's nose,tearing the hole clear out of the cartilage."Oh, what a mug!" was his comment, when he surveyed the damage he hadwrought.The skin of a shark is like sandpaper, but the skin of a ray fish islike a rasp. In the South Seas the natives use it as a wood file insmoothing down canoes and paddles. Bunster had a mitten made of ray fishskin. The first time he tried it on Mauki, with one sweep of the handit fetched the skin off his back from neck to armpit. Bunster wasdelighted. He gave his wife a taste of the mitten, and tried it outthoroughly on the boat boys. The prime ministers came in for a strokeeach, and they had to grin and take it for a joke."Laugh, damn you, laugh!" was the cue he gave.Mauki came in for the largest share of the mitten. Never a day passedwithout a caress from it. There were times when the loss of so muchcuticle kept him awake at night, and often the half-healed surfacewas raked raw afresh by the facetious Mr. Bunster. Mauki continued hispatient wait, secure in the knowledge that sooner or later his timewould come. And he knew just what he was going to do, down to thesmallest detail, when the time did come.One morning Bunster got up in a mood for knocking seven bells out ofthe universe. He began on Mauki, and wound up on Mauki, in the intervalknocking down his wife and hammering all the boat boys. At breakfast hecalled the coffee slops and threw the scalding contents of the cup intoMauki's face. By ten o'clock Bunster was shivering with ague, and halfan hour later he was burning with fever. It was no ordinary attack. Itquickly became pernicious, and developed into black-water fever. Thedays passed, and he grew weaker and weaker, never leaving his bed. Maukiwaited and watched, the while his skin grew intact once more. He orderedthe boys to beach the cutter, scrub her bottom, and give her a generaloverhauling. They thought the order emanated from Bunster, and theyobeyed. But Bunster at the time was lying unconscious and giving noorders. This was Mauki's chance, but still he waited.When the worst was past, and Bunster lay convalescent and conscious, butweak as a baby, Mauki packed his few trinkets, including the chinacup handle, into his trade box. Then he went over to the village andinterviewed the king and his two prime ministers."This fella Bunster, him good fella you like too much?" he asked.They explained in one voice that they liked the trader not at all. Theministers poured forth a recital of all the indignities and wrongsthat had been heaped upon them. The king broke down and wept. Maukiinterrupted rudely."You savve me--me big fella marster my country. You no like 'm thisfella white marster. Me no like 'm. Plenty good you put hundredcocoanut, two hundred cocoanut, three hundred cocoanut along cutter.Him finish, you go sleep 'm good fella. Altogether kanaka sleep m goodfella. Bime by big fella noise along house, you no savve hear 'm thatfella noise. You altogether sleep strong fella too much."In like manner Mauki interviewed the boat boys. Then he orderedBunster's wife to return to her family house. Had she refused, he wouldhave been in a quandary, for his tambo would not have permitted him tolay hands on her.The house deserted, he entered the sleeping room, where the trader layin a doze. Mauki first removed the revolvers, then placed the ray fishmitten on his hand. Bunster's first warning was a stroke of the mittenthat removed the skin the full length of his nose."Good fella, eh?" Mauki grinned, between two strokes, one of which sweptthe forehead bare and the other of which cleaned off one side of hisface. "Laugh, damn you, laugh."Mauki did his work throughly, and the kanakas, hiding in their houses,heard the "big fella noise" that Bunster made and continued to make foran hour or more.When Mauki was done, he carried the boat compass and all the rifles andammunition down to the cutter, which he proceeded to ballast with casesof tobacco. It was while engaged in this that a hideous, skinless thingcame out of the house and ran screaming down the beach till it fell inthe sand and mowed and gibbered under the scorching sun. Mauki lookedtoward it and hesitated. Then he went over and removed the head, whichhe wrapped in a mat and stowed in the stern locker of the cutter.So soundly did the kanakas sleep through that long hot day that theydid not see the cutter run out through the passage and head south,close-hauled on the southeast trade. Nor was the cutter ever sighted onthat long tack to the shores of Ysabel, and during the tedious head-beatfrom there to Malaita. He landed at Port Adams with a wealth of riflesand tobacco such as no one man had ever possessed before. But he didnot stop there. He had taken a white man's head, and only the bush couldshelter him. So back he went to the bush villages, where he shot oldFanfoa and half a dozen of the chief men, and made himself the chiefover all the villages. When his father died, Mauki's brother ruledin Port Adams, and joined together, salt-water men and bushmen, theresulting combination was the strongest of the ten score fighting tribesof Malaita.More than his fear of the British government was Mauki's fear of theall-powerful Moongleam Soap Company; and one day a message came upto him in the bush, reminding him that he owed the Company eight andone-half years of labor. He sent back a favorable answer, and thenappeared the inevitable white man, the captain of the schooner, theonly white man during Mauki's reign, who ventured the bush and came outalive. This man not only came out, but he brought with him seven hundredand fifty dollars in gold sovereigns--the money price of eight yearsand a half of labor plus the cost price of certain rifles and cases oftobacco.Mauki no longer weighs one hundred and ten pounds. His stomach isthree times its former girth, and he has four wives. He has manyother things--rifles and revolvers, the handle of a china cup, and anexcellent collection of bushmen's heads. But more precious than theentire collection is another head, perfectly dried and cured, with sandyhair and a yellowish beard, which is kept wrapped in the finest of fibrelava-lavas. When Mauki goes to war with villages beyond his realm,he invariably gets out this head, and alone in his grass palace,contemplates it long and solemnly. At such times the hush of death fallson the village, and not even a pickaninny dares make a noise. Thehead is esteemed the most powerful devil-devil on Malaita, and to thepossession of it is ascribed all of Mauki's greatness."YAH! YAH! YAH!"He was a whiskey-guzzling Scotchman, and he downed his whiskey neat,beginning with his first tot punctually at six in the morning, andthereafter repeating it at regular intervals throughout the day tillbedtime, which was usually midnight. He slept but five hours out of thetwenty-four, and for the remaining nineteen hours he was quietly anddecently drunk. During the eight weeks I spent with him on Oolong Atoll,I never saw him draw a sober breath. In fact, his sleep was so shortthat he never had time to sober up. It was the most beautiful andorderly perennial drunk I have ever observed.McAllister was his name. He was an old man, and very shaky on his pins.His hand trembled as with a palsy, especially noticeable when he pouredhis whiskey, though I never knew him to spill a drop. He had beentwenty-eight years in Melanesia, ranging from German New Guinea to theGerman Solomons, and so thoroughly had he become identified with thatportion of the world, that he habitually spoke in that bastard lingocalled "bech-de-mer." Thus, in conversation with me, SUN HE COME UPmeant sunrise; KAI-KAI HE STOP meant that dinner was served; and BELLYBELONG ME WALK ABOUT meant that he was sick at his stomach. He wasa small man, and a withered one, burned inside and outside by ardentspirits and ardent sun. He was a cinder, a bit of a clinker of a man, alittle animated clinker, not yet quite cold, that moved stiffly and bystarts and jerks like an automaton. A gust of wind would have blown himaway. He weighed ninety pounds.But the immense thing about him was the power with which he ruled.Oolong Atoll was one hundred and forty miles in circumference. Onesteered by compass course in its lagoon. It was populated by fivethousand Polynesians, all strapping men and women, many of them standingsix feet in height and weighing a couple of hundred pounds. Oolong wastwo hundred and fifty miles from the nearest land. Twice a year alittle schooner called to collect copra. The one white man on Oolong wasMcAllister, petty trader and unintermittent guzzler; and he ruled Oolongand its six thousand savages with an iron hand. He said come, and theycame, go, and they went. They never questioned his will nor judgment.He was cantankerous as only an aged Scotchman can be, and interferedcontinually in their personal affairs. When Nugu, the king's daughter,wanted to marry Haunau from the other end of the atoll, her father saidyes; but McAllister said no, and the marriage never came off. When theking wanted to buy a certain islet in the lagoon from the chief priest,McAllister said no. The king was in debt to the Company to the tune of180,000 cocoanuts, and until that was paid he was not to spend a singlecocoanut on anything else.And yet the king and his people did not love McAllister. In truth, theyhated him horribly, and, to my knowledge, the whole population, with thepriests at the head, tried vainly for three months to pray him to death.The devil-devils they sent after him were awe-inspiring, but sinceMcAllister did not believe in devil-devils, they were without power overhim. With drunken Scotchmen all signs fail. They gathered up scraps offood which had touched his lips, an empty whiskey bottle, a cocoanutfrom which he had drunk, and even his spittle, and performed all kindsof deviltries over them. But McAllister lived on. His health was superb.He never caught fever; nor coughs nor colds; dysentery passed him by;and the malignant ulcers and vile skin diseases that attack blacks andwhites alike in that climate never fastened upon him. He must have beenso saturated with alcohol as to defy the lodgment of germs. I used toimagine them falling to the ground in showers of microscopic cinders asfast as they entered his whiskey-sodden aura. No one loved him, not evengerms, while he loved only whiskey, and still he lived.I was puzzled. I could not understand six thousand natives putting upwith that withered shrimp of a tyrant. It was a miracle that he had notdied suddenly long since. Unlike the cowardly Melanesians, the peoplewere high-stomached and warlike. In the big graveyard, at head and feetof the graves, were relics of past sanguinary history--blubber-spades,rusty old bayonets and cutlasses, copper bolts, rudder-irons, harpoons,bomb guns, bricks that could have come from nowhere but a whaler'strying-out furnace, and old brass pieces of the sixteenth century thatverified the traditions of the early Spanish navigators. Ship aftership had come to grief on Oolong. Not thirty years before, the whalerBLENNERDALE, running into the lagoon for repair, had been cut off withall hands. In similar fashion had the crew of the GASKET, a sandalwoodtrader, perished. There was a big French bark, the TOULON, becalmed offthe atoll, which the islanders boarded after a sharp tussle and wreckedin the Lipau Passage, the captain and a handful of sailors escaping inthe longboat. Then there were the Spanish pieces, which told of theloss of one of the early explorers. All this, of the vessels named, isa matter of history, and is to be found in the SOUTH PACIFIC SAILINGDIRECTORY. But that there was other history, unwritten, I was yet tolearn. In the meantime I puzzled why six thousand primitive savages letone degenerate Scotch despot live.One hot afternoon McAllister and I sat on the veranda looking out overthe lagoon, with all its wonder of jeweled colors. At our backs, acrossthe hundred yards of palm-studded sand, the outer surf roared on thereef. It was dreadfully warm. We were in four degree south latitude andthe sun was directly overhead, having crossed the Line a few days beforeon its journey south. There was no wind--not even a catspaw. The seasonof the southeast trade was drawing to an early close, and the northwestmonsoon had not yet begun to blow."They can't dance worth a damn," said McAllister.I had happened to mention that the Polynesian dances were superior tothe Papuan, and this McAllister had denied, for no other reason thanhis cantankerousness. But it was too hot to argue, and I said nothing.Besides, I had never seen the Oolong people dance."I'll prove it to you," he announced, beckoning to the black New Hanoverboy, a labor recruit, who served as cook and general house servant."Hey, you, boy, you tell 'm one fella king come along me."The boy departed, and back came the prime minister, perturbed, ill atease, and garrulous with apologetic explanation. In short, the kingslept, and was not to be disturbed."King he plenty strong fella sleep," was his final sentence.McAllister was in such a rage that the prime minister incontinentlyfled, to return with the king himself. They were a magnificent pair,the king especially, who must have been all of six feet three inches inheight. His features had the eagle-like quality that is so frequentlyfound in those of the North American Indian. He had been molded and bornto rule. His eyes flashed as he listened, but right meekly he obeyedMcAllister's command to fetch a couple of hundred of the best dancers,male and female, in the village. And dance they did, for two mortalhours, under that broiling sun. They did not love him for it, and littlehe cared, in the end dismissing them with abuse and sneers.The abject servility of those magnificent savages was terrifying. Howcould it be? What was the secret of his rule? More and more I puzzledas the days went by, and though I observed perpetual examples of hisundisputed sovereignty, never a clew was there as to how it was.One day I happened to speak of my disappointment in failing to trade fora beautiful pair of orange cowries. The pair was worth five poundsin Sydney if it was worth a cent. I had offered two hundred sticksof tobacco to the owner, who had held out for three hundred. When Icasually mentioned the situation, McAllister immediately sent for theman, took the shells from him, and turned them over to me. Fifty stickswere all he permitted me to pay for them. The man accepted the tobaccoand seemed overjoyed at getting off so easily. As for me, I resolved tokeep a bridle on my tongue in the future. And still I mulled over thesecret of McAllister's power. I even went to the extent of askinghim directly, but all he did was to cock one eye, look wise, and takeanother drink.One night I was out fishing in the lagoon with Oti, the man who hadbeen mulcted of the cowries. Privily, I had made up to him an additionalhundred and fifty sticks, and he had come to regard me with a respectthat was almost veneration, which was curious, seeing that he was an oldman, twice my age at least."What name you fella kanaka all the same pickaninny?" I began on him."This fella trader he one fella. You fella kanaka plenty fella toomuch. You fella kanaka just like 'm dog--plenty fright along that fellatrader. He no eat you, fella. He no get 'm teeth along him. What nameyou too much fright?""S'pose plenty fella kanaka kill 'm?" he asked."He die," I retorted. "You fella kanaka kill 'm plenty fella white manlong time before. What name you fright this fella white man?""Yes, we kill 'm plenty," was his answer. "My word! Any amount! Longtime before. One time, me young fella too much, one big fella ship hestop outside. Wind he no blow. Plenty fella kanaka we get 'm canoe,plenty fella canoe, we go catch 'm that fella ship. My word--we catch 'mbig fella fight. Two, three white men shoot like hell. We no fright.We come alongside, we go up side, plenty fella, maybe I think fifty-ten(five hundred). One fella white Mary (woman) belong that fella ship.Never before I see 'm white Mary. Bime by plenty white man finish. Onefella skipper he no die. Five fella, six fella white man no die. Skipperhe sing out. Some fella white man he fight. Some fella white man helower away boat. After that, all together over the side they go. Skipperhe sling white Mary down. After that they washee (row) strong fellaplenty too much. Father belong me, that time he strong fella. He throw'm one fella spear. That fella spear he go in one side that white Mary.He no stop. My word, he go out other side that fella Mary. She finish.Me no fright. Plenty kanaka too much no fright."Old Oti's pride had been touched, for he suddenly stripped down hislava-lava and showed me the unmistakable scar of a bullet. Before Icould speak, his line ran out suddenly. He checked it and attempted tohaul in, but found that the fish had run around a coral branch. Castinga look of reproach at me for having beguiled him from his watchfulness,he went over the side, feet first, turning over after he got under andfollowing his line down to bottom. The water was ten fathoms. I leanedover and watched the play of his feet, growing dim and dimmer, as theystirred the wan phosphorescence into ghostly fires. Ten fathoms--sixtyfeet--it was nothing to him, an old man, compared with the value of ahook and line. After what seemed five minutes, though it could not havebeen more than a minute, I saw him flaming whitely upward. He brokesurface and dropped a ten pound rock cod into the canoe, the line andhook intact, the latter still fast in the fish's mouth."It may be," I said remorselessly. "You no fright long ago. You plentyfright now along that fella trader.""Yes, plenty fright," he confessed, with an air of dismissing thesubject. For half an hour we pulled up our lines and flung them out insilence. Then small fish-sharks began to bite, and after losing a hookapiece, we hauled in and waited for the sharks to go their way."I speak you true," Oti broke into speech, "then you savve we frightnow."I lighted up my pipe and waited, and the story that Oti told me inatrocious bech-de-mer I here turn into proper English. Otherwise, inspirit and order of narrative, the tale is as it fell from Oti's lips."It was after that that we were very proud. We had fought many timeswith the strange white men who live upon the sea, and always we hadbeaten them. A few of us were killed, but what was that compared withthe stores of wealth of a thousand thousand kinds that we found on theships? And then one day, maybe twenty years ago, or twenty-five, therecame a schooner right through the passage and into the lagoon. It was alarge schooner with three masts. She had five white men and maybe fortyboat's crew, black fellows from New Guinea and New Britain; and shehad come to fish beche-de-mer. She lay at anchor across the lagoon fromhere, at Pauloo, and her boats scattered out everywhere, making campson the beaches where they cured the beche-de-mer. This made them weakby dividing them, for those who fished here and those on the schooner atPauloo were fifty miles apart, and there were others farther away still."Our king and headmen held council, and I was one in the canoe thatpaddled all afternoon and all night across the lagoon, bringing wordto the people of Pauloo that in the morning we would attack the fishingcamps at the one time and that it was for them to take the schooner. Wewho brought the word were tired with the paddling, but we took partin the attack. On the schooner were two white men, the skipper and thesecond mate, with half a dozen black boys. The skipper with three boyswe caught on shore and killed, but first eight of us the skipper killedwith his two revolvers. We fought close together, you see, at handgrapples."The noise of our fighting told the mate what was happening, and he putfood and water and a sail in the small dingy, which was so small thatit was no more than twelve feet long. We came down upon the schooner, athousand men, covering the lagoon with our canoes. Also, we were blowingconch shells, singing war songs, and striking the sides of the canoeswith our paddles. What chance had one white man and three black boysagainst us? No chance at all, and the mate knew it."White men are hell. I have watched them much, and I am an old man now,and I understand at last why the white men have taken to themselves allthe islands in the sea. It is because they are hell. Here are you inthe canoe with me. You are hardly more than a boy. You are not wise,for each day I tell you many things you do not know. When I was a littlepickaninny, I knew more about fish and the ways of fish than you knownow. I am an old man, but I swim down to the bottom of the lagoon, andyou cannot follow me. What are you good for, anyway? I do not know,except to fight. I have never seen you fight, yet I know that you arelike your brothers and that you will fight like hell. Also, you are afool, like your brothers. You do not know when you are beaten. You willfight until you die, and then it will be too late to know that you arebeaten."Now behold what this mate did. As we came down upon him, covering thesea and blowing our conches, he put off from the schooner in the smallboat, along with the three black boys, and rowed for the passage. Thereagain he was a fool, for no wise man would put out to sea in so smalla boat. The sides of it were not four inches above the water. Twentycanoes went after him, filled with two hundred young men. We paddledfive fathoms while his black boys were rowing one fathom. He had nochance, but he was a fool. He stood up in the boat with a rifle, and heshot many times. He was not a good shot, but as we drew close many of uswere wounded and killed. But still he had no chance."I remember that all the time he was smoking a cigar. When we were fortyfeet away and coming fast, he dropped the rifle, lighted a stick ofdynamite with the cigar, and threw it at us. He lighted another andanother, and threw them at us very rapidly, many of them. I know nowthat he must have split the ends of the fuses and stuck in match heads,because they lighted so quickly. Also, the fuses were very short.Sometimes the dynamite sticks went off in the air, but most of them wentoff in the canoes. And each time they went off in a canoe, that canoewas finished. Of the twenty canoes, the half were smashed to pieces. Thecanoe I was in was so smashed, and likewise the two men who sat nextto me. The dynamite fell between them. The other canoes turned and ranaway. Then that mate yelled, Yah! Yah! Yah!' at us. Also he went at usagain with his rifle, so that many were killed through the back as theyfled away. And all the time the black boys in the boat went on rowing.You see, I told you true, that mate was hell."Nor was that all. Before he left the schooner, he set her on fire,and fixed up all the powder and dynamite so that it would go off at onetime. There were hundreds of us on board, trying to put out the fire,heaving up water from overside, when the schooner blew up. So that allwe had fought for was lost to us, besides many more of us being killed.Sometimes, even now, in my old age, I have bad dreams in which I hearthat mate yell, Yah! Yah! Yah!' In a voice of thunder he yells, Yah!Yah! Yah!' But all those in the fishing camps were killed."The mate went out of the passage in his little boat, and that was theend of him we made sure, for how could so small a boat, with four men init, live on the ocean? A month went by, and then, one morning, betweentwo rain squalls, a schooner sailed in through our passage and droppedanchor before the village. The king and the headmen made big talk, andit was agreed that we would take the schooner in two or three days. Inthe meantime, as it was our custom always to appear friendly, we wentoff to her in canoes, bringing strings of cocoanuts, fowls, and pigs, totrade. But when we were alongside, many canoes of us, the men on boardbegan to shoot us with rifles, and as we paddled away I saw the mate whohad gone to sea in the little boat spring upon the rail and dance andyell, Yah! Yah! Yah!'"That afternoon they landed from the schooner in three small boatsfilled with white men. They went right through the village, shootingevery man they saw. Also they shot the fowls and pigs. We who were notkilled got away in canoes and paddled out into the lagoon. Looking back,we could see all the houses on fire. Late in the afternoon we saw manycanoes coming from Nihi, which is the village near the Nihi Passage inthe northeast. They were all that were left, and like us their villagehad been burned by a second schooner that had come through Nihi Passage."We stood on in the darkness to the westward for Pauloo, but in themiddle of the night we heard women wailing and then we ran into a bigfleet of canoes. They were all that were left of Pauloo, which likewisewas in ashes, for a third schooner had come in through the PaulooPassage. You see, that mate, with his black boys, had not been drowned.He had made the Solomon Islands, and there told his brothers of what wehad done in Oolong. And all his brothers had said they would come andpunish us, and there they were in the three schooners, and our threevillages were wiped out."And what was there for us to do? In the morning the two schooners fromwindward sailed down upon us in the middle of the lagoon. The trade windwas blowing fresh, and by scores of canoes they ran us down. And therifles never ceased talking. We scattered like flying fish before thebonita, and there were so many of us that we escaped by thousands, thisway and that, to the islands on the rim of the atoll."And thereafter the schooners hunted us up and down the lagoon. In thenighttime we slipped past them. But the next day, or in two days orthree days, the schooners would be coming back, hunting us towardthe other end of the lagoon. And so it went. We no longer counted norremembered our dead. True, we were many and they were few. But whatcould we do? I was in one of the twenty canoes filled with men who werenot afraid to die. We attacked the smallest schooner. They shot us downin heaps. They threw dynamite into the canoes, and when the dynamitegave out, they threw hot water down upon us. And the rifles never ceasedtalking. And those whose canoes were smashed were shot as they swamaway. And the mate danced up and down upon the cabin top and yelled,'Yah! Yah! Yah!'""Every house on every smallest island was burned. Not a pig nor a fowlwas left alive. Our wells were defiled with the bodies of the slain, orelse heaped high with coral rock. We were twenty-five thousand on Oolongbefore the three schooners came. Today we are five thousand. After theschooners left, we were but three thousand, as you shall see."At last the three schooners grew tired of chasing us back and forth. Sothey went, the three of them, to Nihi, in the northeast. And then theydrove us steadily to the west. Their nine boats were in the water aswell. They beat up every island as they moved along. They drove us,drove us, drove us day by day. And every night the three schooners andthe nine boats made a chain of watchfulness that stretched across thelagoon from rim to rim, so that we could not escape back."They could not drive us forever that way, for the lagoon was only solarge, and at last all of us that yet lived were driven upon the lastsand bank to the west. Beyond lay the open sea. There were ten thousandof us, and we covered the sand bank from the lagoon edge to the poundingsurf on the other side. No one could lie down. There was no room. Westood hip to hip and shoulder to shoulder. Two days they kept us there,and the mate would climb up in the rigging to mock us and yell, Yah!Yah! Yah!' till we were well sorry that we had ever harmed him or hisschooner a month before. We had no food, and we stood on our feet twodays and nights. The little babies died, and the old and weak died,and the wounded died. And worst of all, we had no water to quench ourthirst, and for two days the sun beat down on us, and there was noshade. Many men and women waded out into the ocean and were drowned, thesurf casting their bodies back on the beach. And there came a pest offlies. Some men swam to the sides of the schooners, but they were shotto the last one. And we that lived were very sorry that in our pride wetried to take the schooner with the three masts that came to fish forbeche-de-mer."On the morning of the third day came the skippers of the threeschooners and that mate in a small boat. They carried rifles, all ofthem, and revolvers, and they made talk. It was only that they wereweary of killing us that they had stopped, they told us. And we toldthem that we were sorry, that never again would we harm a white man, andin token of our submission we poured sand upon our heads. And all thewomen and children set up a great wailing for water, so that for sometime no man could make himself heard. Then we were told our punishment.We must fill the three schooners with copra and beche-de-mer. And weagreed, for we wanted water, and our hearts were broken, and we knewthat we were children at fighting when we fought with white men whofight like hell. And when all the talk was finished, the mate stood upand mocked us, and yelled, Yah! Yah! Yah!' After that we paddled away inour canoes and sought water."And for weeks we toiled at catching beche-de-mer and curing it, ingathering the cocoanuts and turning them into copra. By day and nightthe smoke rose in clouds from all the beaches of all the islands ofOolong as we paid the penalty of our wrongdoing. For in those days ofdeath it was burned clearly on all our brains that it was very wrong toharm a white man."By and by, the schooners full of copra and beche-de-mer and our treesempty of cocoanuts, the three skippers and that mate called us alltogether for a big talk. And they said they were very glad that we hadlearned our lesson, and we said for the ten-thousandth time that we weresorry and that we would not do it again. Also, we poured sand upon ourheads. Then the skippers said that it was all very well, but just toshow us that they did not forget us, they would send a devil-devil thatwe would never forget and that we would always remember any time wemight feel like harming a white man. After that the mate mocked usone more time and yelled, Yah! Yah! Yah!' Then six of our men, whom wethought long dead, were put ashore from one of the schooners, and theschooners hoisted their sails and ran out through the passage for theSolomons."The six men who were put ashore were the first to catch the devil-devilthe skippers sent back after us.""A great sickness came," I interrupted, for I recognized the trick.The schooner had had measles on board, and the six prisoners had beendeliberately exposed to it."Yes, a great sickness," Oti went on. "It was a powerful devil-devil.The oldest man had never heard of the like. Those of our priests thatyet lived we killed because they could not overcome the devil-devil.The sickness spread. I have said that there were ten thousand of usthat stood hip to hip and shoulder to shoulder on the sandbank. When thesickness left us, there were three thousand yet alive. Also, having madeall our cocoanuts into copra, there was a famine."That fella trader," Oti concluded, "he like 'm that much dirt. He like'm clam he die KAI-KAI (meat) he stop, stink 'm any amount. He like 'mone fella dog, one sick fella dog plenty fleas stop along him. We nofright along that fella trader. We fright because he white man. We savveplenty too much no good kill white man. That one fella sick dog traderhe plenty brother stop along him, white men like 'm you fight like hell.We no fright that damn trader. Some time he made kanaka plenty crossalong him and kanaka want 'm kill m, kanaka he think devil-devil andkanaka he hear that fella mate sing out, Yah! Yah! Yah!' and kanaka nokill 'm."Oti baited his hook with a piece of squid, which he tore with his teethfrom the live and squirming monster, and hook and bait sank in whiteflames to the bottom."Shark walk about he finish," he said. "I think we catch 'm plenty fellafish."His line jerked savagely. He pulled it in rapidly, hand under hand, andlanded a big gasping rock cod in the bottom of the canoe."Sun he come up, I make 'm that dam fella trader one present big fellafish," said Oti.THE HEATHENI met him first in a hurricane; and though we had gone through thehurricane on the same schooner, it was not until the schooner had goneto pieces under us that I first laid eyes on him. Without doubt Ihad seen him with the rest of the kanaka crew on board, but I had notconsciously been aware of his existence, for the Petite Jeanne wasrather overcrowded. In addition to her eight or ten kanaka seamen, herwhite captain, mate, and supercargo, and her six cabin passengers,she sailed from Rangiroa with something like eighty-five deckpassengers--Paumotans and Tahitians, men, women, and children each witha trade box, to say nothing of sleeping mats, blankets, and clothesbundles.The pearling season in the Paumotus was over, and all hands werereturning to Tahiti. The six of us cabin passengers were pearl buyers.Two were Americans, one was Ah Choon (the whitest Chinese I have everknown), one was a German, one was a Polish Jew, and I completed the halfdozen.It had been a prosperous season. Not one of us had cause for complaint,nor one of the eighty-five deck passengers either. All had done well,and all were looking forward to a rest-off and a good time in Papeete.Of course, the Petite Jeanne was overloaded. She was only seventy tons,and she had no right to carry a tithe of the mob she had on board.Beneath her hatches she was crammed and jammed with pearl shell andcopra. Even the trade room was packed full with shell. It was a miraclethat the sailors could work her. There was no moving about the decks.They simply climbed back and forth along the rails.In the night time they walked upon the sleepers, who carpeted the deck,I'll swear, two deep. Oh! And there were pigs and chickens on deck, andsacks of yams, while every conceivable place was festooned with stringsof drinking cocoanuts and bunches of bananas. On both sides, between thefore and main shrouds, guys had been stretched, just low enough forthe foreboom to swing clear; and from each of these guys at least fiftybunches of bananas were suspended.It promised to be a messy passage, even if we did make it in the twoor three days that would have been required if the southeast trades hadbeen blowing fresh. But they weren't blowing fresh. After the firstfive hours the trade died away in a dozen or so gasping fans. The calmcontinued all that night and the next day--one of those glaring, glassy,calms, when the very thought of opening one's eyes to look at it issufficient to cause a headache.The second day a man died--an Easter Islander, one of the best diversthat season in the lagoon. Smallpox--that is what it was; though howsmallpox could come on board, when there had been no known cases ashorewhen we left Rangiroa, is beyond me. There it was, though--smallpox, aman dead, and three others down on their backs.There was nothing to be done. We could not segregate the sick, nor couldwe care for them. We were packed like sardines. There was nothing to dobut rot and die--that is, there was nothing to do after the night thatfollowed the first death. On that night, the mate, the supercargo, thePolish Jew, and four native divers sneaked away in the large whale boat.They were never heard of again. In the morning the captain promptlyscuttled the remaining boats, and there we were.That day there were two deaths; the following day three; then itjumped to eight. It was curious to see how we took it. The natives,for instance, fell into a condition of dumb, stolid fear. Thecaptain--Oudouse, his name was, a Frenchman--became very nervous andvoluble. He actually got the twitches. He was a large fleshy man,weighing at least two hundred pounds, and he quickly became a faithfulrepresentation of a quivering jelly-mountain of fat.The German, the two Americans, and myself bought up all the Scotchwhiskey, and proceeded to stay drunk. The theory was beautiful--namely,if we kept ourselves soaked in alcohol, every smallpox germ that cameinto contact with us would immediately be scorched to a cinder. And thetheory worked, though I must confess that neither Captain Oudouse nor AhChoon were attacked by the disease either. The Frenchman did not drinkat all, while Ah Choon restricted himself to one drink daily.It was a pretty time. The sun, going into northern declination, wasstraight overhead. There was no wind, except for frequent squalls, whichblew fiercely for from five minutes to half an hour, and wound up bydeluging us with rain. After each squall, the awful sun would come out,drawing clouds of steam from the soaked decks.The steam was not nice. It was the vapor of death, freighted withmillions and millions of germs. We always took another drink when we sawit going up from the dead and dying, and usually we took two or threemore drinks, mixing them exceptionally stiff. Also, we made it a ruleto take an additional several each time they hove the dead over to thesharks that swarmed about us.We had a week of it, and then the whiskey gave out. It is just as well,or I shouldn't be alive now. It took a sober man to pull through whatfollowed, as you will agree when I mention the little fact that only twomen did pull through. The other man was the heathen--at least, that waswhat I heard Captain Oudouse call him at the moment I first became awareof the heathen's existence. But to come back.It was at the end of the week, with the whiskey gone, and the pearlbuyers sober, that I happened to glance at the barometer that hung inthe cabin companionway. Its normal register in the Paumotus was 29.90,and it was quite customary to see it vacillate between 29.85 and 30.00,or even 30.05; but to see it as I saw it, down to 29.62, was sufficientto sober the most drunken pearl buyer that ever incinerated smallpoxmicrobes in Scotch whiskey.I called Captain Oudouse's attention to it, only to be informed that hehad watched it going down for several hours. There was little to do, butthat little he did very well, considering the circumstances. He tookoff the light sails, shortened right down to storm canvas, spread lifelines, and waited for the wind. His mistake lay in what he did after thewind came. He hove to on the port tack, which was the right thing to dosouth of the Equator, if--and there was the rub--IF one were NOT in thedirect path of the hurricane.We were in the direct path. I could see that by the steady increase ofthe wind and the equally steady fall of the barometer. I wanted himto turn and run with the wind on the port quarter until the barometerceased falling, and then to heave to. We argued till he was reduced tohysteria, but budge he would not. The worst of it was that I could notget the rest of the pearl buyers to back me up. Who was I, anyway, toknow more about the sea and its ways than a properly qualified captain?was what was in their minds, I knew.Of course, the sea rose with the wind frightfully; and I shall neverforget the first three seas the Petite Jeanne shipped. She had fallenoff, as vessels do at times when hove to, and the first sea made a cleanbreach. The life lines were only for the strong and well, and littlegood were they even for them when the women and children, the bananasand cocoanuts, the pigs and trade boxes, the sick and the dying, wereswept along in a solid, screeching, groaning mass.The second sea filled the Petite Jeanne's decks flush with the rails;and, as her stern sank down and her bow tossed skyward, all themiserable dunnage of life and luggage poured aft. It was a humantorrent. They came head first, feet first, sidewise, rolling over andover, twisting, squirming, writhing, and crumpling up. Now and againone caught a grip on a stanchion or a rope; but the weight of the bodiesbehind tore such grips loose.One man I noticed fetch up, head on and square on, with the starboardbitt. His head cracked like an egg. I saw what was coming, sprang on topof the cabin, and from there into the mainsail itself. Ah Choon and oneof the Americans tried to follow me, but I was one jump ahead of them.The American was swept away and over the stern like a piece of chaff.Ah Choon caught a spoke of the wheel, and swung in behind it. But astrapping Raratonga vahine (woman)--she must have weighed two hundredand fifty--brought up against him, and got an arm around his neck. Heclutched the kanaka steersman with his other hand; and just at thatmoment the schooner flung down to starboard.The rush of bodies and sea that was coming along the port runway betweenthe cabin and the rail turned abruptly and poured to starboard. Awaythey went--vahine, Ah Choon, and steersman; and I swear I saw Ah Choongrin at me with philosophic resignation as he cleared the rail and wentunder.The third sea--the biggest of the three--did not do so much damage. Bythe time it arrived nearly everybody was in the rigging. On deck perhapsa dozen gasping, half-drowned, and half-stunned wretches were rollingabout or attempting to crawl into safety. They went by the board, asdid the wreckage of the two remaining boats. The other pearl buyers andmyself, between seas, managed to get about fifteen women and childreninto the cabin, and battened down. Little good it did the poor creaturesin the end.Wind? Out of all my experience I could not have believed it possiblefor the wind to blow as it did. There is no describing it. How can onedescribe a nightmare? It was the same way with that wind. It tore theclothes off our bodies. I say TORE THEM OFF, and I mean it. I am notasking you to believe it. I am merely telling something that I saw andfelt. There are times when I do not believe it myself. I went throughit, and that is enough. One could not face that wind and live. It wasa monstrous thing, and the most monstrous thing about it was that itincreased and continued to increase.Imagine countless millions and billions of tons of sand. Imagine thissand tearing along at ninety, a hundred, a hundred and twenty, orany other number of miles per hour. Imagine, further, this sand to beinvisible, impalpable, yet to retain all the weight and density of sand.Do all this, and you may get a vague inkling of what that wind was like.Perhaps sand is not the right comparison. Consider it mud, invisible,impalpable, but heavy as mud. Nay, it goes beyond that. Consider everymolecule of air to be a mudbank in itself. Then try to imagine themultitudinous impact of mudbanks. No; it is beyond me. Language maybe adequate to express the ordinary conditions of life, but it cannotpossibly express any of the conditions of so enormous a blast of wind.It would have been better had I stuck by my original intention of notattempting a description.I will say this much: The sea, which had risen at first, was beaten downby that wind. More: it seemed as if the whole ocean had been sucked upin the maw of the hurricane, and hurled on through that portion of spacewhich previously had been occupied by the air.Of course, our canvas had gone long before. But Captain Oudouse hadon the Petite Jeanne something I had never before seen on a South Seaschooner--a sea anchor. It was a conical canvas bag, the mouth ofwhich was kept open by a huge loop of iron. The sea anchor was bridledsomething like a kite, so that it bit into the water as a kite bitesinto the air, but with a difference. The sea anchor remained just underthe surface of the ocean in a perpendicular position. A long line, inturn, connected it with the schooner. As a result, the Petite Jeannerode bow on to the wind and to what sea there was.The situation really would have been favorable had we not been in thepath of the storm. True, the wind itself tore our canvas out of thegaskets, jerked out our topmasts, and made a raffle of our running gear,but still we would have come through nicely had we not been square infront of the advancing storm center. That was what fixed us. I was in astate of stunned, numbed, paralyzed collapse from enduring the impact ofthe wind, and I think I was just about ready to give up and die when thecenter smote us. The blow we received was an absolute lull. There wasnot a breath of air. The effect on one was sickening.Remember that for hours we had been at terrific muscular tension,withstanding the awful pressure of that wind. And then, suddenly,the pressure was removed. I know that I felt as though I was aboutto expand, to fly apart in all directions. It seemed as if every atomcomposing my body was repelling every other atom and was on the verge ofrushing off irresistibly into space. But that lasted only for a moment.Destruction was upon us.In the absence of the wind and pressure the sea rose. It jumped, itleaped, it soared straight toward the clouds. Remember, from every pointof the compass that inconceivable wind was blowing in toward the centerof calm. The result was that the seas sprang up from every point ofthe compass. There was no wind to check them. They popped up like corksreleased from the bottom of a pail of water. There was no system tothem, no stability. They were hollow, maniacal seas. They were eightyfeet high at the least. They were not seas at all. They resembled no seaa man had ever seen.They were splashes, monstrous splashes--that is all. Splashes that wereeighty feet high. Eighty! They were more than eighty. They went over ourmastheads. They were spouts, explosions. They were drunken. They fellanywhere, anyhow. They jostled one another; they collided. They rushedtogether and collapsed upon one another, or fell apart like a thousandwaterfalls all at once. It was no ocean any man had ever dreamed of,that hurricane center. It was confusion thrice confounded. It wasanarchy. It was a hell pit of sea water gone mad.The Petite Jeanne? I don't know. The heathen told me afterwards thathe did not know. She was literally torn apart, ripped wide open, beateninto a pulp, smashed into kindling wood, annihilated. When I came to Iwas in the water, swimming automatically, though I was about two-thirdsdrowned. How I got there I had no recollection. I remembered seeing thePetite Jeanne fly to pieces at what must have been the instant that myown consciousness was buffeted out of me. But there I was, with nothingto do but make the best of it, and in that best there was littlepromise. The wind was blowing again, the sea was much smaller and moreregular, and I knew that I had passed through the center. Fortunately,there were no sharks about. The hurricane had dissipated the ravenoushorde that had surrounded the death ship and fed off the dead.It was about midday when the Petite Jeanne went to pieces, and it musthave been two hours afterwards when I picked up with one of her hatchcovers. Thick rain was driving at the time; and it was the merest chancethat flung me and the hatch cover together. A short length of line wastrailing from the rope handle; and I knew that I was good for a day,at least, if the sharks did not return. Three hours later, possiblya little longer, sticking close to the cover, and with closed eyes,concentrating my whole soul upon the task of breathing in enough air tokeep me going and at the same time of avoiding breathing in enough waterto drown me, it seemed to me that I heard voices. The rain had ceased,and wind and sea were easing marvelously. Not twenty feet away from me,on another hatch cover were Captain Oudouse and the heathen. They werefighting over the possession of the cover--at least, the Frenchman was."Paien noir!" I heard him scream, and at the same time I saw him kickthe kanaka.Now, Captain Oudouse had lost all his clothes, except his shoes, andthey were heavy brogans. It was a cruel blow, for it caught the heathenon the mouth and the point of the chin, half stunning him. I looked forhim to retaliate, but he contented himself with swimming about forlornlya safe ten feet away. Whenever a fling of the sea threw him closer, theFrenchman, hanging on with his hands, kicked out at him with both feet.Also, at the moment of delivering each kick, he called the kanaka ablack heathen."For two centimes I'd come over there and drown you, you white beast!" Iyelled.The only reason I did not go was that I felt too tired. The very thoughtof the effort to swim over was nauseating. So I called to the kanaka tocome to me, and proceeded to share the hatch cover with him. Otoo, hetold me his name was (pronounced o-to-o ); also, he told me that hewas a native of Bora Bora, the most westerly of the Society Group. AsI learned afterward, he had got the hatch cover first, and, after sometime, encountering Captain Oudouse, had offered to share it with him,and had been kicked off for his pains.And that was how Otoo and I first came together. He was no fighter.He was all sweetness and gentleness, a love creature, though he stoodnearly six feet tall and was muscled like a gladiator. He was nofighter, but he was also no coward. He had the heart of a lion; and inthe years that followed I have seen him run risks that I would neverdream of taking. What I mean is that while he was no fighter, and whilehe always avoided precipitating a row, he never ran away from troublewhen it started. And it was "Ware shoal!" when once Otoo went intoaction. I shall never forget what he did to Bill King. It occurredin German Samoa. Bill King was hailed the champion heavyweight of theAmerican Navy. He was a big brute of a man, a veritable gorilla, one ofthose hard-hitting, rough-housing chaps, and clever with his fists aswell. He picked the quarrel, and he kicked Otoo twice and struck himonce before Otoo felt it to be necessary to fight. I don't think itlasted four minutes, at the end of which time Bill King was the unhappypossessor of four broken ribs, a broken forearm, and a dislocatedshoulder blade. Otoo knew nothing of scientific boxing. He was merely amanhandler; and Bill King was something like three months in recoveringfrom the bit of manhandling he received that afternoon on Apia beach.But I am running ahead of my yarn. We shared the hatch cover between us.We took turn and turn about, one lying flat on the cover and resting,while the other, submerged to the neck, merely held on with his hands.For two days and nights, spell and spell, on the cover and in the water,we drifted over the ocean. Towards the last I was delirious most of thetime; and there were times, too, when I heard Otoo babbling and ravingin his native tongue. Our continuous immersion prevented us from dyingof thirst, though the sea water and the sunshine gave us the prettiestimaginable combination of salt pickle and sunburn.In the end, Otoo saved my life; for I came to lying on the beach twentyfeet from the water, sheltered from the sun by a couple of cocoanutleaves. No one but Otoo could have dragged me there and stuck up theleaves for shade. He was lying beside me. I went off again; and the nexttime I came round, it was cool and starry night, and Otoo was pressing adrinking cocoanut to my lips.We were the sole survivors of the Petite Jeanne. Captain Oudouse musthave succumbed to exhaustion, for several days later his hatch coverdrifted ashore without him. Otoo and I lived with the natives of theatoll for a week, when we were rescued by the French cruiser and takento Tahiti. In the meantime, however, we had performed the ceremony ofexchanging names. In the South Seas such a ceremony binds two men closertogether than blood brothership. The initiative had been mine; and Otoowas rapturously delighted when I suggested it."It is well," he said, in Tahitian. "For we have been mates together fortwo days on the lips of Death.""But death stuttered," I smiled."It was a brave deed you did, master," he replied, "and Death was notvile enough to speak.""Why do you 'master' me?" I demanded, with a show of hurt feelings."We have exchanged names. To you I am Otoo. To me you are Charley. Andbetween you and me, forever and forever, you shall be Charley, and Ishall be Otoo. It is the way of the custom. And when we die, if it doeshappen that we live again somewhere beyond the stars and the sky, stillshall you be Charley to me, and I Otoo to you.""Yes, master," he answered, his eyes luminous and soft with joy."There you go!" I cried indignantly."What does it matter what my lips utter?" he argued. "They are only mylips. But I shall think Otoo always. Whenever I think of myself, I shallthink of you. Whenever men call me by name, I shall think of you. Andbeyond the sky and beyond the stars, always and forever, you shall beOtoo to me. Is it well, master?"I hid my smile, and answered that it was well.We parted at Papeete. I remained ashore to recuperate; and he went onin a cutter to his own island, Bora Bora. Six weeks later he was back.I was surprised, for he had told me of his wife, and said that he wasreturning to her, and would give over sailing on far voyages."Where do you go, master?" he asked, after our first greetings.I shrugged my shoulders. It was a hard question."All the world," was my answer--"all the world, all the sea, and all theislands that are in the sea.""I will go with you," he said simply. "My wife is dead."I never had a brother; but from what I have seen of other men'sbrothers, I doubt if any man ever had a brother that was to him whatOtoo was to me. He was brother and father and mother as well. And thisI know: I lived a straighter and better man because of Otoo. I caredlittle for other men, but I had to live straight in Otoo's eyes. Becauseof him I dared not tarnish myself. He made me his ideal, compoundingme, I fear, chiefly out of his own love and worship and there were timeswhen I stood close to the steep pitch of hell, and would have takenthe plunge had not the thought of Otoo restrained me. His pride in meentered into me, until it became one of the major rules in my personalcode to do nothing that would diminish that pride of his.Naturally, I did not learn right away what his feelings were toward me.He never criticized, never censured; and slowly the exalted place I heldin his eyes dawned upon me, and slowly I grew to comprehend the hurt Icould inflict upon him by being anything less than my best.For seventeen years we were together; for seventeen years he was atmy shoulder, watching while I slept, nursing me through fever andwounds--ay, and receiving wounds in fighting for me. He signed on thesame ships with me; and together we ranged the Pacific from Hawaii toSydney Head, and from Torres Straits to the Galapagos. We blackbirdedfrom the New Hebrides and the Line Islands over to the westward clearthrough the Louisades, New Britain, New Ireland, and New Hanover. Wewere wrecked three times--in the Gilberts, in the Santa Cruz group, andin the Fijis. And we traded and salved wherever a dollar promised inthe way of pearl and pearl shell, copra, beche-de-mer, hawkbill turtleshell, and stranded wrecks.It began in Papeete, immediately after his announcement that he wasgoing with me over all the sea, and the islands in the midst thereof.There was a club in those days in Papeete, where the pearlers, traders,captains, and riffraff of South Sea adventurers forgathered. The playran high, and the drink ran high; and I am very much afraid that I keptlater hours than were becoming or proper. No matter what the hour waswhen I left the club, there was Otoo waiting to see me safely home.At first I smiled; next I chided him. Then I told him flatly that Istood in need of no wet-nursing. After that I did not see him whenI came out of the club. Quite by accident, a week or so later, Idiscovered that he still saw me home, lurking across the street amongthe shadows of the mango trees. What could I do? I know what I did do.Insensibly I began to keep better hours. On wet and stormy nights, inthe thick of the folly and the fun, the thought would persist in comingto me of Otoo keeping his dreary vigil under the dripping mangoes.Truly, he made a better man of me. Yet he was not strait-laced. And heknew nothing of common Christian morality. All the people on BoraBora were Christians; but he was a heathen, the only unbeliever on theisland, a gross materialist, who believed that when he died he was dead.He believed merely in fair play and square dealing. Petty meanness, inhis code, was almost as serious as wanton homicide; and I do believethat he respected a murderer more than a man given to small practices.Concerning me, personally, he objected to my doing anything that washurtful to me. Gambling was all right. He was an ardent gambler himself.But late hours, he explained, were bad for one's health. He had seen menwho did not take care of themselves die of fever. He was no teetotaler,and welcomed a stiff nip any time when it was wet work in the boats. Onthe other hand, he believed in liquor in moderation. He had seen manymen killed or disgraced by square-face or Scotch.Otoo had my welfare always at heart. He thought ahead for me, weighed myplans, and took a greater interest in them than I did myself. At first,when I was unaware of this interest of his in my affairs, he had todivine my intentions, as, for instance, at Papeete, when I contemplatedgoing partners with a knavish fellow-countryman on a guano venture. Idid not know he was a knave. Nor did any white man in Papeete. Neitherdid Otoo know, but he saw how thick we were getting, and found out forme, and without my asking him. Native sailors from the ends of the seasknock about on the beach in Tahiti; and Otoo, suspicious merely,went among them till he had gathered sufficient data to justify hissuspicions. Oh, it was a nice history, that of Randolph Waters. Icouldn't believe it when Otoo first narrated it; but when I sheeted ithome to Waters he gave in without a murmur, and got away on the firststeamer to Aukland.At first, I am free to confess, I couldn't help resenting Otoo's pokinghis nose into my business. But I knew that he was wholly unselfish; andsoon I had to acknowledge his wisdom and discretion. He had hiseyes open always to my main chance, and he was both keen-sighted andfar-sighted. In time he became my counselor, until he knew more of mybusiness than I did myself. He really had my interest at heart more thanI did. Mine was the magnificent carelessness of youth, for I preferredromance to dollars, and adventure to a comfortable billet with all nightin. So it was well that I had some one to look out for me. I know thatif it had not been for Otoo, I should not be here today.Of numerous instances, let me give one. I had had some experience inblackbirding before I went pearling in the Paumotus. Otoo and I were onthe beach in Samoa--we really were on the beach and hard aground--whenmy chance came to go as recruiter on a blackbird brig. Otoo signed onbefore the mast; and for the next half-dozen years, in as many ships, weknocked about the wildest portions of Melanesia. Otoo saw to it that healways pulled stroke-oar in my boat. Our custom in recruiting labor wasto land the recruiter on the beach. The covering boat always lay on itsoars several hundred feet off shore, while the recruiter's boat, alsolying on its oars, kept afloat on the edge of the beach. When I landedwith my trade goods, leaving my steering sweep apeak, Otoo left hisstroke position and came into the stern sheets, where a Winchester layready to hand under a flap of canvas. The boat's crew was also armed,the Sniders concealed under canvas flaps that ran the length of thegunwales.While I was busy arguing and persuading the woolly-headed cannibals tocome and labor on the Queensland plantations Otoo kept watch. And oftenand often his low voice warned me of suspicious actions and impendingtreachery. Sometimes it was the quick shot from his rifle, knocking anigger over, that was the first warning I received. And in my rush tothe boat his hand was always there to jerk me flying aboard. Once, Iremember, on SANTA ANNA, the boat grounded just as the trouble began.The covering boat was dashing to our assistance, but the several scoreof savages would have wiped us out before it arrived. Otoo took a flyingleap ashore, dug both hands into the trade goods, and scattered tobacco,beads, tomahawks, knives, and calicoes in all directions.This was too much for the woolly-heads. While they scrambled for thetreasures, the boat was shoved clear, and we were aboard and forty feetaway. And I got thirty recruits off that very beach in the next fourhours.The particular instance I have in mind was on Malaita, the most savageisland in the easterly Solomons. The natives had been remarkablyfriendly; and how were we to know that the whole village had been takingup a collection for over two years with which to buy a white man's head?The beggars are all head-hunters, and they especially esteem a whiteman's head. The fellow who captured the head would receive the wholecollection. As I say, they appeared very friendly; and on this day I wasfully a hundred yards down the beach from the boat. Otoo had cautionedme; and, as usual when I did not heed him, I came to grief.The first I knew, a cloud of spears sailed out of the mangrove swampat me. At least a dozen were sticking into me. I started to run,but tripped over one that was fast in my calf, and went down. Thewoolly-heads made a run for me, each with a long-handled, fantailtomahawk with which to hack off my head. They were so eager for theprize that they got in one another's way. In the confusion, I avoidedseveral hacks by throwing myself right and left on the sand.Then Otoo arrived--Otoo the manhandler. In some way he had got hold of aheavy war club, and at close quarters it was a far more efficient weaponthan a rifle. He was right in the thick of them, so that they couldnot spear him, while their tomahawks seemed worse than useless. He wasfighting for me, and he was in a true Berserker rage. The way he handledthat club was amazing.Their skulls squashed like overripe oranges. It was not until he haddriven them back, picked me up in his arms, and started to run, thathe received his first wounds. He arrived in the boat with four spearthrusts, got his Winchester, and with it got a man for every shot. Thenwe pulled aboard the schooner, and doctored up.Seventeen years we were together. He made me. I should today be asupercargo, a recruiter, or a memory, if it had not been for him."You spend your money, and you go out and get more," he said one day."It is easy to get money now. But when you get old, your money will bespent, and you will not be able to go out and get more. I know, master.I have studied the way of white men. On the beaches are many old menwho were young once, and who could get money just like you. Now they areold, and they have nothing, and they wait about for the young men likeyou to come ashore and buy drinks for them."The black boy is a slave on the plantations. He gets twenty dollars ayear. He works hard. The overseer does not work hard. He rides a horseand watches the black boy work. He gets twelve hundred dollars a year.I am a sailor on the schooner. I get fifteen dollars a month. Thatis because I am a good sailor. I work hard. The captain has a doubleawning, and drinks beer out of long bottles. I have never seen him haula rope or pull an oar. He gets one hundred and fifty dollars a month.I am a sailor. He is a navigator. Master, I think it would be very goodfor you to know navigation."Otoo spurred me on to it. He sailed with me as second mate on my firstschooner, and he was far prouder of my command than I was myself. Lateron it was:"The captain is well paid, master; but the ship is in his keeping,and he is never free from the burden. It is the owner who is betterpaid--the owner who sits ashore with many servants and turns his moneyover.""True, but a schooner costs five thousand dollars--an old schooner atthat," I objected. "I should be an old man before I saved five thousanddollars.""There be short ways for white men to make money," he went on, pointingashore at the cocoanut-fringed beach.We were in the Solomons at the time, picking up a cargo of ivory nutsalong the east coast of Guadalcanar."Between this river mouth and the next it is two miles," he said."The flat land runs far back. It is worth nothing now. Next year--whoknows?--or the year after, men will pay much money for that land. Theanchorage is good. Big steamers can lie close up. You can buy the landfour miles deep from the old chief for ten thousand sticks of tobacco,ten bottles of square-face, and a Snider, which will cost you, maybe,one hundred dollars. Then you place the deed with the commissioner; andthe next year, or the year after, you sell and become the owner of aship."I followed his lead, and his words came true, though in three years,instead of two. Next came the grasslands deal on Guadalcanar--twentythousand acres, on a governmental nine hundred and ninety-nine years'lease at a nominal sum. I owned the lease for precisely ninety days,when I sold it to a company for half a fortune. Always it was Otoo wholooked ahead and saw the opportunity. He was responsible for thesalving of the Doncaster--bought in at auction for a hundred pounds, andclearing three thousand after every expense was paid. He led me into theSavaii plantation and the cocoa venture on Upolu.We did not go seafaring so much as in the old days. I was too well off.I married, and my standard of living rose; but Otoo remained the sameold-time Otoo, moving about the house or trailing through the office,his wooden pipe in his mouth, a shilling undershirt on his back, and afour-shilling lava-lava about his loins. I could not get him to spendmoney. There was no way of repaying him except with love, and God knowshe got that in full measure from all of us. The children worshippedhim; and if he had been spoilable, my wife would surely have been hisundoing.The children! He really was the one who showed them the way of theirfeet in the world practical. He began by teaching them to walk. He satup with them when they were sick. One by one, when they were scarcelytoddlers, he took them down to the lagoon, and made them intoamphibians. He taught them more than I ever knew of the habits of fishand the ways of catching them. In the bush it was the same thing. Atseven, Tom knew more woodcraft than I ever dreamed existed. At six, Marywent over the Sliding Rock without a quiver, and I have seen strong menbalk at that feat. And when Frank had just turned six he could bring upshillings from the bottom in three fathoms."My people in Bora Bora do not like heathen--they are all Christians;and I do not like Bora Bora Christians," he said one day, when I, withthe idea of getting him to spend some of the money that was rightfullyhis, had been trying to persuade him to make a visit to his own islandin one of our schooners--a special voyage which I had hoped to make arecord breaker in the matter of prodigal expense.I say one of OUR schooners, though legally at the time they belonged tome. I struggled long with him to enter into partnership."We have been partners from the day the Petite Jeanne went down,"he said at last. "But if your heart so wishes, then shall we becomepartners by the law. I have no work to do, yet are my expenses large. Idrink and eat and smoke in plenty--it costs much, I know. I do not payfor the playing of billiards, for I play on your table; but still themoney goes. Fishing on the reef is only a rich man's pleasure. It isshocking, the cost of hooks and cotton line. Yes; it is necessary thatwe be partners by the law. I need the money. I shall get it from thehead clerk in the office."So the papers were made out and recorded. A year later I was compelledto complain."Charley," said I, "you are a wicked old fraud, a miserly skinflint,a miserable land crab. Behold, your share for the year in all ourpartnership has been thousands of dollars. The head clerk has given methis paper. It says that in the year you have drawn just eighty-sevendollars and twenty cents.""Is there any owing me?" he asked anxiously."I tell you thousands and thousands," I answered.His face brightened, as with an immense relief."It is well," he said. "See that the head clerk keeps good accountof it. When I want it, I shall want it, and there must not be a centmissing."If there is," he added fiercely, after a pause, "it must come out ofthe clerk's wages."And all the time, as I afterwards learned, his will, drawn up byCarruthers, and making me sole beneficiary, lay in the American consul'ssafe.But the end came, as the end must come to all human associations.It occurred in the Solomons, where our wildest work had been done in thewild young days, and where we were once more--principally on a holiday,incidentally to look after our holdings on Florida Island and to lookover the pearling possibilities of the Mboli Pass. We were lying atSavo, having run in to trade for curios.Now, Savo is alive with sharks. The custom of the woolly-heads ofburying their dead in the sea did not tend to discourage the sharks frommaking the adjacent waters a hangout. It was my luck to be coming aboardin a tiny, overloaded, native canoe, when the thing capsized. Therewere four woolly-heads and myself in it, or rather, hanging to it. Theschooner was a hundred yards away.I was just hailing for a boat when one of the woolly-heads began toscream. Holding on to the end of the canoe, both he and that portion ofthe canoe were dragged under several times. Then he loosed his clutchand disappeared. A shark had got him.The three remaining niggers tried to climb out of the water upon thebottom of the canoe. I yelled and cursed and struck at the nearest withmy fist, but it was no use. They were in a blind funk. The canoe couldbarely have supported one of them. Under the three it upended and rolledsidewise, throwing them back into the water.I abandoned the canoe and started to swim toward the schooner, expectingto be picked up by the boat before I got there. One of the niggerselected to come with me, and we swam along silently, side by side, nowand again putting our faces into the water and peering about for sharks.The screams of the man who stayed by the canoe informed us that he wastaken. I was peering into the water when I saw a big shark pass directlybeneath me. He was fully sixteen feet in length. I saw the whole thing.He got the woolly-head by the middle, and away he went, the poor devil,head, shoulders, and arms out of the water all the time, screeching ina heart-rending way. He was carried along in this fashion for severalhundred feet, when he was dragged beneath the surface.I swam doggedly on, hoping that that was the last unattached shark.But there was another. Whether it was one that had attacked the nativesearlier, or whether it was one that had made a good meal elsewhere, I donot know. At any rate, he was not in such haste as the others. I couldnot swim so rapidly now, for a large part of my effort was devoted tokeeping track of him. I was watching him when he made his first attack.By good luck I got both hands on his nose, and, though his momentumnearly shoved me under, I managed to keep him off. He veered clear,and began circling about again. A second time I escaped him by the samemanoeuvre. The third rush was a miss on both sides. He sheered at themoment my hands should have landed on his nose, but his sandpaper hide(I had on a sleeveless undershirt) scraped the skin off one arm fromelbow to shoulder.By this time I was played out, and gave up hope. The schooner was stilltwo hundred feet away. My face was in the water, and I was watching himmanoeuvre for another attempt, when I saw a brown body pass between us.It was Otoo."Swim for the schooner, master!" he said. And he spoke gayly, as thoughthe affair was a mere lark. "I know sharks. The shark is my brother."I obeyed, swimming slowly on, while Otoo swam about me, keeping alwaysbetween me and the shark, foiling his rushes and encouraging me."The davit tackle carried away, and they are rigging the falls," heexplained, a minute or so later, and then went under to head off anotherattack.By the time the schooner was thirty feet away I was about done for. Icould scarcely move. They were heaving lines at us from on board, butthey continually fell short. The shark, finding that it was receiving nohurt, had become bolder. Several times it nearly got me, but each timeOtoo was there just the moment before it was too late. Of course, Otoocould have saved himself any time. But he stuck by me."Good-by, Charley! I'm finished!" I just managed to gasp.I knew that the end had come, and that the next moment I should throw upmy hands and go down.But Otoo laughed in my face, saying:"I will show you a new trick. I will make that shark feel sick!"He dropped in behind me, where the shark was preparing to come at me."A little more to the left!" he next called out. "There is a line thereon the water. To the left, master--to the left!"I changed my course and struck out blindly. I was by that time barelyconscious. As my hand closed on the line I heard an exclamation from onboard. I turned and looked. There was no sign of Otoo. The next instanthe broke surface. Both hands were off at the wrist, the stumps spoutingblood."Otoo!" he called softly. And I could see in his gaze the love thatthrilled in his voice.Then, and then only, at the very last of all our years, he called me bythat name."Good-by, Otoo!" he called.Then he was dragged under, and I was hauled aboard, where I fainted inthe captain's arms.And so passed Otoo, who saved me and made me a man, and who saved me inthe end. We met in the maw of a hurricane, and parted in the maw ofa shark, with seventeen intervening years of comradeship, the like ofwhich I dare to assert has never befallen two men, the one brown and theother white. If Jehovah be from His high place watching every sparrowfall, not least in His kingdom shall be Otoo, the one heathen of BoraBora.THE TERRIBLE SOLOMONSThere is no gainsaying that the Solomons are a hard-bitten bunch ofislands. On the other hand, there are worse places in the world. But tothe new chum who has no constitutional understanding of men and life inthe rough, the Solomons may indeed prove terrible.It is true that fever and dysentery are perpetually on the walk-about,that loathsome skin diseases abound, that the air is saturated with apoison that bites into every pore, cut, or abrasion and plants malignantulcers, and that many strong men who escape dying there return as wrecksto their own countries. It is also true that the natives of the Solomonsare a wild lot, with a hearty appetite for human flesh and a fad forcollecting human heads. Their highest instinct of sportsmanship is tocatch a man with his back turned and to smite him a cunning blow with atomahawk that severs the spinal column at the base of the brain. It isequally true that on some islands, such as Malaita, the profit and lossaccount of social intercourse is calculated in homicides. Heads are amedium of exchange, and white heads are extremely valuable. Very often adozen villages make a jack-pot, which they fatten moon by moon, againstthe time when some brave warrior presents a white man's head, fresh andgory, and claims the pot.All the foregoing is quite true, and yet there are white men who havelived in the Solomons a score of years and who feel homesick when theygo away from them. A man needs only to be careful--and lucky--to livea long time in the Solomons; but he must also be of the right sort.He must have the hallmark of the inevitable white man stamped upon hissoul. He must be inevitable. He must have a certain grand carelessnessof odds, a certain colossal self-satisfaction, and a racial egotism thatconvinces him that one white is better than a thousand niggers everyday in the week, and that on Sunday he is able to clean out twothousand niggers. For such are the things that have made the white maninevitable. Oh, and one other thing--the white man who wishes to beinevitable, must not merely despise the lesser breeds and think a lotof himself; he must also fail to be too long on imagination. He must notunderstand too well the instincts, customs, and mental processes of theblacks, the yellows, and the browns; for it is not in such fashion thatthe white race has tramped its royal road around the world.Bertie Arkwright was not inevitable. He was too sensitive, too finelystrung, and he possessed too much imagination. The world was too muchwith him. He projected himself too quiveringly into his environment.Therefore, the last place in the world for him to come was the Solomons.He did not come, expecting to stay. A five weeks' stop-over betweensteamers, he decided, would satisfy the call of the primitive he feltthrumming the strings of his being. At least, so he told the ladytourists on the MAKEMBO, though in different terms; and they worshippedhim as a hero, for they were lady tourists and they would know onlythe safety of the steamer's deck as she threaded her way through theSolomons.There was another man on board, of whom the ladies took no notice. Hewas a little shriveled wisp of a man, with a withered skin the color ofmahogany. His name on the passenger list does not matter, but his othername, Captain Malu, was a name for niggers to conjure with, and toscare naughty pickaninnies to righteousness from New Hanover to theNew Hebrides. He had farmed savages and savagery, and from fever andhardship, the crack of Sniders and the lash of the overseers, hadwrested five millions of money in the form of beche-de-mer, sandalwood,pearl-shell and turtle-shell, ivory nuts and copra, grasslands, tradingstations, and plantations. Captain Malu's little finger, which wasbroken, had more inevitableness in it than Bertie Arkwright's wholecarcass. But then, the lady tourists had nothing by which to judge saveappearances, and Bertie certainly was a fine-looking man.Bertie talked with Captain Malu in the smoking room, confiding to himhis intention of seeing life red and bleeding in the Solomons. CaptainMalu agreed that the intention was ambitious and honorable. It was notuntil several days later that he became interested in Bertie, when thatyoung adventurer insisted on showing him an automatic 44-caliber pistol.Bertie explained the mechanism and demonstrated by slipping a loadedmagazine up the hollow butt."It is so simple," he said. He shot the outer barrel back along theinner one. "That loads it and cocks it, you see. And then all I have todo is pull the trigger, eight times, as fast as I can quiver my finger.See that safety clutch. That's what I like about it. It is safe. It ispositively fool-proof." He slipped out the magazine. "You see how safeit is."As he held it in his hand, the muzzle came in line with Captain Malu'sstomach. Captain Malu's blue eyes looked at it unswervingly."Would you mind pointing it in some other direction?" he asked."It's perfectly safe," Bertie assured him. "I withdrew the magazine.It's not loaded now, you know.""A gun is always loaded.""But this one isn't.""Turn it away just the same."Captain Malu's voice was flat and metallic and low, but his eyes neverleft the muzzle until the line of it was drawn past him and away fromhim."I'll bet a fiver it isn't loaded," Bertie proposed warmly.The other shook his head."Then I'll show you."Bertie started to put the muzzle to his own temple with the evidentintention of pulling the trigger."Just a second," Captain Malu said quietly, reaching out his hand. "Letme look at it."He pointed it seaward and pulled the trigger. A heavy explosionfollowed, instantaneous with the sharp click of the mechanism thatflipped a hot and smoking cartridge sidewise along the deck.Bertie's jaw dropped in amazement."I slipped the barrel back once, didn't I?" he explained. "It was sillyof me, I must say."He giggled flabbily, and sat down in a steamer chair. The blood hadebbed from his face, exposing dark circles under his eyes. His handswere trembling and unable to guide the shaking cigarette to his lips.The world was too much with him, and he saw himself with dripping brainsprone upon the deck."Really," he said, "... really.""It's a pretty weapon," said Captain Malu, returning the automatic tohim.The Commissioner was on board the Makembo, returning from Sydney, and byhis permission a stop was made at Ugi to land a missionary. And at Ugilay the ketch ARLA, Captain Hansen, skipper. Now the Arla was one ofmany vessels owned by Captain Malu, and it was at his suggestion andby his invitation that Bertie went aboard the Arla as guest for a fourdays' recruiting cruise on the coast of Malaita. Thereafter the ARLAwould drop him at Reminge Plantation (also owned by Captain Malu), whereBertie could remain for a week, and then be sent over to Tulagi, theseat of government, where he would become the Commissioner's guest.Captain Malu was responsible for two other suggestions, which given, hedisappears from this narrative. One was to Captain Hansen, the otherto Mr. Harriwell, manager of Reminge Plantation. Both suggestions weresimilar in tenor, namely, to give Mr. Bertram Arkwright an insight intothe rawness and redness of life in the Solomons. Also, it is whisperedthat Captain Malu mentioned that a case of Scotch would becoincidental with any particularly gorgeous insight Mr. Arkwright mightreceive............."Yes, Swartz always was too pig-headed. You see, he took four of hisboat's crew to Tulagi to be flogged--officially, you know--then startedback with them in the whaleboat. It was pretty squally, and the boatcapsized just outside. Swartz was the only one drowned. Of course, itwas an accident.""Was it? Really?" Bertie asked, only half-interested, staring hard atthe black man at the wheel.Ugi had dropped astern, and the ARLA was sliding along through a summersea toward the wooded ranges of Malaita. The helmsman who so attractedBertie's eyes sported a ten penny nail, stuck skewerwise through hisnose. About his neck was a string of pants buttons. Thrust through holesin his ears were a can opener, the broken handle of a toothbrush, a claypipe, the brass wheel of an alarm clock, and several Winchester riflecartridges.On his chest, suspended from around his neck hung the half of a chinaplate. Some forty similarly appareled blacks lay about the deck, fifteenof which were boat's crew, the remainder being fresh labor recruits."Of course it was an accident," spoke up the ARLA'S mate, Jacobs,a slender, dark-eyed man who looked more a professor than a sailor."Johnny Bedip nearly had the same kind of accident. He was bringing backseveral from a flogging, when they capsized him. But he knew how to swimas well as they, and two of them were drowned. He used a boat stretcherand a revolver. Of course it was an accident.""Quite common, them accidents," remarked the skipper. "You see that manat the wheel, Mr. Arkwright? He's a man eater. Six months ago, he andthe rest of the boat's crew drowned the then captain of the ARLA. Theydid it on deck, sir, right aft there by the mizzen-traveler.""The deck was in a shocking state," said the mate."Do I understand--?" Bertie began."Yes, just that," said Captain Hansen. "It was an accidental drowning.""But on deck--?""Just so. I don't mind telling you, in confidence, of course, that theyused an axe.""This present crew of yours?"Captain Hansen nodded."The other skipper always was too careless," explained the mate. "He butjust turned his back, when they let him have it.""We haven't any show down here," was the skipper's complaint. "Thegovernment protects a nigger against a white every time. You can't shootfirst. You've got to give the nigger first shot, or else the governmentcalls it murder and you go to Fiji. That's why there's so many drowningaccidents."Dinner was called, and Bertie and the skipper went below, leaving themate to watch on deck."Keep an eye out for that black devil, Auiki," was the skipper's partingcaution. "I haven't liked his looks for several days.""Right O," said the mate.Dinner was part way along, and the skipper was in the middle of hisstory of the cutting out of the Scottish Chiefs."Yes," he was saying, "she was the finest vessel on the coast. But whenshe missed stays, and before ever she hit the reef, the canoes startedfor her. There were five white men, a crew of twenty Santa Cruz boysand Samoans, and only the supercargo escaped. Besides, there were sixtyrecruits. They were all kai-kai'd. Kai-kai?--oh, I beg your pardon.I mean they were eaten. Then there was the James Edwards, adandy-rigged--"But at that moment there was a sharp oath from the mate on deck and achorus of savage cries. A revolver went off three times, and then washeard a loud splash. Captain Hansen had sprung up the companionway onthe instant, and Bertie's eyes had been fascinated by a glimpse of himdrawing his revolver as he sprang.Bertie went up more circumspectly, hesitating before he put his headabove the companionway slide. But nothing happened. The mate wasshaking with excitement, his revolver in his hand. Once he startled, andhalf-jumped around, as if danger threatened his back."One of the natives fell overboard," he was saying, in a queer tensevoice. "He couldn't swim.""Who was it?" the skipper demanded."Auiki," was the answer."But I say, you know, I heard shots," Bertie said, in tremblingeagerness, for he scented adventure, and adventure that was happily overwith.The mate whirled upon him, snarling:"It's a damned lie. There ain't been a shot fired. The nigger felloverboard."Captain Hansen regarded Bertie with unblinking, lack-luster eyes."I--I thought--" Bertie was beginning."Shots?" said Captain Hansen, dreamily. "Shots? Did you hear any shots,Mr. Jacobs?""Not a shot," replied Mr. Jacobs.The skipper looked at his guest triumphantly, and said:"Evidently an accident. Let us go down, Mr. Arkwright, and finishdinner."Bertie slept that night in the captain's cabin, a tiny stateroom off themain cabin. The for'ard bulkhead was decorated with a stand of rifles.Over the bunk were three more rifles. Under the bunk was a big drawer,which, when he pulled it out, he found filled with ammunition, dynamite,and several boxes of detonators. He elected to take the settee on theopposite side. Lying conspicuously on the small table, was the Arla'slog. Bertie did not know that it had been especially prepared for theoccasion by Captain Malu, and he read therein how on September 21, twoboat's crew had fallen overboard and been drowned. Bertie read betweenthe lines and knew better. He read how the Arla's whale boat hadbeen bushwhacked at Su'u and had lost three men; of how the skipperdiscovered the cook stewing human flesh on the galley fire--fleshpurchased by the boat's crew ashore in Fui; of how an accidentaldischarge of dynamite, while signaling, had killed another boat's crew;of night attacks; ports fled from between the dawns; attacks by bushmenin mangrove swamps and by fleets of salt-water men in the largerpassages. One item that occurred with monotonous frequency was death bydysentery. He noticed with alarm that two white men had so died--guests,like himself, on the Arla."I say, you know," Bertie said next day to Captain Hansen. "I've beenglancing through your log."The skipper displayed quick vexation that the log had been left lyingabout."And all that dysentery, you know, that's all rot, just like theaccidental drownings," Bertie continued. "What does dysentery reallystand for?"The skipper openly admired his guest's acumen, stiffened himself to makeindignant denial, then gracefully surrendered."You see, it's like this, Mr. Arkwright. These islands have got a badenough name as it is. It's getting harder every day to sign on whitemen. Suppose a man is killed. The company has to pay through the nosefor another man to take the job. But if the man merely dies of sickness,it's all right. The new chums don't mind disease. What they draw theline at is being murdered. I thought the skipper of the Arla had died ofdysentery when I took his billet. Then it was too late. I'd signed thecontract.""Besides," said Mr. Jacobs, "there's altogether too many accidentaldrownings anyway. It don't look right. It's the fault of the government.A white man hasn't a chance to defend himself from the niggers.""Yes, look at the Princess and that Yankee mate," the skipper took upthe tale. "She carried five white men besides a government agent. Thecaptain, the agent, and the supercargo were ashore in the two boats.They were killed to the last man. The mate and boson, with about fifteenof the crew--Samoans and Tongans--were on board. A crowd of niggers cameoff from shore. First thing the mate knew, the boson and the crew werekilled in the first rush. The mate grabbed three cartridge belts and twoWinchesters and skinned up to the cross-trees. He was the sole survivor,and you can't blame him for being mad. He pumped one rifle till it gotso hot he couldn't hold it, then he pumped the other. The deck was blackwith niggers. He cleaned them out. He dropped them as they went over therail, and he dropped them as fast as they picked up their paddles. Thenthey jumped into the water and started to swim for it, and being mad, hegot half a dozen more. And what did he get for it?""Seven years in Fiji," snapped the mate."The government said he wasn't justified in shooting after they'd takento the water," the skipper explained."And that's why they die of dysentery nowadays," the mate added."Just fancy," said Bertie, as he felt a longing for the cruise to beover.Later on in the day he interviewed the black who had been pointed outto him as a cannibal. This fellow's name was Sumasai. He had spent threeyears on a Queensland plantation. He had been to Samoa, and Fiji, andSydney; and as a boat's crew had been on recruiting schooners throughNew Britain, New Ireland, New Guinea, and the Admiralties. Also, he wasa wag, and he had taken a line on his skipper's conduct. Yes, he hadeaten many men. How many? He could not remember the tally. Yes, whitemen, too; they were very good, unless they were sick. He had once eatena sick one."My word!" he cried, at the recollection. "Me sick plenty along him. Mybelly walk about too much."Bertie shuddered, and asked about heads. Yes, Sumasai had several hiddenashore, in good condition, sun-dried, and smoke-cured. One was of thecaptain of a schooner. It had long whiskers. He would sell it fortwo quid. Black men's heads he would sell for one quid. He had somepickaninny heads, in poor condition, that he would let go for ten bob.Five minutes afterward, Bertie found himself sitting on thecompanionway-slide alongside a black with a horrible skin disease. Hesheered off, and on inquiry was told that it was leprosy. He hurriedbelow and washed himself with antiseptic soap. He took many antisepticwashes in the course of the day, for every native on board was afflictedwith malignant ulcers of one sort or another.As the Arla drew in to an anchorage in the midst of mangrove swamps,a double row of barbed wire was stretched around above her rail. Thatlooked like business, and when Bertie saw the shore canoes alongside,armed with spears, bows and arrows, and Sniders, he wished moreearnestly than ever that the cruise was over.That evening the natives were slow in leaving the ship at sundown. Anumber of them checked the mate when he ordered them ashore. "Nevermind, I'll fix them," said Captain Hansen, diving below.When he came back, he showed Bertie a stick of dynamite attached to afish hook. Now it happens that a paper-wrapped bottle of chlorodyne witha piece of harmless fuse projecting can fool anybody. It fooled Bertie,and it fooled the natives. When Captain Hansen lighted the fuse andhooked the fish hook into the tail end of a native's loin cloth, thatnative was smitten with so an ardent a desire for the shore that heforgot to shed the loin cloth. He started for'ard, the fuse sizzling andspluttering at his rear, the natives in his path taking headers over thebarbed wire at every jump. Bertie was horror-stricken. So was CaptainHansen. He had forgotten his twenty-five recruits, on each of which hehad paid thirty shillings advance. They went over the side along withthe shore-dwelling folk and followed by him who trailed the sizzlingchlorodyne bottle.Bertie did not see the bottle go off; but the mate opportunelydischarging a stick of real dynamite aft where it would harm nobody,Bertie would have sworn in any admiralty court to a nigger blown toflinders. The flight of the twenty-five recruits had actually cost theArla forty pounds, and, since they had taken to the bush, there was nohope of recovering them. The skipper and his mate proceeded to drowntheir sorrow in cold tea.The cold tea was in whiskey bottles, so Bertie did not know it was coldtea they were mopping up. All he knew was that the two men got verydrunk and argued eloquently and at length as to whether the explodednigger should be reported as a case of dysentery or as an accidentaldrowning. When they snored off to sleep, he was the only white man left,and he kept a perilous watch till dawn, in fear of an attack from shoreand an uprising of the crew.Three more days the Arla spent on the coast, and three more nights theskipper and the mate drank overfondly of cold tea, leaving Bertieto keep the watch. They knew he could be depended upon, while he wasequally certain that if he lived, he would report their drunken conductto Captain Malu. Then the Arla dropped anchor at Reminge Plantation, onGuadalcanar, and Bertie landed on the beach with a sigh of relief andshook hands with the manager. Mr. Harriwell was ready for him."Now you mustn't be alarmed if some of our fellows seem downcast," Mr.Harriwell said, having drawn him aside in confidence. "There's been talkof an outbreak, and two or three suspicious signs I'm willing to admit,but personally I think it's all poppycock.""How--how many blacks have you on the plantation?" Bertie asked, with asinking heart."We're working four hundred just now," replied Mr. Harriwell,cheerfully; "but the three of us, with you, of course, and the skipperand mate of the Arla, can handle them all right."Bertie turned to meet one McTavish, the storekeeper, who scarcelyacknowledged the introduction, such was his eagerness to present hisresignation."It being that I'm a married man, Mr. Harriwell, I can't very wellafford to remain on longer. Trouble is working up, as plain as thenose on your face. The niggers are going to break out, and there'll beanother Hohono horror here.""What's a Hohono horror?" Bertie asked, after the storekeeper had beenpersuaded to remain until the end of the month."Oh, he means Hohono Plantation, on Ysabel," said the manager. "Theniggers killed the five white men ashore, captured the schooner, killedthe captain and mate, and escaped in a body to Malaita. But I alwayssaid they were careless on Hohono. They won't catch us napping here.Come along, Mr. Arkwright, and see our view from the veranda."Bertie was too busy wondering how he could get away to Tulagi to theCommissioner's house, to see much of the view. He was still wondering,when a rifle exploded very near to him, behind his back. At the samemoment his arm was nearly dislocated, so eagerly did Mr. Harriwell draghim indoors."I say, old man, that was a close shave," said the manager, pawing himover to see if he had been hit. "I can't tell you how sorry I am. But itwas broad daylight, and I never dreamed."Bertie was beginning to turn pale."They got the other manager that way," McTavish vouchsafed. "And adashed fine chap he was. Blew his brains out all over the veranda. Younoticed that dark stain there between the steps and the door?"Bertie was ripe for the cocktail which Mr. Harriwell pitched in andcompounded for him; but before he could drink it, a man in ridingtrousers and puttees entered."What's the matter now?" the manager asked, after one look at thenewcomer's face. "Is the river up again?""River be blowed--it's the niggers. Stepped out of the cane grass, nota dozen feet away, and whopped at me. It was a Snider, and he shot fromthe hip. Now what I want to know is where'd he get that Snider?--Oh, Ibeg pardon. Glad to know you, Mr. Arkwright.""Mr. Brown is my assistant," explained Mr. Harriwell. "And now let'shave that drink.""But where'd he get that Snider?" Mr. Brown insisted. "I always objectedto keeping those guns on the premises.""They're still there," Mr. Harriwell said, with a show of heat.Mr. Brown smiled incredulously."Come along and see," said the manager.Bertie joined the procession into the office, where Mr. Harriwellpointed triumphantly at a big packing case in a dusty corner."Well, then where did the beggar get that Snider?" harped Mr. Brown.But just then McTavish lifted the packing case. The manager started,then tore off the lid. The case was empty. They gazed at one another inhorrified silence. Harriwell drooped wearily.Then McVeigh cursed."What I contended all along--the house-boys are not to be trusted.""It does look serious," Harriwell admitted, "but we'll come through itall right. What the sanguinary niggers need is a shaking up. Will yougentlemen please bring your rifles to dinner, and will you, Mr. Brown,kindly prepare forty or fifty sticks of dynamite. Make the fuses goodand short. We'll give them a lesson. And now, gentlemen, dinner isserved."One thing that Bertie detested was rice and curry, so it happened thathe alone partook of an inviting omelet. He had quite finished his plate,when Harriwell helped himself to the omelet. One mouthful he tasted,then spat out vociferously."That's the second time," McTavish announced ominously.Harriwell was still hawking and spitting."Second time, what?" Bertie quavered."Poison," was the answer. "That cook will be hanged yet.""That's the way the bookkeeper went out at Cape March," Brown spoke up."Died horribly. They said on the Jessie that they heard him screamingthree miles away.""I'll put the cook in irons," sputtered Harriwell. "Fortunately wediscovered it in time."Bertie sat paralyzed. There was no color in his face. He attempted tospeak, but only an inarticulate gurgle resulted. All eyed him anxiously."Don't say it, don't say it," McTavish cried in a tense voice."Yes, I ate it, plenty of it, a whole plateful!" Bertie criedexplosively, like a diver suddenly regaining breath.The awful silence continued half a minute longer, and he read his fatein their eyes."Maybe it wasn't poison after all," said Harriwell, dismally."Call in the cook," said Brown.In came the cook, a grinning black boy, nose-spiked and ear-plugged."Here, you, Wi-wi, what name that?" Harriwell bellowed, pointingaccusingly at the omelet.Wi-wi was very naturally frightened and embarrassed."Him good fella kai-kai," he murmured apologetically."Make him eat it," suggested McTavish. "That's a proper test."Harriwell filled a spoon with the stuff and jumped for the cook, whofled in panic."That settles it," was Brown's solemn pronouncement. "He won't eat it.""Mr. Brown, will you please go and put the irons on him?" Harriwellturned cheerfully to Bertie. "It's all right, old man, the Commissionerwill deal with him, and if you die, depend upon it, he will be hanged.""Don't think the government'll do it," objected McTavish."But gentlemen, gentlemen," Bertie cried. "In the meantime think of me."Harriwell shrugged his shoulders pityingly."Sorry, old man, but it's a native poison, and there are no knownantidotes for native poisons. Try and compose yourself and if--"Two sharp reports of a rifle from without, interrupted the discourse,and Brown, entering, reloaded his rifle and sat down to table."The cook's dead," he said. "Fever. A rather sudden attack.""I was just telling Mr. Arkwright that there are no antidotes for nativepoisons--""Except gin," said Brown.Harriwell called himself an absent-minded idiot and rushed for the ginbottle."Neat, man, neat," he warned Bertie, who gulped down a tumblertwo-thirds full of the raw spirits, and coughed and choked from theangry bite of it till the tears ran down his cheeks.Harriwell took his pulse and temperature, made a show of looking out forhim, and doubted that the omelet had been poisoned. Brown and McTavishalso doubted; but Bertie discerned an insincere ring in their voices.His appetite had left him, and he took his own pulse stealthily underthe table. There was no question but what it was increasing, but hefailed to ascribe it to the gin he had taken. McTavish, rifle in hand,went out on the veranda to reconnoiter."They're massing up at the cook-house," was his report. "And they've noend of Sniders. My idea is to sneak around on the other side and takethem in flank. Strike the first blow, you know. Will you come along,Brown?"Harriwell ate on steadily, while Bertie discovered that his pulse hadleaped up five beats. Nevertheless, he could not help jumping when therifles began to go off. Above the scattering of Sniders could beheard the pumping of Brown's and McTavish's Winchesters--all against abackground of demoniacal screeching and yelling."They've got them on the run," Harriwell remarked, as voices andgunshots faded away in the distance.Scarcely were Brown and McTavish back at the table when the latterreconnoitered."They've got dynamite," he said."Then let's charge them with dynamite," Harriwell proposed.Thrusting half a dozen sticks each into their pockets and equippingthemselves with lighted cigars, they started for the door. And just thenit happened. They blamed McTavish for it afterward, and he admittedthat the charge had been a trifle excessive. But at any rate it wentoff under the house, which lifted up cornerwise and settled back onits foundations. Half the china on the table was shattered, while theeight-day clock stopped. Yelling for vengeance, the three men rushed outinto the night, and the bombardment began.When they returned, there was no Bertie. He had dragged himself awayto the office, barricaded himself in, and sunk upon the floor in agin-soaked nightmare, wherein he died a thousand deaths while thevalorous fight went on around him. In the morning, sick and headacheyfrom the gin, he crawled out to find the sun still in the sky and Godpresumable in heaven, for his hosts were alive and uninjured.Harriwell pressed him to stay on longer, but Bertie insisted on sailingimmediately on the Arla for Tulagi, where, until the following steamerday, he stuck close by the Commissioner's house. There were ladytourists on the outgoing steamer, and Bertie was again a hero, whileCaptain Malu, as usual, passed unnoticed. But Captain Malu sent backfrom Sydney two cases of the best Scotch whiskey on the market, for hewas not able to make up his mind as to whether it was Captain Hansen orMr Harriwell who had given Bertie Arkwright the more gorgeous insightinto life in the Solomons.THE INEVITABLE WHITE MAN"The black will never understand the white, nor the white the black, aslong as black is black and white is white."So said Captain Woodward. We sat in the parlor of Charley Roberts' pubin Apia, drinking long Abu Hameds compounded and shared with us by theaforesaid Charley Roberts, who claimed the recipe direct from Stevens,famous for having invented the Abu Hamed at a time when he was spurredon by Nile thirst--the Stevens who was responsible for "With Kitchenerto Kartoun," and who passed out at the siege of Ladysmith.Captain Woodward, short and squat, elderly, burned by forty years oftropic sun, and with the most beautiful liquid brown eyes I ever saw ina man, spoke from a vast experience. The crisscross of scars on his baldpate bespoke a tomahawk intimacy with the black, and of equal intimacywas the advertisement, front and rear, on the right side of his neck,where an arrow had at one time entered and been pulled clean through. Ashe explained, he had been in a hurry on that occasion--the arrow impededhis running--and he felt that he could not take the time to break offthe head and pull out the shaft the way it had come in. At the presentmoment he was commander of the SAVAII, the big steamer that recruitedlabor from the westward for the German plantations on Samoa."Half the trouble is the stupidity of the whites," said Roberts,pausing to take a swig from his glass and to curse the Samoan bar-boyin affectionate terms. "If the white man would lay himself out a bitto understand the workings of the black man's mind, most of the messeswould be avoided.""I've seen a few who claimed they understood niggers," Captain Woodwardretorted, "and I always took notice that they were the first to bekai-kai'd (eaten). Look at the missionaries in New Guinea and the NewHebrides--the martyr isle of Erromanga and all the rest. Look at theAustrian expedition that was cut to pieces in the Solomons, in the bushof Guadalcanar. And look at the traders themselves, with a score ofyears' experience, making their brag that no nigger would ever get them,and whose heads to this day are ornamenting the rafters of the canoehouses. There was old Johnny Simons--twenty-six years on the raw edgesof Melanesia, swore he knew the niggers like a book and that they'dnever do for him, and he passed out at Marovo Lagoon, New Georgia, hadhis head sawed off by a black Mary (woman) and an old nigger with onlyone leg, having left the other leg in the mouth of a shark while divingfor dynamited fish. There was Billy Watts, horrible reputation asa nigger killer, a man to scare the devil. I remember lying at CapeLittle, New Ireland you know, when the niggers stole half a case oftrade-tobacco--cost him about three dollars and a half. In retaliationhe turned out, shot six niggers, smashed up their war canoes and burnedtwo villages. And it was at Cape Little, four years afterward, thathe was jumped along with fifty Buku boys he had with him fishingbeche-de-mer. In five minutes they were all dead, with the exception ofthree boys who got away in a canoe. Don't talk to me about understandingthe nigger. The white man's mission is to farm the world, and it's abig enough job cut out for him. What time has he got left to understandniggers anyway?""Just so," said Roberts. "And somehow it doesn't seem necessary, afterall, to understand the niggers. In direct proportion to the white man'sstupidity is his success in farming the world--""And putting the fear of God into the nigger's heart," Captain Woodwardblurted out. "Perhaps you're right, Roberts. Perhaps it's his stupiditythat makes him succeed, and surely one phase of his stupidity is hisinability to understand the niggers. But there's one thing sure, thewhite has to run the niggers whether he understands them or not. It'sinevitable. It's fate.""And of course the white man is inevitable--it's the niggers' fate,"Roberts broke in. "Tell the white man there's pearl shell in some lagooninfested by ten-thousand howling cannibals, and he'll head there all byhis lonely, with half a dozen kanaka divers and a tin alarm clock forchronometer, all packed like sardines on a commodious, five-ton ketch.Whisper that there's a gold strike at the North Pole, and that sameinevitable white-skinned creature will set out at once, armed with pickand shovel, a side of bacon, and the latest patent rocker--and what'smore, he'll get there. Tip it off to him that there's diamonds on thered-hot ramparts of hell, and Mr. White Man will storm the rampartsand set old Satan himself to pick-and-shovel work. That's what comes ofbeing stupid and inevitable.""But I wonder what the black man must think of the--the inevitableness,"I said.Captain Woodward broke into quiet laughter. His eyes had a reminiscentgleam."I'm just wondering what the niggers of Malu thought and still must bethinking of the one inevitable white man we had on board when we visitedthem in the DUCHESS," he explained.Roberts mixed three more Abu Hameds."That was twenty years ago. Saxtorph was his name. He was certainly themost stupid man I ever saw, but he was as inevitable as death. There wasonly one thing that chap could do, and that was shoot. I remember thefirst time I ran into him--right here in Apia, twenty years ago. Thatwas before your time, Roberts. I was sleeping at Dutch Henry's hotel,down where the market is now. Ever heard of him? He made a tidy stakesmuggling arms in to the rebels, sold out his hotel, and was killed inSydney just six weeks afterward in a saloon row."But Saxtorph. One night I'd just got to sleep, when a couple of catsbegan to sing in the courtyard. It was out of bed and up window, waterjug in hand. But just then I heard the window of the next room go up.Two shots were fired, and the window was closed. I fail to impress youwith the celerity of the transaction. Ten seconds at the outside. Upwent the window, bang bang went the revolver, and down went the window.Whoever it was, he had never stopped to see the effect of his shots. Heknew. Do you follow me?--he KNEW. There was no more cat concert, and inthe morning there lay the two offenders, stone dead. It was marvelousto me. It still is marvelous. First, it was starlight, and Saxtorph shotwithout drawing a bead; next, he shot so rapidly that the two reportswere like a double report; and finally, he knew he had hit his markswithout looking to see."Two days afterward he came on board to see me. I was mate, then, onthe Duchess, a whacking big one-hundred-and fifty-ton schooner, ablackbirder. And let me tell you that blackbirders were blackbirders inthose days. There weren't any government protection for US, either. Itwas rough work, give and take, if we were finished, and nothing said,and we ran niggers from every south sea island they didn't kick us offfrom. Well, Saxtorph came on board, John Saxtorph was the name he gave.He was a sandy little man, hair sandy, complexion sandy, and eyes sandy,too. Nothing striking about him. His soul was as neutral as his colorscheme. He said he was strapped and wanted to ship on board. Would gocabin boy, cook, supercargo, or common sailor. Didn't know anythingabout any of the billets, but said that he was willing to learn. Ididn't want him, but his shooting had so impressed me that I took him ascommon sailor, wages three pounds per month."He was willing to learn all right, I'll say that much. But he wasconstitutionally unable to learn anything. He could no more box thecompass than I could mix drinks like Roberts here. And as for steering,he gave me my first gray hairs. I never dared risk him at the wheel whenwe were running in a big sea, while full-and-by and close-and-by wereinsoluble mysteries. Couldn't ever tell the difference between a sheetand a tackle, simply couldn't. The fore-throat-jig and the jib-jig wereall one to him. Tell him to slack off the mainsheet, and before you knowit, he'd drop the peak. He fell overboard three times, and he couldn'tswim. But he was always cheerful, never seasick, and he was the mostwilling man I ever knew. He was an uncommunicative soul. Never talkedabout himself. His history, so far as we were concerned, began the dayhe signed on the DUCHESS. Where he learned to shoot, the stars alone cantell. He was a Yankee--that much we knew from the twang in his speech.And that was all we ever did know."And now we begin to get to the point. We had bad luck in the NewHebrides, only fourteen boys for five weeks, and we ran up before thesoutheast for the Solomons. Malaita, then as now, was good recruitingground, and we ran into Malu, on the northwestern corner. There's ashore reef and an outer reef, and a mighty nervous anchorage; but wemade it all right and fired off our dynamite as a signal to the niggersto come down and be recruited. In three days we got not a boy. Theniggers came off to us in their canoes by hundreds, but they onlylaughed when we showed them beads and calico and hatchets and talked ofthe delights of plantation work in Samoa."On the fourth day there came a change. Fifty-odd boys signed on andwere billeted in the main-hold, with the freedom of the deck, of course.And of course, looking back, this wholesale signing on was suspicious,but at the time we thought some powerful chief had removed the banagainst recruiting. The morning of the fifth day our two boats wentashore as usual--one to cover the other, you know, in case of trouble.And, as usual, the fifty niggers on board were on deck, loafing,talking, smoking, and sleeping. Saxtorph and myself, along with fourother sailors, were all that were left on board. The two boats weremanned with Gilbert Islanders. In the one were the captain, thesupercargo, and the recruiter. In the other, which was the covering boatand which lay off shore a hundred yards, was the second mate. Both boatswere well-armed, though trouble was little expected."Four of the sailors, including Saxtorph, were scraping the poop rail.The fifth sailor, rifle in hand, was standing guard by the water-tankjust for'ard of the mainmast. I was for'ard, putting in the finishinglicks on a new jaw for the fore-gaff. I was just reaching for my pipewhere I had laid it down, when I heard a shot from shore. I straightenedup to look. Something struck me on the back of the head, partiallystunning me and knocking me to the deck. My first thought was thatsomething had carried away aloft; but even as I went down, and beforeI struck the deck, I heard the devil's own tattoo of rifles from theboats, and twisting sidewise, I caught a glimpse of the sailor whowas standing guard. Two big niggers were holding his arms, and a thirdnigger from behind was braining him with a tomahawk."I can see it now, the water-tank, the mainmast, the gang hanging on tohim, the hatchet descending on the back of his head, and all under theblazing sunlight. I was fascinated by that growing vision of death.The tomahawk seemed to take a horribly long time to come down. I saw itland, and the man's legs give under him as he crumpled. The niggers heldhim up by sheer strength while he was hacked a couple of times more.Then I got two more hacks on the head and decided that I was dead. Sodid the brute that was hacking me. I was too helpless to move, and I laythere and watched them removing the sentry's head. I must say they didit slick enough. They were old hands at the business."The rifle firing from the boats had ceased, and I made no doubt thatthey were finished off and that the end had come to everything. It wasonly a matter of moments when they would return for my head. They wereevidently taking the heads from the sailors aft. Heads are valuable onMalaita, especially white heads. They have the place of honor in thecanoe houses of the salt-water natives. What particular decorativeeffect the bushmen get out of them I didn't know, but they prize themjust as much as the salt-water crowd."I had a dim notion of escaping, and I crawled on hands and knees tothe winch, where I managed to drag myself to my feet. From there Icould look aft and see three heads on top the cabin--the heads of threesailors I had given orders to for months. The niggers saw me standing,and started for me. I reached for my revolver, and found they had takenit. I can't say that I was scared. I've been near to death severaltimes, but it never seemed easier than right then. I was half-stunned,and nothing seemed to matter."The leading nigger had armed himself with a cleaver from the galley,and he grimaced like an ape as he prepared to slice me down. But theslice was never made. He went down on the deck all of a heap, and I sawthe blood gush from his mouth. In a dim way I heard a rifle go off andcontinue to go off. Nigger after nigger went down. My senses began toclear, and I noted that there was never a miss. Every time that therifle went off a nigger dropped. I sat down on deck beside the winch andlooked up. Perched in the crosstrees was Saxtorph. How he had managedit I can't imagine, for he had carried up with him two Winchesters andI don't know how many bandoliers of ammunition; and he was now doing theone only thing in this world that he was fitted to do."I've seen shooting and slaughter, but I never saw anything like that.I sat by the winch and watched the show. I was weak and faint, and itseemed to be all a dream. Bang, bang, bang, bang, went his rifle, andthud, thud, thud, thud, went the niggers to the deck. It was amazing tosee them go down. After their first rush to get me, when about a dozenhad dropped, they seemed paralyzed; but he never left off pumping hisgun. By this time canoes and the two boats arrived from shore, armedwith Sniders, and with Winchesters which they had captured in the boats.The fusillade they let loose on Saxtorph was tremendous. Luckily for himthe niggers are only good at close range. They are not used to puttingthe gun to their shoulders. They wait until they are right on top ofa man, and then they shoot from the hip. When his rifle got too hot,Saxtorph changed off. That had been his idea when he carried two riflesup with him."The astounding thing was the rapidity of his fire. Also, he nevermade a miss. If ever anything was inevitable, that man was. It was theswiftness of it that made the slaughter so appalling. The niggers didnot have time to think. When they did manage to think, they went overthe side in a rush, capsizing the canoes of course. Saxtorph never letup. The water was covered with them, and plump, plump, plump, he droppedhis bullets into them. Not a single miss, and I could hear distinctlythe thud of every bullet as it buried in human flesh."The niggers spread out and headed for the shore, swimming. The waterwas carpeted with bobbing heads, and I stood up, as in a dream, andwatched it all--the bobbing heads and the heads that ceased to bob. Someof the long shots were magnificent. Only one man reached the beach, butas he stood up to wade ashore, Saxtorph got him. It was beautiful. Andwhen a couple of niggers ran down to drag him out of the water, Saxtorphgot them, too."I thought everything was over then, when I heard the rifle go offagain. A nigger had come out of the cabin companion on the run for therail and gone down in the middle of it. The cabin must have been fullof them. I counted twenty. They came up one at a time and jumped for therail. But they never got there. It reminded me of trapshooting. A blackbody would pop out of the companion, bang would go Saxtorph's rifle, anddown would go the black body. Of course, those below did not know whatwas happening on deck, so they continued to pop out until the last onewas finished off."Saxtorph waited a while to make sure, and then came down on deck. Heand I were all that were left of the DUCHESS'S complement, and I waspretty well to the bad, while he was helpless now that the shooting wasover. Under my direction he washed out my scalp wounds and sewed themup. A big drink of whiskey braced me to make an effort to get out. Therewas nothing else to do. All the rest were dead. We tried to get up sail,Saxtorph hoisting and I holding the turn. He was once more the stupidlubber. He couldn't hoist worth a cent, and when I fell in a faint, itlooked all up with us."When I came to, Saxtorph was sitting helplessly on the rail, waiting toask me what he should do. I told him to overhaul the wounded and see ifthere were any able to crawl. He gathered together six. One, I remember,had a broken leg; but Saxtorph said his arms were all right. I layin the shade, brushing the flies off and directing operations, whileSaxtorph bossed his hospital gang. I'll be blessed if he didn't makethose poor niggers heave at every rope on the pin-rails before he foundthe halyards. One of them let go the rope in the midst of the hoistingand slipped down to the deck dead; but Saxtorph hammered the others andmade them stick by the job. When the fore and main were up, I told himto knock the shackle out of the anchor chain and let her go. I had hadmyself helped aft to the wheel, where I was going to make a shift atsteering. I can't guess how he did it, but instead of knocking theshackle out, down went the second anchor, and there we were doublymoored."In the end he managed to knock both shackles out and raise the staysailand jib, and the Duchess filled away for the entrance. Our decks were aspectacle. Dead and dying niggers were everywhere. They were wedged awaysome of them in the most inconceivable places. The cabin was full ofthem where they had crawled off the deck and cashed in. I put Saxtorphand his graveyard gang to work heaving them overside, and over theywent, the living and the dead. The sharks had fat pickings that day.Of course our four murdered sailors went the same way. Their heads,however, we put in a sack with weights, so that by no chance should theydrift on the beach and fall into the hands of the niggers."Our five prisoners I decided to use as crew, but they decidedotherwise. They watched their opportunity and went over the side.Saxtorph got two in mid-air with his revolver, and would have shot theother three in the water if I hadn't stopped him. I was sick of theslaughter, you see, and besides, they'd helped work the schooner out.But it was mercy thrown away, for the sharks got the three of them."I had brain fever or something after we got clear of the land. Anyway,the DUCHESS lay hove to for three weeks, when I pulled myself togetherand we jogged on with her to Sydney. Anyway those niggers of Malulearned the everlasting lesson that it is not good to monkey with awhite man. In their case, Saxtorph was certainly inevitable."Charley Roberts emitted a long whistle and said:"Well I should say so. But whatever became of Saxtorph?""He drifted into seal hunting and became a crackerjack. For six years hewas high line of both the Victoria and San Francisco fleets. The seventhyear his schooner was seized in Bering Sea by a Russian cruiser, and allhands, so the talk went, were slammed into the Siberian salt mines. Atleast I've never heard of him since.""Farming the world," Roberts muttered. "Farming the world. Well here'sto them. Somebody's got to do it--farm the world, I mean."Captain Woodward rubbed the criss-crosses on his bald head."I've done my share of it," he said. "Forty years now. This will be mylast trip. Then I'm going home to stay.""I'll wager the wine you don't," Roberts challenged. "You'll die in theharness, not at home."Captain Woodward promptly accepted the bet, but personally I thinkCharley Roberts has the best of it.THE SEED OF McCOYThe Pyrenees, her iron sides pressed low in the water by her cargo ofwheat, rolled sluggishly, and made it easy for the man who was climbingaboard from out a tiny outrigger canoe. As his eyes came level with therail, so that he could see inboard, it seemed to him that he saw a dim,almost indiscernible haze. It was more like an illusion, like a blurringfilm that had spread abruptly over his eyes. He felt an inclination tobrush it away, and the same instant he thought that he was growing oldand that it was time to send to San Francisco for a pair of spectacles.As he came over the rail he cast a glance aloft at the tall masts, and,next, at the pumps. They were not working. There seemed nothing thematter with the big ship, and he wondered why she had hoisted the signalof distress. He thought of his happy islanders, and hoped it was notdisease. Perhaps the ship was short of water or provisions. He shookhands with the captain whose gaunt face and care-worn eyes made nosecret of the trouble, whatever it was. At the same moment the newcomerwas aware of a faint, indefinable smell. It seemed like that of burntbread, but different.He glanced curiously about him. Twenty feet away a weary-faced sailorwas calking the deck. As his eyes lingered on the man, he saw suddenlyarise from under his hands a faint spiral of haze that curled andtwisted and was gone. By now he had reached the deck. His bare feet werepervaded by a dull warmth that quickly penetrated the thick calluses.He knew now the nature of the ship's distress. His eyes roved swiftlyforward, where the full crew of weary-faced sailors regarded himeagerly. The glance from his liquid brown eyes swept over them like abenediction, soothing them, rapping them about as in the mantle of agreat peace. "How long has she been afire, Captain?" he asked in a voiceso gentle and unperturbed that it was as the cooing of a dove.At first the captain felt the peace and content of it stealing in uponhim; then the consciousness of all that he had gone through and wasgoing through smote him, and he was resentful. By what right did thisragged beachcomber, in dungaree trousers and a cotton shirt, suggestsuch a thing as peace and content to him and his overwrought, exhaustedsoul? The captain did not reason this; it was the unconscious process ofemotion that caused his resentment."Fifteen days," he answered shortly. "Who are you?""My name is McCoy," came the answer in tones that breathed tendernessand compassion."I mean, are you the pilot?"McCoy passed the benediction of his gaze over the tall, heavy-shoulderedman with the haggard, unshaven face who had joined the captain."I am as much a pilot as anybody," was McCoy's answer. "We are allpilots here, Captain, and I know every inch of these waters."But the captain was impatient."What I want is some of the authorities. I want to talk with them, andblame quick.""Then I'll do just as well."Again that insidious suggestion of peace, and his ship a ragingfurnace beneath his feet! The captain's eyebrows lifted impatiently andnervously, and his fist clenched as if he were about to strike a blowwith it."Who in hell are you?" he demanded."I am the chief magistrate," was the reply in a voice that was still thesoftest and gentlest imaginable.The tall, heavy-shouldered man broke out in a harsh laugh that waspartly amusement, but mostly hysterical. Both he and the captainregarded McCoy with incredulity and amazement. That this barefootedbeachcomber should possess such high-sounding dignity was inconceivable.His cotton shirt, unbuttoned, exposed a grizzled chest and the fact thatthere was no undershirt beneath.A worn straw hat failed to hide the ragged gray hair. Halfway down hischest descended an untrimmed patriarchal beard. In any slop shop, twoshillings would have outfitted him complete as he stood before them."Any relation to the McCoy of the Bounty?" the captain asked."He was my great-grandfather.""Oh," the captain said, then bethought himself. "My name is Davenport,and this is my first mate, Mr. Konig."They shook hands."And now to business." The captain spoke quickly, the urgency of a greathaste pressing his speech. "We've been on fire for over two weeks.She's ready to break all hell loose any moment. That's why I held forPitcairn. I want to beach her, or scuttle her, and save the hull.""Then you made a mistake, Captain," said McCoy. "You should have slackedaway for Mangareva. There's a beautiful beach there, in a lagoon wherethe water is like a mill pond.""But we're here, ain't we?" the first mate demanded. "That's the point.We're here, and we've got to do something."McCoy shook his head kindly."You can do nothing here. There is no beach. There isn't evenanchorage.""Gammon!" said the mate. "Gammon!" he repeated loudly, as the captainsignaled him to be more soft spoken. "You can't tell me that sort ofstuff. Where d'ye keep your own boats, hey--your schooner, or cutter, orwhatever you have? Hey? Answer me that."McCoy smiled as gently as he spoke. His smile was a caress, an embracethat surrounded the tired mate and sought to draw him into the quietudeand rest of McCoy's tranquil soul."We have no schooner or cutter," he replied. "And we carry our canoes tothe top of the cliff.""You've got to show me," snorted the mate. "How d'ye get around to theother islands, heh? Tell me that.""We don't get around. As governor of Pitcairn, I sometimes go. WhenI was younger, I was away a great deal--sometimes on the tradingschooners, but mostly on the missionary brig. But she's gone now, and wedepend on passing vessels. Sometimes we have had as high as six calls inone year. At other times, a year, and even longer, has gone by withoutone passing ship. Yours is the first in seven months.""And you mean to tell me--" the mate began.But Captain Davenport interfered."Enough of this. We're losing time. What is to be done, Mr. McCoy?"The old man turned his brown eyes, sweet as a woman's, shoreward, andboth captain and mate followed his gaze around from the lonely rock ofPitcairn to the crew clustering forward and waiting anxiously for theannouncement of a decision. McCoy did not hurry. He thought smoothly andslowly, step by step, with the certitude of a mind that was never vexedor outraged by life."The wind is light now," he said finally. "There is a heavy currentsetting to the westward.""That's what made us fetch to leeward," the captain interrupted,desiring to vindicate his seamanship."Yes, that is what fetched you to leeward," McCoy went on. "Well, youcan't work up against this current today. And if you did, there is nobeach. Your ship will be a total loss."He paused, and captain and mate looked despair at each other."But I will tell you what you can do. The breeze will freshen tonightaround midnight--see those tails of clouds and that thickness towindward, beyond the point there? That's where she'll come from, out ofthe southeast, hard. It is three hundred miles to Mangareva. Square awayfor it. There is a beautiful bed for your ship there."The mate shook his head."Come in to the cabin, and we'll look at the chart," said the captain.McCoy found a stifling, poisonous atmosphere in the pent cabin. Straywaftures of invisible gases bit his eyes and made them sting. The deckwas hotter, almost unbearably hot to his bare feet. The sweat pouredout of his body. He looked almost with apprehension about him. Thismalignant, internal heat was astounding. It was a marvel that the cabindid not burst into flames. He had a feeling as if of being in a hugebake oven where the heat might at any moment increase tremendously andshrivel him up like a blade of grass.As he lifted one foot and rubbed the hot sole against the leg of histrousers, the mate laughed in a savage, snarling fashion."The anteroom of hell," he said. "Hell herself is right down there underyour feet.""It's hot!" McCoy cried involuntarily, mopping his face with a bandanahandkerchief."Here's Mangareva," the captain said, bending over the table andpointing to a black speck in the midst of the white blankness of thechart. "And here, in between, is another island. Why not run for that?"McCoy did not look at the chart."That's Crescent Island," he answered. "It is uninhabited, and itis only two or three feet above water. Lagoon, but no entrance. No,Mangareva is the nearest place for your purpose.""Mangareva it is, then," said Captain Davenport, interrupting the mate'sgrowling objection. "Call the crew aft, Mr. Konig."The sailors obeyed, shuffling wearily along the deck and painfullyendeavoring to make haste. Exhaustion was evident in every movement. Thecook came out of his galley to hear, and the cabin boy hung about nearhim.When Captain Davenport had explained the situation and announced hisintention of running for Mangareva, an uproar broke out. Against abackground of throaty rumbling arose inarticulate cries of rage, withhere and there a distinct curse, or word, or phrase. A shrill Cockneyvoice soared and dominated for a moment, crying: "Gawd! After bein' inell for fifteen days--an' now e wants us to sail this floatin' ell tosea again?"The captain could not control them, but McCoy's gentle presence seemedto rebuke and calm them, and the muttering and cursing died away, untilthe full crew, save here and there an anxious face directed at thecaptain, yearned dumbly toward the green clad peaks and beetling coastof Pitcairn.Soft as a spring zephyr was the voice of McCoy:"Captain, I thought I heard some of them say they were starving.""Ay," was the answer, "and so we are. I've had a sea biscuit and aspoonful of salmon in the last two days. We're on whack. You see, whenwe discovered the fire, we battened down immediately to suffocate thefire. And then we found how little food there was in the pantry. But itwas too late. We didn't dare break out the lazarette. Hungry? I'm justas hungry as they are."He spoke to the men again, and again the throat rumbling and cursingarose, their faces convulsed and animal-like with rage. The second andthird mates had joined the captain, standing behind him at the break ofthe poop. Their faces were set and expressionless; they seemed bored,more than anything else, by this mutiny of the crew. Captain Davenportglanced questioningly at his first mate, and that person merely shruggedhis shoulders in token of his helplessness."You see," the captain said to McCoy, "you can't compel sailors to leavethe safe land and go to sea on a burning vessel. She has been theirfloating coffin for over two weeks now. They are worked out, and starvedout, and they've got enough of her. We'll beat up for Pitcairn."But the wind was light, the Pyrenees' bottom was foul, and she could notbeat up against the strong westerly current. At the end of two hours shehad lost three miles. The sailors worked eagerly, as if by main strengththey could compel the PYRENEES against the adverse elements. Butsteadily, port tack and starboard tack, she sagged off to the westward.The captain paced restlessly up and down, pausing occasionally to surveythe vagrant smoke wisps and to trace them back to the portions of thedeck from which they sprang. The carpenter was engaged constantly inattempting to locate such places, and, when he succeeded, in calkingthem tighter and tighter."Well, what do you think?" the captain finally asked McCoy, who waswatching the carpenter with all a child's interest and curiosity in hiseyes.McCoy looked shoreward, where the land was disappearing in thethickening haze."I think it would be better to square away for Mangareva. With thatbreeze that is coming, you'll be there tomorrow evening.""But what if the fire breaks out? It is liable to do it any moment.""Have your boats ready in the falls. The same breeze will carry yourboats to Mangareva if the ship burns out from under."Captain Davenport debated for a moment, and then McCoy heard thequestion he had not wanted to hear, but which he knew was surely coming."I have no chart of Mangareva. On the general chart it is only a flyspeck. I would not know where to look for the entrance into the lagoon.Will you come along and pilot her in for me?"McCoy's serenity was unbroken."Yes, Captain," he said, with the same quiet unconcern with whichhe would have accepted an invitation to dinner; "I'll go with you toMangareva."Again the crew was called aft, and the captain spoke to them from thebreak of the poop."We've tried to work her up, but you see how we've lost ground. She'ssetting off in a two-knot current. This gentleman is the HonorableMcCoy, Chief Magistrate and Governor of Pitcairn Island. He willcome along with us to Mangareva. So you see the situation is not sodangerous. He would not make such an offer if he thought he was goingto lose his life. Besides, whatever risk there is, if he of his own freewill come on board and take it, we can do no less. What do you say forMangareva?"This time there was no uproar. McCoy's presence, the surety and calmthat seemed to radiate from him, had had its effect. They conferred withone another in low voices. There was little urging. They were virtuallyunanimous, and they shoved the Cockney out as their spokesman. Thatworthy was overwhelmed with consciousness of the heroism of himself andhis mates, and with flashing eyes he cried:"By Gawd! If 'e will, we will!"The crew mumbled its assent and started forward."One moment, Captain," McCoy said, as the other was turning to giveorders to the mate. "I must go ashore first."Mr. Konig was thunderstruck, staring at McCoy as if he were a madman."Go ashore!" the captain cried. "What for? It will take you three hoursto get there in your canoe."McCoy measured the distance of the land away, and nodded."Yes, it is six now. I won't get ashore till nine. The people cannot beassembled earlier than ten. As the breeze freshens up tonight, youcan begin to work up against it, and pick me up at daylight tomorrowmorning.""In the name of reason and common sense," the captain burst forth, "whatdo you want to assemble the people for? Don't you realize that my shipis burning beneath me?"McCoy was as placid as a summer sea, and the other's anger produced notthe slightest ripple upon it."Yes, Captain," he cooed in his dove-like voice. "I do realize that yourship is burning. That is why I am going with you to Mangareva. But Imust get permission to go with you. It is our custom. It is an importantmatter when the governor leaves the island. The people's interestsare at stake, and so they have the right to vote their permission orrefusal. But they will give it, I know that.""Are you sure?""Quite sure.""Then if you know they will give it, why bother with getting it? Thinkof the delay--a whole night.""It is our custom," was the imperturbable reply. "Also, I am thegovernor, and I must make arrangements for the conduct of the islandduring my absence.""But it is only a twenty-four hour run to Mangareva," the captainobjected. "Suppose it took you six times that long to return towindward; that would bring you back by the end of a week."McCoy smiled his large, benevolent smile."Very few vessels come to Pitcairn, and when they do, they are usuallyfrom San Francisco or from around the Horn. I shall be fortunate if Iget back in six months. I may be away a year, and I may have to go toSan Francisco in order to find a vessel that will bring me back. Myfather once left Pitcairn to be gone three months, and two years passedbefore he could get back. Then, too, you are short of food. If you haveto take to the boats, and the weather comes up bad, you may be days inreaching land. I can bring off two canoe loads of food in the morning.Dried bananas will be best. As the breeze freshens, you beat up againstit. The nearer you are, the bigger loads I can bring off. Goodby."He held out his hand. The captain shook it, and was reluctant to let go.He seemed to cling to it as a drowning sailor clings to a life buoy."How do I know you will come back in the morning?" he asked."Yes, that's it!" cried the mate. "How do we know but what he's skinningout to save his own hide?"McCoy did not speak. He looked at them sweetly and benignantly, andit seemed to them that they received a message from his tremendouscertitude of soul.The captain released his hand, and, with a last sweeping glance thatembraced the crew in its benediction, McCoy went over the rail anddescended into his canoe.The wind freshened, and the Pyrenees, despite the foulness of herbottom, won half a dozen miles away from the westerly current. Atdaylight, with Pitcairn three miles to windward, Captain Davenport madeout two canoes coming off to him. Again McCoy clambered up the side anddropped over the rail to the hot deck. He was followed by many packagesof dried bananas, each package wrapped in dry leaves."Now, Captain," he said, "swing the yards and drive for dear life. Yousee, I am no navigator," he explained a few minutes later, as hestood by the captain aft, the latter with gaze wandering from aloft tooverside as he estimated the Pyrenees' speed. "You must fetch her toMangareva. When you have picked up the land, then I will pilot her in.What do you think she is making?""Eleven," Captain Davenport answered, with a final glance at the waterrushing past."Eleven. Let me see, if she keeps up that gait, we'll sight Mangarevabetween eight and nine o'clock tomorrow morning. I'll have her on thebeach by ten or by eleven at latest. And then your troubles will be allover."It almost seemed to the captain that the blissful moment had alreadyarrived, such was the persuasive convincingness of McCoy.Captain Davenport had been under the fearful strain of navigating hisburning ship for over two weeks, and he was beginning to feel that hehad had enough.A heavier flaw of wind struck the back of his neck and whistled by hisears. He measured the weight of it, and looked quickly overside."The wind is making all the time," he announced. "The old girl'sdoing nearer twelve than eleven right now. If this keeps up, we'll beshortening down tonight."All day the Pyrenees, carrying her load of living fire, tore across thefoaming sea. By nightfall, royals and topgallantsails were in, and sheflew on into the darkness, with great, crested seas roaring after her.The auspicious wind had had its effect, and fore and aft a visiblebrightening was apparent. In the second dog-watch some careless soulstarted a song, and by eight bells the whole crew was singing.Captain Davenport had his blankets brought up and spread on top thehouse."I've forgotten what sleep is," he explained to McCoy. "I'm all in. Butgive me a call at any time you think necessary."At three in the morning he was aroused by a gentle tugging at his arm.He sat up quickly, bracing himself against the skylight, stupid yet fromhis heavy sleep. The wind was thrumming its war song in the rigging, anda wild sea was buffeting the PYRENEES. Amidships she was wallowing firstone rail under and then the other, flooding the waist more often thannot. McCoy was shouting something he could not hear. He reached out,clutched the other by the shoulder, and drew him close so that his ownear was close to the other's lips."It's three o'clock," came McCoy's voice, still retaining its dovelikequality, but curiously muffled, as if from a long way off. "We'verun two hundred and fifty. Crescent Island is only thirty miles away,somewhere there dead ahead. There's no lights on it. If we keep running,we'll pile up, and lose ourselves as well as the ship.""What d' ye think--heave to?""Yes; heave to till daylight. It will only put us back four hours."So the Pyrenees, with her cargo of fire, was hove to, bitting the teethof the gale and fighting and smashing the pounding seas. She was ashell, filled with a conflagration, and on the outside of the shell,clinging precariously, the little motes of men, by pull and haul, helpedher in the battle."It is most unusual, this gale," McCoy told the captain, in the lee ofthe cabin. "By rights there should be no gale at this time of the year.But everything about the weather has been unusual. There has been astoppage of the trades, and now it's howling right out of the tradequarter." He waved his hand into the darkness, as if his vision coulddimly penetrate for hundreds of miles. "It is off to the westward. Thereis something big making off there somewhere--a hurricane or something.We're lucky to be so far to the eastward. But this is only a littleblow," he added. "It can't last. I can tell you that much."By daylight the gale had eased down to normal. But daylight revealeda new danger. It had come on thick. The sea was covered by a fog, or,rather, by a pearly mist that was fog-like in density, in so far as itobstructed vision, but that was no more than a film on the sea, for thesun shot it through and filled it with a glowing radiance.The deck of the Pyrenees was making more smoke than on the precedingday, and the cheerfulness of officers and crew had vanished. In the leeof the galley the cabin boy could be heard whimpering. It was his firstvoyage, and the fear of death was at his heart. The captain wanderedabout like a lost soul, nervously chewing his mustache, scowling, unableto make up his mind what to do."What do you think?" he asked, pausing by the side of McCoy, who wasmaking a breakfast off fried bananas and a mug of water.McCoy finished the last banana, drained the mug, and looked slowlyaround. In his eyes was a smile of tenderness as he said:"Well, Captain, we might as well drive as burn. Your decks are not goingto hold out forever. They are hotter this morning. You haven't a pair ofshoes I can wear? It is getting uncomfortable for my bare feet."The Pyrenees shipped two heavy seas as she was swung off and put oncemore before it, and the first mate expressed a desire to have all thatwater down in the hold, if only it could be introduced without takingoff the hatches. McCoy ducked his head into the binnacle and watched thecourse set."I'd hold her up some more, Captain," he said. "She's been making driftwhen hove to.""I've set it to a point higher already," was the answer. "Isn't thatenough?""I'd make it two points, Captain. This bit of a blow kicked thatwesterly current ahead faster than you imagine."Captain Davenport compromised on a point and a half, and then wentaloft, accompanied by McCoy and the first mate, to keep a lookout forland. Sail had been made, so that the Pyrenees was doing ten knots. Thefollowing sea was dying down rapidly. There was no break in the pearlyfog, and by ten o'clock Captain Davenport was growing nervous. All handswere at their stations, ready, at the first warning of land ahead, tospring like fiends to the task of bringing the Pyrenees up on the wind.That land ahead, a surf-washed outer reef, would be perilously closewhen it revealed itself in such a fog.Another hour passed. The three watchers aloft stared intently into thepearly radiance. "What if we miss Mangareva?" Captain Davenport askedabruptly.McCoy, without shifting his gaze, answered softly:"Why, let her drive, captain. That is all we can do. All the Paumotusare before us. We can drive for a thousand miles through reefs andatolls. We are bound to fetch up somewhere.""Then drive it is." Captain Davenport evidenced his intention ofdescending to the deck. "We've missed Mangareva. God knows wherethe next land is. I wish I'd held her up that other half-point," heconfessed a moment later. "This cursed current plays the devil with anavigator.""The old navigators called the Paumotus the Dangerous Archipelago,"McCoy said, when they had regained the poop. "This very current waspartly responsible for that name.""I was talking with a sailor chap in Sydney, once," said Mr. Konig."He'd been trading in the Paumotus. He told me insurance was eighteenper cent. Is that right?"McCoy smiled and nodded."Except that they don't insure," he explained. "The owners write offtwenty per cent of the cost of their schooners each year.""My God!" Captain Davenport groaned. "That makes the life of a schooneronly five years!" He shook his head sadly, murmuring, "Bad waters! Badwaters!"Again they went into the cabin to consult the big general chart; but thepoisonous vapors drove them coughing and gasping on deck."Here is Moerenhout Island," Captain Davenport pointed it out on thechart, which he had spread on the house. "It can't be more than ahundred miles to leeward.""A hundred and ten." McCoy shook his head doubtfully. "It might be done,but it is very difficult. I might beach her, and then again I might puther on the reef. A bad place, a very bad place.""We'll take the chance," was Captain Davenport's decision, as he setabout working out the course.Sail was shortened early in the afternoon, to avoid running past inthe night; and in the second dog-watch the crew manifested its regainedcheerfulness. Land was so very near, and their troubles would be over inthe morning.But morning broke clear, with a blazing tropic sun. The southeast tradehad swung around to the eastward, and was driving the PYRENEES throughthe water at an eight-knot clip. Captain Davenport worked up his deadreckoning, allowing generously for drift, and announced MoerenhoutIsland to be not more than ten miles off. The Pyrenees sailed theten miles; she sailed ten miles more; and the lookouts at the threemastheads saw naught but the naked, sun-washed sea."But the land is there, I tell you," Captain Davenport shouted to themfrom the poop.McCoy smiled soothingly, but the captain glared about him like a madman,fetched his sextant, and took a chronometer sight."I knew I was right," he almost shouted, when he had worked up theobservation. "Twenty-one, fifty-five, south; one-thirty-six, two, west.There you are. We're eight miles to windward yet. What did you make itout, Mr. Konig?"The first mate glanced at his own figures, and said in a low voice:"Twenty-one, fifty-five all right; but my longitude's one-thirty-six,forty-eight. That puts us considerably to leeward--"But Captain Davenport ignored his figures with so contemptuous a silenceas to make Mr. Konig grit his teeth and curse savagely under his breath."Keep her off," the captain ordered the man at the wheel. "Threepoints--steady there, as she goes!"Then he returned to his figures and worked them over. The sweat pouredfrom his face. He chewed his mustache, his lips, and his pencil, staringat the figures as a man might at a ghost. Suddenly, with a fierce,muscular outburst, he crumpled the scribbled paper in his fist andcrushed it under foot. Mr. Konig grinned vindictively and turned away,while Captain Davenport leaned against the cabin and for half anhour spoke no word, contenting himself with gazing to leeward with anexpression of musing hopelessness on his face."Mr. McCoy," he broke silence abruptly. "The chart indicates a groupof islands, but not how many, off there to the north'ard, ornor'-nor'westward, about forty miles--the Acteon Islands. What aboutthem?""There are four, all low," McCoy answered. "First to the southeast isMatuerui--no people, no entrance to the lagoon. Then comes Tenarunga.There used to be about a dozen people there, but they may be all gonenow. Anyway, there is no entrance for a ship--only a boat entrance,with a fathom of water. Vehauga and Teua-raro are the other two. Noentrances, no people, very low. There is no bed for the Pyrenees in thatgroup. She would be a total wreck.""Listen to that!" Captain Davenport was frantic. "No people! Noentrances! What in the devil are islands good for?"Well, then," he barked suddenly, like an excited terrier, "the chartgives a whole mess of islands off to the nor'west. What about them? Whatone has an entrance where I can lay my ship?"McCoy calmly considered. He did not refer to the chart. All theseislands, reefs, shoals, lagoons, entrances, and distances were markedon the chart of his memory. He knew them as the city dweller knows hisbuildings, streets, and alleys."Papakena and Vanavana are off there to the westward, orwest-nor'westward a hundred miles and a bit more," he said. "One isuninhabited, and I heard that the people on the other had gone off toCadmus Island. Anyway, neither lagoon has an entrance. Ahunui is anotherhundred miles on to the nor'west. No entrance, no people.""Well, forty miles beyond them are two islands?" Captain Davenportqueried, raising his head from the chart.McCoy shook his head."Paros and Manuhungi--no entrances, no people. Nengo-Nengo is fortymiles beyond them, in turn, and it has no people and no entrance. Butthere is Hao Island. It is just the place. The lagoon is thirty mileslong and five miles wide. There are plenty of people. You can usuallyfind water. And any ship in the world can go through the entrance."He ceased and gazed solicitously at Captain Davenport, who, bending overthe chart with a pair of dividers in hand, had just emitted a low groan."Is there any lagoon with an entrance anywhere nearer than Hao Island?"he asked."No, Captain; that is the nearest.""Well, it's three hundred and forty miles." Captain Davenport wasspeaking very slowly, with decision. "I won't risk the responsibility ofall these lives. I'll wreck her on the Acteons. And she's a good ship,too," he added regretfully, after altering the course, this time makingmore allowance than ever for the westerly current.An hour later the sky was overcast. The southeast trade still held, butthe ocean was a checker board of squalls."We'll be there by one o'clock," Captain Davenport announcedconfidently. "By two o'clock at the outside. McCoy, you put her ashoreon the one where the people are."The sun did not appear again, nor, at one o'clock, was any land to beseen. Captain Davenport looked astern at the Pyrenees' canting wake."Good Lord!" he cried. "An easterly current? Look at that!"Mr. Konig was incredulous. McCoy was noncommittal, though he said thatin the Paumotus there was no reason why it should not be an easterlycurrent. A few minutes later a squall robbed the Pyrenees temporarily ofall her wind, and she was left rolling heavily in the trough."Where's that deep lead? Over with it, you there!" Captain Davenportheld the lead line and watched it sag off to the northeast. "There, lookat that! Take hold of it for yourself."McCoy and the mate tried it, and felt the line thrumming and vibratingsavagely to the grip of the tidal stream."A four-knot current," said Mr. Konig."An easterly current instead of a westerly," said Captain "Davenport,glaring accusingly at McCoy, as if to cast the blame for it upon him."That is one of the reasons, Captain, for insurance being eighteen percent in these waters," McCoy answered cheerfully. "You can never tell.The currents are always changing. There was a man who wrote books, Iforget his name, in the yacht Casco. He missed Takaroa by thirty milesand fetched Tikei, all because of the shifting currents. You are up towindward now, and you'd better keep off a few points.""But how much has this current set me?" the captain demanded irately."How am I to know how much to keep off?""I don't know, Captain," McCoy said with great gentleness.The wind returned, and the PYRENEES, her deck smoking and shimmering inthe bright gray light, ran off dead to leeward. Then she worked back,port tack and starboard tack, crisscrossing her track, combing the seafor the Acteon Islands, which the masthead lookouts failed to sight.Captain Davenport was beside himself. His rage took the form of sullensilence, and he spent the afternoon in pacing the poop or leaningagainst the weather shrouds. At nightfall, without even consultingMcCoy, he squared away and headed into the northwest. Mr. Konig,surreptitiously consulting chart and binnacle, and McCoy, openly andinnocently consulting the binnacle, knew that they were running for HaoIsland. By midnight the squalls ceased, and the stars came out. CaptainDavenport was cheered by the promise of a clear day."I'll get an observation in the morning," he told McCoy, "though whatmy latitude is, is a puzzler. But I'll use the Sumner method, and settlethat. Do you know the Sumner line?"And thereupon he explained it in detail to McCoy.The day proved clear, the trade blew steadily out of the east, and thePyrenees just as steadily logged her nine knots. Both the captain andmate worked out the position on a Sumner line, and agreed, and at noonagreed again, and verified the morning sights by the noon sights."Another twenty-four hours and we'll be there," Captain Davenportassured McCoy. "It's a miracle the way the old girl's decks hold out.But they can't last. They can't last. Look at them smoke, more andmore every day. Yet it was a tight deck to begin with, fresh-calked inFrisco. I was surprised when the fire first broke out and we batteneddown. Look at that!"He broke off to gaze with dropped jaw at a spiral of smoke that coiledand twisted in the lee of the mizzenmast twenty feet above the deck."Now, how did that get there?" he demanded indignantly.Beneath it there was no smoke. Crawling up from the deck, sheltered fromthe wind by the mast, by some freak it took form and visibility at thatheight. It writhed away from the mast, and for a moment overhung thecaptain like some threatening portent. The next moment the wind whiskedit away, and the captain's jaw returned to place."As I was saying, when we first battened down, I was surprised. It wasa tight deck, yet it leaked smoke like a sieve. And we've calked andcalked ever since. There must be tremendous pressure underneath to driveso much smoke through."That afternoon the sky became overcast again, and squally, drizzlyweather set in. The wind shifted back and forth between southeast andnortheast, and at midnight the Pyrenees was caught aback by a sharpsquall from the southwest, from which point the wind continued to blowintermittently."We won't make Hao until ten or eleven," Captain Davenport complainedat seven in the morning, when the fleeting promise of the sun had beenerased by hazy cloud masses in the eastern sky. And the next moment hewas plaintively demanding, "And what are the currents doing?"Lookouts at the mastheads could report no land, and the day passed indrizzling calms and violent squalls. By nightfall a heavy sea beganto make from the west. The barometer had fallen to 29.50. There was nowind, and still the ominous sea continued to increase. Soon thePyrenees was rolling madly in the huge waves that marched in an unendingprocession from out of the darkness of the west. Sail was shortened asfast as both watches could work, and, when the tired crew had finished,its grumbling and complaining voices, peculiarly animal-like andmenacing, could be heard in the darkness. Once the starboard watch wascalled aft to lash down and make secure, and the men openly advertisedtheir sullenness and unwillingness. Every slow movement was a protestand a threat. The atmosphere was moist and sticky like mucilage, and inthe absence of wind all hands seemed to pant and gasp for air. The sweatstood out on faces and bare arms, and Captain Davenport for one, hisface more gaunt and care-worn than ever, and his eyes troubled andstaring, was oppressed by a feeling of impending calamity."It's off to the westward," McCoy said encouragingly. "At worst, we'llbe only on the edge of it."But Captain Davenport refused to be comforted, and by the light of alantern read up the chapter in his Epitome that related to the strategyof shipmasters in cyclonic storms. From somewhere amidships the silencewas broken by a low whimpering from the cabin boy."Oh, shut up!" Captain Davenport yelled suddenly and with such force asto startle every man on board and to frighten the offender into a wildwail of terror."Mr. Konig," the captain said in a voice that trembled with rage andnerves, "will you kindly step for'ard and stop that brat's mouth with adeck mop?"But it was McCoy who went forward, and in a few minutes had the boycomforted and asleep.Shortly before daybreak the first breath of air began to move from outthe southeast, increasing swiftly to a stiff and stiffer breeze. Allhands were on deck waiting for what might be behind it. "We're allright now, Captain," said McCoy, standing close to his shoulder. "Thehurricane is to the west'ard, and we are south of it. This breeze is thein-suck. It won't blow any harder. You can begin to put sail on her.""But what's the good? Where shall I sail? This is the second day withoutobservations, and we should have sighted Hao Island yesterday morning.Which way does it bear, north, south, east, or what? Tell me that, andI'll make sail in a jiffy.""I am no navigator, Captain," McCoy said in his mild way."I used to think I was one," was the retort, "before I got into thesePaumotus."At midday the cry of "Breakers ahead!" was heard from the lookout. ThePyrenees was kept off, and sail after sail was loosed and sheeted home.The Pyrenees was sliding through the water and fighting a current thatthreatened to set her down upon the breakers. Officers and men wereworking like mad, cook and cabin boy, Captain Davenport himself, andMcCoy all lending a hand. It was a close shave. It was a low shoal, ableak and perilous place over which the seas broke unceasingly, where noman could live, and on which not even sea birds could rest. The PYRENEESwas swept within a hundred yards of it before the wind carried herclear, and at this moment the panting crew, its work done, burst outin a torrent of curses upon the head of McCoy--of McCoy who had come onboard, and proposed the run to Mangareva, and lured them all away fromthe safety of Pitcairn Island to certain destruction in this bafflingand terrible stretch of sea. But McCoy's tranquil soul was undisturbed.He smiled at them with simple and gracious benevolence, and, somehow,the exalted goodness of him seemed to penetrate to their dark and sombersouls, shaming them, and from very shame stilling the curses vibratingin their throats."Bad waters! Bad waters!" Captain Davenport was murmuring as his shipforged clear; but he broke off abruptly to gaze at the shoal whichshould have been dead astern, but which was already on the PYRENEES'weather-quarter and working up rapidly to windward.He sat down and buried his face in his hands. And the first mate saw,and McCoy saw, and the crew saw, what he had seen. South of the shoalan easterly current had set them down upon it; north of the shoal anequally swift westerly current had clutched the ship and was sweepingher away."I've heard of these Paumotus before," the captain groaned, liftinghis blanched face from his hands. "Captain Moyendale told me about themafter losing his ship on them. And I laughed at him behind his back. Godforgive me, I laughed at him. What shoal is that?" he broke off, to askMcCoy."I don't know, Captain.""Why don't you know?""Because I never saw it before, and because I have never heard of it. Ido know that it is not charted. These waters have never been thoroughlysurveyed.""Then you don't know where we are?""No more than you do," McCoy said gently.At four in the afternoon cocoanut trees were sighted, apparently growingout of the water. A little later the low land of an atoll was raisedabove the sea."I know where we are now, Captain." McCoy lowered the glasses from hiseyes. "That's Resolution Island. We are forty miles beyond Hao Island,and the wind is in our teeth.""Get ready to beach her then. Where's the entrance?""There's only a canoe passage. But now that we know where we are, we canrun for Barclay de Tolley. It is only one hundred and twenty milesfrom here, due nor'-nor'west. With this breeze we can be there by nineo'clock tomorrow morning."Captain Davenport consulted the chart and debated with himself."If we wreck her here," McCoy added, "we'd have to make the run toBarclay de Tolley in the boats just the same."The captain gave his orders, and once more the Pyrenees swung off foranother run across the inhospitable sea.And the middle of the next afternoon saw despair and mutiny on hersmoking deck. The current had accelerated, the wind had slackened, andthe Pyrenees had sagged off to the west. The lookout sighted Barclay deTolley to the eastward, barely visible from the masthead, and vainly andfor hours the PYRENEES tried to beat up to it. Ever, like a mirage, thecocoanut trees hovered on the horizon, visible only from the masthead.From the deck they were hidden by the bulge of the world.Again Captain Davenport consulted McCoy and the chart. Makemo layseventy-five miles to the southwest. Its lagoon was thirty miles long,and its entrance was excellent. When Captain Davenport gave his orders,the crew refused duty. They announced that they had had enough of hellfire under their feet. There was the land. What if the ship could notmake it? They could make it in the boats. Let her burn, then. Theirlives amounted to something to them. They had served faithfully theship, now they were going to serve themselves.They sprang to the boats, brushing the second and third mates out of theway, and proceeded to swing the boats out and to prepare to lower away.Captain Davenport and the first mate, revolvers in hand, were advancingto the break of the poop, when McCoy, who had climbed on top of thecabin, began to speak.He spoke to the sailors, and at the first sound of his dovelike,cooing voice they paused to hear. He extended to them his own ineffableserenity and peace. His soft voice and simple thoughts flowed outto them in a magic stream, soothing them against their wills. Longforgotten things came back to them, and some remembered lullaby songs ofchildhood and the content and rest of the mother's arm at the end of theday. There was no more trouble, no more danger, no more irk, in allthe world. Everything was as it should be, and it was only a matter ofcourse that they should turn their backs upon the land and put to seaonce more with hell fire hot beneath their feet.McCoy spoke simply; but it was not what he spoke. It was his personalitythat spoke more eloquently than any word he could utter. It was analchemy of soul occultly subtile and profoundly deep--a mysteriousemanation of the spirit, seductive, sweetly humble, and terriblyimperious. It was illumination in the dark crypts of their souls, acompulsion of purity and gentleness vastly greater than that whichresided in the shining, death-spitting revolvers of the officers.The men wavered reluctantly where they stood, and those who had loosedthe turns made them fast again. Then one, and then another, and then allof them, began to sidle awkwardly away.McCoy's face was beaming with childlike pleasure as he descended fromthe top of the cabin. There was no trouble. For that matter there hadbeen no trouble averted. There never had been any trouble, for there wasno place for such in the blissful world in which he lived."You hypnotized em," Mr. Konig grinned at him, speaking in a low voice."Those boys are good," was the answer. "Their hearts are good. They havehad a hard time, and they have worked hard, and they will work hard tothe end."Mr. Konig had not time to reply. His voice was ringing out orders, thesailors were springing to obey, and the PYRENEES was paying slowly offfrom the wind until her bow should point in the direction of Makemo.The wind was very light, and after sundown almost ceased. It wasinsufferably warm, and fore and aft men sought vainly to sleep. The deckwas too hot to lie upon, and poisonous vapors, oozing through the seams,crept like evil spirits over the ship, stealing into the nostrils andwindpipes of the unwary and causing fits of sneezing and coughing.The stars blinked lazily in the dim vault overhead; and the full moon,rising in the east, touched with its light the myriads of wisps andthreads and spidery films of smoke that intertwined and writhed andtwisted along the deck, over the rails, and up the masts and shrouds."Tell me," Captain Davenport said, rubbing his smarting eyes, "whathappened with that BOUNTY crowd after they reached Pitcairn? The accountI read said they burnt the Bounty, and that they were not discovereduntil many years later. But what happened in the meantime? I've alwaysbeen curious to know. They were men with their necks in the rope. Therewere some native men, too. And then there were women. That made it looklike trouble right from the jump.""There was trouble," McCoy answered. "They were bad men. They quarreledabout the women right away. One of the mutineers, Williams, lost hiswife. All the women were Tahitian women. His wife fell from the cliffswhen hunting sea birds. Then he took the wife of one of the native menaway from him. All the native men were made very angry by this, and theykilled off nearly all the mutineers. Then the mutineers that escapedkilled off all the native men. The women helped. And the natives killedeach other. Everybody killed everybody. They were terrible men."Timiti was killed by two other natives while they were combing his hairin friendship. The white men had sent them to do it. Then the whitemen killed them. The wife of Tullaloo killed him in a cave because shewanted a white man for husband. They were very wicked. God had hiddenHis face from them. At the end of two years all the native men weremurdered, and all the white men except four. They were Young, JohnAdams, McCoy, who was my great-grandfather, and Quintal. He was a verybad man, too. Once, just because his wife did not catch enough fish forhim, he bit off her ear.""They were a bad lot!" Mr. Konig exclaimed."Yes, they were very bad," McCoy agreed and went on serenely cooing ofthe blood and lust of his iniquitous ancestry. "My great-grandfatherescaped murder in order to die by his own hand. He made a still andmanufactured alcohol from the roots of the ti-plant. Quintal was hischum, and they got drunk together all the time. At last McCoy gotdelirium tremens, tied a rock to his neck, and jumped into the sea."Quintal's wife, the one whose ear he bit off, also got killed byfalling from the cliffs. Then Quintal went to Young and demanded hiswife, and went to Adams and demanded his wife. Adams and Young wereafraid of Quintal. They knew he would kill them. So they killed him,the two of them together, with a hatchet. Then Young died. And that wasabout all the trouble they had.""I should say so," Captain Davenport snorted. "There was nobody left tokill.""You see, God had hidden His face," McCoy said.By morning no more than a faint air was blowing from the eastward, and,unable to make appreciable southing by it, Captain Davenport hauled upfull-and-by on the port track. He was afraid of that terrible westerlycurrent which had cheated him out of so many ports of refuge. All daythe calm continued, and all night, while the sailors, on a short rationof dried banana, were grumbling. Also, they were growing weak andcomplaining of stomach pains caused by the straight banana diet. All daythe current swept the PYRENEES to the westward, while there was no windto bear her south. In the middle of the first dogwatch, cocoanut treeswere sighted due south, their tufted heads rising above the water andmarking the low-lying atoll beneath."That is Taenga Island," McCoy said. "We need a breeze tonight, or elsewe'll miss Makemo.""What's become of the southeast trade?" the captain demanded. "Why don'tit blow? What's the matter?""It is the evaporation from the big lagoons--there are so many of them,"McCoy explained. "The evaporation upsets the whole system of trades. Iteven causes the wind to back up and blow gales from the southwest. Thisis the Dangerous Archipelago, Captain."Captain Davenport faced the old man, opened his mouth, and was about tocurse, but paused and refrained. McCoy's presence was a rebuke tothe blasphemies that stirred in his brain and trembled in his larynx.McCoy's influence had been growing during the many days they had beentogether. Captain Davenport was an autocrat of the sea, fearing no man,never bridling his tongue, and now he found himself unable to curse inthe presence of this old man with the feminine brown eyes and thevoice of a dove. When he realized this, Captain Davenport experienced adistinct shock. This old man was merely the seed of McCoy, of McCoyof the BOUNTY, the mutineer fleeing from the hemp that waited him inEngland, the McCoy who was a power for evil in the early days of bloodand lust and violent death on Pitcairn Island.Captain Davenport was not religious, yet in that moment he felt a madimpulse to cast himself at the other's feet--and to say he knew notwhat. It was an emotion that so deeply stirred him, rather thana coherent thought, and he was aware in some vague way of his ownunworthiness and smallness in the presence of this other man whopossessed the simplicity of a child and the gentleness of a woman.Of course he could not so humble himself before the eyes of his officersand men. And yet the anger that had prompted the blasphemy still ragedin him. He suddenly smote the cabin with his clenched hand and cried:"Look here, old man, I won't be beaten. These Paumotus have cheated andtricked me and made a fool of me. I refuse to be beaten. I am goingto drive this ship, and drive and drive and drive clear through thePaumotus to China but what I find a bed for her. If every man deserts,I'll stay by her. I'll show the Paumotus. They can't fool me. She's agood girl, and I'll stick by her as long as there's a plank to stand on.You hear me?""And I'll stay with you, Captain," McCoy said.During the night, light, baffling airs blew out of the south, andthe frantic captain, with his cargo of fire, watched and measured hiswestward drift and went off by himself at times to curse softly so thatMcCoy should not hear.Daylight showed more palms growing out of the water to the south."That's the leeward point of Makemo," McCoy said. "Katiu is only a fewmiles to the west. We may make that."But the current, sucking between the two islands, swept them to thenorthwest, and at one in the afternoon they saw the palms of Katiu riseabove the sea and sink back into the sea again.A few minutes later, just as the captain had discovered that a newcurrent from the northeast had gripped the Pyrenees, the mastheadlookouts raised cocoanut palms in the northwest."It is Raraka," said McCoy. "We won't make it without wind. The currentis drawing us down to the southwest. But we must watch out. A few milesfarther on a current flows north and turns in a circle to the northwest.This will sweep us away from Fakarava, and Fakarava is the place for thePyrenees to find her bed.""They can sweep all they da--all they well please," Captain Davenportremarked with heat. "We'll find a bed for her somewhere just the same."But the situation on the Pyrenees was reaching a culmination. The deckwas so hot that it seemed an increase of a few degrees would cause it toburst into flames. In many places even the heavy-soled shoes of themen were no protection, and they were compelled to step lively to avoidscorching their feet. The smoke had increased and grown more acrid.Every man on board was suffering from inflamed eyes, and they coughedand strangled like a crew of tuberculosis patients. In the afternoon theboats were swung out and equipped. The last several packages of driedbananas were stored in them, as well as the instruments of the officers.Captain Davenport even put the chronometer into the longboat, fearingthe blowing up of the deck at any moment.All night this apprehension weighed heavily on all, and in the firstmorning light, with hollow eyes and ghastly faces, they stared at oneanother as if in surprise that the Pyrenees still held together and thatthey still were alive.Walking rapidly at times, and even occasionally breaking into anundignified hop-skip-and-run, Captain Davenport inspected his ship'sdeck."It is a matter of hours now, if not of minutes," he announced on hisreturn to the poop.The cry of land came down from the masthead. From the deck the land wasinvisible, and McCoy went aloft, while the captain took advantage of theopportunity to curse some of the bitterness out of his heart. Butthe cursing was suddenly stopped by a dark line on the water which hesighted to the northeast. It was not a squall, but a regular breeze--thedisrupted trade wind, eight points out of its direction but resumingbusiness once more."Hold her up, Captain," McCoy said as soon as he reached the poop."That's the easterly point of Fakarava, and we'll go in through thepassage full-tilt, the wind abeam, and every sail drawing."At the end of an hour, the cocoanut trees and the low-lying landwere visible from the deck. The feeling that the end of the PYRENEES'resistance was imminent weighed heavily on everybody. Captain Davenporthad the three boats lowered and dropped short astern, a man in eachto keep them apart. The Pyrenees closely skirted the shore, thesurf-whitened atoll a bare two cable lengths away.And a minute later the land parted, exposing a narrow passage and thelagoon beyond, a great mirror, thirty miles in length and a third asbroad."Now, Captain."For the last time the yards of the Pyrenees swung around as she obeyedthe wheel and headed into the passage. The turns had scarcely been made,and nothing had been coiled down, when the men and mates swept back tothe poop in panic terror. Nothing had happened, yet they averred thatsomething was going to happen. They could not tell why. They merelyknew that it was about to happen. McCoy started forward to take uphis position on the bow in order to con the vessel in; but the captaingripped his arm and whirled him around."Do it from here," he said. "That deck's not safe. What's the matter?"he demanded the next instant. "We're standing still."McCoy smiled."You are bucking a seven-knot current, Captain," he said. "That is theway the full ebb runs out of this passage."At the end of another hour the Pyrenees had scarcely gained her length,but the wind freshened and she began to forge ahead."Better get into the boats, some of you," Captain Davenport commanded.His voice was still ringing, and the men were just beginning to move inobedience, when the amidship deck of the Pyrenees, in a mass of flameand smoke, was flung upward into the sails and rigging, part of itremaining there and the rest falling into the sea. The wind being abeam,was what had saved the men crowded aft. They made a blind rush to gainthe boats, but McCoy's voice, carrying its convincing message of vastcalm and endless time, stopped them."Take it easy," he was saying. "Everything is all right. Pass that boydown somebody, please."The man at the wheel had forsaken it in a funk, and Captain Davenporthad leaped and caught the spokes in time to prevent the ship from yawingin the current and going ashore."Better take charge of the boats," he said to Mr. Konig. "Tow one ofthem short, right under the quarter.... When I go over, it'll be on thejump."Mr. Konig hesitated, then went over the rail and lowered himself intothe boat."Keep her off half a point, Captain."Captain Davenport gave a start. He had thought he had the ship tohimself."Ay, ay; half a point it is," he answered.Amidships the Pyrenees was an open flaming furnace, out of whichpoured an immense volume of smoke which rose high above the masts andcompletely hid the forward part of the ship. McCoy, in the shelter ofthe mizzen-shrouds, continued his difficult task of conning the shipthrough the intricate channel. The fire was working aft along the deckfrom the seat of explosion, while the soaring tower of canvas on themainmast went up and vanished in a sheet of flame. Forward, though theycould not see them, they knew that the head-sails were still drawing."If only she don't burn all her canvas off before she makes inside," thecaptain groaned."She'll make it," McCoy assured him with supreme confidence. "There isplenty of time. She is bound to make it. And once inside, we'll put herbefore it; that will keep the smoke away from us and hold back the firefrom working aft."A tongue of flame sprang up the mizzen, reached hungrily for the lowesttier of canvas, missed it, and vanished. From aloft a burning shred ofrope stuff fell square on the back of Captain Davenport's neck. He actedwith the celerity of one stung by a bee as he reached up and brushed theoffending fire from his skin."How is she heading, Captain?""Nor'west by west.""Keep her west-nor-west."Captain Davenport put the wheel up and steadied her."West by north, Captain.""West by north she is.""And now west."Slowly, point by point, as she entered the lagoon, the PYRENEESdescribed the circle that put her before the wind; and point by point,with all the calm certitude of a thousand years of time to spare, McCoychanted the changing course."Another point, Captain.""A point it is."Captain Davenport whirled several spokes over, suddenly reversing andcoming back one to check her."Steady.""Steady she is--right on it."Despite the fact that the wind was now astern, the heat was so intensethat Captain Davenport was compelled to steal sidelong glances into thebinnacle, letting go the wheel now with one hand, now with the other, torub or shield his blistering cheeks.McCoy's beard was crinkling and shriveling and the smell of it, strongin the other's nostrils, compelled him to look toward McCoy with suddensolicitude. Captain Davenport was letting go the spokes alternately withhis hands in order to rub their blistering backs against his trousers.Every sail on the mizzenmast vanished in a rush of flame, compelling thetwo men to crouch and shield their faces."Now," said McCoy, stealing a glance ahead at the low shore, "fourpoints up, Captain, and let her drive."Shreds and patches of burning rope and canvas were falling about themand upon them. The tarry smoke from a smouldering piece of rope at thecaptain's feet set him off into a violent coughing fit, during which hestill clung to the spokes.The Pyrenees struck, her bow lifted and she ground ahead gently to astop. A shower of burning fragments, dislodged by the shock, fell aboutthem. The ship moved ahead again and struck a second time. She crushedthe fragile coral under her keel, drove on, and struck a third time."Hard over," said McCoy. "Hard over?" he questioned gently, a minutelater."She won't answer," was the reply."All right. She is swinging around." McCoy peered over the side. "Soft,white sand. Couldn't ask better. A beautiful bed."As the Pyrenees swung around her stern away from the wind, a fearfulblast of smoke and flame poured aft. Captain Davenport deserted thewheel in blistering agony. He reached the painter of the boat that layunder the quarter, then looked for McCoy, who was standing aside to lethim go down."You first," the captain cried, gripping him by the shoulder and almostthrowing him over the rail. But the flame and smoke were too terrible,and he followed hard after McCoy, both men wriggling on the rope andsliding down into the boat together. A sailor in the bow, withoutwaiting for orders, slashed the painter through with his sheath knife.The oars, poised in readiness, bit into the water, and the boat shotaway."A beautiful bed, Captain," McCoy murmured, looking back."Ay, a beautiful bed, and all thanks to you," was the answer.The three boats pulled away for the white beach of pounded coral, beyondwhich, on the edge of a cocoanut grove, could be seen a half dozen grasshouses and a score or more of excited natives, gazing wide-eyed at theconflagration that had come to land.The boats grounded and they stepped out on the white beach."And now," said McCoy, "I must see about getting back to Pitcairn."End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of South Sea Tales, by Jack London*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SOUTH SEA TALES ******** This file should be named 1208.txt or 1208.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/2/0/1208/Produced by Theresa ArmaoUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Art Of The Moving Picture, by VachelLindsayThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Art Of The Moving PictureAuthor: Vachel LindsayRelease Date: July 26, 2004  [eBook #13029]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ISO-646-US (US-ASCII)***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ART OF THE MOVING PICTURE***E-text prepared by Jonathan Ingram and the Project Gutenberg OnlineDistributed Proofreading TeamTHE ART OF THE MOVING PICTUREByVACHEL LINDSAYIntended, First of All, for the New Art Museums Springing Up All over theCountry. But the Book Is for Our Universities and Institutions ofLearning. It Contains an Appeal to Our Whole Critical and Literary World,and to Our Creators of Sculpture, Architecture, Painting, and theAmerican Cities They Are Building. Being the 1922 Revision of the BookFirst Issued in 1915, and Beginning With an Ample Discourse on the GreatNew Prospects of 1922        "Hail, all ye gods in the house of the soul, who weigh Heaven and    Earth in a balance, and who give celestial food."               From the book of the scribe Ani, translated from the               original Egyptian hieroglyphics by Professor E.A.               Wallis BudgeDedicatedTO GEORGE MATHER RICHARDSIN MEMORY OF THE ART STUDENT DAYS WE SPENT TOGETHERWHEN THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM WAS OUR PICTURE-DRAMACONTENTSA WORD FROM THE DIRECTOR OF THE DENVER ART ASSOCIATIONBOOK ITHE GENERAL PHOTOPLAY SITUATION INAMERICA, JANUARY 1, 1922, ESPECIALLY ASVIEWED FROM THE HEIGHTS OF THE CIVICCENTRE AT DENVER, COLORADO, AND THEDENVER ART MUSEUM, WHICH IS TO BE ALEADING FEATURE OF THIS CIVIC CENTREBOOK IITHE OUTLINE WHICH HAS BEEN ACCEPTED ASTHE BASIS OF PHOTOPLAY CRITICISM INAMERICA, BOTH IN THE STUDIOS OF THELOS ANGELES REGION, AND ALL THE SERIOUSCRITICISM WHICH HAS APPEARED IN THEDAILY PRESS AND THE MAGAZINESCHAPTERI.     THE POINT OF VIEWII.    THE PHOTOPLAY OF ACTIONIII.   THE INTIMATE PHOTOPLAYIV.    THE MOTION PICTURE OF FAIRY SPLENDORV.     THE PICTURE OF CROWD SPLENDORVI.    THE PICTURE OF PATRIOTIC SPLENDORVII.   THE PICTURE OF RELIGIOUS SPLENDORVIII.  SCULPTURE-IN-MOTIONIX.    PAINTING-IN-MOTIONX.     FURNITURE, TRAPPINGS, AND INVENTIONS IN MOTIONXI.    ARCHITECTURE-IN-MOTIONXII.   THIRTY DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE PHOTOPLAYS AND THE STAGEXIII.  HIEROGLYPHICSBOOK IIIMORE PERSONAL SPECULATIONS AND AFTERTHOUGHTS NOT BROUGHTFORWARD SO DOGMATICALLYXIV.   THE ORCHESTRA, CONVERSATION, AND THE CENSORSHIPXV.    THE SUBSTITUTE FOR THE SALOONXVI.   CALIFORNIA AND AMERICAXVII.  PROGRESS AND ENDOWMENTXVIII. ARCHITECTS AS CRUSADERSXIX.   ON COMING FORTH BY DAYXX.    THE PROPHET-WIZARDXXI.   THE ACCEPTABLE YEAR OF THE LORDA WORD FROM THE DIRECTOR OF THE DENVER ART ASSOCIATIONThe Art of the Moving Picture, as it appeared six years ago, possessedamong many elements of beauty at least one peculiarity. It viewed art asa reality, and one of our most familiar and popular realities as an art.This should have made the book either a revelation or utter Greek to mostof us, and those who read it probably dropped it easily into one or theother of the two categories.For myself, long a propagandist for its doctrines in another but relatedfield, the book came as a great solace. In it I found, not an appeal tohave the art museum used--which would have been an old though welcomestory--not this, but much to my surprise, the art museum actually atwork, one of the very wheels on which our culture rolled forward upon itshopeful way. I saw among other museums the one whose destinies I wastenderly guiding, playing in Lindsay's book the part that is played bythe classic myths in Milton, or by the dictionary in the writings of therest of us. For once the museum and its contents appeared, not as alovely curiosity, but as one of the basic, and in a sense humblenecessities of life. To paraphrase the author's own text, the art museum,like the furniture in a good movie, was actually "in motion"--a characterin the play. On this point of view as on a pivot turns the whole book.In The Art of the Moving Picture the nature and domain of a new Muse isdefined. She is the first legitimate addition to the family since classictimes. And as it required trained painters of pictures like Fulton andMorse to visualize the possibility of the steamboat and the telegraph, sothe bold seer who perceived the true nature of this new star in ournightly heavens, it should here be recorded, acquired much of the visionof his seeing eye through an early training in art. Vachel Lindsay (as hehimself proudly asserts) was a student at the Institute in Chicago forfour years, spent one more at the League and at Chase's in New York, andfor four more haunted the Metropolitan Museum, lecturing to his fellowson every art there shown from the Egyptian to that of Arthur B. Davies.Only such a background as this could have evolved the conception of"Architecture, sculpture, and painting in motion" and given authenticityto its presentation. The validity of Lindsay's analysis is attested byFreeburg's helpful characterization, "Composition in fluid forms," whichit seems to have suggested. To Lindsay's category one would be tempted toadd, "pattern in motion," applying it to such a film as the "Caligari"which he and I have seen together and discussed during these past fewdays. Pattern in this connection would imply an emphasis on the intrinsicsuggestion of the spot and shape apart from their immediate relation tothe appearance of natural objects. But this is a digression. It simplyserves to show the breadth and adaptability of Lindsay's method.The book was written for a visual-minded public and for those who wouldbe its leaders. A long, long line of picture-readers trailing from thedawn of history, stimulated all the masterpieces of pictorial art fromAltamira to Michelangelo. For less than five centuries now Gutenberg hashad them scurrying to learn their A, B, C's, but they are drifting backto their old ways again, and nightly are forming themselves in cues atthe doorways of the "Isis," the "Tivoli," and the "Riviera," the whileit is sadly noted that "'the pictures' are driving literature off theparlor table."With the creative implications of this new pictorial art, with the wholevisual-minded race clamoring for more, what may we not dream in the wayof a new renaissance? How are we to step in to the possession of such adestiny? Are the institutions with a purely literary theory of life goingto meet the need? Are the art schools and the art museums makingthemselves ready to assimilate a new art form? Or what is the type ofinstitution that will ultimately take the position of leadership inculture through this new universal instrument?What possibilities lie in this art, once it is understood and developed,to plant new conceptions of civic and national idealism? How far may itgo in cultivating concerted emotion in the now ungoverned crowd? Suchquestions as these can be answered only by minds with the imagination tosee art as a reality; with faith to visualize for the little mid-western"home town" a new and living Pallas Athena; with courage to raze the veryhouses of the city to make new and greater forums and "civic centres."For ourselves in Denver, we shall try to do justice to the new Muse. Inthe museum which we build we shall provide a shrine for her. We shallfirst endeavor by those simple means which lie to our hands, to know theareas of charm and imagination which remain as yet an untilled field ofher domain. Plowing is a simple art, but it requires much sweat. This atleast we know--to the expenditure we cheerfully consent. So much for thebeginning. It would be boastful to describe plans to keep pace with theenlarging of the motion picture field before a real beginning is made.But with youth in its favor, the Denver Art Museum hopes yet to see thisart set in its rightful place with painting, sculpture, architecture, andthe handicrafts--hopes yet to be an instrument in the great work ofmaking this art real as those others are being even now made real, to theexpanding vision of an eager people.    GEORGE WILLIAM EGGERS    Director    The Denver Art Association    DENVER, COLORADO,    New Year's Day, 1922.BOOK I--THE GENERAL PHOTOPLAY SITUATION IN AMERICA, JANUARY 1, 1922Especially as Viewed from the Heights of the Civic Centre at Denver,Colorado, and the Denver Art Museum, Which Is to Be a Leading Feature ofThis Civic CentreIn the second chapter of book two, on page 8, the theoretical outlinebegins, with a discussion of the Photoplay of Action. I put there onrecord the first crude commercial films that in any way establish theprinciple. There can never be but one first of anything, and if thenegatives of these films survive the shrinking and the warping that comeswith time, they will still be, in a certain sense, classic, and ten yearshence or two years hence will still be better remembered than any filmsof the current releases, which come on like newspapers, and as George Adesays:--"Nothing is so dead as yesterday's newspaper." But the firstnewspapers, and the first imprints of Addison's Spectator, and the firstAlmanacs of Benjamin Franklin, and the first broadside ballads and thelike, are ever collected and remembered. And the lists of films given inbooks two and three of this work are the only critical and carefullysorted lists of the early motion pictures that I happen to know anythingabout. I hope to be corrected if I am too boastful, but I boast that mylists must be referred to by all those who desire to study theseexperiments in their beginnings. So I let them remain, as still vivid inthe memory of all true lovers of the photoplay who have watched itsgrowth, fascinated from the first. But I would add to the list of ActionFilms of chapter two the recent popular example, Douglas Fairbanks in TheThree Musketeers. That is perhaps the most literal "Chase-Picture" thatwas ever really successful in the commercial world. The story is cut toone episode. The whole task of the four famous swordsmen of Dumas is toget the Queen's token that is in the hands of Buckingham in England, andreturn with it to Paris in time for the great ball. It is one long racewith the Cardinal's guards who are at last left behind. It is the sameplot as Reynard the Fox, John Masefield's poem--Reynard successfullyeluding the huntsmen and the dogs. If that poem is ever put on in an ArtMuseum film, it will have to be staged like one of AEsop's Fables, with a_man_ acting the Fox, for the children's delight. And I earnestly urgeall who would understand the deeper significance of the "chase-picture"or the "Action Picture" to give more thought to Masefield's poem than toFairbanks' marvellous acting in the school of the younger Salvini. TheMood of the _intimate photoplay_, chapter three, still remains indicatedin the current films by the acting of Lillian Gish and Mary Pickford,when they are not roused up by their directors to turn handsprings tokeep the people staring. Mary Pickford in particular has been stimulatedto be over-athletic, and in all her career she has been given just onechance to be her more delicate self, and that was in the almost forgottenfilm:--A Romance of the Redwoods. This is one of the serious commercialattempts that should be revived and studied, in spite of its crudities ofplot, by our Art Museums. There is something of the grandeur of theredwoods in it, in contrast to the sustained Botticelli grace of "OurMary."I am the one poet who has a right to claim for his muses Blanche Sweet,Mary Pickford, and Mae Marsh. I am the one poet who wrote them songs whenthey were Biograph heroines, before their names were put on the screen,or the name of their director. Woman's clubs are always asking me forbits of delicious gossip about myself to fill up literary essays. Nowthere's a bit. There are two things to be said for those poems. First,they were heartfelt. Second, any one could improve on them.In the fourth chapter of book two I discourse elaborately and formally onThe Motion Picture of Fairy Splendor. And to this carefully balancedtechnical discourse I would add the informal word, this New Year's Day,that this type is best illustrated by such fairy-tales as have been mostingratiatingly retold in the books of Padraic Colum, and dazzlinglyillustrated by Willy Pogany. The Colum-Pogany School of Thought is onewhich the commercial producers have not yet condescended to illustrate incelluloid, and it remains a special province for the Art Museum Film.Fairy-tales need not be more than one-tenth of a reel long. Some of thebest fairy-tales in the whole history of man can be told in a breath.And the best motion picture story for fifty years may turn out to be areel ten minutes long. Do not let the length of the commercial filmtyrannize over your mind, O young art museum photoplay director. Rememberthe brevity of Lincoln's Gettysburg address....And so my commentary, New Year's Day, 1922, proceeds, using for points ofmore and more extensive departure the refrains and old catch-phrases ofbooks two and three.Chapter V--The Picture of Crowd Splendor, being the type illustrated byGriffith's Intolerance.Chapter VI--The Picture of Patriotic Splendor, which was illustrated byall the War Films, the one most recently approved and accepted by thepublic being The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.Chapter VII--The Picture of Religious Splendor, which has no examples,that remain in the memory with any sharpness in 1922, except The FaithHealer, founded on the play by William Vaughn Moody, the poet, with muchof the directing and scenario by Mrs. William Vaughn Moody, and a moretalked-of commercial film, The Miracle Man. But not until the religiousfilm is taken out of the commercial field, and allowed to developunhampered under the Church and the Art Museum, will the splendidreligious and ritualistic opportunity be realized.Chapter VIII--Sculpture-in-Motion, being a continuation of the argumentof chapter two. The Photoplay of Action. Like the Action Film, thisaspect of composition is much better understood by the commercial peoplethan some other sides of the art. Some of the best of the William S. Hartproductions show appreciation of this quality by the director, thephotographer, and the public. Not only is the man but the horse allowedto be moving bronze, and not mere cowboy pasteboard. Many of the picturesof Charles Ray make the hero quite a bronze-looking sculpturesque person,despite his yokel raiment.Chapter IX--Painting-in-Motion, being a continuation on a higher terraceof chapter three, The Intimate Photoplay. Charlie Chaplin has intimateand painter's qualities in his acting, and he makes himself into apainting or an etching in the midst of furious slapstick. But he has beenin no films that were themselves paintings. The argument of this chapterhas been carried much further in Freeburg's book, The Art of PhotoplayMaking.Chapter X--Furniture, Trappings, and Inventions in Motion, being acontinuation of the chapter on Fairy Splendor. In this field we find oneof the worst failures of the commercial films, and their utterlyunimaginative corporation promoters. Again I must refer them to suchfairy books as those of Padraic Colum, where neither sword nor wing norboat is found to move, except for a fairy reason.I have just returned this very afternoon from a special showing of thefamous imported film, The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari. Some of the earnestspirits of the Denver Art Association, finding it was in storage in thetown, had it privately brought forth to study it with reference to itsbearing on their new policies. What influence it will have in that mostvital group, time will show.Meanwhile it is a marvellous illustration of the meaning of this chapterand the chapter on Fairy Splendor, though it is a diabolical not abeneficent vitality that is given to inanimate things. The furniture,trappings, and inventions are in motion to express the haunted mind, asin Griffith's Avenging Conscience, described pages 121 through 132. Thetwo should be shown together in the same afternoon, in the Art Museumstudy rooms. Caligari is undoubtedly the most important imported filmsince that work of D'Annunzio, Cabiria, described pages 55 through 57.But it is the opposite type of film. Cabiria is all out-doors andsplendor on the Mediterranean scale. In general, imported films do notconcern Americans, for we have now a vast range of technique. All we lackis the sense to use it.The cabinet of Caligari is indeed a cabinet, and the feeling of being ina cell, and smothered by all the oppressions of a weary mind, does notdesert the spectator for a minute.The play is more important, technically, than in its subject-matter andmood. It proves in a hundred new ways the resources of the film in makingall the inanimate things which, on the spoken stage, cannot act at all,the leading actors in the films. But they need not necessarily act to adiabolical end. An angel could have as well been brought from the cabinetas a murderous somnambulist, and every act of his could have been a workof beneficence and health and healing. I could not help but think thatthe ancient miracle play of the resurrection of Osiris could have beenacted out with similar simple means, with a mummy case and greatsarcophagus. The wings of Isis and Nephthys could have been spread overthe sky instead of the oppressive walls of the crooked city. Lightsinstead of shadows could have been made actors and real hieroglyphicinscriptions instead of scrawls.As it was, the alleged insane man was more sensible than most motionpicture directors, for his scenery acted with him, and not according toaccident or silly formula. I make these points as an antidote to thegeneral description of this production by those who praise it.They speak of the scenery as grotesque, strained, and experimental, andthe plot as sinister. But this does not get to the root of the matter.There is rather the implication in most of the criticisms and praisesthat the scenery is abstract. Quite the contrary is the case. Indoorslooks like indoors. Streets are always streets, roofs are always roofs.The actors do not move about in a kind of crazy geometry as I was led tobelieve. The scenery is oppressive, but sane, and the obsession is forthe most part expressed in the acting and plot. The fair looks like afair and the library looks like a library. There is nothing experimentalabout any of the setting, nothing unconsidered or strained orover-considered. It seems experimental because it is thrown into contrastwith extreme commercial formulas in the regular line of the "movietrade." But compare The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari with a book of Rackham orDu Lac or Duerer, or Rembrandt's etchings, and Dr. Caligari is morerealistic. And Eggers insists the whole film is replete with suggestionsof the work of Pieter Breughel, the painter. Hundreds of indoor storieswill be along such lines, once the merely commercial motive iseliminated, and the artist is set free. This film is an extraordinaryvariation of the intimate, as expounded in chapter three. It isdrawing-in-motion, instead of painting-in-motion. Because it was drawinginstead of painting, literary-minded people stepped to the hastyconclusion it was experimental. Half-tone effects are, for the most part,eliminated. Line is dominant everywhere. It is the opposite of vastconceptions like Theodora--which are architecture-in-motion. All thearchitecture of the Caligari film seems pasteboard. The whole thinghappens in a cabinet.It is the most overwhelming contrast to Griffith's Intolerance that couldbe in any way imagined. It contains, one may say, all the effects leftout of Intolerance. The word cabinet is a quadruple pun. Not only does itmean a mystery box and a box holding a somnambulist, but a kind oftreasury of tiny twisted thoughts. There is not one line or conception init on the grand scale, or even the grandiose. It is a devil's toy-house.One feels like a mouse in a mouse-trap so small one cannot turn around.In Intolerance, Griffith hurls nation at nation, race at race, centuryagainst century, and his camera is not only a telescope across the plainsof Babylon, but across the ages. Griffith is, in Intolerance, theungrammatical Byron of the films, but certainly as magnificent as Byron,and since he is the first of his kind I, for one, am willing to name himwith Marlowe.But for technical study for Art Schools, The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari ismore profitable. It shows how masterpieces can be made, with thesecond-hand furniture of any attic. But I hope fairy-tales, notdiabolical stories, will come from these attics. Fairy-tales areinherent in the genius of the motion picture and are a thousand timeshinted at in the commercial films, though the commercial films are notwilling to stop to tell them. Lillian Gish could be given wings and awand if she only had directors and scenario writers who believed infairies. And the same can most heartily be said of Mae Marsh.Chapter XI--Architecture-in-Motion, being a continuation of the argumentabout the Splendor Pictures, in chapters five, six, and seven. This is anelement constantly re-illustrated in a magnificent but fragmentary way bythe News Films. Any picture of a seagull flying so close to the camerathat it becomes as large as a flying machine, or any flying machine madeby man and photographed in epic flight captures the eye because it isarchitecture and in motion, motion which is the mysterious fourthdimension of its grace and glory. So likewise, and in kind, any pictureof a tossing ship. The most superb example of architecture-in-motion inthe commercial history of the films is the march of the moving war-towersagainst the walls of Babylon in Griffith's Intolerance. But Griffith isthe only person so far who has known how to put a fighting soul into amoving tower.The only real war that has occurred in the films with the world'sgreatest war going on outside was Griffith's War Against Babylon. Therest was news.Chapter XII--Thirty Differences between the Photoplays and the Stage. Theargument of the whole of the 1915 edition has been accepted by thestudios, the motion picture magazines, and the daily motion picturecolumns throughout the land. I have read hundreds of editorials andmagazines, and scarcely one that differed from it in theory. Most of themread like paraphrases of this work. And of all arguments made, the one inthis chapter is the one oftenest accepted in its entirety. The people whodominate the films are obviously those who grew up with them from thevery beginning, and the merely stage actors who rushed in with thehighest tide of prosperity now have to take second rank if they remain inthe films. But most of these have gone back to the stage by this time,with their managers as well, and certainly this chapter is abundantlyproved out.Chapter XIII--Hieroglyphics. One of the implications of this chapter andthe one preceding is that the fewer words printed on the screen thebetter, and that the ideal film has no words printed on it at all, but isone unbroken sheet of photography. This is admitted in theory in all thestudios now, though the only film of the kind ever produced of generalpopular success was The Old Swimmin' Hole, acted by Charles Ray. If Iremember, there was not one word on the screen, after the cast ofcharacters was given. The whole story was clearly and beautifully told byPhotoplay Hieroglyphics. For this feature alone, despite many defects ofthe film, it should be studied in every art school in America.Meanwhile "Title writing" remains a commercial necessity. In this fieldthere is but one person who has won distinction--Anita Loos. She is oneof the four or five important and thoroughly artistic brains in thephotoplay game. Among them is the distinguished John Emerson. Incombination with John Emerson, director, producer, etc., she has done somany other things well, her talents as a title writer are incidental, butcertainly to be mentioned in this place.The outline we are discussing continues through_Book III--More Personal Speculations and Afterthoughts Not BroughtForward so Dogmatically_.Chapter XIV--The Orchestra, Conversation, and the Censorship. In thischapter, on page 189, I suggest suppressing the orchestra entirely andencouraging the audience to talk about the film. No photoplay people haverisen to contradict this theory, but it is a chapter that once caused megreat embarrassment. With Christopher Morley, the well-known author ofShandygaff and other temperance literature, I was trying to prove outthis chapter. As soon as the orchestra stopped, while the show rolled onin glory, I talked about the main points in this book, illustrating it bythe film before us. Almost everything that happened was a happyillustration of my ideas. But there were two shop girls in front of usawfully in love with a certain second-rate actor who insisted on kissingthe heroine every so often, and with her apparent approval. Every time wetalked about that those shop girls glared at us as though we were robbingthem of their time and money. Finally one of them dragged the other outinto the aisle, and dashed out of the house with her dear chum, saying,so all could hear: "Well, come on, Terasa, we might as well go, if thesetwo talking _pests_ are going to keep this up behind us." The poor girl'svoice trembled. She was in tears. She was gone before we could apologizeor offer flowers. So I say in applying this chapter, in our present stageof civilization, sit on the front seat, where no one can hear yourwhisperings but Mary Pickford on the screen. She is but a shadow there,and will not mind.Chapter XV--The Substitute for the Saloon. I leave this argument as amonument, just as it was written, in 1914 and '15. It indicates a certainpower of forecasting on the part of the writer. We drys have certainlywon a great victory. Some of the photoplay people agree with thistemperance sermon, and some of them do not. The wets make one mistakeabove all. They do not realize that the drys can still keep on votingdry, with intense conviction, and great battle cries, and still have asense of humor.Chapter XVI--California and America. This chapter was quoted andparaphrased almost bodily as the preface to my volume of verses, TheGolden Whales of California. "I Know All This When Gipsy Fiddles Cry," asong of some length recently published in the New Republic and the LondonNation, further expresses the sentiment of this chapter in what I hope isa fraternal way, and I hope suggests the day when California will havepower over India, Asia, and all the world, and plant giant redwood treesof the spirit the world around.Chapter XVII--Progress and Endowment. I allow this discourse, also, tostand as written in 1914 and '15. It shows the condition just before thewar, better than any new words of mine could do it. The main change nowis the growing hope of a backing, not only from Universities, but greatArt Museums.Chapter XVIII--Architects as Crusaders. The sermon in this chapter hasbeen carried out on a limited scale, and as a result of the suggestion,or from pure American instinct, we now have handsome gasoline fillingstations from one end of America to the other, and really gorgeous Fordgarages. Our Union depots and our magazine stands in the leading hotels,and our big Soda fountains are more and more attractive all the time.Having recited of late about twice around the United States and,continuing the pilgrimage, I can testify that they are all alike from NewYork to San Francisco. One has to ask the hotel clerk to find out whetherit is New York or ----. And the motion picture discipline of the Americaneye has had a deal to do with this increasing tendency to news-stand andarchitectural standardization and architectural thinking, such as it is.But I meant this suggestion to go further, and to be taken in a highersense, so I ask these people to read this chapter again. I have carriedout the idea, in a parable, perhaps more clearly in The Golden Book ofSpringfield, when I speak of the World's Fair of the University ofSpringfield, to be built one hundred years hence. And I would recommendto those who have already taken seriously chapter eighteen, to reread itin two towns, amply worth the car fare it costs to go to both of them.First, Santa Fe, New Mexico, at the end of the Santa Fe Trail, the oldestcity in the United States, the richest in living traditions, and with theoldest and the newest architecture in the United States; not a stone or astick of it standardized, a city with a soul, Jerusalem and Mecca andBenares and Thebes for any artist or any poet of America's future, orany one who would dream of great cities born of great architecturalphotoplays, or great photoplays born of great cities. And the other city,symbolized by The Golden Rain Tree in The Golden Book of Springfield, isNew Harmony, Indiana. That was the Greenwich Village of America more thanone hundred years ago, when it was yet in the heart of the wilderness,millions of miles from the sea. It has a tradition already as dusty andwonderful as Abydos and Gem Aten. And every stone is still eloquent ofindividualism, and standardization has not yet set its foot there. Is itnot possible for the architects to brood in such places and then say toone another:--"Build from your hearts buildings and films which shall beyour individual Hieroglyphics, each according to his own loves andfancies?"Chapter XIX--On Coming Forth by Day. This is the second Egyptian chapter.It has its direct relation to the Hieroglyphic chapter, page 171. I notethat I say here it costs a dime to go to the show. Well, now it costsaround thirty cents to go to a good show in a respectable suburb,sometimes fifty cents. But we will let that dime remain there, as amatter of historic interest, and pass on, to higher themes.Certainly the Hieroglyphic chapter is in words of one syllable and anykindergarten teacher can understand it. Chapter nineteen adds a bit tothe idea. I do not know how warranted I am in displaying Egyptianlearning. Newspaper reporters never tire of getting me to talk abouthieroglyphics in their relation to the photoplays, and always give merespectful headlines on the theme. I can only say that up to this hour,every time I have toured art museums, I have begun with the Egyptianexhibit, and if my patient guest was willing, lectured on every period onto the present time, giving a little time to the principal exhibits ineach room, but I have always found myself returning to Egypt as astandard. It seems my natural classic land of art. So when I took uphieroglyphics more seriously last summer, I found them extraordinarilyeasy as though I were looking at a "movie" in a book. I think Egyptianpicture-writing came easy because I have analyzed so many hundreds ofphotoplay films, merely for recreation, and the same style of compositionis in both. Any child who reads one can read the other. But of coursethe literal translation must be there at hand to correct all wrongguesses. I figure that in just one thousand years I can readhieroglyphics without a pony. But meanwhile, I tour museums and I ridePharaoh's "horse," and suggest to all photoplay enthusiasts they do thesame. I recommend these two books most heartily: Elementary EgyptianGrammar, by Margaret A. Murray, London, Bernard Quaritch, 11 GraftonStreet, Bond Street, W., and the three volumes of the Book of the Dead,which are, indeed, the Papyrus of Ani, referred to in this chapter, pages255-258. It is edited, translated, and reproduced in fac-simile by thekeeper of the Egyptian and Assyrian Antiquities in the British Museum,Professor E.A. Wallis Budge; published by G.P. Putnam's Sons, New York,and Philip Lee Warner, London. This book is certainly the greatest motionpicture I ever attended. I have gone through it several times, and it isthe only book one can read twelve hours at a stretch, on the Pullman,when he is making thirty-six hour and forty-eight hour jumps from town totown.American civilization grows more hieroglyphic every day. The cartoons ofDarling, the advertisements in the back of the magazines and on thebill-boards and in the street-cars, the acres of photographs in theSunday newspapers, make us into a hieroglyphic civilization far nearer toEgypt than to England. Let us then accept for our classic land, for ourstandard of form, the country naturally our own. Hieroglyphics are somuch nearer to the American mood than the rest of the Egyptian legacy,that Americans seldom get as far as the Hieroglyphics to discover howcongenial they are. Seeing the mummies, good Americans flee. But there isnot a man in America writing advertisements or making cartoons or filmsbut would find delightful the standard books of Hieroglyphics sent out bythe British Museum, once he gave them a chance. They represent that veryaspect of visual life which Europe understands so little in America, andwhich has been expanding so enormously even the last year. Hallowe'en,for instance, lasts a whole week now, with mummers on the streets everynight, October 25-31.Chapter XX--The Prophet-Wizard. Who do we mean by The Prophet-Wizard? Wemean not only artists, such as are named in this chapter, but dreamersand workers like Johnny Appleseed, or Abraham Lincoln. The best accountof Johnny Appleseed is in Harper's Monthly for November, 1871. People donot know Abraham Lincoln till they have visited the grave of AnneRutledge, at Petersburg, Illinois, then New Old Salem a mile away. NewOld Salem is a prophet's hill, on the edge of the Sangamon, with lovelywoods all around. Here a brooding soul could be born, and here thedreamer Abraham Lincoln spent his real youth. I do not call him a dreamerin a cheap and sentimental effort to describe a man of aspiration.Lincoln told and interpreted his visions like Joseph and Daniel in theOld Testament, revealing them to the members of his cabinet, in greattrials of the Civil War. People who do not see visions and dream dreamsin the good Old Testament sense have no right to leadership in America. Iwould prefer photoplays filled with such visions and oracles to the statepapers written by "practical men." As it is, we are ruled indirectly byphotoplays owned and controlled by men who should be in the shoe-stringand hook-and-eye trade. Apparently their digestions are good, they are inexcellent health, and they keep out of jail.Chapter XXI--The Acceptable Year of the Lord. If I may be pardoned forreferring again to the same book, I assumed, in The Golden Book ofSpringfield, Illinois, that the Acceptable Year of the Lord would comefor my city beginning November 1, 2018, and that up to that time, amidmuch of joy, there would also be much of thwarting and tribulation. Butin the beginning of that mystic November, the Soul of My City, namedAvanel, would become as much a part of the city as Pallas Athena wasAthens, and indeed I wrote into the book much of the spirit of thephotoplay outlined, pages 147 through 150. But in The Golden Book Ichanged the lady the city worshipped from a golden image into a living,breathing young girl, descendant of that great American, Daniel Boone,and her name, obviously, Avanel Boone. With her tribe she incarnates allthe mystic ideals of the Boones of Kentucky.All this but a prelude to saying that I have just passed through the cityof Santa Fe, New Mexico. It is a Santa Fe full of the glory of the NewArchitecture of which I have spoken, and the issuing of a book of cowboysongs collected, and many of them written, by N. Howard Thorp, a citizenof Santa Fe, and thrilling with the issuing of a book of poems about theGlory of New Mexico. This book is called Red Earth. It is by Alice CorbinHenderson. And Santa Fe is full of the glory of a magnificent StateCapitol that is an art gallery of the whole southwest, and the glories ofthe studio of William Penhallow Henderson, who has painted our New Arabiamore splendidly than it was ever painted before, with the real characterthereof, and no theatricals. This is just the kind of a town I hoped forwhen I wrote my first draft of The Art of the Moving Picture. Here now isliterature and art. When they become one art as of old in Egypt, we willhave New Mexico Hieroglyphics from the Hendersons and their kind, andtheir surrounding Indian pupils, a basis for the American Motion Picturemore acceptable, and more patriotic, and more organic for us than theEgyptian.And I come the same month to Denver, and find a New Art Museum projected,which I hope has much indeed to do with the Acceptable Year of the Lord,when films as vital as the Santa Fe songs and pictures and architecturecan be made, and in common spirit with them, in this New Arabia. GeorgeW. Eggers, the director of the newly projected Denver Art Museum, assuresme that a photoplay policy can be formulated, amid the problems of suchan all around undertaking as building a great Art Museum in Denver. Heexpects to give the photoplay the attention a new art deserves,especially when it affects almost every person in the whole country. So Iprophesy Denver to be the Museum and Art-school capital of New Arabia, asSanta Fe is the artistic, architectural, and song capital at this hour.And I hope it may become the motion picture capital of America from thestandpoint of pure art, not manufacture.What do I mean by New Arabia?When I was in London in the fall of 1920 the editor of The Landmark, theorgan of The English Speaking Union, asked me to draw my map of theUnited States. I marked out the various regions under various names. Forinstance I called the coast states, Washington, Oregon, and California,New Italy. The reasons may be found in the chapter in this book onCalifornia. Then I named the states just west of the Middle West, andeast of New Italy, New Arabia. These states are New Mexico, Arizona,Utah, Colorado, Wyoming, Idaho, and Montana. These are the states whichcarry the Rocky Mountains north toward the Aurora Borealis, and southtoward the tropics. Here individualism, Andrew Jacksonism, will foreverprevail, and American standardization can never prevail. In cabins thatcannot be reached by automobile and deserts that cannot be crossed byboulevards, the John the Baptists, the hermits and the prophets canstrengthen their souls. Here are lonely places as sweet for the spirit aswas little old New Salem, Illinois, one hundred years ago, or thewilderness in which walked Johnny Appleseed.Now it is the independence of Spirit of this New Arabia that I hope theDenver Art Museum can interpret in its photoplay films, and send them oncircuits to the Art Museums springing up all over America, wheresculpture, architecture, and painting are now constantly sent on circuit.Let that already established convention--the "circuit-exhibition"--beapplied to this new art.And after Denver has shown the way, I devoutly hope that Great City ofLos Angeles may follow her example. Consider, O Great City of LosAngeles, now almost the equal of New York in power and splendor,consider what it would do for the souls of all your film artists if youprojected just such a museum as Denver is now projecting. Your fate iscoming toward you. Denver is halfway between Chicago, with the greatestart institute in the country, and Los Angeles, the natural capital of thephotoplay. The art museums of America should rule the universities, andthe photoplay studios as well. In the art museums should be set the finalstandards of civic life, rather than in any musty libraries or routineclassrooms. And the great weapon of the art museums of all the landshould be the hieroglyphic of the future, the truly artistic photoplay.And now for book two, at length. It is a detailed analysis of the films,first proclaimed in 1915, and never challenged or overthrown, and, forthe most part, accepted intact by the photoplay people, and the criticsand the theorists, as well.BOOK II--THE UNCHALLENGED OUTLINE OF PHOTOPLAY CRITICAL METHODCHAPTER ITHE POINT OF VIEWWhile there is a great deal of literary reference in all the followingargument, I realize, looking back over many attempts to paraphrase it forvarious audiences, that its appeal is to those who spend the best part oftheir student life in classifying, and judging, and producing works ofsculpture, painting, and architecture. I find the eyes of all otherswandering when I make talks upon the plastic artist's point of view.This book tries to find that fourth dimension of architecture, painting,and sculpture, which is the human soul in action, that arrow with wingswhich is the flash of fire from the film, or the heart of man, orPygmalion's image, when it becomes a woman.The 1915 edition was used by Victor O. Freeburg as one of the text-booksin the Columbia University School of Journalism, in his classes inphotoplay writing. I was invited several times to address those classeson my yearly visits to New York. I have addressed many other academicclasses, the invitation being based on this book. Now I realize thatthose who approach the theory from the general University standpoint, orfrom the history of the drama, had best begin with Freeburg's book, forhe is not only learned in both matters, but presents the specialanalogies with skill. Freeburg has an excellent education in the historyof music, and some of the happiest passages in his work relate thephotoplay to the musical theory of the world, as my book relates it tothe general Art Museum point of view of the world. Emphatically, my bookbelongs in the Art Institutes as a beginning, or in such religious andcivic bodies as think architecturally. From there it must work its wayout. Of course those bodies touch on a thousand others.The work is being used as one basis of the campaign for the New DenverArt Museum, and I like to tell the story of how George W. Eggers ofDenver first began to apply the book when the Director of the ArtInstitute, Chicago, that it may not seem to the merely University type ofmind a work of lost abstractions. One of the most gratifying recognitionsI ever received was the invitation to talk on the films in FullertonHall, Chicago Art Institute. Then there came invitations to speak atChicago University, and before the Fortnightly Club, Chicago, all around1916-17. One difficulty was getting the film to _prove_ my case from outthe commercial whirl. I talked at these three and other places, buthardly knew how to go about crossing the commercial bridge. At last, withthe cooperation of Director Eggers, we staged, in the sacred precincts ofFullerton Hall, Mae Marsh in The Wild Girl of the Sierras. The film wasin battered condition, and was turned so fast I could not talk with itsatisfactorily and fulfil the well-known principles of chapter fourteen.But at least I had converted one Art Institute Director to the idea thatan ex-student of the Institute could not only write a book aboutpainting-in-motion, but the painting could be shown in an Art Museum aspromise of greater things in this world. It took a deal of will andbreaking of precedent, on the part of all concerned, to show this film,The Wild Girl of the Sierras, and I retired from the field a long time.But now this same Eggers is starting, in Denver, an Art Museum from itsvery foundations, but on the same constructive scale. So this enterprise,in my fond and fatuous fancy, is associated with the sweet Mae Marsh asThe Wild Girl of the Sierras--one of the loveliest bits of poetry everput into screen or fable.For about one year, off and on, I had the honor to be the photoplaycritic of The New Republic, this invitation also based on the firstedition of this book. Looking back upon that experience I am delighted toaffirm that not only The New Republic constituency but the world of thecollege and the university where I moved at that time, while at loss fora policy, were not only willing but eager to take the films withseriousness.But when I was through with all these dashes into the field, and wentback to reciting verses again, no one had given me any light as to whoshould make the disinterested, non-commercial film for these immediatetimes, the film that would class, in our civilization, with The NewRepublic or The Atlantic Monthly or the poems of Edwin ArlingtonRobinson. That is, the production not for the trade, but for the soul.Anita Loos, that good crusader, came out several years ago with theflaming announcement that there was now hope, since a school of films hadbeen heavily endowed for the University of Rochester. The school was tobe largely devoted to producing music for the photoplay, in defiance ofchapter fourteen. But incidentally there were to be motion pictures madeto fit good music. Neither music nor films have as yet shaken the world.I liked this Rochester idea. I felt that once it was started the filmswould take their proper place and dominate the project, disinterestednon-commercial films to be classed with the dramas so well stimulated bythe great drama department under Professor Baker of Harvard.As I look back over this history I see that the printed page had countedtoo much, and the real forces of the visible arts in America had not beendefinitely enlisted. They should take the lead. I would suggest as thethree people to interview first on building any Art Museum Photoplayproject: Victor Freeburg, with his long experience of teaching thesubject in Columbia, and John Emerson and Anita Loos, who are as brainyas people dare to be and still remain in the department store filmbusiness. No three people would more welcome opportunities to outline theidealistic possibilities of this future art. And a well-known Americanpainter was talking to me of a midnight scolding Charlie Chaplin gave tosome Los Angeles producer, in a little restaurant, preaching the reallybeautiful film, and denouncing commerce like a member of Coxey'sillustrious army. And I have heard rumors from all sides that CharlieChaplin has a soul. He is the comedian most often proclaimed an artist bythe fastidious, and most often forgiven for his slapstick. He is praisedfor a kind of O. Henry double meaning to his antics. He is said to belike one of O. Henry's misquotations of the classics. He looks to me likethat artist Edgar Poe, if Poe had been obliged to make millions laugh. Ido not like Chaplin's work, but I have to admit the good intentions andthe enviable laurels. Let all the Art Museums invite him in, as tentativeadviser, if not a chastened performer. Let him be given as good a chanceas Mae Marsh was given by Eggers in Fullerton Hall. Only let him come inperson, not in film, till we hear him speak, and consider hissuggestions, and make sure he has eaten of the mystic Amaranth Apples ofJohnny Appleseed.CHAPTER IITHE PHOTOPLAY OF ACTIONLet us assume, friendly reader, that it is eight o'clock in the eveningwhen you make yourself comfortable in your den, to peruse this chapter. Iwant to tell you about the Action Film, the simplest, the type most oftenseen. In the mind of the habitue of the cheaper theatre it is the onlysort in existence. It dominates the slums, is announced there by red andgreen posters of the melodrama sort, and retains its original elements,more deftly handled, in places more expensive. The story goes at thehighest possible speed to be still credible. When it is a poor thing,which is the case too often, the St. Vitus dance destroys thepleasure-value. The rhythmic quality of the picture-motions is twitchedto death. In the bad photoplay even the picture of an express train morethan exaggerates itself. Yet when the photoplay chooses to behave it canreproduce a race far more joyously than the stage. On that fact is basedthe opportunity of this form. Many Action Pictures are indoors, but theabstract theory of the Action Film is based on the out-of-door chase. Youremember the first one you saw where the policeman pursues the comicaltramp over hill and dale and across the town lots. You remember thatother where the cowboy follows the horse thief across the desert, spieshim at last and chases him faster, faster, faster, and faster, andfinally catches him. If the film was made in the days before the NationalBoard of Censorship, it ends with the cowboy cheerfully hanging thevillain; all details given to the last kick of the deceased.One of the best Action Pictures is an old Griffith Biograph, recentlyreissued, the story entitled "Man's Genesis." In the time whencave-men-gorillas had no weapons, Weak-Hands (impersonated by RobertHarron) invents the stone club. He vanquishes his gorilla-like rival,Brute-Force (impersonated by Wilfred Lucas). Strange but credible mannersand customs of the cave-men are detailed. They live in picturesque caves.Their half-monkey gestures are wonderful to see. But these things arebeheld on the fly. It is the chronicle of a race between the brain ofWeak-Hands and the body of the other, symbolized by the chasing of poorWeak-Hands in and out among the rocks until the climax. Brain desperatelytriumphs. Weak-Hands slays Brute-Force with the startling invention. Hewins back his stolen bride, Lily-White (impersonated by Mae Marsh). It isa Griffith masterpiece, and every actor does sound work. The audience,mechanical Americans, fond of crawling on their stomachs to tinker theirautomobiles, are eager over the evolution of the first weapon from astick to a hammer. They are as full of curiosity as they could well beover the history of Langley or the Wright brothers.The dire perils of the motion pictures provoke the ingenuity of theaudience, not their passionate sympathy. When, in the minds of thedeluded producers, the beholders should be weeping or sighing withdesire, they are prophesying the next step to one another in worldlyGeorge Ade slang. This is illustrated in another good Action Photoplay:the dramatization of The Spoilers. The original novel was written by RexBeach. The gallant William Farnum as Glenister dominates the play. He hasexcellent support. Their team-work makes them worthy of chronicle: ThomasSantschi as McNamara, Kathlyn Williams as Cherry Malotte, Bessie Eytonas Helen Chester, Frank Clark as Dextry, Wheeler Oakman as Bronco Kid,and Jack McDonald as Slapjack.There are, in The Spoilers, inspiriting ocean scenes and mountain views.There are interesting sketches of mining-camp manners and customs. Thereis a well-acted love-interest in it, and the element of the comradeshipof loyal pals. But the chase rushes past these things to the climax, asin a policeman picture it whirls past blossoming gardens and front lawnstill the tramp is arrested. The difficulties are commented on by thepeople in the audience as rah-rah boys on the side lines comment onhurdles cleared or knocked over by the men running in college field-day.The sudden cut-backs into side branches of the story are but hurdlesalso, not plot complications in the stage sense. This is as it should be.The pursuit progresses without St. Vitus dance or hysteria to the end ofthe film. There the spoilers are discomfited, the gold mine isrecaptured, the incidental girls are won, in a flash, by the rightfulowners.These shows work like the express elevators in the Metropolitan Tower.The ideal is the maximum of speed in descending or ascending, not to bejolted into insensibility. There are two girl parts as beautifullythought out as the parts of ladies in love can be expected to be inAction Films. But in the end the love is not much more romantic in theeye of the spectator than it would be to behold a man on a motorcyclewith the girl of his choice riding on the same machine behind him. Andthe highest type of Action Picture romance is not attained by havingJuliet triumph over the motorcycle handicap. It is not achieved byweaving in a Sherlock Holmes plot. Action Picture romance comes when eachhurdle is a tableau, when there is indeed an art-gallery-beauty in eachone of these swift glimpses: when it is a race, but with a proper andgolden-linked grace from action to action, and the goal is the mostbeautiful glimpse in the whole reel.In the Action Picture there is no adequate means for the development ofany full grown personal passion. The distinguished character-study thatmakes genuine the personal emotions in the legitimate drama, has nochance. People are but types, swiftly moved chessmen. More elaboratediscourse on this subject may be found in chapter twelve on thedifferences between the films and the stage. But here, briefly: theAction Pictures are falsely advertised as having heart-interest, orabounding in tragedy. But though the actors glower and wrestle and evenif they are the most skilful lambasters in the profession, the audiencegossips and chews gum.Why does the audience keep coming to this type of photoplay if neitherlust, love, hate, nor hunger is adequately conveyed? Simply because suchspectacles gratify the incipient or rampant speed-mania in everyAmerican.To make the elevator go faster than the one in the Metropolitan Tower isto destroy even this emotion. To elaborate unduly any of the agonies orseductions in the hope of arousing lust, love, hate, or hunger, is toproduce on the screen a series of misplaced figures of the orderFrankenstein.How often we have been horrified by these galvanized and ogling corpses.These are the things that cause the outcry for more censors. It is notthat our moral codes are insulted, but what is far worse, our nervoussystems are temporarily racked to pieces. These wriggling half-dead men,these over-bloody burglars, are public nuisances, no worse and no betterthan dead cats being hurled about by street urchins.The cry for more censors is but the cry for the man with the broom.Sometimes it is a matter as simple as when a child is scratching with apin on a slate. While one would not have the child locked up by the chiefof police, after five minutes of it almost every one wants to smack himtill his little jaws ache. It is the very cold-bloodedness of theproceeding that ruins our kindness of heart. And the best Action Film isimpersonal and unsympathetic even if it has no scratching pins. Becauseit is cold-blooded it must take extra pains to be tactful. Cold-bloodedmeans that the hero as we see him on the screen is a variety of amiableor violent ghost. Nothing makes his lack of human charm plainer than whenwe as audience enter the theatre at the middle of what purports to be themost passionate of scenes when the goal of the chase is unknown to us andthe alleged "situation" appeals on its magnetic merits. Here is neitherthe psychic telepathy of Forbes Robertson's Caesar, nor the fire-breath ofE.H. Sothern's Don Quixote. The audience is not worked up into thedeadly still mob-unity of the speaking theatre. We late comers wait forthe whole reel to start over and the goal to be indicated in thepreliminary, before we can get the least bit wrought up. The prize maybe a lady's heart, the restoration of a lost reputation, or the ownershipof the patent for a churn. In the more effective Action Plays it is oftenwhat would be secondary on the stage, the recovery of a certain glove,spade, bull-calf, or rock-quarry. And to begin, we are shown a clean-cutpicture of said glove, spade, bull-calf, or rock-quarry. Then when thesedisappear from ownership or sight, the suspense continues till they areagain visible on the screen in the hands of the rightful owner.In brief, the actors hurry through what would be tremendous passions onthe stage to recover something that can be really photographed. Forinstance, there came to our town long ago a film of a fight betweenFederals and Confederates, with the loss of many lives, all for therecapture of a steam-engine that took on more personality in the end thanprivate or general on either side, alive or dead. It was based on thehistory of the very engine photographed, or else that engine was given inreplica. The old locomotive was full of character and humor amidst thetragedy, leaking steam at every orifice. The original is in one of theSouthern Civil War museums. This engine in its capacity as a principalactor is going to be referred to more than several times in this work.The highest type of Action Picture gives us neither the quality ofMacbeth or Henry Fifth, the Comedy of Errors, or the Taming of the Shrew.It gives us rather that fine and special quality that was in theink-bottle of Robert Louis Stevenson, that brought about the limitationsand the nobility of the stories of Kidnapped, Treasure Island, and theNew Arabian Nights.This discussion will be resumed on another plane in the eighth chapter:Sculpture-in-Motion.Having read thus far, why not close the book and go round the corner to aphotoplay theatre? Give the preference to the cheapest one. _The ActionPicture will be inevitable. Since this chapter was written, CharlieChaplin and Douglas Fairbanks have given complete department storeexamples of the method, especially Chaplin in the brilliantly constructedShoulder Arms, and Fairbanks in his one great piece of acting, in TheThree Musketeers_.CHAPTER IIITHE INTIMATE PHOTOPLAYLet us take for our platform this sentence: THE MOTION PICTURE ART IS AGREAT HIGH ART, NOT A PROCESS OF COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURE. The people Ihope to convince of this are (1) The great art museums of America,including the people who support them in any way, the people who give thecurrent exhibitions there or attend them, the art school students in thecorridors below coming on in the same field; (2) the departments ofEnglish, of the history of the drama, of the practice of the drama, andthe history and practice of "art" in that amazingly long list of ourcolleges and universities--to be found, for instance, in the WorldAlmanac; (3) the critical and literary world generally. Somewhere in thisenormous field, piled with endowments mountain high, it should bepossible to establish the theory and practice of the photoplay as a fineart. Readers who do not care for the history of any art, readers whohave neither curiosity nor aspiration in regard to any of the ten oreleven muses who now dance around Apollo, such shabby readers had bestlay the book down now. Shabby readers do not like great issues. My poorlittle sermon is concerned with a great issue, the clearing of the wayfor a critical standard, whereby the ultimate photoplay may be judged. Icannot teach office-boys ways to make "quick money" in the "movies." Thatseems to be the delicately implied purpose of the mass of books on thephotoplay subject. They are, indeed, a sickening array. Freeburg's bookis one of the noble exceptions. And I have paid tribute elsewhere to JohnEmerson and Anita Loos. They have written a crusading book, and manycrusading articles.After five years of exceedingly lonely art study, in which I had alwaysspecialized in museum exhibits, prowling around like a lost dog, I beganto intensify my museum study, and at the same time shout about what I wasdiscovering. From nineteen hundred and five on I did orate my opinions toa group of advanced students. We assembled weekly for several winters inthe Metropolitan Museum, New York, for the discussion of themasterpieces in historic order, from Egypt to America. From thatstandpoint, the work least often found, hardest to make, least popular inthe street, may be in the end the one most treasured in a world-museum asa counsellor and stimulus of mankind. Throughout this book I try to bringto bear the same simple standards of form, composition, mood, and motivethat we used in finding the fundamental exhibits; the standards which aretaken for granted in art histories and schools, radical or conservative,anywhere.Again we assume it is eight o'clock in the evening, friend reader, whenthe chapter begins.Just as the Action Picture has its photographic basis or fundamentalmetaphor in the long chase down the highway, so the Intimate Film has itsphotographic basis in the fact that any photoplay interior has a verysmall ground plan, and the cosiest of enclosing walls. Many a worth-whilescene is acted out in a space no bigger than that which is occupied by anoffice boy's stool and hat. If there is a table in this room, it is oftenso near it is half out of the picture or perhaps it is against the frontline of the triangular ground-plan. Only the top of the table is seen,and nothing close up to us is pictured below that. We in the audience areprivileged characters. Generally attending the show in bunches of two orthree, we are members of the household on the screen. Sometimes we aresitting on the near side of the family board. Or we are gossipingwhispering neighbors, of the shoemaker, we will say, with our nosespressed against the pane of a metaphoric window.Take for contrast the old-fashioned stage production showing the room andwork table of a shoemaker. As it were the whole side of the house hasbeen removed. The shop is as big as a banquet hall. There is somethingessentially false in what we see, no matter how the stage manager fillsin with old boxes, broken chairs, and the like. But the photoplayinterior is the size such a work-room should be. And there the awl andpegs and bits of leather, speaking the silent language of picturewriting, can be clearly shown. They are sometimes like the engine inchapter two, the principal actors.Though the Intimate-and-friendly Photoplay may be carried out of doors tothe row of loafers in front of the country store, or the gossipingstreets of the village, it takes its origin and theory from the snugnessof the interior.The restless reader replies that he has seen photoplays that showedballrooms that were grandiose, not the least cosy. These are to beclassed as out-of-door scenery so far as theory goes, and are to bediscussed under the head of Splendor Pictures. Masses of human beingspour by like waves, the personalities of none made plain. The onlydefinite people are the hero and heroine in the foreground, and maybe oneother. Though these three be in ball-costume, the little triangle theyoccupy next to the camera is in sort an interior, while the impersonalguests behind them conform to the pageant principles of out-of-doors, andthe dancers are to the main actor as is the wind-shaken forest to thecharcoal-burner, or the bending grain to the reaper.The Intimate Motion Picture is the world's new medium for studying, notthe great passions, such as black hate, transcendent love, devouringambition, but rather the half relaxed or gently restrained moods of humancreatures. It gives also our idiosyncrasies. It is gossip _in extremis_.It is apt to chronicle our petty little skirmishes, rather than ourfeuds. In it Colin Clout and his comrades return.The Intimate Photoplay should not crowd its characters. It should notchoke itself trying to dramatize the whole big bloody plot of LornaDoone, or any other novel with a dozen leading people. Yet some gentleepisode from the John Ridd farm, some half-chapter when Lorna and theDoones are almost forgotten, would be fitting. Let the duck-yard beparading its best, and Annie among the milk-pails, her work for theevening well nigh done. The Vicar of Wakefield has his place in thisform. The Intimate-and-friendly Motion Picture might very well givehumorous moments in the lives of the great, King Alfred burning thecakes, and other legendary incidents of him. Plato's writings give usglimpses of Socrates, in between the long dialogues. And there areintimate scraps in Plutarch.Prospective author-producer, do you remember Landor's ImaginaryConversations, and Lang's Letters to Dead Authors? Can you not attain tothat informal understanding in pictorial delineations of such people?The photoplay has been unjust to itself in comedies. The late JohnBunny's important place in my memory comes from the first picture inwhich I saw him. It is a story of high life below stairs. The hero is thebutler at a governor's reception. John Bunny's work as this man is adelightful piece of acting. The servants are growing tipsier downstairs,but the more afraid of the chief functionary every time he appears,frozen into sobriety by his glance. At the last moment this god of thebasement catches them at their worst and gives them a condescending butforgiving smile. The lid comes off completely. He himself has beenimbibing. His surviving dignity in waiting on the governor's guests isworthy of the stage of Goldsmith and Sheridan. This film should bereissued in time as a Bunny memorial.So far as my experience has gone, the best of the comedians is SidneyDrew. He could shine in the atmosphere of Pride and Prejudice orCranford. But the best things I have seen of his are far from such. I begthe pardon of Miss Jane Austen and Mrs. Gaskell while I mention Who's Whoin Hogg's Hollow, and A Regiment of Two. Over these I rejoiced like ayokel with a pocketful of butterscotch and peanuts. The opportunities tolaugh on a higher plane than this, to laugh like Olympians, are seldomgiven us in this world.The most successful motion picture drama of the intimate type ever placedbefore mine eyes was Enoch Arden, produced by Cabanne.Lillian Gish takes the part of Annie, Alfred Paget impersonates EnochArden, and Wallace Reid takes the part of Philip Ray. The play is in fourreels of twenty minutes each. It should have been made into three reelsby shortening every scene just a bit. Otherwise it is satisfying, and Iand my friends have watched it through many times as it has returned toSpringfield.The mood of the original poem is approximated. The story is told withfireside friendliness. The pale Lillian Gish surrounded by happy childrengives us many a genre painting on the theme of domesticity. It is aphotographic rendering in many ways as fastidious as Tennyson'sversification. The scenes on the desert island are some of themcommonplace. The shipwreck and the like remind one of other photoplays,but the rest of the production has a mood of its own. Seen several monthsago it fills my eye-imagination and eye-memory more than that particularpiece of Tennyson's fills word-imagination and word-memory. Perhaps thisis because it is pleasing to me as a theorist. It is a sound example ofthe type of film to which this chapter is devoted. If you cannot get yourlocal manager to bring Enoch Arden, reread that poem of Tennyson's andtranslate it in your own mind's eye into a gallery of six hundreddelicately toned photographs hung in logical order, most of them cosyinterior scenes, some of the faces five feet from chin to forehead in themore personal episodes, yet exquisitely fair. Fill in the out-of-doorscenes and general gatherings with the appointments of an idyllic Englishfisher-village, and you will get an approximate conception of what wemean by the Intimate-and-friendly Motion Picture, or the IntimatePicture, as I generally call it, for convenience.It is a quality, not a defect, of all photoplays that human beings tendto become dolls and mechanisms, and dolls and mechanisms tend to becomehuman. But the haughty, who scorn the moving pictures, cannot ridthemselves of the feeling that they are being seduced into going intosome sort of a Punch-and-Judy show. And they think that of course oneshould not take seriously anything so cheap in price and so appealing tothe cross-roads taste. But it is very well to begin in thePunch-and-Judy-show state of mind, and reconcile ourselves to it, andthen like good democrats await discoveries. Punch and Judy is thesimplest form of marionette performance, and the marionette has a placein every street in history just as the dolls' house has its corner inevery palace and cottage. The French in particular have had their greatperiods of puppet shows; and the Italian tradition survived in America'sLittle Italy, in New York for many a day; and I will mention in passingthat one of Pavlowa's unforgettable dance dramas is The Fairy Doll.Prospective author-producer, why not spend a deal of energy on thephotoplay successors of the puppet-plays?We have the queen of the marionettes already, without the play.One description of the Intimate-and-friendly Comedy would be the MaryPickford kind of a story. None has as yet appeared. But we know the MaryPickford mood. When it is gentlest, most roguish, most exalted, it is aprophecy of what this type should be, not only in the actress, but in thescenario and setting.Mary Pickford can be a doll, a village belle, or a church angel. Herpowers as a doll are hinted at in the title of the production: Such aLittle Queen. I remember her when she was a village belle in that filmthat came out before producers or actors were known by name. It wassugar-sweet. It was called: What the Daisy Said. If these productions hadconformed to their titles sincerely, with the highest photoplay art wewould have had two more examples for this chapter.Why do the people love Mary? Not on account of the Daniel Frohman styleof handling her appearances. He presents her to us in what are almost theold-fashioned stage terms: the productions energetic and full ofpainstaking detail but dominated by a dream that is a theatrical hybrid.It is neither good moving picture nor good stage play. Yet Mary could becast as a cloudy Olympian or a church angel if her managers wanted her tobe such. She herself was transfigured in the Dawn of Tomorrow, but thefilm-version of that play was merely a well mounted melodrama.Why do the people love Mary? Because of a certain aspect of her face inher highest mood. Botticelli painted her portrait many centuries agowhen by some necromancy she appeared to him in this phase of herself.There is in the Chicago Art Institute at the top of the stairs on thenorth wall a noble copy of a fresco by that painter, the copy by Mrs.MacMonnies. It is very near the Winged Victory of Samothrace. In thepicture the muses sit enthroned. The loveliest of them all is a startlingreplica of Mary.The people are hungry for this fine and spiritual thing that Botticellipainted in the faces of his muses and heavenly creatures. Because the mobcatch the very glimpse of it in Mary's face, they follow her night afternight in the films. They are never quite satisfied with the plays,because the managers are not artists enough to know they should sometimesput her into sacred pictures and not have her always the village hoyden,in plays not even hoydenish. But perhaps in this argument I have butbetrayed myself as Mary's infatuated partisan.So let there be recorded here the name of another actress who is alwaysin the intimate-and-friendly mood and adapted to close-up interiors,Marguerite Clark. She is endowed by nature to act, in the same film, theeight-year-old village pet, the irrepressible sixteen-year-old, andfinally the shining bride of twenty. But no production in which she actsthat has happened to come under my eye has done justice to thesepossibilities. The transitions from one of these stages to the other arenot marked by the producer with sufficient delicate graduation, emphasis,and contrast. Her plots have been but sugared nonsense, or swashbucklingups and downs. She shines in a bevy of girls. She has sometimes beengiven the bevy.But it is easier to find performers who fit this chapter, than to findfilms. Having read so far, it is probably not quite nine o'clock in theevening. Go around the corner to the nearest theatre. You will not be aptto find a pure example of the Intimate-and-friendly Moving Picture, butsome one or two scenes will make plain the intent of the phrase. Imaginethe most winsome tableau that passes before you, extended logicallythrough one or three reels, with no melodramatic interruptions or awfulsmashes. For a further discussion of these smashes, and other items inthis chapter, read the ninth chapter, entitled "Painting-in-Motion."CHAPTER IVTHE MOTION PICTURE OF FAIRY SPLENDORAgain, kind reader, let us assume it is eight o'clock in the evening, forpurposes of future climax which you no doubt anticipate.Just as the Action Motion Picture has its photographic basis in the racedown the high-road, just as the Intimate Motion Picture has itsphotographic basis in the close-up interior scene, so the Photoplay ofSplendor, in its four forms, is based on the fact that the kinetoscopecan take in the most varied of out-of-door landscapes. It can reproducefairy dells. It can give every ripple of the lily-pond. It can show uscathedrals within and without. It can take in the panorama of cyclopaeancloud, bending forest, storm-hung mountain. In like manner it can put onthe screen great impersonal mobs of men. It can give us tremendousarmies, moving as oceans move. The pictures of Fairy Splendor, CrowdSplendor, Patriotic Splendor, and Religious Splendor are but theembodiments of these backgrounds.And a photographic corollary quite useful in these four forms is that thecamera has a kind of Hallowe'en witch-power. This power is the subject ofthis chapter.The world-old legends and revelations of men in connection with thelovely out of doors, or lonely shrines, or derived from inspiredcrusading humanity moving in masses, can now be fitly retold. Also thefairy wand can do its work, the little dryad can come from the tree. Andthe spirits that guard the Republic can be seen walking on the cloudsabove the harvest-fields.But we are concerned with the humblest voodooism at present.Perhaps the world's oldest motion picture plot is a tale in Mother Goose.It ends somewhat in this fashion:--    The old lady said to the cat:--    "Cat, cat, kill rat.    Rat will not gnaw rope,    Rope will not hang butcher,    Butcher will not kill ox,    Ox will not drink water,    Water will not quench fire,    Fire will not burn stick,    Stick will not beat dog,    Dog will not bite pig,    Pig will not jump over the stile,    And I cannot get home to-night."By some means the present writer does not remember, the cat was persuadedto approach the rat. The rest was like a tale of European diplomacy:--    The rat began to gnaw the rope,    The rope began to hang the butcher,    The butcher began to kill the ox,    The ox began to drink the water,    The water began to quench the fire,    The fire began to burn the stick,    The stick began to beat the dog,    The dog began to bite the pig,    The frightened little pig jumped over the stile,    And the old lady was able to get home that night.Put yourself back to the state of mind in which you enjoyed this bit ofverse.Though the photoplay fairy-tale may rise to exquisite heights, it beginswith pictures akin to this rhyme. Mankind in his childhood has alwayswanted his furniture to do such things. Arthur names his bladeExcalibur. It becomes a person. The man in the Arabian tale speaks tothe magic carpet. It carries him whithersoever he desires. This yearningfor personality in furniture begins to be crudely worked upon in theso-called trick-scenes. The typical commercialized comedy of this sort isMoving Day. Lyman H. Howe, among many excellent reels of a differentkind, has films allied to Moving Day.But let us examine at this point, as even more typical, an old Pathe Filmfrom France. The representatives of the moving-firm are sent for. Theyappear in the middle of the room with an astonishing jump. They are toldthat this household desires to have its goods and hearthstone godstransplanted two streets east. The agents salute. They disappear. Yettheir wireless orders are obeyed with a military crispness. The books andnewspapers climb out of the window. They go soberly down the street. Intheir wake are the dishes from the table. Then the more delicateporcelains climb down the shelves and follow. Then follow thehobble-de-hoy kitchen dishes, then the chairs, then the clothing, and thecarpets from over the house. The most joyous and curious spectacle is tobehold the shoes walking down the boulevard, from father's large bootsto those of the youngest child. They form a complete satire of thefamily, yet have a masterful air of their own, as though they were themost important part of a human being.The new apartment is shown. Everything enters in procession. In contrastto the general certainty of the rest, one or two pieces of furniture growconfused trying to find their places. A plate, in leaping upon a highshelf, misses and falls broken. The broom and dustpan sweep up thepieces, and consign them to the dustbin. Then the human family comes in,delighted to find everything in order. The moving agents appear andsalute. They are paid their fee. They salute again and disappear withanother gigantic leap.The ability to do this kind of a thing is fundamental in the destinies ofthe art. Yet this resource is neglected because its special province isnot understood. "People do not like to be tricked," the manager says.Certainly they become tired of mere contraptions. But they never growweary of imagination. There is possible many a highly imaginativefairy-tale on this basis if we revert to the sound principles of thestory of the old lady and the pig.Moving Day is at present too crassly material. It has not the touch ofthe creative imagination. We are overwhelmed with a whole van offurniture. Now the mechanical or non-human object, beginning with theengine in the second chapter, is apt to be the hero in most any sort ofphotoplay while the producer remains utterly unconscious of the fact. Whynot face this idiosyncrasy of the camera and make the non-human objectthe hero indeed? Not by filling the story with ropes, buckets,fire-brands, and sticks, but by having these four unique. Make the firethe loveliest of torches, the water the most graceful of springs. Let therope be the humorist. Let the stick be the outstanding hero, theD'Artagnan of the group, full of queer gestures and hoppings about. Lethim be both polite and obdurate. Finally let him beat the dog mostheroically.       *       *       *       *       *Then, after the purely trick-picture is disciplined till it has fewertricks, and those more human and yet more fanciful, the producer can moveon up into the higher realms of the fairy-tale, carrying with him thisriper workmanship.Mabel Taliaferro's Cinderella, seen long ago, is the best filmfairy-tale the present writer remembers. It has more of the firesidewonder-spirit and Hallowe'en-witch-spirit than the Cinderella of MaryPickford.There is a Japanese actor, Sessue Hayakawa, who takes the leading partwith Blanche Sweet in The Clew, and is the hero in the film version ofThe Typhoon. He looks like all the actors in the old Japanese prints. Hehas a general dramatic equipment which enables him to force through thestubborn screen such stagy plays as these, that are more worth while inthe speaking theatre. But he has that atmosphere of pictorial romancewhich would make him a valuable man for the retelling of the old Japaneselegends of Kwannon and other tales that are rich, unused moving picturematerial, tales such as have been hinted at in the gleaming English ofLafcadio Hearn. The Japanese genius is eminently pictorial. Rightlyviewed, every Japanese screen or bit of lacquer is from the Ancient AsiaColumbus set sail to find.It would be a noble thing if American experts in the Japanese principlesof decoration, of the school of Arthur W. Dow, should tell stories of oldJapan with the assistance of such men as Sessue Hayakawa. Such things gofurther than peace treaties. Dooming a talent like that of Mr. Hayakawato the task of interpreting the Japanese spy does not conduce to accordwith Japan, however the technique may move us to admiration. Let such ofus as are at peace get together, and tell the tales of our happychildhood to one another.This chapter is ended. You will of course expect to be exhorted to visitsome photoplay emporium. But you need not look for fairy-tales. They aremuch harder to find than they should be. But you can observe even in theadvertisements and cartoons the technical elements of the story of theold lady and the pig. And you can note several other things that show howmuch more quickly than on the stage the borderline of All Saints' Day andHallowe'en can be crossed. Note how easily memories are called up, andappear in the midst of the room. In any plays whatever, you will findthese apparitions and recollections. The dullest hero is given gloriousvisualizing power. Note the "fadeaway" at the beginning and the end ofthe reel, whereby all things emerge from the twilight and sink back intothe twilight at last. These are some of the indestructible least commondenominators of folk stories old and new. When skilfully used, they canall exercise a power over the audience, such as the crystal has over thecrystal-gazer.But this discussion will be resumed, on another plane, in the tenthchapter: "Furniture, Trappings, and Inventions in Motion."CHAPTER VTHE PICTURE OF CROWD SPLENDORHenceforth the reader will use his discretion as to when he will read thechapter and when he will go to the picture show to verify it.The shoddiest silent drama may contain noble views of the sea. This partis almost sure to be good. It is a fundamental resource.A special development of this aptitude in the hands of an expert givesthe sea of humanity, not metaphorically but literally: the whirling ofdancers in ballrooms, handkerchief-waving masses of people in balconies,hat-waving political ratification meetings, ragged glowering strikers,and gossiping, dickering people in the marketplace. Only Griffith and hisclose disciples can do these as well as almost any manager can reproducethe ocean. Yet the sea of humanity is dramatically blood-brother to thePacific, Atlantic, or Mediterranean. It takes this new invention, thekinetoscope, to bring us these panoramic drama-elements. By the law ofcompensation, while the motion picture is shallow in showing privatepassion, it is powerful in conveying the passions of masses of men.Bernard Shaw, in a recent number of the Metropolitan, answered severalquestions in regard to the photoplay. Here are two bits from hisdiscourse:--"Strike the dialogue from Moliere's Tartuffe, and what audience wouldbear its mere stage-business? Imagine the scene in which Iago poisonsOthello's mind against Desdemona, conveyed in dumb show. What becomes ofthe difference between Shakespeare and Sheridan Knowles in the film? Orbetween Shakespeare's Lear and any one else's Lear? No, it seems to methat all the interest lies in the new opening for the mass of dramatictalent formerly disabled by incidental deficiencies of one sort oranother that do not matter in the picture-theatre....""Failures of the spoken drama may become the stars of the picture palace.And there are the authors with imagination, visualization and first-rateverbal gifts who can write novels and epics, but cannot for the life ofthem write plays. Well, the film lends itself admirably to thesuccession of events proper to narrative and epic, but physicallyimpracticable on the stage. Paradise Lost would make a far better filmthan Ibsen's John Gabriel Borkman, though Borkman is a dramaticmasterpiece, and Milton could not write an effective play."Note in especial what Shaw says about narrative, epic, and Paradise Lost.He has in mind, no doubt, the pouring hosts of demons and angels. This isone kind of a Crowd Picture.There is another sort to be seen where George Beban impersonates TheItalian in a film of that title, by Thomas H. Ince and G. GardenerSullivan. The first part, taken ostensibly in Venice, delineates thefestival spirit of the people on the bridges and in gondolas. It givesout the atmosphere of town-crowd happiness. Then comes the vineyard, thecrowd sentiment of a merry grape-harvest, then the massed emotion of manypeople embarking on an Atlantic liner telling good-by to their kindred onthe piers, then the drama of arrival in New York. The wonder of thesteerage people pouring down their proper gangway is contrasted with theconventional at-home-ness of the first-class passengers above. Then webehold the seething human cauldron of the East Side, then the jollylittle wedding-dance, then the life of the East Side, from the policemanto the peanut-man, and including the bar tender, for the crowd is treatedon two separate occasions.It is hot weather. The mobs of children follow the ice-wagon for chips ofice. They besiege the fountain-end of the street-sprinkling wagon quiteclosely, rejoicing to have their clothes soaked. They gather round thefire-plug that is turned on for their benefit, and again become wet asdrowned rats.Passing through these crowds are George Beban and Clara Williams as TheItalian and his sweetheart. They owe the force of their acting to thefact that they express each mass of humanity in turn. Their child isborn. It does not flourish. It represents in an acuter way another phaseof the same child-struggle with the heat that the gamins indicate intheir pursuit of the water-cart.Then a deeper matter. The hero represents in a fashion the adventures ofthe whole Italian race coming to America: its natural southern gayety setin contrast to the drab East Side. The gondolier becomes boot-black. Thegrape-gathering peasant girl becomes the suffering slum mother. They arenot specialized characters like Pendennis or Becky Sharp in the Novels ofThackeray.Omitting the last episode, the entrance into the house of Corrigan, TheItalian is a strong piece of work.Another kind of Crowd Picture is The Battle, an old Griffith Biograph,first issued in 1911, before Griffith's name or that of any actor infilms was advertised. Blanche Sweet is the leading lady, and Charles H.West the leading man. The psychology of a bevy of village lovers isconveyed in a lively sweet-hearting dance. Then the boy and his comradesgo forth to war. The lines pass between hand-waving crowds of friendsfrom the entire neighborhood. These friends give the sense of patriotismin mass. Then as the consequence of this feeling, as the special agentsto express it, the soldiers are in battle. By the fortunes of war theonset is unexpectedly near to the house where once was the dance.The boy is at first a coward. He enters the old familiar door. He appealsto the girl to hide him, and for the time breaks her heart. He goes fortha fugitive not only from battle, but from her terrible girlish anger.But later he rallies. He brings a train of powder wagons through firesbuilt in his path by the enemy's scouts. He loses every one of his men,and all but the last wagon, which he drives himself. His return with thatammunition saves the hard-fought day.And through all this, glimpses of the battle are given with a splendorthat only Griffith has attained.Blanche Sweet stands as the representative of the bevy of girls in thehouse of the dance, and the whole body social of the village. How thecostumes flash and the handkerchiefs wave around her! In the battle thehero represents the cowardice that all the men are resisting withinthemselves. When he returns, he is the incarnation of the hardihood theyhave all hoped to display. Only the girl knows he was first a failure.The wounded general honors him as the hero above all. Now she is radiant,she cannot help but be triumphant, though the side of the house is blownout by a shell and the dying are everywhere.This one-reel work of art has been reissued of late by the BiographCompany. It should be kept in the libraries of the Universities as astandard. One-reel films are unfortunate in this sense that in order tosee a favorite the student must wait through five other reels of a mixedprogramme that usually is bad. That is the reason one-reel masterpiecesseldom appear now. The producer in a mood to make a special effort wantsto feel that he has the entire evening, and that nothing before or afteris going to be a bore or destroy the impression. So at present thepainstaking films are apt to be five or six reels of twenty minutes each.These have the advantage that if they please at all, one can see themagain at once without sitting through irrelevant slapstick work put thereto fill out the time. But now, having the whole evening to work in, theproducer takes too much time for his good ideas. I shall reiteratethroughout this work the necessity for restraint. A one hour programme islong enough for any one. If the observer is pleased, he will sit itthrough again and take another hour. There is not a good film in theworld but is the better for being seen in immediate succession to itself.Six-reel programmes are a weariness to the flesh. The best of the oldone-reel Biographs of Griffith contained more in twenty minutes thanthese ambitious incontinent six-reel displays give us in two hours. Itwould pay a manager to hang out a sign: "This show is only twenty minuteslong, but it is Griffith's great film 'The Battle.'"But I am digressing. To continue the contrast between private passion inthe theatre and crowd-passion in the photoplay, let us turn to Shawagain. Consider his illustration of Iago, Othello, and Lear. These parts,as he implies, would fall flat in motion pictures. The minor situationsof dramatic intensity might in many cases be built up. The crisis wouldinevitably fail. Iago and Othello and Lear, whatever their offices intheir governments, are essentially private persons, individuals _inextremis_. If you go to a motion picture and feel yourself suddenlygripped by the highest dramatic tension, as on the old stage, and reflectafterward that it was a fight between only two or three men in a roomotherwise empty, stop to analyze what they stood for. They were probablyrepresentatives of groups or races that had been pursuing each otherearlier in the film. Otherwise the conflict, however violent, appealedmainly to the sense of speed.So, in The Birth of a Nation, which could better be called The Overthrowof Negro Rule, the Ku Klux Klan dashes down the road as powerfully asNiagara pours over the cliff. Finally the white girl Elsie Stoneman(impersonated by Lillian Gish) is rescued by the Ku Klux Klan from themulatto politician, Silas Lynch (impersonated by George Seigmann). Thelady is brought forward as a typical helpless white maiden. The whiteleader, Col. Ben Cameron (impersonated by Henry B. Walthall), enters notas an individual, but as representing the whole Anglo-Saxon Niagara. Hehas the mask of the Ku Klux Klan on his face till the crisis has passed.The wrath of the Southerner against the blacks and their Northernorganizers has been piled up through many previous scenes. As a resultthis rescue is a real climax, something the photoplays that tracestrictly personal hatreds cannot achieve.The Birth of a Nation is a Crowd Picture in a triple sense. On the films,as in the audience, it turns the crowd into a mob that is either for oragainst the Reverend Thomas Dixon's poisonous hatred of the negro.Griffith is a chameleon in interpreting his authors. Wherever thescenario shows traces of The Clansman, the original book, by ThomasDixon, it is bad. Wherever it is unadulterated Griffith, which is halfthe time, it is good. The Reverend Thomas Dixon is a rather stagy SimonLegree: in his avowed views a deal like the gentleman with the spiritualhydrophobia in the latter end of Uncle Tom's Cabin. Unconsciously Mr.Dixon has done his best to prove that Legree was not a fictitiouscharacter.       *       *       *       *       *Joel Chandler Harris, Harry Stillwell Edwards, George W. Cable, ThomasNelson Page, James Lane Allen, and Mark Twain are Southern men in Mr.Griffith's class. I recommend their works to him as a better basis forfuture Southern scenarios.The Birth of a Nation has been very properly denounced for its SimonLegree qualities by Francis Hackett, Jane Addams, and others. But it isstill true that it is a wonder in its Griffith sections. In its handlingof masses of men it further illustrates the principles that made notablethe old one-reel Battle film described in the beginning of this chapter.The Battle in the end is greater, because of its self-possession andconcentration: all packed into twenty minutes.When, in The Birth of a Nation, Lincoln (impersonated by Joseph Henabery)goes down before the assassin, it is a master-scene. He falls as therepresentative of the government and a thousand high and noble crowdaspirations. The mimic audience in the restored Ford's Theatre rises inpanic. This crowd is interpreted in especial for us by the two youngpeople in the seats nearest, and the freezing horror of the treasonsweeps from the Ford's Theatre audience to the real audience beyond them.The real crowd touched with terror beholds its natural face in the glass.Later come the pictures of the rioting negroes in the streets of theSouthern town, mobs splendidly handled, tossing wildly and rhythmicallylike the sea. Then is delineated the rise of the Ku Klux Klan, of whichwe have already spoken. For comment on the musical accompaniment to TheBirth of a Nation, read the fourteenth chapter entitled "The Orchestra,Conversation and the Censorship."In the future development of motion pictures mob-movements of anger andjoy will go through fanatical and provincial whirlwinds into greatnational movements of anger and joy.A book by Gerald Stanley Lee that has a score of future scenarios in it,a book that might well be dipped into by the reader before he goes tosuch a play as The Italian or The Battle, is the work which bears thetitle of this chapter: "Crowds."Mr. Lee is far from infallible in his remedies for factory and industrialrelations. But in sensitiveness to the flowing street of humanity he isindeed a man. Listen to the names of some of the divisions of his book:"Crowds and Machines; Letting the Crowds be Good; Letting the Crowds beBeautiful; Crowds and Heroes; Where are we Going? The Crowd Scare; TheStrike, an Invention for making Crowds Think; The Crowd's Imaginationabout People; Speaking as One of the Crowd; Touching the Imagination ofCrowds." Films in the spirit of these titles would help to makeworld-voters of us all.The World State is indeed far away. But as we peer into the Mirror Screensome of us dare to look forward to the time when the pouring streets ofmen will become sacred in each other's eyes, in pictures and in fact.A further discussion of this theme on other planes will be found in theeleventh chapter, entitled "Architecture-in-Motion," and the fifteenthchapter, entitled "The Substitute for the Saloon."CHAPTER VIPATRIOTIC SPLENDORThe Patriotic Picture need not necessarily be in terms of splendor. Itgenerally is. Beginning the chronicle is one that waves no banners.The Typhoon, a film produced by Thomas H. Ince, is a story of theJapanese love of Nippon in which a very little of the landscape of thenation is shown, and that in the beginning. The hero (acted by SessueHayakawa), living in the heart of Paris, represents the far-off Empire.He is making a secret military report. He is a responsible member of acolony of Japanese gentlemen. The bevy of them appear before or after hisevery important action. He still represents this crowd when alone.The unfortunate Parisian heroine, unable to fathom the mystery of thefanatical hearts of the colony, ventures to think that her love for theJapanese hero and his equally great devotion to her is the importanthuman relation on the horizon. She flouts his obscure work, pits hercharms against it. In the end there is a quarrel. The irresistible meetsthe immovable, and in madness or half by accident, he kills the girl.The youth is protected by the colony, for he alone can make the report.He is the machine-like representative of the Japanese patriotic formula,till the document is complete. A new arrival in the colony, who obviouslycannot write the book, confesses the murder and is executed. The otherhigh fanatic dies soon after, of a broken heart, with the completedmanuscript volume in his hand. The one impression of the play is thatJapanese patriotism is a peculiar and fearful thing. The particularquality of the private romance is but vaguely given, for such things intheir rise and culmination can only be traced by the novelist, or by thegentle alternations of silence and speech on the speaking stage, aided bythe hot blood of players actually before us.Here, as in most photoplays, the attempted lover-conversations inpantomime are but indifferent things. The details of the hero's lastquarrel with the heroine and the precise thoughts that went with it aremuffled by the inability to speak. The power of the play is in theadequate style the man represents the colony. Sessue Hayakawa should giveus Japanese tales more adapted to the films. We should have stories ofIyeyasu and Hideyoshi, written from the ground up for the photoplaytheatre. We should have the story of the Forty-seven Ronin, not aJapanese stage version, but a work from the source-material. We shouldhave legends of the various clans, picturizations of the code of theSamurai.The Typhoon is largely indoors. But the Patriotic Motion Picture isgenerally a landscape. This is for deeper reasons than that it requireslarge fields in which to manoeuvre armies. Flags are shown for othercauses than that they are the nominal signs of a love of the native land.In a comedy of the history of a newspaper, the very columns of thepublication are actors, and may be photographed oftener than the humanhero. And in the higher realms this same tendency gives particular powerto the panorama and trappings. It makes the natural and artificialmagnificence more than a narrative, more than a color-scheme, somethingother than a drama. In a photoplay by a master, when the American flag isshown, the thirteen stripes are columns of history and the stars areheadlines. The woods and the templed hills are their printing press,almost in a literal sense.Going back to the illustration of the engine, in chapter two, thenon-human thing is a personality, even if it is not beautiful. When ittakes on the ritual of decorative design, this new vitality is madeseductive, and when it is an object of nature, this seductive ritualbecomes a new pantheism. The armies upon the mountains they are defendingare rooted in the soil like trees. They resist invasion with the sameelementary stubbornness with which the oak resists the storm or the cliffresists the wave.       *       *       *       *       *Let the reader consider Antony and Cleopatra, the Cines film. It wasbrought to America from Italy by George Klein. This and several ambitiousspectacles like it are direct violations of the foregoing principles.True, it glorifies Rome. It is equivalent to waving the Italian above theEgyptian flag, quite slowly for two hours. From the stage standpoint,the magnificence is thoroughgoing. Viewed as a circus, the acting iselephantine in its grandeur. All that is needed is pink lemonade sold inthe audience.The famous Cabiria, a tale of war between Rome and Carthage, byD'Annunzio, is a prime example of a success, where Antony and Cleopatraand many European films founded upon the classics have been failures.With obvious defects as a producer, D'Annunzio appreciates spectacularsymbolism. He has an instinct for the strange and the beautifullyinfernal, as they are related to decorative design. Therefore he is ableto show us Carthage indeed. He has an Italian patriotism that amounts tofrenzy. So Rome emerges body and soul from the past, in this spectacle.He gives us the cruelty of Baal, the intrepidity of the Roman legions.Everything Punic or Italian in the middle distance or massed backgroundspeaks of the very genius of the people concerned and actively generatestheir kind of lightning.The principals do not carry out the momentum of this immense resource.The half a score of leading characters, with the costumes, gestures, andaspects of gods, are after all works of the taxidermist. They arestuffed gods. They conduct a silly nickelodeon romance while Carthagerolls on toward her doom. They are like sparrows fighting for grain onthe edge of the battle.The doings of his principals are sufficiently evident to be grasped witha word or two of printed insert on the films. But he sentimentalizesabout them. He adds side-elaborations of the plot that would require muchtime to make clear, and a hard working novelist to make interesting. Weare sentenced to stop and gaze long upon this array of printing in thedarkness, just at the moment the tenth wave of glory seems ready to sweepin. But one hundred words cannot be a photoplay climax. The climax mustbe in a tableau that is to the eye as the rising sun itself, that followsthe thousand flags of the dawn.In the New York performance, and presumably in other large cities, therewas also an orchestra. Behold then, one layer of great photoplay, onelayer of bad melodrama, one layer of explanation, and a final cement ofmusic. It is as though in an art museum there should be a man at the doorselling would-be masterly short-stories about the paintings, and a manwith a violin playing the catalogue. But for further discourse on theorchestra read the fourteenth chapter.I left Cabiria with mixed emotions. And I had to forget the distressfuleye-strain. Few eyes submit without destruction to three hours of film.But the mistakes of Cabiria are those of the pioneer work of genius. Ithas in it twenty great productions. It abounds in suggestions. Once theclassic rules of this art-unit are established, men with equal geniuswith D'Annunzio and no more devotion, will give us the world'smasterpieces. As it is, the background and mass-movements must stand asmonumental achievements in vital patriotic splendor.D'Annunzio is Griffith's most inspired rival in these things. He lacksGriffith's knowledge of what is photoplay and what is not. He lacksGriffith's simplicity of hurdle-race plot. He lacks his avalanche-likeaction. The Italian needs the American's health and clean winds. He needshis foregrounds, leading actors, and types of plot. But the American hasnever gone as deep as the Italian into landscapes that are their owntragedians, and into Satanic and celestial ceremonials.Judith of Bethulia and The Battle Hymn of the Republic have impressed meas the two most significant photoplays I have ever encountered. They maybe classed with equal justice as religious or patriotic productions. Butfor reasons which will appear, The Battle Hymn of the Republic will beclassed as a film of devotion and Judith as a patriotic one. The latterwas produced by D.W. Griffith, and released by the Biograph Company in1914. The original stage drama was once played by the famous Bostonactress, Nance O'Neil. It is the work of Thomas Bailey Aldrich. Themotion picture scenario, when Griffith had done with it, had no especialAldrich flavor, though it contained several of the characters and eventsas Aldrich conceived them. It was principally the old apocryphal storyplus the genius of Griffith and that inner circle of players whom he hasendowed with much of his point of view.This is his cast of characters:--Judith                                   Blanche SweetHolofernes                               Henry WalthallHis servant                              J.J. LanceCaptain of the Guards                    H. HydeJudith's maid                            Miss BruceGeneral of the Jews                      C.H. MailesPriests                                  Messrs. Oppleman and LestinaNathan                                   Robert HarronNaomi                                    Mae MarshKeeper of the slaves for Holofernes      Alfred PagetThe Jewish mother                        Lillian GishThe Biograph Company advertises the production with the following Barnumand Bailey enumeration: "In four parts. Produced in California. Mostexpensive Biograph ever produced. More than one thousand people and aboutthree hundred horsemen. The following were built expressly for theproduction: a replica of the ancient city of Bethulia; the mammoth wallthat protected Bethulia; a faithful reproduction of the ancient armycamps, embodying all their barbaric splendor and dances; chariots,battering rams, scaling ladders, archer towers, and other special warparaphernalia of the period."The following spectacular effects: the storming of the walls of thecity of Bethulia; the hand-to-hand conflicts; the death-defying chariotcharges at break-neck speed; the rearing and plunging horses infuriatedby the din of battle; the wonderful camp of the terrible Holofernes,equipped with rugs brought from the far East; the dancing girls in theirexhibition of the exquisite and peculiar dances of the period; therouting of the command of the terrible Holofernes, and the destruction ofthe camp by fire. And overshadowing all, the heroism of the beautifulJudith."This advertisement should be compared with the notice of Your Girl andMine transcribed in the seventeenth chapter.But there is another point of view by which this Judith of Bethuliaproduction may be approached, however striking the advertising notice.There are four sorts of scenes alternated: (1) the particular history ofJudith; (2) the gentle courtship of Nathan and Naomi, types of theinhabitants of Bethulia; (3) pictures of the streets, with the populationflowing like a sluggish river; (4) scenes of raid, camp, and battle,interpolated between these, tying the whole together. The real plot isthe balanced alternation of all the elements. So many minutes of one,then so many minutes of another. As was proper, very little of the talewas thrown on the screen in reading matter, and no climax was ever aprinted word, but always an enthralling tableau.The particular history of Judith begins with the picture of her as thedevout widow. She is austerely garbed, at prayer for her city, in her ownquiet house. Then later she is shown decked for the eyes of man in thecamp of Holofernes, where all is Assyrian glory. Judith struggles betweenher unexpected love for the dynamic general and the resolve to destroyhim that brought her there. In either type of scene, the first gray andsilver, the other painted with Paul Veronese splendor, Judith moves witha delicate deliberation. Over her face the emotions play like winds on ameadow lake. Holofernes is the composite picture of all the Biblicalheathen chieftains. His every action breathes power. He is an Assyrianbull, a winged lion, and a god at the same time, and divine honors arepaid to him every moment.Nathan and Naomi are two Arcadian lovers. In their shy meetings theyexpress the life of the normal Bethulia. They are seen among the reapersoutside the city or at the well near the wall, or on the streets of theancient town. They are generally doing the things the crowd behind themis doing, meanwhile evolving their own little heart affair. Finally whenthe Assyrian comes down like a wolf on the fold, the gentle Naomi becomesa prisoner in Holofernes' camp. She is in the foreground, arepresentative of the crowd of prisoners. Nathan is photographed on thewall as the particular defender of the town in whom we are mostinterested.The pictures of the crowd's normal activities avoid jerkiness and haste.They do not abound in the boresome self-conscious quietude that someproducers have substituted for the usual twitching. Each actor in theassemblies has a refreshing equipment in gentle gesticulation; for themanners and customs of Bethulia must needs be different from those ofAmerica. Though the population moves together as a river, each citizen isquite preoccupied. To the furthest corner of the picture, they areegotistical as human beings. The elder goes by, in theologicalconversation with his friend. He thinks his theology is important. Themother goes by, all absorbed in her child. To her it is the only child inthe world.Alternated with these scenes is the terrible rush of the Assyrian army,on to exploration, battle, and glory. The speed of their setting outbecomes actual, because it is contrasted with the deliberation of theJewish town. At length the Assyrians are along those hills and valleysand below the wall of defence. The population is on top of thebattlements, beating them back the more desperately because they areseparated from the water-supply, the wells in the fields where once thelovers met. In a lull in the siege, by a connivance of the elders, Judithis let out of a little door in the wall. And while the fortune of herpeople is most desperate she is shown in the quiet shelter of the tent ofHolofernes. Sinuous in grace, tranced, passionately in love, she hasforgotten her peculiar task. She is in a sense Bethulia itself, the raceof Israel made over into a woman, while Holofernes is the embodiment ofthe besieging army. Though in a quiet tent, and on the terms of love, itis the essential warfare of the hot Assyrian blood and the pure andpeculiar Jewish thoroughbredness.Blanche Sweet as Judith is indeed dignified and ensnaring, the more sobecause in her abandoned quarter of an hour the Jewish sanctity does notleave her. And her aged woman attendant, coming in and out, sentinel andconscience, with austere face and lifted finger, symbolizes the fire ofIsrael that shall yet awaken within her. When her love for her city andGod finally becomes paramount, she shakes off the spell of the divinehonors which she has followed all the camp in according to that livingheathen deity Holofernes, and by the very transfiguration of her figureand countenance we know that the deliverance of Israel is at hand. Shebeheads the dark Assyrian. Soon she is back in the city, by way of thelittle gate by which she emerged. The elders receive her and her bloodytrophy.The people who have been dying of thirst arise in a final whirlwind ofcourage. Bereft of their military genius, the Assyrians flee from theburning camp. Naomi is delivered by her lover Nathan. This act is takenby the audience as a type of the setting free of all the captives. Thenwe have the final return of the citizens to their town. As for Judith,hers is no crass triumph. She is shown in her gray and silvery room inher former widow's dress, but not the same woman. There is thwarted lovein her face. The sword of sorrow is there. But there is also the prayerof thanksgiving. She goes forth. She is hailed as her city's deliverer.She stands among the nobles like a holy candle.Providing the picture may be preserved in its original delicacy, it hasevery chance to retain a place in the affections of the wise, if a humblepioneer of criticism may speak his honest mind.Though in this story the archaic flavor is well-preserved, the way theproducer has pictured the population at peace, in battle, in despair, invictory gives me hope that he or men like unto him will illustrate theAmerican patriotic crowd-prophecies. We must have Whitmanesque scenarios,based on moods akin to that of the poem By Blue Ontario's Shore. Thepossibility of showing the entire American population its own face in theMirror Screen has at last come. Whitman brought the idea of democracy toour sophisticated literati, but did not persuade the democracy itself toread his democratic poems. Sooner or later the kinetoscope will do whathe could not, bring the nobler side of the equality idea to the peoplewho are so crassly equal.The photoplay penetrates in our land to the haunts of the wildest or thedullest. The isolated prospector rides twenty miles to see the same filmthat is displayed on Broadway. There is not a civilized or half-civilizedland but may read the Whitmanesque message in time, if once it is put onthe films with power. Photoplay theatres are set up in ports wheresailors revel, in heathen towns where gentlemen adventurers are willingto make one last throw with fate.On the other hand, as a recorder Whitman approaches the wildest, rawestAmerican material and conquers it, at the same time keeping his nerves inthe state in which Swinburne wrote Only the Song of Secret Bird, orLanier composed The Ballad of Trees and The Master. J.W. Alexander'sportrait of Whitman in the Metropolitan Museum, New York, is not toosophisticated. The out-of-door profoundness of this poet is far richerthan one will realize unless he has just returned from some cross-countryadventure afoot. Then if one reads breathlessly by the page and the scoreof pages, there is a glory transcendent. For films of Americanpatriotism to parallel the splendors of Cabiria and Judith of Bethulia,and to excel them, let us have Whitmanesque scenarios based on moods likethat of By Blue Ontario's Shore, The Salute au Monde, and The Passage toIndia. Then the people's message will reach the people at last.The average Crowd Picture will cling close to the streets that are, andthe usual Patriotic Picture will but remind us of nationality as it is atpresent conceived and aflame, and the Religious Picture will for the mostpart be close to the standard orthodoxies. The final forms of these mergeinto each other, though they approach the heights by different avenues.We Americans should look for the great photoplay of to-morrow, that willmark a decade or a century, that prophesies of the flags made one, thecrowds in brotherhood.CHAPTER VIIRELIGIOUS SPLENDORAs far as the photoplay is concerned, religious emotion is a form ofcrowd-emotion. In the most conventional and rigid church sense this phasecan be conveyed more adequately by the motion picture than by the stage.There is little, of course, for the anti-ritualist in the art-worldanywhere. The thing that makes cathedrals real shrines in the eye of thereverent traveller makes them, with their religious processions and thelike, impressive in splendor-films.For instance, I have long remembered the essentials of the film, TheDeath of Thomas Becket. It may not compare in technique with some of ourpresent moving picture achievements, but the idea must have beenparticularly adapted to the film medium. The story has stayed in my mindwith great persistence, not only as a narrative, but as the first hint tome that orthodox religious feeling has here an undeveloped field.Green tells the story in this way, in his History of the EnglishPeople:--"Four knights of the King's court, stirred to outrage by a passionateoutburst of their master's wrath, crossed the sea and on the twenty-ninthof December forced their way into the Archbishop's palace. After a stormyparley with him in his chamber they withdrew to arm. Thomas was hurriedby his clerks into the cathedral, but as he reached the steps leadingfrom the transept into the choir his pursuers burst in from thecloisters. 'Where,' cried Reginald Fitzurse, 'is the traitor, ThomasBecket?' 'Here am I, no traitor, but a priest of God,' he replied. Andagain descending the steps he placed himself with his back against apillar and fronted his foes.... The brutal murder was received with athrill of horror throughout Christendom. Miracles were wrought at themartyr's tomb, etc...."It is one of the few deaths in moving pictures that have given me thesense that I was watching a tragedy. Most of them affect one, if theyhave any effect, like exhibits in an art gallery, as does Josef Israels'oil painting, Alone in the World. We admire the technique, and as foremotion, we feel the picturesqueness only. But here the churchprocession, the robes, the candles, the vaulting overhead, the wholevisualized cathedral mood has the power over the reverent eye it has inlife, and a touch more.It is not a private citizen who is struck down. Such a taking off wouldhave been but nominally impressive, no matter how well acted. Privatedeaths in the films, to put it another way, are but narrative statements.It is not easy to convey their spiritual significance. Take, forinstance, the death of John Goderic, in the film version of GilbertParker's The Seats of the Mighty. The major leaves this world in thefirst third of the story. The photoplay use of his death is, that he maywhisper in the ear of Robert Moray to keep certain letters of LaPompadour well hidden. The fact that it is the desire of a dying mangives sharpness to his request. Later in the story Moray is hard-pressedby the villain for those same papers. Then the scene of the death isflashed for an instant on the screen, representing the hero's memory ofthe event. It is as though he should recollect and renew a solemn oath.The documents are more important than John Goderic. His departure is butone of their attributes. So it is in any film. There is no emotionalstimulation in the final departure of a non-public character to bringtears, such tears as have been provoked by the novel or the stage overthe death of Sidney Carton or Faust's Marguerite or the like.All this, to make sharper the fact that the murder of Becket thearchbishop is a climax. The great Church and hierarchy are profaned. Theaudience feels the same thrill of horror that went through Christendom.We understand why miracles were wrought at the martyr's tomb.In the motion pictures the entrance of a child into the world is a merefamily episode, not a climax, when it is the history of private people.For instance, several little strangers come into the story of EnochArden. They add beauty, and are links in the chain of events. Still theyare only one of many elements of idyllic charm in the village of Annie.Something that in real life is less valuable than a child is the goal ofeach tiny tableau, some coming or departure or the like that affects thetotal plot. But let us imagine a production that would chronicle thepromise to Abraham, and the vision that came with it. Let the film showthe final gift of Isaac to the aged Sarah, even the boy who is thebeginning of a race that shall be as the stars of heaven and the sands ofthe sea for multitude. This could be made a pageant of power and glory.The crowd-emotions, patriotic fires, and religious exaltations on whichit turns could be given in noble procession and the tiny fellow on thepillow made the mystic centre of the whole. The story of the coming ofSamuel, the dedicated little prophet, might be told on similar terms.The real death in the photoplay is the ritualistic death, the real birthis the ritualistic birth, and the cathedral mood of the motion picturewhich goes with these and is close to these in many of its phases, is aninexhaustible resource.The film corporations fear religious questions, lest offence be given tothis sect or that. So let such denominations as are in the habit ofcooperating, themselves take over this medium, not gingerly, butwhole-heartedly, as in mediaeval time the hierarchy strengthened its holdon the people with the marvels of Romanesque and Gothic architecture.This matter is further discussed in the seventeenth chapter, entitled"Progress and Endowment."But there is a field wherein the commercial man will not be accused ofheresy or sacrilege, which builds on ritualistic birth and death andelements akin thereto. This the established producer may enter withoutfear. Which brings us to The Battle Hymn of the Republic, issued by theAmerican Vitagraph Company in 1911. This film should be studied in theHigh Schools and Universities till the canons of art for which it standsare established in America. The director was Larry Trimble. All honor tohim.The patriotism of The Battle Hymn of the Republic, if taken literally,deals with certain aspects of the Civil War. But the picture istransfigured by so marked a devotion, that it is the main illustration inthis work of the religious photoplay.The beginning shows President Lincoln in the White House brooding overthe lack of response to his last call for troops. (He is impersonated byRalph Ince.) He and Julia Ward Howe are looking out of the window on arecruiting headquarters that is not busy. (Mrs. Howe is impersonated byJulia S. Gordon.) Another scene shows an old mother in the West refusingto let her son enlist. (This woman is impersonated by Mrs. Maurice.) Thefather has died in the war. The sword hangs on the wall. Later Julia WardHowe is shown in her room asleep at midnight, then rising in a trance andwriting the Battle Hymn at a table by the bed.The pictures that might possibly have passed before her mind during thetrance are thrown upon the screen. The phrases they illustrate are not inthe final order of the poem, but in the possible sequence in which theywent on the paper in the first sketch. The dream panorama is not aliteral discussion of abolitionism or states' rights. It illustratesrather the Hebraic exultation applied to all lands and times. "Mine eyeshave seen the glory of the coming of the Lord"; a gracious picture of thenativity. (Edith Storey impersonates Mary the Virgin.) "I have seen himin the watchfires of a hundred circling camps" and "They have builded himan altar in the evening dews and damps"--for these are given symbolicpageants of the Holy Sepulchre crusaders.Then there is a visible parable, showing a marketplace in some wickedcapital, neither Babylon, Tyre, nor Nineveh, but all of them in essentialcharacter. First come spectacles of rejoicing, cruelty, and waste. Thenfrom Heaven descend flood and fire, brimstone and lightning. It is likethe judgment of the Cities of the Plain. Just before the overthrow, theline is projected upon the screen: "He hath loosed the fateful lightningof his terrible swift sword." Then the heavenly host becomes graduallyvisible upon the air, marching toward the audience, almost crossing thefootlights, and blowing their solemn trumpets. With this picture the lineis given us to read: "Our God is marching on." This host appears in thephotoplay as often as the refrain sweeps into the poem. The celestialcompany, its imperceptible emergence, its spiritual power when in theascendant, is a thing never to be forgotten, a tableau that proves themotion picture a great religious instrument.Then comes a procession indeed. It is as though the audience werestanding at the side of the throne at Doomsday looking down the hill ofZion toward the little earth. There is a line of those who are to bejudged, leaders from the beginning of history, barbarians with theircrude weapons, classic characters, Caesar and his rivals for fame;mediaeval figures including Dante meditating; later figures, Richelieu,Napoleon. Many people march toward the strange glorifying eye of thecamera, growing larger than men, filling the entire field of vision,disappearing when they are almost upon us. The audience weighs the worthof their work to the world as the men themselves with downcast eyes seemto be doing also. The most thrilling figure is Tolstoi in his peasantsmock, coming after the bitter egotists and conquerors. (Theimpersonation is by Edward Thomas.) I shall never forget that presencemarching up to the throne invisible with bowed head. This procession isto illustrate the line: "He is sifting out the hearts of men before hisJudgment Seat." Later Lincoln is pictured on the steps of the WhiteHouse. It is a quaint tableau, in the spirit of the old-fashioned Rogersgroup. Yet it is masterful for all that. Lincoln is taking the chainsfrom a cowering slave. This tableau is to illustrate the line: "Let thehero born of woman crush the serpent with his heel." Now it is the end ofthe series of visions. It is morning in Mrs. Howe's room. She rises. Sheis filled with wonder to find the poem on her table.Written to the rousing glory-tune of John Brown's Body the song goes overthe North like wildfire. The far-off home of the widow is shown. She andthe boy read the famous chant in the morning news column. She takes theold sword from the wall. She gives it to her son and sends him to enlistwith her blessing. In the next picture Lincoln and Mrs. Howe are lookingout of the window where was once the idle recruiting tent. A new army ispouring by, singing the words that have rallied the nation. Ritualisticbirth and death have been discussed. This film might be said toillustrate ritualistic birth, death, and resurrection.The writer has seen hundreds of productions since this one. He hasdescribed it from memory. It came out in a time when the American peoplepaid no attention to the producer or the cast. It may have many technicalcrudities by present-day standards. But the root of the matter is there.And Springfield knew it. It was brought back to our town many times. Itwas popular in both the fashionable picture show houses and the cheapest,dirtiest hole in the town. It will soon be reissued by the VitagraphCompany. Every student of American Art should see this film.The same exultation that went into it, the faculty for commanding thegreat spirits of history and making visible the unseen powers of theair, should be applied to Crowd Pictures which interpret thenon-sectarian prayers of the broad human race.The pageant of Religious Splendor is the final photoplay form in theclassification which this work seeks to establish. Much of what followswill be to reenforce the heads of these first discourses. Further commenton the Religious Photoplay may be found in the eleventh chapter, entitled"Architecture-in-Motion."CHAPTER VIIISCULPTURE-IN-MOTIONThe outline is complete. Now to reenforce it. Pictures of Action Intimacyand Splendor are the foundation colors in the photoplay, as red, blue,and yellow are the basis of the rainbow. Action Films might be called thered section; Intimate Motion Pictures, being colder and quieter, might becalled blue; and Splendor Photoplays called yellow, since that is the hueof pageants and sunshine.Another way of showing the distinction is to review the types of gesture.The Action Photoplay deals with generalized pantomime: the gesture of theconventional policeman in contrast with the mannerism of the stereotypedpreacher. The Intimate Film gives us more elusive personal gestures: thedifference between the table manners of two preachers in the samerestaurant, or two policemen. A mark of the Fairy Play is the gesture ofincantation, the sweep of the arm whereby Mab would transform a princeinto a hawk. The other Splendor Films deal with the total gestures ofcrowds: the pantomime of a torch-waving mass of men, the drill of an armyon the march, or the bending of the heads of a congregation receiving thebenediction.Another way to demonstrate the thesis is to use the old classification ofpoetry: dramatic, lyric, epic. The Action Play is a narrow form of thedramatic. The Intimate Motion Picture is an equivalent of the lyric. Inthe seventeenth chapter it is shown that one type of the Intimate mightbe classed as imagist. And obviously the Splendor Pictures are theequivalent of the epic.But perhaps the most adequate way of showing the meaning of this outlineis to say that the Action Film is sculpture-in-motion, the IntimatePhotoplay is painting-in-motion, and the Fairy Pageant, along with therest of the Splendor Pictures, may be described as architecture-in-motion.This chapter will discuss the bearing of the phrase sculpture-in-motion.It will relate directly to chapter two.First, gentle and kindly reader, let us discuss sculpture in its mostliteral sense: after that, less realistically, but perhaps moreadequately. Let us begin with Annette Kellerman in Neptune's Daughter.This film has a crude plot constructed to show off Annette's variousathletic resources. It is good photography, and a big idea so far as theswimming episodes are concerned. An artist haunted by picture-conceptionsequivalent to the musical thoughts back of Wagner's Rhine-maidens couldhave made of Annette, in her mermaid's dress, a notable figure. Or astory akin to the mermaid tale of Hans Christian Andersen, or MatthewArnold's poem of the forsaken merman, could have made this picturesquewitch of the salt water truly significant, and still retained the mostbeautiful parts of the photoplay as it was exhibited. It is anexceedingly irrelevant imagination that shows her in other scenes as aduellist, for instance, because forsooth she can fence. As a child of theocean, half fish, half woman, she is indeed convincing. Such mermaids asthis have haunted sailors, and lured them on the rocks to their doom,from the day the siren sang till the hour the Lorelei sang no more. Thescene with the baby mermaid, when she swims with the pretty creature onher back, is irresistible. Why are our managers so mechanical? Why dothey flatten out at the moment the fancy of the tiniest reader offairy-tales begins to be alive? Most of Annette's support were stagedummies. Neptune was a lame Santa Claus with cotton whiskers.But as for the bearing of the film on this chapter: the human figure iswithin its rights whenever it is as free from self-consciousness as wasthe life-radiating Annette in the heavenly clear waters of Bermuda. Onthe other hand, Neptune and his pasteboard diadem and wooden-pointedpitchfork, should have put on his dressing-gown and retired. As a toedancer in an alleged court scene, on land, Annette was a mere simperer.Possibly Pavlowa as a swimmer in Bermuda waters would have been as muchof a mistake. Each queen to her kingdom.For living, moving sculpture, the human eye requires a costume and a partin unity with the meaning of that particular figure. There is the Greekdress of Mordkin in the arrow dance. There is Annette's breast coveringof shells, and wonderful flowing mermaid hair, clothing her as themidnight does the moon. The new costume freedom of the photoplay allowssuch limitation of clothing as would be probable when one is honestly intouch with wild nature and preoccupied with vigorous exercise. Thus thecave-man and desert island narratives, though seldom well done, whenproduced with verisimilitude, give an opportunity for the native humanframe in the logical wrappings of reeds and skins. But those who in asilly hurry seek excuses, are generally merely ridiculous, like thebarefoot man who is terribly tender about walking on the pebbles, or thewild man who is white as celery or grass under a board. There is no shortcut to vitality.A successful literal use of sculpture is in the film Oil and Water.Blanche Sweet is the leader of the play within a play which occupies thefirst reel. Here the Olympians and the Muses, with a grace that we fancywas Greek, lead a dance that traces the story of the spring, summer, andautumn of life. Finally the supple dancers turn gray and old and die, butnot before they have given us a vision from the Ionian islands. The playmight have been inspired from reading Keats' Lamia, but is probablyderived from the work of Isadora Duncan. This chapter has hereafter onlya passing word or two on literal sculptural effects. It has more in mindthe carver's attitude toward all that passes before the eye.The sculptor George Gray Barnard is responsible for none of the views inthis discourse, but he has talked to me at length about his sense ofdiscovery in watching the most ordinary motion pictures, and his delightin following them with their endless combinations of masses and flowingsurfaces.The little far-away people on the old-fashioned speaking stage do notappeal to the plastic sense in this way. They are, by comparison, merebits of pasteboard with sweet voices, while, on the other hand, thephotoplay foreground is full of dumb giants. The bodies of these giantsare in high sculptural relief. Where the lights are quite glaring and thephotography is bad, many of the figures are as hard in their impact onthe eye as lime-white plaster-casts, no matter what the clothing. Thereare several passages of this sort in the otherwise beautiful Enoch Arden,where the shipwrecked sailor is depicted on his desert island in theglaring sun.What materials should the photoplay figures suggest? There are as manypossible materials as there are subjects for pictures and tone schemesto be considered. But we will take for illustration wood, bronze, andmarble, since they have been used in the old sculptural art.There is found in most art shows a type of carved wood gargoyle where thework and the subject are at one, not only in the color of the wood, butin the way the material masses itself, in bulk betrays its qualities. Wewill suppose a moving picture humorist who is in the same mood as thecarver. He chooses a story of quaint old ladies, street gamins, and fataldermen. Imagine the figures with the same massing and interplaysuddenly invested with life, yet giving to the eye a pleasure kindred tothat which is found in carved wood, and bringing to the fancy a similarhumor.Or there is a type of Action Story where the mood of the figures is thatof bronze, with the aesthetic resources of that metal: its elasticity; itsemphasis on the tendon, ligament, and bone, rather than on the muscle;and an attribute that we will call the panther-like quality. Hermon A.MacNeil has a memorable piece of work in the yard of the architect Shaw,at Lake Forest, Illinois. It is called "The Sun Vow." A little Indian isshooting toward the sun, while the old warrior, crouching immediatelybehind him, follows with his eye the direction of the arrow. Few piecesof sculpture come readily to mind that show more happily the qualities ofbronze as distinguished from other materials. To imagine such a groupdone in marble, carved wood, or Della Robbia ware is to destroy the veryimage in the fancy.The photoplay of the American Indian should in most instances be plannedas bronze in action. The tribes should not move so rapidly that thepanther-like elasticity is lost in the riding, running, and scalping. Onthe other hand, the aborigines should be far from the temperateness ofmarble.Mr. Edward S. Curtis, the super-photographer, has made an Ethnologicalcollection of photographs of our American Indians. This work of alife-time, a supreme art achievement, shows the native as a figure inbronze. Mr. Curtis' photoplay, The Land of the Head Hunters (World FilmCorporation), a romance of the Indians of the North-West, abounds innoble bronzes.I have gone through my old territories as an art student, in the ChicagoArt Institute and the Metropolitan Museum, of late, in specialexcursions, looking for sculpture, painting, and architecture that mightbe the basis for the photoplays of the future.The Bacchante of Frederick MacMonnies is in bronze in the MetropolitanMuseum and in bronze replica in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. There isprobably no work that more rejoices the hearts of the young art studentsin either city. The youthful creature illustrates a most joyous leap intothe air. She is high on one foot with the other knee lifted. She holds abunch of grapes full-arm's length. Her baby, clutched in the other hand,is reaching up with greedy mouth toward the fruit. The bacchante body isglistening in the light. This is joy-in-bronze as the Sun Vow ispower-in-bronze. This special story could not be told in another medium.I have seen in Paris a marble copy of this Bacchante. It is as though itwere done in soap. On the other hand, many of the renaissance Italiansculptors have given us children in marble in low relief, dancing likelilies in the wind. They could not be put into bronze.The plot of the Action Photoplay is literally or metaphorically a chasedown the road or a hurdle-race. It might be well to consider how typicalfigures for such have been put into carved material. There are two bronzestatues that have their replicas in all museums. They are generally oneon either side of the main hall, towering above the second-storybalustrade. First, the statue of Gattamelata, a Venetian general, byDonatello. The original is in Padua. Then there is the figure ofBartolommeo Colleoni. The original is in Venice. It is by Verrocchio andLeopardi. These equestrians radiate authority. There is more action inthem than in any cowboy hordes I have ever beheld zipping across thescreen. Look upon them and ponder long, prospective author-producer. Evenin a simple chase-picture, the speed must not destroy the chance to enjoythe modelling. If you would give us mounted legions, destined to conquer,let any one section of the film, if it is stopped and studied, begrounded in the same bronze conception. The Assyrian commanders inGriffith's Judith would, without great embarrassment, stand this test.But it may not be the pursuit of an enemy we have in mind. It may be aspring celebration, horsemen in Arcadia, going to some happy tournament.Where will we find our precedents for such a cavalcade? Go to any museum.Find the Parthenon room. High on the wall is the copy of the famousmarble frieze of the young citizens who are in the procession in praiseof Athena. Such a rhythm of bodies and heads and the feet of proudsteeds, and above all the profiles of thoroughbred youths, no city hasseen since that day. The delicate composition relations, ever varying,ever refreshing, amid the seeming sameness of formula of rider behindrider, have been the delight of art students the world over, and shall soremain. No serious observer escapes the exhilaration of this company. Letit be studied by the author-producer though it be but an idyl in disguisethat his scenario calls for: merry young farmers hurrying to the StateFair parade, boys making all speed to the political rally.Buy any three moving picture magazines you please. Mark the illustrationsthat are massive, in high relief, with long lines in their edges. Cut outand sort some of these. I have done it on the table where I write. Afterthrowing away all but the best specimens, I have four different kinds ofsculpture. First, behold the inevitable cowboy. He is on a rampinghorse, filling the entire outlook. The steed rears, while facing us. Thecowboy waves his hat. There is quite such an animal by FrederickMacMonnies, wrought in bronze, set up on a gate to a park in Brooklyn. Itis not the identical color of the photoplay animal, but the bronzeelasticity is the joy in both.Here is a scene of a masked monk, carrying off a fainting girl. The herointercepts him. The figures of the lady and the monk are in sufficientsculptural harmony to make a formal sculptural group for an artexhibition. The picture of the hero, strong, with well-massed surfaces,is related to both. The fact that he is in evening dress does not alterhis monumental quality. All three are on a stone balcony that relatesitself to the general largeness of spirit in the group, and thesemi-classic dress of the maiden. No doubt the title is: The MorningFollowing the Masquerade Ball. This group could be made in unglazed clay,in four colors.Here is an American lieutenant with two ladies. The three are suddenlyalert over the approach of the villain, who is not yet in the picture.In costume it is an everyday group, but those three figures are relatedto one another, and the trees behind them, in simple sculptural terms.The lieutenant, as is to be expected, looks forth in fierce readiness.One girl stands with clasped hands. The other points to the danger. Therelations of these people to one another may seem merely dramatic to thesuperficial observer, but the power of the group is in the fact that itis monumental. I could imagine it done in four different kinds of raretropical wood, carved unpolished.Here is a scene of storm and stress in an office where the hero is caughtwith seemingly incriminating papers. The table is in confusion. The roomis filling with people, led by one accusing woman. Is this alsosculpture? Yes. The figures are in high relief. Even the surfaces of thechairs and the littered table are massive, and the eye travels withoutweariness, as it should do in sculpture, from the hero to the furiouswoman, then to the attorney behind her, then to the two other revilers,then to the crowd in three loose rhythmic ranks. The eye makes thisjourney, not from space to space, or fabric to fabric, but first of allfrom mass to mass. It is sculpture, but it is the sort that can be donein no medium but the moving picture itself, and therefore it is one goalof this argument.But there are several other goals. One of the sculpturesque resources ofthe photoplay is that the human countenance can be magnified many times,till it fills the entire screen. Some examples are in rather low relief,portraits approximating certain painters. But if they are on sculpturalterms, and are studies of the faces of thinking men, let the producermake a pilgrimage to Washington for his precedent. There, in the rotundaof the capitol, is the face of Lincoln by Gutzon Borglum. It is one ofthe eminently successful attempts to get at the secret of the countenanceby enlarging it much, and concentrating the whole consideration there.The photoplay producer, seemingly without taking thought, is apt to showa sculptural sense in giving us Newfoundland fishermen, clad in oilskins.The background may have an unconscious Winslow Homer reminiscence. In theforeground our hardy heroes fill the screen, and dripping with sea-waterbecome wave-beaten granite, yet living creatures none the less. Imaginesome one chapter from the story of Little Em'ly in David Copperfield,retold in the films. Show us Ham Peggotty and old Mr. Peggotty incolloquy over their nets. There are many powerful bronze groups to be hadfrom these two, on to the heroic and unselfish death of Ham, rescuing hisenemy in storm and lightning.I have seen one rich picture of alleged cannibal tribes. It was a comedyabout a missionary. But the aborigines were like living ebony and silver.That was long ago. Such things come too much by accident. The producer isnot sufficiently aware that any artistic element in his list ofproductions that is allowed to go wild, that has not had full analysis,reanalysis, and final conservation, wastes his chance to attain suprememastery.Open your history of sculpture, and dwell upon those illustrations whichare not the normal, reposeful statues, but the exceptional, such as havebeen listed for this chapter. Imagine that each dancing, galloping, orfighting figure comes down into the room life-size. Watch it against adark curtain. Let it go through a series of gestures in harmony with thespirit of the original conception, and as rapidly as possible, not tolose nobility. If you have the necessary elasticity, imagine the figureswearing the costumes of another period, yet retaining in their motionsthe same essential spirit. Combine them in your mind with one or twokindred figures, enlarged till they fill the end of the room. You havenow created the beginning of an Action Photoplay in your own fancy.Do this with each most energetic classic till your imagination flags. Ido not want to be too dogmatic, but it seems to me this is one way toevolve real Action Plays. It would, perhaps, be well to substitute thisfor the usual method of evolving them from old stage material ornewspaper clippings.There is in the Metropolitan Museum a noble modern group, the Mares ofDiomedes, by the aforementioned Gutzon Borglum. It is full of materialfor the meditations of a man who wants to make a film of a stampede. Theidea is that Hercules, riding his steed bareback, guides it in a circle.He is fascinating the horses he has been told to capture. They are heldby the mesmerism of the circular path and follow him round and round tillthey finally fall from exhaustion. Thus the Indians of the West capturewild ponies, and Borglum, a far western man, imputes the method toHercules. The bronze group shows a segment of this circle. The whirlwindis at its height. The mares are wild to taste the flesh of Hercules.Whoever is to photograph horses, let him study the play of light andcolor and muscle-texture in this bronze. And let no group of horses everrun faster than these of Borglum.An occasional hint of a Michelangelo figure or gesture appears for aflash in the films. Young artist in the audience, does it pass you by?Open your history of sculpture again and look at the usual list ofMichelangelo groups. Suppose the seated majesty of Moses should rise,what would be the quality of the action? Suppose the sleeping figures ofthe Medician tombs should wake, or those famous slaves should break theirbands, or David again hurl the stone. Would not their action be as heroicas their quietness? Is it not possible to have a Michelangelo ofphotoplay sculpture? Should we not look for him in the fulness of time?His figures might come to us in the skins of the desert island solitary,or as cave men and women, or as mermaids and mermen, and yet have a forceand grandeur akin to that of the old Italian.Rodin's famous group of the citizens of Calais is an example of theexpression of one particular idea by a special technical treatment. Theproducer who tells a kindred story to that of the siege of Calais, andthe final going of these humble men to their doom, will have a hero-taleindeed. It will be not only sculpture-in-action, but a great CrowdPicture. It begins to be seen that the possibilities of monumentalachievement in the films transcend the narrow boundaries of the ActionPhotoplay. Why not conceptions as heroic as Rodin's Hand of God, wherethe first pair are clasped in the gigantic fingers of their maker in theclay from which they came?Finally, I desire in moving pictures, not the stillness, but the majestyof sculpture. I do not advocate for the photoplay the mood of the Venusof Milo. But let us turn to that sister of hers, the great Victory ofSamothrace, that spreads her wings at the head of the steps of theLouvre, and in many an art gallery beside. When you are appraising a newfilm, ask yourself: "Is this motion as rapid, as godlike, as the sweep ofthe wings of the Samothracian?" Let her be the touchstone of the ActionDrama, for nothing can be more swift than the winged Gods, nothing can bemore powerful than the oncoming of the immortals.CHAPTER IXPAINTING-IN-MOTIONThis chapter is founded on the delicate effects that may be worked outfrom cosy interior scenes, close to the camera. It relates directly tochapter three.While the Intimate-and-friendly Motion Picture may be in high sculpturalrelief, its characteristic manifestations are in low relief. Thesituations show to better advantage when they seem to be paintings ratherthan monumental groups.Turn to your handful of motion picture magazines and mark theillustrations that look the most like paintings. Cut them out. Winnowthem several times. I have before me, as a final threshing from such anexperiment, five pictures. Each one approximates a different school.Here is a colonial Virginia maiden by the hearth of the inn. Bending overher in a cherishing way is the negro maid. On the other side, theinnkeeper shows a kindred solicitude. A dishevelled traveller sleepshuddled up in the corner. The costume of the man fades into the velvetyshadows of the wall. His face is concealed. His hair blends with the softbackground. The clothing of the other three makes a patch of light gray.Added to this is the gayety of special textures: the turban of thenegress, a trimming on the skirt of the heroine, the silkiness of theinnkeeper's locks, the fabric of the broom in the hearthlight, thepattern of the mortar lines round the bricks of the hearth. The tableauis a satisfying scheme in two planes and many textures. Here is anothersort of painting. The young mother in her pretty bed is smiling on herinfant. The cot and covers and flesh tints have gentle scales ofdifference, all within one tone of the softest gray. Her hair is quitedark. It relates to the less luminous black of the coat of the physicianbehind the bed and the dress of the girl-friend bending over her. Thenurse standing by the doctor is a figure of the same gray-white as thebed. Within the pattern of the velvety-blacks there are as many subtlegradations as in the pattern of the gray-whites. The tableau is asatisfying scheme in black and gray, with practically one non-obtrusivetexture throughout.Here is a picture of an Englishman and his wife, in India. It might becalled sculptural, but for the magnificence of the turban of the rajahwho converses with them, the glitter of the light round his shoulders,and the scheme of shadow out of which the three figures rise. Thearrangement remotely reminds one of several of Rembrandt's semi-orientalmusings.Here is a picture of Mary Pickford as Fanchon the Cricket. She is in thecottage with the strange old mother. I have seen a painting in this moodby the Greek Nickolas Gysis.The Intimate-and-friendly Moving Picture, the photoplay ofpainting-in-motion, need not be indoors as long as it has thenative-heath mood. It is generally keyed to the hearthstone, and keepsquite close to it. But how well I remember when the first Frenchphotoplays began to come. Though unintelligent in some respects, thephotography and subject-matter of many of them made one think of thatpainter of gentle out-of-door scenes, Jean Charles Cazin. Here is ourlast clipping, which is also in a spirit allied to Cazin. The heroine,accompanied by an aged shepherd and his dog, are in the foreground. Thesheep are in the middle distance on the edge of the river. There is anoble hill beyond the gently flowing water. Here is intimacy andfriendliness in the midst of the big out of doors.If these five photo-paintings were on good paper enlarged to twenty bytwenty-four inches, they would do to frame and hang on the wall of anystudy, for a month or so. And after the relentless test of time, I wouldventure that some one of the five would prove a permanent addition to thehousehold gods.Hastily made photographs selected from the films are often put in frontof the better theatres to advertise the show. Of late they are makingthem two by three feet and sometimes several times larger. Here is acommercial beginning of an art gallery, but not enough pains are taken togive the selections a complete art gallery dignity. Why not have the mostbeautiful scenes in front of the theatres, instead of those alleged to bethe most thrilling? Why not rest the fevered and wandering eye, ratherthan make one more attempt to take it by force?Let the reader supply another side of the argument by looking at theillustrations in any history of painting. Let him select the picturesthat charm him most, and think of them enlarged and transferred bodily toone corner of the room, as he has thought of the sculpture. Let them takeon motion without losing their charm of low relief, or their serenecomposition within the four walls of the frame. As for the motion, let itbe a further extension of the drawing. Let every gesture be a bolder butnot less graceful brush-stroke.The Metropolitan Museum has a Van Dyck that appeals equally to one's senseof beauty and one's feeling for humor. It is a portrait of James Stuart,Duke of Lennox, and I cannot see how the author-producer-photographer canlook upon it without having it set his imagination in a glow. Every smalltown dancing set has a James like this. The man and the greyhound are thesame witless breed, the kind that achieve a result by their clean-limbedelegance alone. Van Dyck has painted the two with what might be called agreyhound brush-stroke, a style of handling that is nothing but courtlyconvention and strut to the point of genius. He is as far from themeditative spirituality of Rembrandt as could well be imagined.Conjure up a scene in the hereditary hall after a hunt (or golftournament), in which a man like this Duke of Lennox has a noble parleywith his lady (or dancing partner), she being a sweet and stupid swan (ora white rabbit) by the same sign that he is a noble and stupid greyhound.Be it an ancient or modern episode, the story could be told in the toneand with well-nigh the brushwork of Van Dyck.Then there is a picture my teachers, Chase and Henri, were never weary ofpraising, the Girl with the Parrot, by Manet. Here continence in nervousforce, expressed by low relief and restraint in tone, is carried to itsultimate point. I should call this an imagist painting, made before therewere such people as imagist poets. It is a perpetual sermon to those thatwould thresh around to no avail, be they orators, melodramatists, ormakers of photoplays with an alleged heart-interest.Let us consider Gilbert Stuart's portrait of Washington. This painter'snotion of personal dignity has far more of the intellectual quality thanVan Dyck. He loves to give us stately, able, fairly conscientious gentry,rather than overdone royalty. His work represents a certain mood indesign that in architecture is called colonial. Such portraits go withhouses like Mount Vernon. Let the photographer study the flat blacks inthe garments. Let him note the transparent impression of the laces andflesh-tints that seem to be painted on glass, observing especially thecrystalline whiteness of the wigs. Let him inspect also thesilhouette-like outlines, noting the courtly self-possession they convey.Then let the photographer, the producer, and the author, be they one manor six men, stick to this type of picturization through one entireproduction, till any artist in the audience will say, "This photoplay waspainted by a pupil of Gilbert Stuart"; and the layman will say, "It lookslike those stately days." And let us not have battle, but a Mount Vernonfireside tale.Both the Chicago and New York museums contain many phases of one samefamily group, painted by George de Forest Brush. There is a touch of thehearthstone priestess about the woman. The force of sex has turned to theaustere comforting passion of motherhood. From the children, under thewings of this spirit, come special delicate powers of life. There isnothing tense or restless about them, yet they embody action, the beatingof the inner fire, without which all outer action is mockery.Hearthstone tales keyed to the mood and using the brush stroke thatdelineates this especial circle would be unmistakable in theirdistinction.Charles W. Hawthorne has pictures in Chicago and New York that imply theIntimate-and-friendly Photoplay. The Trousseau in the Metropolitan Museumshows a gentle girl, an unfashionable home-body with a sweetly shelteredair. Behind her glimmers the patient mother's face. The older woman isbusy about fitting the dress. The picture is a tribute to the qualitiesof many unknown gentlewomen. Such an illumination as this, on faces soinnocently eloquent, is the light that should shine on the countenance ofthe photoplay actress who really desires greatness in the field of theIntimate Motion Picture. There is in Chicago, Hawthorne's painting ofSylvia: a little girl standing with her back to a mirror, a few blossomsin one hand and a vase of flowers on the mirror shelf. It is as sound acomposition as Hawthorne ever produced. The painting of the child isanother tribute to the physical-spiritual textures from which humanity ismade. Ah, you producer who have grown squeaky whipping your people intowhat you called action, consider the dynamics of these figures thatwould be almost motionless in real life. Remember there must be aspirit-action under the other, or all is dead.Yet that soul may be the muse of Comedy. If Hawthorne and his kind arenot your fashion, turn to models that have their feet on the earthalways, yet successfully aspire. Key some of your intimate humorousscenes to the Dutch Little Masters of Painting, such pictures as GerardTerburg's Music Lesson in the Chicago Art Institute. The thing is as welldesigned as a Dutch house, wind-mill, or clock. And it is more elegantthan any of these. There is humor enough in the picture to last one reelthrough. The society dame of the period, in her pretty raiment, fingersthe strings of her musical instrument, while the master stands by herwith the baton. The painter has enjoyed the satire, from her elegantlittle hands to the teacher's well-combed locks. It is very plain thatshe does not want to study music with any sincerity, and he does notdesire to develop the ability of this particular person. There may be aflirtation in the background. Yet these people are not hollow as gourds,and they are not caricatured. The Dutch Little Masters have indulged innumberless characterizations of mundane humanity. But they are never sopreoccupied with the story that it is an anecdote rather than a picture.It is, first of all, a piece of elegant painting-fabric. Next it is ascrap of Dutch philosophy or aspiration.Let Whistler turn over in his grave while we enlist him for the cause ofdemocracy. One view of the technique of this man might summarize it thus:fastidiousness in choice of subject, the picture well within the frame,low relief, a Velasquez study of tones and a Japanese study of spaces.Let us, dear and patient reader, particularly dwell upon the spacing. AWhistler, or a good Japanese print, might be described as a kaleidoscopesuddenly arrested and transfixed at the moment of most exquisiterelations in the pieces of glass. An Intimate Play of a kindred sortwould start to turning the kaleidoscope again, losing fine relations onlyto gain those which are more exquisite and novel. All motion picturesmight be characterized as _space measured without sound, plus timemeasured without sound_. This description fits in a special way thedelicate form of the Intimate Motion Picture, and there can be studiedout, free from irrelevant issues.As to _space measured without sound_. Suppose it is a humorouscharacterization of comfortable family life, founded on some Dutch LittleMaster. The picture measures off its spaces in harmony. The triangleoccupied by the little child's dress is in definite relation to thetriangle occupied by the mother's costume. To these two patterns thespace measured off by the boy's figure is adjusted, and all of them areas carefully related to the shapes cut out of the background by thefigures. No matter how the characters move about in the photoplay, thesepattern shapes should relate to one another in a definite design. Theexact tone value of each one and their precise nearness or distance toone another have a deal to do with the final effect.We go to the photoplay to enjoy right and splendid picture-motions, tofeel a certain thrill when the pieces of kaleidoscope glass slide intonew places. Instead of moving on straight lines, as they do in themechanical toy, they progress in strange curves that are part of the veryshapes into which they fall.Consider: first came the photograph. Then motion was added to thephotograph. We must use this order in our judgment. If it is ever toevolve into a national art, it must first be good picture, then goodmotion.Belasco's attitude toward the stage has been denounced by the puristsbecause he makes settings too large a portion of his story-telling, andtransforms his theatre into the paradise of the property-man. But thisvery quality of the well spaced setting, if you please, has made hischance for the world's moving picture anthology. As reproduced by JesseK. Lasky the Belasco production is the only type of the old-line dramathat seems really made to be the basis of a moving picture play. Notalways, but as a general rule, Belasco suffers less detriment in thefilms than other men. Take, for instance, the Belasco-Lasky production ofThe Rose of the Rancho with Bessie Barriscale as the heroine. It has manyhighly modelled action-tableaus, and others that come under theclassification of this chapter. When I was attending it not long ago,here in my home town, the fair companion at my side said that one scenelooked like a painting by Sorolla y Bastida, the Spaniard. It is theepisode where the Rose sends back her servant to inquire the hero'sname. As a matter of fact there were Sorollas and Zuloagas all throughthe piece. The betrothal reception with flying confetti was a satisfyingpiece of Spanish splendor. It was space music indeed, space measuredwithout sound. Incidentally the cast is to be congratulated on itspicturesque acting, especially Miss Barriscale in her impersonation ofthe Rose.It is harder to grasp the other side of the paradox, picture-motionsconsidered as _time measured without sound_. But think of a lively andhumoresque clock that does not tick and takes only an hour to record aday. Think of a noiseless electric vehicle, where you are looking out ofthe windows, going down the smooth boulevard of Wonderland. Consider afilm with three simple time-elements: (1) that of the pursuer, (2) thepursued, (3) the observation vehicle of the camera following the road andwatching both of them, now faster, now slower than they, as thephotographer overtakes the actors or allows them to hurry ahead. Theplain chase is a bore because there are only these three time-elements.But the chase principle survives in every motion picture and we simplyneed more of this sort of time measurement, better considered. The morethe non-human objects, the human actors, and the observer move at avarying pace, the greater chances there are for what might be calledtime-and-space music.No two people in the same room should gesture at one mechanical rate, orlift their forks or spoons, keeping obviously together. Yet it stands toreason that each successive tableau should be not only a charmingpicture, but the totals of motion should be an orchestration of variousspeeds, of abrupt, graceful, and seemingly awkward progress, worked intoa silent symphony.Supposing it is a fisher-maiden's romance. In the background the wavestoss in one tempo. Owing to the sail, the boat rocks in another. In theforeground the tree alternately bends and recovers itself in the breeze,making more opposition than the sail. In still another time-unit thesmoke rolls from the chimney, making no resistance to the wind. Inanother unit, the lovers pace the sand. Yet there is one least commonmultiple in which all move. This the producing genius should sense andmake part of the dramatic structure, and it would have its bearing on theperiodic appearance of the minor and major crises.Films like this, you say, would be hard to make. Yes. Here is the placeto affirm that the one-reel Intimate Photoplay will no doubt be the formin which this type of time-and-space music is developed. The music ofsilent motion is the most abstract of moving picture attributes and willprobably remain the least comprehended. Like the quality of WalterPater's Marius the Epicurean, or that of Shelley's Hymn to IntellectualBeauty, it will not satisfy the sudden and the brash.       *       *       *       *       *The reader will find in his round of the picture theatres many singlescenes and parts of plays that elucidate the title of this chapter. Oftenthe first two-thirds of the story will fit it well. Then the producers,finding that, for reasons they do not understand, with the best and mostearnest actors they cannot work the three reels into an emotional climax,introduce some stupid disaster and rescue utterly irrelevant to thecharacter-parts and the paintings that have preceded. Whether the allegedthesis be love, hate, or ambition, cottage charm, daisy dell sweetness,or the ivy beauty of an ancient estate, the resource for the final punchseems to be something like a train-wreck. But the transfiguration of theactors, not their destruction or rescue, is the goal. The last moment ofthe play is great, not when it is a grandiose salvation from a burninghouse, that knocks every delicate preceding idea in the head, but atableau that is as logical as the awakening of the Sleeping Beauty afterthe hero has explored all the charmed castle.CHAPTER XFURNITURE, TRAPPINGS, AND INVENTIONS IN MOTIONThe Action Pictures are sculpture-in-motion, the Intimate Pictures,paintings-in-motion, the Splendor Pictures, many and diverse. It seemsfar-fetched, perhaps, to complete the analogy and say they arearchitecture-in-motion; yet, patient reader, unless I am mistaken, thatassumption can be given a value in time without straining yourimagination.Landscape gardening, mural painting, church building, and furnituremaking as well, are some of the things that come under the head ofarchitecture. They are discussed between the covers of any architecturalmagazine. There is a particular relation in the photoplay between CrowdPictures and landscape conceptions, between Patriotic Films and muralpaintings, between Religious Films and architecture. And there is just asmuch of a relation between Fairy Tales and furniture, which same isdiscussed in this chapter.Let us return to Moving Day, chapter four. This idea has been representedmany times with a certain sameness because the producers have not thoughtout the philosophy behind it. A picture that is all action is a plague,one that is all elephantine and pachydermatous pageant is a bore, and,most emphatically, a film that is all mechanical legerdemain is anuisance. The possible charm in a so-called trick picture is ineliminating the tricks, giving them dignity till they are no longer such,but thoughts in motion and made visible. In Moving Day the shoes are themost potent. They go through a drama that is natural to them. To marchwithout human feet inside is but to exaggerate themselves. It would notbe amusing to have them walk upside down, for instance. As long as theworn soles touch the pavement, we unconsciously conjure up the characterof the absent owners, about whom the shoes are indeed gossiping. So letthe remainder of the furniture keep still while the shoes do their best.Let us call to mind a classic fairy-tale involving shoes that aremagical: The Seven Leagued Boots, for example, or The EnchantedMoccasins, or the footwear of Puss in Boots. How gorgeous and embroideredany of these should be, and at a crisis what sly antics they should bebrought to play, without fidgeting all over the shop! Cinderella'sSlipper is not sufficiently the heroine in moving pictures of that story.It should be the tiny leading lady of the piece, in the same sense themighty steam-engine is the hero of the story in chapter two. The peasantswhen they used to tell the tale by the hearth fire said the shoe was madeof glass. This was in mediaeval Europe, at a time when glass was much moreof a rarity. The material was chosen to imply a sort of jewelledstrangeness from the start. When Cinderella loses it in her haste, itshould flee at once like a white mouse, to hide under the sofa. It shouldbe pictured there with special artifice, so that the sensuous little footof every girl-child in the audience will tingle to wear it. It shouldmove a bit when the prince comes frantically hunting his lady, and peepout just in time for that royal personage to spy it. Even at thecoronation it should be the centre of the ritual, more gazed at than thecrown, and on as dazzling a cushion. The final taking on of the slipperby the lady should be as stately a ceremony as the putting of the circletof gold on her aureole hair. So much for Cinderella. But there are novelstories that should be evolved by preference, about new sorts of magicshoes.We have not exhausted Moving Day. The chairs kept still through theCinderella discourse. Now let them take their innings. Instead of havingall of them dance about, invest but one with an inner life. Let itsspecial attributes show themselves but gradually, reaching their climaxat the highest point of excitement in the reel, and being an integralpart of that enthusiasm. Perhaps, though we be inventing a newfairy-tale, it will resemble the Siege Perilous in the Arthurian story,the chair where none but the perfect knight could sit. A dim row offlaming swords might surround it. When the soul entitled to use thisthrone appears, the swords might fade away and the gray cover hanging inslack folds roll back because of an inner energy and the chair might turnfrom gray to white, and with a subtle change of line become a throne.The photoplay imagination which is able to impart vital individuality tofurniture will not stop there. Let the buildings emanate conscious life.The author-producer-photographer, or one or all three, will make into apersonality some place akin to the House of the Seven Gables till theancient building dominates the fancy as it does in Hawthorne's tale.There are various ways to bring about this result: by having its outlineswaver in the twilight, by touches of phosphorescence, or by the passingof inexplicable shadows or the like. It depends upon what might be calledthe genius of the building. There is the Poe story of The Fall of theHouse of Usher, where with the death of the last heir the castle fallscrumbling into the tarn. There are other possible tales on such terms,never yet imagined, to be born to-morrow. Great structures may become insort villains, as in the old Bible narrative of the origin of the variouslanguages. The producer can show the impious Babel Tower, going higherand higher into the sky, fascinating and tempting the architects till aconfusion of tongues turns those masons into quarrelling mobs that becomedeparting caravans, leaving her blasted and forsaken, a symbol of everyBabylon that rose after her.There are fables where the rocks and the mountains speak. Emerson hasgiven us one where the Mountain and the Squirrel had a quarrel. TheMountain called the Squirrel "Little Prig." And then continues a clash ofpersonalities more possible to illustrate than at first appears. Here wecome to the second stage of the fairy-tale where the creature seems sounmanageable in his physical aspect that some actor must be substitutedwho will embody the essence of him. To properly illustrate the quarrel ofthe Mountain and the Squirrel, the steep height should quiver and heaveand then give forth its personality in the figure of a vague smoky giant,capable of human argument, but with oak-roots in his hair, and Bun,perhaps, become a jester in squirrel's dress.Or it may be our subject matter is a tall Dutch clock. Father Timehimself might emerge therefrom. Or supposing it is a chapel, in aknight's adventure. An angel should step from the carving by the door: adesign that is half angel, half flower. But let the clock first tremble abit. Let the carving stir a little, and then let the spirit come forth,that there may be a fine relation between the impersonator and the thingrepresented. A statue too often takes on life by having the actorabruptly substituted. The actor cannot logically take on more personalitythan the statue has. He can only give that personality expression in anew channel. In the realm of letters, a real transformation scene,rendered credible to the higher fancy by its slow cumulative movement, isthe tale of the change of the dying Rowena to the living triumphantLigeia in Poe's story of that name. Substitution is not the fairy-story.It is transformation, transfiguration, that is the fairy-story, be it adivine or a diabolical change. There is never more than one witch in aforest, one Siege Perilous at any Round Table. But she is indeed a witchand the other is surely a Siege Perilous.We might define Fairy Splendor as furniture transfigured, for withouttransfiguration there is no spiritual motion of any kind. But the phrase"furniture-in-motion" serves a purpose. It gets us back to the earth fora reason. Furniture is architecture, and the fairy-tale picture shouldcertainly be drawn with architectural lines. The normal fairy-tale is asort of tiny informal child's religion, the baby's secular temple, and itshould have for the most part that touch of delicate sublimity that wesee in the mountain chapel or grotto, or fancy in the dwellings ofAucassin and Nicolette. When such lines are drawn by the trulysophisticated producer, there lies in them the secret of a more thanritualistic power. Good fairy architecture amounts to an incantation initself.If it is a grown-up legend, it must be more than monumental in its lines,like the great stone face of Hawthorne's tale. Even a chair can reachthis estate. For instance, let it be the throne of Wodin, illustratingsome passage in Norse mythology. If this throne has a language, it speakswith the lightning; if it shakes with its threat, it moves the entiremountain range beneath it. Let the wizard-author-producer climb up fromthe tricks of Moving Day to the foot-hills where he can see this throneagainst the sky, as a superarchitect would draw it. But even if he cangive this vision in the films, his task will not be worth while if he issimply a teller of old stories. Let us have magic shoes about which aremore golden dreams than those concerning Cinderella. Let us have strangercastles than that of Usher, more dazzling chairs than the Siege Perilous.Let us have the throne of Liberty, not the throne of Wodin.There is one outstanding photoplay that I always have in mind when Ithink of film magic. It illustrates some principles of this chapter andchapter four, as well as many others through the book. It is Griffith'sproduction of The Avenging Conscience. It is also an example of that rarething, a use of old material that is so inspired that it has the dignityof a new creation. The raw stuff of the plot is pieced together from thestory of The Tell-tale Heart and the poem Annabel Lee. It has behind it,in the further distance, Poe's conscience stories of The Black Cat, andWilliam Wilson. I will describe the film here at length, and apply it towhatever chapters it illustrates.An austere and cranky bachelor (well impersonated by Spottiswoode Aitken)brings up his orphan nephew with an awkward affection. The nephew isimpersonated by Henry B. Walthall. The uncle has an ambition that the boywill become a man of letters. In his attempts at literature the youth isinfluenced by Poe. This brings about the Poe quality of his dreams at thecrisis. The uncle is silently exasperated when he sees his boy'swriting-time broken into, and wasted, as he thinks, by an affair with alovely Annabel (Blanche Sweet). The intimacy and confidence of the lovershas progressed so far that it is a natural thing for the artless girl tocross the gardens and after hesitation knock at the door. She wants toknow what has delayed her boy. She is all in a flutter on account of theoverdue appointment to go to a party together. The scene of the prettyhesitancy on the step, her knocking, and the final impatient tapping withher foot is one of the best illustrations of the intimate mood inphotoplay episodes. On the girl's entrance the uncle overwhelms her andthe boy by saying she is pursuing his nephew like a common woman of thetown. The words actually burst through the film, not as a melodramatic,but as an actual insult. This is a thing almost impossible to do in thephotoplay. This outrage in the midst of an atmosphere of chivalry is oneof Griffith's master-moments. It accounts for the volcanic fury of thenephew that takes such trouble to burn itself out afterwards. It is noteasy for the young to learn that they must let those people flay them foran hour who have made every sacrifice for them through a life-time.This scene of insult and the confession scene, later in this film, movedme as similar passages in high drama would do; and their very rareness,even in the hands of photoplay masters, indicates that such purelydramatic climaxes cannot be the main asset of the moving picture. Overand over, with the best talent and producers, they fail.The boy and girl go to the party in spite of the uncle. It is while onthe way that the boy looks on the face of a stranger who afterwards mixesup in his dream as the detective. There is a mistake in the printinghere. There are several minutes of a worldly-wise oriental dance to amusethe guests, while the lovers are alone at another end of the garden. Itis, possibly, the aptest contrast with the seriousness of our hero andheroine. But the social affair could have had a better title than the onethat is printed on the film "An Old-fashioned Sweetheart Party." Possiblythe dance was put in after the title.The lovers part forever. The girl's pride has had a mortal wound. Aboutthis time is thrown on the screen the kind of a climax quite surelypossible to the photoplay. It reminds one, not of the mood of Poe'sverse, but of the spirit of the paintings of George Frederick Watts. Itis allied in some way, in my mind, with his "Love and Life," though but asingle draped figure within doors, and "Love and Life" are undrapedfigures, climbing a mountain.The boy, having said good-by, remembers the lady Annabel. It is a crisisafter the event. In his vision she is shown in a darkened passageway, allin white, looking out of the window upon the moonlit sky. Simple enoughin its elements, this vision is shown twice in glory. The third replicahas not the same glamour. The first two are transfigurations intodivinity. The phrase thrown on the screen is "The moon never beamswithout bringing me dreams of the beautiful Annabel Lee." And the senseof loss goes through and through one like a flight of arrows. Anothernoble picture, more realistic, more sculpturesque, is of Annabel mourningon her knees in her room. Her bended head makes her akin to "Niobe, alltears."The boy meditating on a park-path is meanwhile watching the spider in hisweb devour the fly. Then he sees the ants in turn destroy the spider.These pictures are shown on so large a scale that the spiderweb fills theend of the theatre. Then the ant-tragedy does the same. They can beclassed as particularly apt hieroglyphics in the sense of chapterthirteen. Their horror and decorative iridescence are of the Poe sort.It is the first hint of the Poe hieroglyphic we have had except the blackpatch over the eye of the uncle, along with his jaundiced, cadaverousface. The boy meditates on how all nature turns on cruelty and thesurvival of the fittest.He passes just now an Italian laborer (impersonated by George Seigmann).This laborer enters later into his dream. He finally goes to sleep in hischair, the resolve to kill his uncle rankling in his heart.The audience is not told that a dream begins. To understand that, onemust see the film through twice. But it is perfectly legitimate todeceive us. Through our ignorance we share the young man'shallucinations, entering into them as imperceptibly as he does. We thinkit is the next morning. Poe would start the story just here, and here theveritable Poe-esque quality begins.After debate within himself as to means, the nephew murders his uncle andburies him in the thick wall of the chimney. The Italian laborerwitnesses the death-struggle through the window. While our consciencesare aching and the world crashes round us, he levies black-mail. Thenfor due compensation the Italian becomes an armed sentinel. The boy fearsdetection.Yet the foolish youth thinks he will be happy. But every time he runs tomeet his sweetheart he is appalled by hallucinations over her shoulder.The cadaverous ghost of the uncle is shown on the screen several times.It is an appearance visible to the young man and the audience only. Laterthe ghost is implied by the actions of the guilty one. We merely imagineit. This is a piece of sound technique. We no more need a dray full ofghosts than a dray full of jumping furniture.The village in general has never suspected the nephew. Only two peoplesuspect him: the broken-hearted girl and an old friend of his father.This gentleman puts a detective on the trail. (The detective isimpersonated by Ralph Lewis.) The gradual breakdown of the victim istraced by dramatic degrees. This is the second case of the thing I haveargued as being generally impossible in a photoplay chronicle of aprivate person, and which the considerations of chapter twelve indicateas exceptional. We trace the innermost psychology of one special citizenstep by step to the crisis, and that path is actually the primaryinterest of the story. The climax is the confession to the detective.With this self-exposure the direct Poe-quality of the technique comes toan end. Moreover, Poe would end the story here. But the Poe-dream is setlike a dark jewel in a gold ring, of which more anon.Let us dwell upon the confession. The first stage of thisconscience-climax is reached by the dramatization of The Tell-tale Heartreminiscence in the memory of the dreaming man. The episode makes asingular application of the theories with which this chapter begins. Forfurniture-in-motion we have the detective's pencil. For trappings andinventions in motion we have his tapping shoe and the busy clockpendulum. Because this scene is so powerful the photoplay is described inthis chapter rather than any other, though the application is morespiritual than literal. The half-mad boy begins to divulge that he thinksthat the habitual ticking of the clock is satanically timed to thebeating of the dead man's heart. Here more unearthliness hovers round apendulum than any merely mechanical trick-movements could impart. Thenthe merest commonplace of the detective tapping his pencil in the sametime--the boy trying in vain to ignore it--increases the strain, till theaudience has well-nigh the hallucinations of the victim. Then the boldtapping of the detective's foot, who would do all his accusing withoutsaying a word, and the startling coincidence of the owl hoot-hootingoutside the window to the same measure, bring us close to the finalbreakdown. These realistic material actors are as potent as the actualapparitions of the dead man that preceded them. Those visions preparedthe mind to invest trifles with significance. The pencil and the pendulumconducting themselves in an apparently everyday fashion, satisfy in a farnobler way the thing in the cave-man attending the show that made himtake note in other centuries of the rope that began to hang the butcher,the fire that began to burn the stick, and the stick that began to beatthe dog.Now the play takes a higher demoniacal plane reminiscent of Poe's Bells.The boy opens the door. He peers into the darkness. There he sees them.They are the nearest to the sinister Poe quality of any illustrations Irecall that attempt it. "They are neither man nor woman, they are neitherbrute nor human; they are ghouls." The scenes are designed with thearchitectural dignity that the first part of this chapter has insistedwizard trappings should take on. Now it is that the boy confesses and thePoe story ends.Then comes what the photoplay people call the punch. It is discussed atthe end of chapter nine. It is a kind of solar plexus blow to thesensibilities, certainly by this time an unnecessary part of the film.Usually every soul movement carefully built up to where the punch beginsis forgotten in the material smash or rescue. It is not so bad in thiscase, but it is a too conventional proceeding for Griffith.The boy flees interminably to a barn too far away. There is a siege by aposse, led by the detective. It is veritable border warfare. The Italianleads an unsuccessful rescue party. The unfortunate youth finally hangshimself. The beautiful Annabel bursts through the siege a moment toolate; then, heart broken, kills herself. These things are carried out bygood technicians. But it would have been better to have had the suicidewith but a tiny part of the battle, and the story five reels long insteadof six. This physical turmoil is carried into the spiritual world onlyby the psychic momentum acquired through the previous confession scene.The one thing with intrinsic pictorial heart-power is the death ofAnnabel by jumping off the sea cliff.Then comes the awakening. To every one who sees the film for the firsttime it is like the forgiveness of sins. The boy finds his uncle stillalive. In revulsion from himself, he takes the old man into his arms. Theuncle has already begun to be ashamed of his terrible words, and hasprayed for a contrite heart. The radiant Annabel is shown in the earlydawn rising and hurrying to her lover in spite of her pride. She willbravely take back her last night's final word. She cannot live withouthim. The uncle makes amends to the girl. The three are in theinconsistent but very human mood of sweet forgiveness for love's sake,that sometimes overtakes the bitterest of us after some crisis in ourdays.The happy pair are shown, walking through the hills. Thrown upon theclouds for them are the moods of the poet-lover's heart. They look intothe woods and see his fancies of Spring, the things that he will some daywrite. These pageants might be longer. They furnish the great climax.They make a consistent parallel and contrast with the ghoul-visions thatend with the confession to the detective. They wipe that terror from themind. They do not represent Poe. The rabbits, the leopard, the fairies,Cupid and Psyche in the clouds, and the little loves from the hollowtrees are contributions to the original poetry of the eye.Finally, the central part of this production of the Avenging Conscienceis no dilution of Poe, but an adequate interpretation, a story he mighthave written. Those who have the European respect for Poe's work will bemost apt to be satisfied with this section, including the photographictexture which may be said to be an authentic equivalent of his prose. Howoften Poe has been primly patronized for his majestic quality, the wizardpower which looms above all his method and subject-matter and furnishesthe only reason for its existence!For Griffith to embroider this Poe Interpretation in the centre of afairly consistent fabric, and move on into a radiant climax of his ownthat is in organic relation to the whole, is an achievement indeed. Thefinal criticism is that the play is derivative. It is not built from newmaterial in all its parts, as was the original story. One must be astudent of Poe to get its ultimate flavor. But in reading Poe's ownstories, one need not be a reader of any one special preceding writer toget the strange and solemn exultation of that literary enchanter. He isthe quintessence of his own lonely soul.Though the wizard element is paramount in the Poe episode of this film,the appeal to the conscience is only secondary to this. It is keener thanin Poe, owing to the human elements before and after. The Chameleonproducer approximates in The Avenging Conscience the type of mysticteacher, discussed in the twentieth chapter: "The Prophet-Wizard."CHAPTER XIARCHITECTURE-IN-MOTIONThis chapter is a superstructure upon the foundations of chapters five,six, and seven.I have said that it is a quality, not a defect, of the photoplays thatwhile the actors tend to become types and hieroglyphics and dolls, on theother hand, dolls and hieroglyphics and mechanisms tend to become human.By an extension of this principle, non-human tones, textures, lines, andspaces take on a vitality almost like that of flesh and blood. It ispartly for this reason that some energy is hereby given to the matter ofreenforcing the idea that the people with the proper training to take thehigher photoplays in hand are not veteran managers of vaudevillecircuits, but rather painters, sculptors, and architects, preferablythose who are in the flush of their first reputation in these crafts. Letus imagine the centres of the experimental drama, such as the DramaLeague, the Universities, and the stage societies, calling in people ofthese professions and starting photoplay competitions and enterprises.Let the thesis be here emphasized that the architects, above all, are themen to advance the work in the ultra-creative photoplay. "But fewarchitects," you say, "are creative, even in their own profession."Let us begin with the point of view of the highly trained pedantic youngbuilder, the type that, in the past few years, has honored our landscapewith those paradoxical memorials of Abraham Lincoln the railsplitter,memorials whose Ionic columns are straight from Paris. Pericles is thereal hero of such a man, not Lincoln. So let him for the time surrendercompletely to that great Greek. He is worthy of a monument nobler thanany America has set up to any one. The final pictures may be taken infront of buildings with which the architect or his favorite master hasalready edified this republic, or if the war is over, before somesurviving old-world models. But whatever the method, let him study toexpress at last the thing that moves within him as a creeping fire, whichAmericans do not yet understand and the loss of which makes the classicin our architecture a mere piling of elegant stones upon one another. Inthe arrangement of crowds and flow of costuming and study of tableauclimaxes, let the architect bring an illusion of that delicate flowering,that brilliant instant of time before the Peloponnesian war. It does notseem impossible when one remembers the achievements of the author ofCabiria in approximating Rome and Carthage.Let the principal figure of the pageant be the virgin Athena, walking asa presence visible only to us, yet among her own people, and robed andarmed and panoplied, the guardian of Pericles, appearing in those streetsthat were herself. Let the architect show her as she came only in avision to Phidias, while the dramatic writers and mathematicians andpoets and philosophers go by. The crowds should be like pillars ofAthens, and she like a great pillar. The crowds should be like thetossing waves of the Ionic Sea and Athena like the white ship upon thewaves. The audiences in the tragedies should be shown like wheat-fieldson the hill-sides, always stately yet blown by the wind, and Athena theone sower and reaper. Crowds should descend the steps of the Acropolis,nymphs and fauns and Olympians, carved as it were from the marble, yetflowing like a white cataract down into the town, bearing with themAthena, their soul. All this in the Photoplay of Pericles.No civic or national incarnation since that time appeals to the poetslike the French worship of the Maid of Orleans. In Percy MacKaye's book,The Present Hour, he says on the French attitude toward the war:--    "Half artist and half anchorite,    Part siren and part Socrates,    Her face--alluring fair, yet recondite--    Smiled through her salons and academies.    "Lightly she wore her double mask,    Till sudden, at war's kindling spark,    Her inmost self, in shining mail and casque,    Blazed to the world her single soul--Jeanne d'Arc!"To make a more elaborate showing of what is meant byarchitecture-in-motion, let us progress through the centuries and supposethat the builder has this enthusiasm for France, that he is slowlysetting about to build a photoplay around the idea of the Maid.First let him take the mural painting point of view. Bear in mind thesecharacteristics of that art: it is wall-painting that is an organic partof the surface on which it appears: it is on the same lines as thebuilding and adapted to the colors and forms of the structure of which itis a part.The wall-splendors of America that are the most scattered about ininexpensive copies are the decorations of the Boston Public Library. Notethe pillar-like quality of Sargent's prophets, the solemn dignity ofAbbey's Holy Grail series, the grand horizontals and perpendiculars ofthe work of Puvis de Chavannes. The last is the orthodox mural painter ofthe world, but the other two will serve the present purpose also. Thesearchitectural paintings if they were dramatized, still retaining theirpowerful lines, would be three exceedingly varied examples of what ismeant by architecture-in-motion. The visions that appear to Jeanne d'Arcmight be delineated in the mood of some one of these three painters. Thestyles will not mix in the same episode.A painter from old time we mention here, not because he was orthodox, butbecause of his genius for the drawing of action, and because he coveredtremendous wall-spaces with Venetian tone and color, is Tintoretto. Ifthere is a mistrust that the mural painting standard will tend to destroythe sense of action, Tintoretto will restore confidence in that regard.As the Winged Victory represents flying in sculpture, so his work is theextreme example of action with the brush. The Venetians called him thefurious painter. One must understand a man through his admirers. Soexplore Ruskin's sayings on Tintoretto.I have a dozen moving picture magazine clippings, which are in theirhumble way first or second cousins of mural paintings. I will describebut two, since the method of selection has already been amply indicated,and the reader can find his own examples. For a Crowd Picture, forinstance, here is a scene at a masquerade ball. The glitter of thecostumes is an extension of the glitter of the candelabra overhead. Thepeople are as it were chandeliers, hung lower down. The lines of thecandelabra relate to the very ribbon streamers of the heroine, and themassive wood-work is the big brother of the square-shouldered heroes inthe foreground, though one is a clown, one is a Russian Duke, and one isDon Caesar De Bazan. The building is the father of the people. Theserelations can be kept in the court scenes of the production of Jeanned'Arc.Here is a night picture from a war story in which the light is furnishedby two fires whose coals and brands are hidden by earth heaped in front.The sentiment of tenting on the old camp-ground pervades the scene. Thefar end of the line of those keeping bivouac disappears into thedistance, and the depths of the ranks behind them fade into the thickshadows. The flag, a little above the line, catches the light. One greattree overhead spreads its leafless half-lit arms through the gloom.Behind all this is unmitigated black. The composition reminds one of aHiroshige study of midnight. These men are certainly a part of thearchitecture of out of doors, and mysterious as the vault of Heaven. Thistype of a camp-fire is possible in our Jeanne d'Arc.These pictures, new and old, great and unknown, indicate some of thestandards of judgment and types of vision whereby our conception of theplay is to be evolved.By what means shall we block it in? Our friend Tintoretto made use ofmethods which are here described from one of his biographers, W. RoscoeOsler: "They have been much enlarged upon in the different biographies asthe means whereby Tintoretto obtained his power. They constituted,however, his habitual method of determining the effect and generalgrouping of his compositions. He moulded with extreme care small modelsof his figures in wax and clay. Titian and other painters as well asTintoretto employed this method as the means of determining the light andshade of their design. Afterwards the later stages of their work werepainted from the life. But in Tintoretto's compositions the position andarrangement of his figures as he began to dwell upon his greatconceptions were such as to render the study from the living model amatter of great difficulty and at times an impossibility.... He ...modelled his sculptures ... imparting to his models a far more completecharacter than had been customary. These firmly moulded figures,sometimes draped, sometimes free, he suspended in a box made of wood, orof cardboard for his smaller work, in whose walls he made an aperture toadmit a lighted candle.... He sits moving the light about amidst hisassemblage of figures. Every aspect of sublimity of light suitable to aMadonna surrounded with angels, or a heavenly choir, finds its miniatureresponse among the figures as the light moves."This was the method by which, in conjunction with a profound study ofoutward nature, sympathy with the beauty of different types of face andvarieties of form, with the many changing hues of the Venetian scene,with the great laws of color and a knowledge of literature and history,he was able to shadow forth his great imagery of the intuitional world."This method of Tintoretto suggests several possible derivatives in thepreparation of motion pictures. Let the painters and sculptors be nowcalled upon for painting models and sculptural models, while thearchitect, already present, supplies the architectural models, all threegiving us visible scenarios to furnish the cardinal motives for theacting, from which the amateur photoplay company of the university canbegin their interpretation.For episodes that follow the precedent of the simple Action Film tiny waxmodels of the figures, toned and costumed to the heart's delight, wouldtell the high points of the story. Let them represent, perhaps, sevencrucial situations from the proposed photoplay. Let them be designed asuniquely in their dresses as are the Russian dancers' dresses, by LeonBakst. Then to alternate with these, seven little paintings of episodes,designed in blacks, whites, and grays, each representing some elusivepoint in the intimate aspects of the story. Let there be a definitesystem of space and texture relations retained throughout the set.The models for the splendor scenes would, of course, be designed by thearchitect, and these other scenes alternated with and subordinated to hiswork. The effects which he would conceive would be on a grander scale.The models for these might be mere extensions of the methods of thoseothers, but in the typical and highest let us imagine ourselves goingbeyond Tintoretto in preparation.Let the principal splendor moods and effects be indicated by actualstructures, such miniatures as architects offer along with their plans ofpublic buildings, but transfigured beyond that standard by the light ofinspiration combined with experimental candle-light, spot-light,sunlight, or torchlight. They must not be conceived as stage arrangementsof wax figures with harmonious and fitting backgrounds, but asbackgrounds that clamor for utterance through the figures in front ofthem, as Athens finds her soul in the Athena with which we began. Thesethree sorts of models, properly harmonized, should have with them awritten scenario constructed to indicate all the scenes between. Thescenario will lead up to these models for climaxes and hold them togetherin the celestial hurdle-race.We have in our museums some definite architectural suggestions as to thestyle of these models. There are in Blackstone Hall in the Chicago ArtInstitute several great Romanesque and Gothic portals, pillars, andstatues that might tell directly upon certain settings of our Jeanned'Arc pageant. They are from Notre Dame du Port at Clermont-Ferrand, theAbbey church of St. Gilles, the Abbey of Charlieu, the Cathedral ofAmiens, Notre Dame at Paris, the Cathedral of Bordeaux, and the Cathedralof Rheims. Perhaps the object I care for most in the Metropolitan Museum,New York, is the complete model of Notre Dame, Paris, by M. Joly. Why wasthis model of Notre Dame made with such exquisite pains? Certainly not asa matter of mere information or cultivation. I venture the first rightthese things have to be taken care of in museums is to stimulate to newcreative effort.I went to look over the Chicago collection with a friend and poet ArthurDavison Ficke. He said something to this effect: "The first thing I seewhen I look at these fragments is the whole cathedral in all its originalproportions. Then I behold the mediaeval marketplace hunched against thebuilding, burying the foundations, the life of man growing rank andweedlike around it. Then I see the bishop coming from the door with hisimpressive train. But a crusade may go by on the way to the Holy Land. Acrusade may come home battered and in rags. I get the sense of life, asof a rapid in a river flowing round a great rock."The cathedral stands for the age-long meditation of the ascetics in themidst of battling tribes. This brooding architecture has ablood-brotherhood with the meditating, saint-seeing Jeanne d'Arc.There is in the Metropolitan Museum a large and famous canvas painted bythe dying Bastien-Lepage;--Jeanne Listening to the Voices. It is apicture of which the technicians and the poets are equally enamored. Thetale of Jeanne d'Arc could be told, carrying this particular peasant girlthrough the story. And for a piece of architectural pageantry akin to thephotoplay ballroom scene already described, yet far above it, there isnothing more apt for our purpose than the painting by Boutet de Monvelfilling the space at the top of the stair at the Chicago Art Institute.Though the Bastien-Lepage is a large painting, this is many times thesize. It shows Joan's visit at the court of Chinon. It is big withoutbeing empty. It conveys a glitter which expresses one of the things thatis meant by the phrase: Splendor Photoplay. But for moving picturepurposes it is the Bastien-Lepage Joan that should appear here, set indramatic contrast to the Boutet de Monvel Court. Two valuable neighborsto whom I have read this chapter suggest that the whole Boutet de Monvelillustrated child's book about our heroine could be used on this grandscale, for a background.The Inness room at the Chicago Art Institute is another school for themeditative producer, if he would evolve his tribute to France on Americansoil. Though no photoplay tableau has yet approximated the brush ofInness, why not attempt to lead Jeanne through an Inness landscape? TheBastien-Lepage trees are in France. But here is an American world inwhich one could see visions and hear voices. Where is the inspired camerathat will record something of what Inness beheld?Thus much for the atmosphere and trappings of our Jeanne d'Arc scenario.Where will we get our story? It should, of course, be written from theground up for this production, but as good Americans we would probablyfind a mass of suggestions in Mark Twain's Joan of Arc.Quite recently a moving picture company sent its photographers toSpringfield, Illinois, and produced a story with our city for abackground, using our social set for actors. Backed by the localcommercial association for whose benefit the thing was made, theresources of the place were at the command of routine producers.Springfield dressed its best, and acted with fair skill. The heroine wasa charming debutante, the hero the son of Governor Dunne. The MineOwner's Daughter was at best a mediocre photoplay. But this type ofsocial-artistic event, that happened once, may be attempted a hundredtimes, each time slowly improving. Which brings us to something that isin the end very far from The Mine Owner's Daughter. By what scenariomethod the following film or series of films is to be produced I will notventure to say. No doubt the way will come if once the dream has asufficient hold.I have long maintained that my home-town should have a goddess likeAthena. The legend should be forthcoming. The producer, while notemploying armies, should use many actors and the tale be told with thesame power with which the productions of Judith of Bethulia and TheBattle Hymn of the Republic were evolved. While the following story maynot be the form which Springfield civic religion will ultimately take, itis here recorded as a second cousin of the dream that I hope will someday be set forth.Late in an afternoon in October, a light is seen in the zenith like adancing star. The clouds form round it in the approximation of a circle.Now there becomes visible a group of heads and shoulders of presencesthat are looking down through the ring of clouds, watching the star, likegiant children that peep down a well. The jewel descends by foursparkling chains, so far away they look to be dewy threads of silk. Asthe bright mystery grows larger it appears to be approaching the treelesshill of Washington Park, a hill that is surrounded by many wooded ridges.The people come running from everywhere to watch. Here indeed will be aCrowd Picture with as many phases as a stormy ocean. Flying machinesappear from the Fair Ground north of the city, and circle round and roundas they go up, trying to reach the slowly descending plummet.       *       *       *       *       *At last, while the throng cheers, one bird-man has attained it. He bringsback his message that the gift is an image, covered loosely with awrapping that seems to be of spun gold. Now the many aviators whirl roundthe descending wonder, like seagulls playing about a ship's mast. Soon,amid an awestruck throng, the image is on the hillock. The golden chains,and the giant children holding them there above, have melted into threadsof mist and nothingness. The shining wrapping falls away. The people lookupon a seated statue of marble and gold. There is a branch ofwrought-gold maple leaves in her hands. Then beside the image is afluttering transfigured presence of which the image seems to be arepresentation. This spirit, carrying a living maple branch in her hand,says to the people: "Men and Women of Springfield, this carving is theLady Springfield sent by your Lord from Heaven. Build no canopy over her.Let her ever be under the prairie-sky. Do her perpetual honor." Themessenger, who is the soul and voice of Springfield, fades into thecrowd, to emerge on great and terrible occasions.This is only one story. Round this public event let the photoplayromancer weave what tales of private fortune he will, narratives bound upwith the events of that October day, as the story of Nathan and Naomi iswoven into Judith of Bethulia.Henceforth the city officers are secular priests of Our Lady Springfield.Their failure in duty is a profanation of her name. A yearly pledge ofthe first voters is taken in her presence like the old Athenian oath ofcitizenship. The seasonal pageants march to the statue's feet, scatteringflowers. The important outdoor festivals are given on the edge of herhill. All the roads lead to her footstool. Pilgrims come from the SevenSeas to look upon her face that is carved by Invisible Powers. Moreover,the living messenger that is her actual soul appears in dreams, orvisions of the open day, when the days are dark for the city, when herpatriots are irresolute, and her children are put to shame. This spiritwith the maple branch rallies them, leads them to victories like thosethat were won of old in the name of Jeanne d'Arc or Pallas Athenaherself.CHAPTER XIITHIRTY DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE PHOTOPLAYS AND THE STAGEThe stage is dependent upon three lines of tradition: first, that ofGreece and Rome that came down through the French. Second, the Englishstyle, ripened from the miracle play and the Shakespearian stage. Andthird, the Ibsen precedent from Norway, now so firmly established it isclassic. These methods are obscured by the commercialized dramas, butthey are behind them all. Let us discuss for illustration the Ibsentradition.Ibsen is generally the vitriolic foe of pageant. He must be read aloud.He stands for the spoken word, for the iron power of life that may beconcentrated in a phrase like the "All or nothing" of Brand. Though PeerGynt has its spectacular side, Ibsen generally comes in through the earalone. He can be acted in essentials from end to end with one table andfour chairs in any parlor. The alleged punch with which the "movie"culminates has occurred three or ten years before the Ibsen curtain goesup. At the close of every act of the dramas of this Norwegian one mightinscribe on the curtain "This the magnificent moving picture cannotachieve." Likewise after every successful film described in this bookcould be inscribed "This the trenchant Ibsen cannot do."But a photoplay of Ghosts came to our town. The humor of the prospect wasthe sort too deep for tears. My pastor and I reread the William Archertranslation that we might be alert for every antithesis. Together we wentto the services. Since then the film has been furiously denounced by theliterati. Floyd Dell's discriminating assault upon it is quoted inCurrent Opinion, October, 1915, and Margaret Anderson prints adenunciation of it in a recent number of The Little Review. But it is notsuch a bad film in itself. It is not Ibsen. It should be advertised "TheIniquities of the Fathers, an American drama of Eugenics, in a PalatialSetting."Henry Walthall as Alving, afterward as his son, shows the men much asIbsen outlines their characters. Of course the only way to be Ibsen is tobe so precisely. In the new plot all is open as the day. The world iswelcome, and generally present when the man or his son go forth to seethe elephant and hear the owl. Provincial hypocrisy is not implied. ButIbsen can scarcely exist without an atmosphere of secrecy for his humanvolcanoes to burst through in the end.Mary Alden as Mrs. Alving shows in her intelligent and sensitivecountenance that she has a conception of that character. She does notalways have the chance to act the woman written in her face, the tart,thinking, handsome creature that Ibsen prefers. Nigel Debrullier looksthe buttoned-up Pastor Manders, even to caricature. But the crawling,bootlicking carpenter, Jacob Engstrand, is changed into a respectable,guileless man with an income. And his wife and daughter are helpless,conventional, upper-class rabbits. They do not remind one of the saucyoriginals.The original Ibsen drama is the result of mixing up five particularcharacters through three acts. There is not a situation but would go topieces if one personality were altered. Here are two, sadly tamperedwith: Engstrand and his daughter. Here is the mother, who is onlyreferred to in Ibsen. Here is the elder Alving, who disappears beforethe original play starts. So the twenty great Ibsen situations in thestage production are gone. One new crisis has an Ibsen irony and psychictension. The boy is taken with the dreaded intermittent pains in the backof his head. He is painting the order that is to make him famous: theKing's portrait. While the room empties of people he writhes on thefloor. If this were all, it would have been one more moving picturefailure to put through a tragic scene. But the thing is reiterated intableau-symbol. He is looking sideways in terror. A hairy arm withclutching demon claws comes thrusting in toward the back of his neck. Hewrithes in deadly fear. The audience is appalled for him.This visible clutch of heredity is the nearest equivalent that is offeredfor the whispered refrain: "Ghosts," in the original masterpiece. Thishand should also be reiterated as a refrain, three times at least, beforethis tableau, each time more dreadful and threatening. It appears but theonce, and has no chance to become a part of the accepted hieroglyphics ofthe piece, as it should be, to realize its full power.The father's previous sins have been acted out. The boy's consequentstruggle with the malady has been traced step by step, so the play shouldend here. It would then be a rough equivalent of the Ibsen irony in acontrary medium. Instead of that, it wanders on through paraphrases ofscraps of the play, sometimes literal, then quite alien, on to thealleged motion picture punch, when the Doctor is the god from themachine. There is no doctor on the stage in the original Ghosts. Butthere is a physician in the Doll's House, a scientific, quietly movingoracle, crisp, Spartan, sophisticated.Is this photoplay physician such a one? The boy and his half-sister arein their wedding-clothes in the big church. Pastor Manders is saying theceremony. The audience and building are indeed showy. The doctor chargesup the aisle at the moment people are told to speak or forever hold theirpeace. He has tact. He simply breaks up the marriage right there. He doesnot tell the guests why. But he takes the wedding party into the pastor'sstudy and there blazes at the bride and groom the long-suppressed truththat they are brother and sister. Always an orotund man, he has theChautauqua manner indeed in this exigency.He brings to one's mind the tearful book, much loved in childhood, Partedat the Altar, or Why Was it Thus? And four able actors have the task oftelling the audience by facial expression only, that they have beenstruck by moral lightning. They stand in a row, facing the people,endeavoring to make the crisis of an alleged Ibsen play out of a crashingmelodrama.The final death of young Alving is depicted with an approximation ofIbsen's mood. But the only ways to suggest such feelings in silence, donot convey them in full to the audience, but merely narrate them.Wherever in Ghosts we have quiet voices that are like the slow drip ofhydrochloric acid, in the photoplay we have no quiet gestures that willdo trenchant work. Instead there are endless writhings and rushingsabout, done with a deal of skill, but destructive of the last remnants ofIbsen.Up past the point of the clutching hand this film is the prime examplefor study for the person who would know once for all the differencesbetween the photoplays and the stage dramas. Along with it might beclassed Mrs. Fiske's decorative moving picture Tess, in which there isevery determination to convey the original Mrs. Fiske illusion withouther voice and breathing presence. To people who know her well it is asurprisingly good tintype of our beloved friend, for the family album.The relentless Thomas Hardy is nowhere to be found. There are two momentsof dramatic life set among many of delicious pictorial quality: when Tessbaptizes her child, and when she smooths its little grave with a waveringhand. But in the stage-version the dramatic poignancy begins with thegoing up of the curtain, and lasts till it descends.The prime example of complete failure is Sarah Bernhardt's Camille. It isindeed a tintype of the consumptive heroine, with every group entire, andtaken at full length. Much space is occupied by the floor and theoverhead portions of the stage setting. It lasts as long as would thespoken performance, and wherever there is a dialogue we must imagine saidconversation if we can. It might be compared to watching Camille from thetop gallery through smoked glass, with one's ears stopped with cotton.It would be well for the beginning student to find some way to see thefirst two of these three, or some other attempts to revamp the classic,for instance Mrs. Fiske's painstaking reproduction of Vanity Fair,bearing in mind the list of differences which this chapter now furnishes.There is no denying that many stage managers who have taken up photoplaysare struggling with the Shakespearian French and Norwegian traditions inthe new medium. Many of the moving pictures discussed in this book arerewritten stage dramas, and one, Judith of Bethulia, is a pronouncedsuccess. But in order to be real photoplays the stage dramas must beoverhauled indeed, turned inside out and upside down. The successfulmotion picture expresses itself through mechanical devices that are beingevolved every hour. Upon those many new bits of machinery are foundednovel methods of combination in another field of logic, not dramaticlogic, but tableau logic. But the old-line managers, taking upphotoplays, begin by making curious miniatures of stage presentations.They try to have most things as before. Later they take on the movingpicture technique in a superficial way, but they, and the host oftalented actors in the prime of life and Broadway success, retain thedramatic state of mind.It is a principle of criticism, the world over, that the distinctionsbetween the arts must be clearly marked, even by those who afterwards mixthose arts. Take, for instance, the perpetual quarrel between the artistsand the half-educated about literary painting. Whistler fought thatbattle in England. He tried to beat it into the head of John Bull that apainting is one thing, a mere illustration for a story another thing. Butthe novice is always stubborn. To him Hindu and Arabic are both foreignlanguages, therefore just alike. The book illustration may be said tocome in through the ear, by reading the title aloud in imagination. Andthe other is effective with no title at all. The scenario writer who willstudy to the bottom of the matter in Whistler's Gentle Art of MakingEnemies will be equipped to welcome the distinction between theold-fashioned stage, where the word rules, and the photoplay, wheresplendor and ritual are all. It is not the same distinction, but akindred one.       *       *       *       *       *But let us consider the details of the matter. The stage has its exitsand entrances at the side and back. The standard photoplays have theirexits and entrances across the imaginary footlight line, even in themost stirring mob and battle scenes. In Judith of Bethulia, though thepeople seem to be coming from everywhere and going everywhere, when wewatch close, we see that the individuals enter at the near right-handcorner and exit at the near left-hand corner, or enter at the nearleft-hand corner and exit at the near right-hand corner.Consider the devices whereby the stage actor holds the audience as hegoes out at the side and back. He sighs, gestures, howls, and strides.With what studious preparation he ripens his quietness, if he goes outthat way. In the new contraption, the moving picture, the hero or villainin exit strides past the nose of the camera, growing much bigger than ahuman being, marching toward us as though he would step on our heads,disappearing when largest. There is an explosive power about the mildestmotion picture exit, be the actor skilful or the reverse. The people leftin the scene are pygmies compared with each disappearing cyclops.Likewise, when the actor enters again, his mechanical importance isoverwhelming. Therefore, for his first entrance the motion picture stardoes not require the preparations that are made on the stage. Thesupport does not need to warm the spectators to the problem, then talkthem into surrender.When the veteran stage-producer as a beginning photoplay producer triesto give us a dialogue in the motion pictures, he makes it so dull no onefollows. He does not realize that his camera-born opportunity to magnifypersons and things instantly, to interweave them as actors on one level,to alternate scenes at the slightest whim, are the big substitutes fordialogue. By alternating scenes rapidly, flash after flash: cottage,field, mountain-top, field, mountain-top, cottage, we have a conversationbetween three places rather than three persons. By alternating thepicture of a man and the check he is forging, we have his soliloquy. Whentwo people talk to each other, it is by lifting and lowering objectsrather than their voices. The collector presents a bill: the adventurershows him the door. The boy plucks a rose: the girl accepts it. Movingobjects, not moving lips, make the words of the photoplay.The old-fashioned stage producer, feeling he is getting nowhere, butstill helpless, puts the climax of some puzzling lip-debate, often theclimax of the whole film, as a sentence on the screen. Sentences shouldbe used to show changes of time and place and a few such elementarymatters before the episode is fully started. The climax of a motionpicture scene cannot be one word or fifty words. As has been discussed inconnection with Cabiria, the crisis must be an action sharper than anythat has gone before in organic union with a tableau more beautiful thanany that has preceded: the breaking of the tenth wave upon the sand. Suchremnants of pantomimic dialogue as remain in the main chase of thephotoplay film are but guide-posts in the race toward the goal. Theyshould not be elaborate toll-gates of plot, to be laboriously lifted andlowered while the horses stop, mid-career.The Venus of Milo, that comes directly to the soul through the silence,requires no quotation from Keats to explain her, though Keats is theequivalent in verse. Her setting in the great French Museum is enough. Wedo not know that her name is Venus. She is thought by many to be anotherstatue of Victory. We may some day evolve scenarios that will requirenothing more than a title thrown upon the screen at the beginning, theycome to the eye so perfectly. This is not the only possible sort, butthe self-imposed limitation in certain films might give them a charm akinto that of the Songs without Words.The stage audience is a unit of three hundred or a thousand. In thebeginning of the first act there is much moving about and extra talk onthe part of the actors, to hold the crowd while it is settling down, andenable the late-comer to be in his seat before the vital part of thestory starts. If he appears later, he is glared at. In the motion pictureart gallery, on the other hand, the audience is around two hundred, andthese are not a unit, and the only crime is to obstruct the line ofvision. The high-school girls can do a moderate amount of gigglingwithout breaking the spell. There is no spell, in the stage sense, tobreak. People can climb over each other's knees to get in or out. If thepicture is political, they murmur war-cries to one another. If the filmsuggests what some of the neighbors have been doing, they can regale eachother with the richest sewing society report.The people in the motion picture audience total about two hundred, anytime, but they come in groups of two or three at no specified hour. Thenewcomers do not, as in Vaudeville, make themselves part of a joculararmy. Strictly as individuals they judge the panorama. If theydisapprove, there is grumbling under their breath, but no hissing. I havenever heard an audience in a photoplay theatre clap its hands even whenthe house was bursting with people. Yet they often see the film throughtwice. When they have had enough, they stroll home. They manifest theirfavorable verdict by sending some other member of the family to "see thepicture." If the people so delegated are likewise satisfied, they may askthe man at the door if he is going to bring it back. That is the movingpicture kind of cheering.It was a theatrical sin when the old-fashioned stage actor was renderedunimportant by his scenery. But the motion picture actor is but the moodof the mob or the landscape or the department store behind him, reducedto a single hieroglyphic.The stage-interior is large. The motion-picture interior is small. Thestage out-of-door scene is at best artificial and little and is generallyat rest, or its movement is tainted with artificiality. The waves dash,but not dashingly, the water flows, but not flowingly. The motionpicture out-of-door scene is as big as the universe. And only pictures ofthe Sahara are without magnificent motion.The photoplay is as far from the stage on the one hand as it is from thenovel on the other. Its nearest analogy in literature is, perhaps, theshort story, or the lyric poem. The key-words of the stage are _passion_and _character_; of the photoplay, _splendor_ and _speed_. The stage inits greatest power deals with pity for some one especially unfortunate,with whom we grow well acquainted; with some private revenge against someparticular despoiler; traces the beginning and culmination of joy basedon the gratification of some preference, or love for some person, whosecharm is all his own. The drama is concerned with the slow, inevitableapproaches to these intensities. On the other hand, the motion picture,though often appearing to deal with these things, as a matter of factuses substitutes, many of which have been listed. But to review: itsfirst substitute is the excitement of speed-mania stretched on theframework of an obvious plot. Or it deals with delicate informal anecdoteas the short story does, or fairy legerdemain, or patriotic banners, orgreat surging mobs of the proletariat, or big scenic outlooks, ormiraculous beings made visible. And the further it gets from Euripides,Ibsen, Shakespeare, or Moliere--the more it becomes like a mural paintingfrom which flashes of lightning come--the more it realizes its genius.Men like Gordon Craig and Granville Barker are almost wasting theirgenius on the theatre. The Splendor Photoplays are the great outlet fortheir type of imagination.The typical stage performance is from two hours and a half upward. Themovie show generally lasts five reels, that is, an hour and fortyminutes. And it should last but three reels, that is, an hour. Edgar Poesaid there was no such thing as a long poem. There is certainly no suchthing as a long moving picture masterpiece.The stage-production depends most largely upon the power of the actors,the movie show upon the genius of the producer. The performers and thedumb objects are on equal terms in his paint-buckets. The star-system isbad for the stage because the minor parts are smothered and thesituations distorted to give the favorite an orbit. It is bad for themotion pictures because it obscures the producer. While the leading actoris entitled to his glory, as are all the actors, their mannerisms shouldnot overshadow the latest inspirations of the creator of the films.The display of the name of the corporation is no substitute for givingthe glory to the producer. An artistic photoplay is not the result of amilitary efficiency system. It is not a factory-made staple article, butthe product of the creative force of one soul, the flowering of a spiritthat has the habit of perpetually renewing itself.Once I saw Mary Fuller in a classic. It was the life and death of MaryQueen of Scots. Not only was the tense, fidgety, over-American MaryFuller transformed into a being who was a poppy and a tiger-lily and asnow-queen and a rose, but she and her company, including MarcMacdermott, radiated the old Scotch patriotism. They made the picture amemorial. It reminded one of Maurice Hewlett's novel The Queen's Quair.Evidently all the actors were fused by some noble managerial mood.There can be no doubt that so able a group have evolved many good filmsthat have escaped me. But though I did go again and again, never did Isee them act with the same deliberation and distinction, and I laid thedifference to a change in the state of mind of the producer. Evenbaseball players must have managers. A team cannot pick itself, or itsurely would. And this rule may apply to the stage. But by comparison tomotion picture performers, stage-actors are their own managers, for theyhave an approximate notion of how they look in the eye of the audience,which is but the human eye. They can hear and gauge their own voices.They have the same ears as their listeners. But the picture producerholds to his eyes the seven-leagued demon spy-glass called thekinetoscope, as the audience will do later. The actors have not the leastnotion of their appearance. Also the words in the motion picture are notthings whose force the actor can gauge. The book under the table is oneword, the dog behind the chair is another, the window curtain flying inthe breeze is another.This chapter has implied that the performers were but paint on thecanvas. They are both paint and models. They are models in the sense thatthe young Ellen Terry was the inspiration for Watts' Sir Galahad. Theyresemble the persons in private life who furnish the basis for novels.Dickens' mother was the original of Mrs. Nickleby. His father enteredinto Wilkins Micawber. But these people are not perpetually thrust uponus as Mr. and Mrs. Dickens. We are glad to find them in the Dickensbiographies. When the stories begin, it is Micawber and Mrs. Nickleby wewant, and the Charles Dickens atmosphere.The photoplays of the future will be written from the foundations for thefilms. The soundest actors, photographers, and producers will be thosewho emphasize the points wherein the photoplay is unique. What is adaptedto complete expression in one art generally secures but half expressionin another. The supreme photoplay will give us things that have been buthalf expressed in all other mediums allied to it.Once this principle is grasped there is every reason why the same peoplewho have interested themselves in the advanced experimental drama shouldtake hold of the super-photoplay. The good citizens who can most easilygrasp the distinction should be there to perpetuate the higher welfare ofthese institutions side by side. This parallel development should come,if for no other reason, because the two arts are still roughly classedtogether by the public. The elect cannot teach the public what the dramais till they show them precisely what the photoplay is and is not. Justas the university has departments of both History and English teaching inamity, each one illuminating the work of the other, so these two formsshould live in each other's sight in fine and friendly contrast. Atpresent they are in blind and jealous warfare.CHAPTER XIIIHIEROGLYPHICSI have read this chapter to a pretty neighbor who has approved of thepreceding portions of the book, whose mind, therefore, I cannot butrespect. My neighbor classes this discussion of hieroglyphics as afanciful flight rather than a sober argument. I submit the verdict, thenstruggle against it while you read.The invention of the photoplay is as great a step as was the beginning ofpicture-writing in the stone age. And the cave-men and women of our slumsseem to be the people most affected by this novelty, which is but anexpression of the old in that spiral of life which is going higher whileseeming to repeat the ancient phase.There happens to be here on the table a book on Egypt by Rawlinson that Iused to thumb long ago. A footnote says: "The font of hieroglyphic typeused in this work contains eight hundred forms. But there are many otherforms beside." There is more light on Egypt in later works than inRawlinson, but the statement quoted will serve for our text.Several complex methods of making visible scenarios are listed in thiswork. Here is one that is mechanically simple. Let the man searching fortableau combinations, even if he is of the practical commercial type,prepare himself with eight hundred signs from Egypt. He can construct theoutlines of his scenarios by placing these little pictures in rows. Itmay not be impractical to cut his hundreds of them from black cardboardand shuffle them on his table every morning. The list will contain allelementary and familiar things. Let him first give the most literalmeaning to the patterns. Then if he desires to rise above the commercialfield, let him turn over each cardboard, making the white undersurfaceuppermost, and there write a more abstract meaning of the hieroglyphic,one that has a fairly close relation to his way of thinking about theprimary form. From a proper balance of primary and secondary meaningsphotoplays with souls could come. Not that he must needs become an expertEgyptologist. Yet it would profit any photoplay man to study to thinklike the Egyptians, the great picture-writing people. There is as muchreason for this course as for the Bible student's apprenticeship inHebrew.Hieroglyphics can prove their worth, even without the help of an Egyptianhistory. Humorous and startling analogies can be pointed out by openingthe Standard Dictionary, page fifty-nine. Look under the word _alphabet_.There is the diagram of the evolution of inscriptions from the Egyptianand Phoenician idea of what letters should be, on through the Greek andRoman systems.In the Egyptian row is the picture of a throne, [Illustration] that hasits equivalent in the Roman letter C. And a throne has as much place inwhat might be called the moving-picture alphabet as the letter C has inours. There are sometimes three thrones in this small town of Springfieldin an evening. When you see one flashed on the screen, you know instantlyyou are dealing with royalty or its implications. The last one I saw thatmade any particular impression was when Mary Pickford acted in Such aLittle Queen. I only wished then that she had a more convincing throne.Let us cut one out of black cardboard. Turning the cardboard over towrite on it the spirit-meaning, we inscribe some such phrase as TheThrone of Wisdom or The Throne of Liberty.Here is the hieroglyphic of a hand: [Illustration] Roman equivalent, theletter D. The human hand, magnified till it is as big as the wholescreen, is as useful in the moving picture alphabet as the letter D inthe printed alphabet. This hand may open a lock. It may pour poison in abottle. It may work a telegraph key. Then turning the white side of thecardboard uppermost we inscribe something to the effect that this handmay write on the wall, as at the feast of Belshazzar. Or it may representsome such conception as Rodin's Hand of God, discussed in theSculpture-in-motion chapter.Here is a duck: [Illustration] Roman equivalent, the letter Z. In themotion pictures this bird, a somewhat z-shaped animal, suggests thefinality of Arcadian peace. It is the last and fittest ornament of themill-pond. Nothing very terrible can happen with a duck in theforeground. There is no use turning it over. It would take Maeterlinck orSwedenborg to find the mystic meaning of a duck. A duck looks to me likea caricature of an alderman.Here is a sieve: [Illustration] Roman equivalent, H. A sieve placed onthe kitchen-table, close-up, suggests domesticity, hired girl humors,broad farce. We will expect the bride to make her first cake, or theflour to begin to fly into the face of the intrusive ice-man. But, as tothe other side of the cardboard, the sieve has its place in highersymbolism. It has been recorded by many a sage and singer that theAlmighty Powers sift men like wheat.Here is the picture of a bowl: [Illustration] Roman equivalent, theletter K. A bowl seen through the photoplay window on the cottage tablesuggests Johnny's early supper of bread and milk. But as to the whiteside of the cardboard, out of a bowl of kindred form Omar may take hismoonlit wine, or the higher gods may lift up the very wine of time to thelips of men, as Swinburne sings in Atalanta in Calydon.Here is a lioness: [Illustration] Roman equivalent, the letter L. Thelion or lioness creeps through the photoplay jungle to give the primarypicture-word of terror in this new universal alphabet. The present writerhas seen several valuable lions unmistakably shot and killed in themotion pictures, and charged up to profit and loss, just assteam-engines or houses are sometimes blown up or burned down. But oflate there is a disposition to use the trained lion (or lioness) for allsorts of effects. No doubt the king and queen of beasts will become asversatile and humbly useful as the letter L itself: that is, in thecommonplace routine photoplay. We turn the cardboard over and the lionbecomes a resource of glory and terror, a symbol of cruel persecutions ordeathless courage, sign of the zodiac that Poe in Ulalume calls the Lairof the Lion.Here is an owl: [Illustration] Roman equivalent, the letter M. The onlyuse of the owl I can record is to be inscribed on the white surface. InThe Avenging Conscience, as described in chapter ten, the murderer marksthe ticking of the heart of his victim while watching the swinging of thependulum of the old clock, then in watching the tapping of thedetective's pencil on the table, then in the tapping of his foot on thefloor. Finally a handsome owl is shown in the branches outsidehoot-hooting in time with the action of the pencil, and the pendulum, andthe dead man's heart.But here is a wonderful thing, an actual picture that has lived on,retaining its ancient imitative sound and form: [Illustration] theletter N, the drawing of a wave, with the sound of a wave still withinit. One could well imagine the Nile in the winds of the dawn making sucha sound: "NN, N, N," lapping at the reeds upon its banks. Certainly theglittering water scenes are a dominant part of moving picture Esperanto.On the white reverse of the symbol, the spiritual meaning of water willrange from the metaphor of the purity of the dew to the sea as a sign ofinfinity.Here is a window with closed shutters: [Illustration] Latin equivalent,the letter P. It is a reminder of the technical outline of this book. TheIntimate Photoplay, as I have said, is but a window where we open theshutters and peep into some one's cottage. As to the soul meaning in theopening or closing of the shutters, it ranges from Noah's opening thehatches to send forth the dove, to the promises of blessing when theWindows of Heaven should be opened.Here is the picture of an angle: [Illustration] Latin equivalent, Q.This is another reminder of the technical outline. The photoplayinterior, as has been reiterated, is small and three-cornered. Here theheroine does her plotting, flirting, and primping, etc. I will leave thespiritual interpretation of the angle to Emerson, Swedenborg, orMaeterlinck.Here is the picture of a mouth: [Illustration] Latin equivalent, theletter R. If we turn from the dictionary to the monuments, we will seethat the Egyptians used all the human features in their pictures. We donot separate the features as frequently as did that ancient people, butwe conventionalize them as often. Nine-tenths of the actors have faces asfixed as the masks of the Greek chorus: they have the hero-mask with theprotruding chin, the villain-frown, the comedian-grin, the fixedinnocent-girl simper. These formulas have their place in the broadeffects of Crowd Pictures and in comedies. Then there are suddenabandonments of the mask. Griffith's pupils, Henry Walthall and BlancheSweet, seem to me to be the greatest people in the photoplays: for onereason their faces are as sensitive to changing emotion as the surfacesof fair lakes in the wind. There is a passage in Enoch Arden where Annie,impersonated by Lillian Gish, another pupil of Griffith, is waiting insuspense for the return of her husband. She changes from lips of waiting,with a touch of apprehension, to a delighted laugh of welcome, her headmaking a half-turn toward the door. The audience is so moved by thebeauty of the slow change they do not know whether her face is the sizeof the screen or the size of a postage-stamp. As a matter of fact itfills the whole end of the theatre.Thus much as to faces that are not hieroglyphics. Yet fixed facialhieroglyphics have many legitimate uses. For instance in The AvengingConscience, as the play works toward the climax and the guilty man isbreaking down, the eye of the detective is thrown on the screen with allelse hid in shadow, a watching, relentless eye. And this suggests aspecial talisman of the old Egyptians, a sign called the Eyes of Horus,meaning the all-beholding sun.Here is the picture of an inundated garden: [Illustration] Latinequivalent, the letter S. In our photoplays the garden is an ever-presentresource, and at an instant's necessity suggests the glory of nature, orsweet privacy, and kindred things. The Egyptian lotus garden had to beinundated to be a success. Ours needs but the hired man with the hose,who sometimes supplies broad comedy. But we turn over the cardboard, forthe deeper meaning of this hieroglyphic. Our gardens can, as of old, runthe solemn range from those of Babylon to those of the Resurrection.If there is one sceptic left as to the hieroglyphic significance of thephotoplay, let him now be discomfited by page fifty-nine, StandardDictionary. The last letter in this list is a lasso: [Illustration]. Theequivalent of the lasso in the Roman alphabet is the letter T. The crudeand facetious would be apt to suggest that the equivalent of the lasso inthe photoplay is the word trouble, possibly for the hero, but probablyfor the villain. We turn to the other side of the symbol. The noose maystand for solemn judgment and the hangman, it may also symbolize thesnare of the fowler, temptation. Then there is the spider web, close kin,representing the cruelty of evolution, in The Avenging Conscience.This list is based on the rows of hieroglyphics most readily at hand. Anyvolume on Egypt, such as one of those by Maspero, has a multitude ofsuggestions for the man inclined to the idea.If this system of pasteboard scenarios is taken literally, I would liketo suggest as a beginning rule that in a play based on twentyhieroglyphics, nineteen should be the black realistic signs with obviousmeanings, and only one of them white and inexplicably strange. It hasbeen proclaimed further back in this treatise that there is only onewitch in every wood. And to illustrate further, there is but one scarletletter in Hawthorne's story of that name, but one wine-cup in all ofOmar, one Bluebird in Maeterlinck's play.I do not insist that the prospective author-producer adopt thehieroglyphic method as a routine, if he but consents in his meditativehours to the point of view that it implies.The more fastidious photoplay audience that uses the hieroglyphichypothesis in analyzing the film before it, will acquire a new toleranceand understanding of the avalanche of photoplay conceptions, and find apromise of beauty in what have been properly classed as mediocre andstereotyped productions.The nineteenth chapter has a discourse on the Book of the Dead. As aconnecting link with that chapter the reader will note that one of themarked things about the Egyptian wall-paintings, pictures on themummy-case wrappings, papyrus inscriptions, and architecturalconceptions, is that they are but enlarged hieroglyphics, while thehieroglyphics are but reduced fac-similes of these. So when a fewcharacters are once understood, the highly colored Egyptianwall-paintings of the same things are understood. The hieroglyphic ofOsiris is enlarged when they desire to represent him in state. Thehieroglyphic of the soul as a human-headed hawk may be in a line ofwriting no taller than the capitals of this book. Immediately above maybe a big painting of the soul, the same hawk placed with the proper carewith reference to its composition on the wall, a pure decoration.The transition from reduction to enlargement and back again is as rapidin Egypt as in the photoplay. It follows, among other things, that inEgypt, as in China and Japan, literary style and mere penmanship andbrushwork are to be conceived as inseparable. No doubt the Egyptianscholar was the man who could not only compose a poem, but write it downwith a brush. Talent for poetry, deftness in inscribing, and skill inmural painting were probably gifts of the same person. The photoplay goesback to this primitive union in styles.The stages from hieroglyphics through Phoenician and Greek letters toours, are of no particular interest here. But the fact thathieroglyphics can evolve is important. Let us hope that our newpicture-alphabets can take on richness and significance, as time goes on,without losing their literal values. They may develop into something moreall-pervading, yet more highly wrought, than any written speech.Languages when they evolve produce stylists, and we will some daydistinguish the different photoplay masters as we now delight in theseparate tang of O. Henry and Mark Twain and Howells. When these areancient times, we will have scholars and critics learned in the flavorsof early moving picture traditions with their histories of movements andschools, their grammars, and anthologies.Now some words as to the Anglo-Saxon language and its relation topictures. In England and America our plastic arts are but beginning.Yesterday we were preeminently a word-civilization. England built hermediaeval cathedrals, but they left no legacy among craftsmen. Art had tolean on imported favorites like Van Dyck till the days of Sir JoshuaReynolds and the founding of the Royal Society. Consider that the friendsof Reynolds were of the circle of Doctor Johnson. Literary tradition hadgrown old. Then England had her beginning of landscape gardening. Latershe saw the rise of Constable, Ruskin, and Turner, and their iridescentsuccessors. Still to-day in England the average leading citizen matchesword against word,--using them as algebraic formulas,--rather thanpicture against picture, when he arranges his thoughts under the eaves ofhis mind. To step into the Art world is to step out of the beaten path ofBritish dreams. Shakespeare is still king, not Rossetti, nor yetChristopher Wren. Moreover, it was the book-reading colonial who led ourrebellion against the very royalty that founded the Academy. Thepublic-speaking American wrote the Declaration of Independence. It wasnot the work of the painting or cathedral-building Englishman. We wereled by Patrick Henry, the orator, Benjamin Franklin, the printer.The more characteristic America became, the less she had to do with theplastic arts. The emigrant-train carried many a Bible and Dictionarypacked in beside the guns and axes. It carried the Elizabethan writers,AEsop's Fables, Blackstone's Commentaries, the revised statutes ofIndiana, Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, Parson Weems' Life of Washington.But, obviously, there was no place for the Elgin marbles. Giotto's towercould not be loaded in with the dried apples and the seedcorn.Yesterday morning, though our arts were growing every day, we were stillmore of a word-civilization than the English. Our architectural,painting, and sculptural history is concerned with men now living, ortheir immediate predecessors. And even such work as we have is prettylargely a cult by the wealthy. This is the more a cause for misgivingbecause, in a democracy, the arts, like the political parties, are notfounded till they have touched the county chairman, the ward leader, theindividual voter. The museums in a democracy should go as far as thepublic libraries. Every town has its library. There are not twenty Artmuseums in the land.Here then comes the romance of the photoplay. A tribe that has thought inwords since the days that it worshipped Thor and told legends of thecunning of the tongue of Loki, suddenly begins to think in pictures. Theleaders of the people, and of culture, scarcely know the photoplayexists. But in the remote villages the players mentioned in this work areas well known and as fairly understood in their general psychology as anycandidates for president bearing political messages. There is many ababe in the proletariat not over four years old who has received morepictures into its eye than it has had words enter its ear. The youngcouple go with their first-born and it sits gaping on its mother's knee.Often the images are violent and unseemly, a chaos of rawness and squirm,but scattered through the experience is a delineation of the world. Pekinand China, Harvard and Massachusetts, Portland and Oregon, Benares andIndia, become imaginary playgrounds. By the time the hopeful has reachedits geography lesson in the public school it has travelled indeed. Almostany word that means a picture in the text of the geography or history orthird reader is apt to be translated unconsciously into moving pictureterms. In the next decade, simply from the development of the averageeye, cities akin to the beginnings of Florence will be born among us assurely as Chaucer came, upon the first ripening of the English tongue,after Caedmon and Beowulf. Sculptors, painters, architects, and parkgardeners who now have their followers by the hundreds will have admirersby the hundred thousand. The voters will respond to the aspirations ofthese artists as the back-woodsmen followed Poor Richard's Almanac, orthe trappers in their coon-skin caps were fired to patriotism by PatrickHenry.       *       *       *       *       *This ends the second section of the book. Were it not for the passage onThe Battle Hymn of the Republic, the chapters thus far might be entitled:"an open letter to Griffith and the producers and actors he has trained."Contrary to my prudent inclinations, he is the star of the piece, excepton one page where he is the villain. This stardom came about slowly. Inmaking the final revision, looking up the producers of the importantreels, especially those from the beginning of the photoplay business,numbers of times the photoplays have turned out to be the work of thisformer leading man of Nance O'Neil.No one can pretend to a full knowledge of the films. They come fasterthan rain in April. It would take a man every day of the year, workingday and night, to see all that come to Springfield. But in the photoplayworld, as I understand it, D.W. Griffith is the king-figure.So far, in this work I have endeavored to keep to the established dogmasof Art. I hope that the main lines of the argument will appeal to thepeople who have classified and related the beautiful works of man thathave preceded the moving pictures. Let the reader make his own essay onthe subject for the local papers and send the clipping to me. The nextphotoplay book that may appear from this hand may be construed to meethis point of view. It will try to agree or disagree in clear language.Many a controversy must come before a method of criticism is fullyestablished.       *       *       *       *       *BOOK IIIMORE PERSONAL SPECULATIONS AND AFTERTHOUGHTS NOT BROUGHTFORWARD SO DOGMATICALLYAt this point I climb from the oracular platform and go down through myown chosen underbrush for haphazard adventure. I renounce the platform.Whatever it may be that I find, pawpaw or may-apple or spray of willow,if you do not want it, throw it over the edge of the hill, without ado,to the birds or squirrels or kine, and do not include it in yourcontroversial discourse. It is not a part of the dogmatic system ofphotoplay criticism.CHAPTER XIVTHE ORCHESTRA, CONVERSATION, AND THE CENSORSHIPWhenever the photoplay is mixed in the same programme with vaudeville,the moving picture part of the show suffers. The film is rushed through,it is battered, it flickers more than commonly, it is a little out offocus. The house is not built for it. The owner of the place cannotmanage an art gallery with a circus on his hands. It takes more brainsthan one man possesses to pick good vaudeville talent and bring goodfilms to the town at the same time. The best motion picture theatres arebuilt for photoplays alone. But they make one mistake.Almost every motion picture theatre has its orchestra, pianist, ormechanical piano. The perfect photoplay gathering-place would have nosound but the hum of the conversing audience. If this is too ruthless atheory, let the music be played at the intervals between programmes,while the advertisements are being flung upon the screen, the lights areon, and the people coming in.If there is something more to be done on the part of the producer to makethe film a telling one, let it be a deeper study of the pictorialarrangement, with the tones more carefully balanced, the sculpturevitalized. This is certainly better than to have a raw thing bulliedthrough with a music-programme, furnished to bridge the weak places inthe construction. A picture should not be released till it is completelythought out. A producer with this goal before him will not have the timeor brains to spare to write music that is as closely and delicatelyrelated to the action as the action is to the background. And unless thetunes are at one with the scheme they are an intrusion. Perhaps themoving picture maker has a twin brother almost as able in music, whopossesses the faculty of subordinating his creations to the work of hismore brilliant coadjutor. How are they going to make a practical nationaldistribution of the accompaniment? In the metropolitan theatres Cabiriacarried its own musicians and programme with a rich if feverish result.In The Birth of a Nation, music was used that approached imitative sounddevices. Also the orchestra produced a substitute for old-fashioned stagesuspense by long drawn-out syncopations. The finer photoplay values werethrown askew. Perhaps these two performances could be successfullyvindicated in musical policy. But such a defence proves nothing in regardto the typical film. Imagine either of these put on in Rochester,Illinois, population one hundred souls. The reels run through as well ason Broadway or Michigan Avenue, but the local orchestra cannot play themusic furnished in annotated sheets as skilfully as the local operatorcan turn the reel (or watch the motor turn it!).The big social fact about the moving picture is that it is scattered likethe newspaper. Any normal accompaniment thereof must likewise be adaptedto being distributed everywhere. The present writer has seen, here in hishome place, population sixty thousand, all the films discussed in thisbook but Cabiria and The Birth of a Nation. It is a photoplay paradise,the spoken theatre is practically banished. Unfortunately the localmoving picture managers think it necessary to have orchestras. Themusicians they can secure make tunes that are most squalid and horrible.With fathomless imbecility, hoochey koochey strains are on the air whileheroes are dying. The Miserere is in our ears when the lovers arereconciled. Ragtime is imposed upon us while the old mother prays for herlost boy. Sometimes the musician with this variety of sympathy abandonshimself to thrilling improvisation.My thoughts on this subject began to take form several years ago, whenthe film this book has much praised, The Battle Hymn of the Republic,came to town. The proprietor of one theatre put in front of his shop atwenty-foot sign "The Battle Hymn of the Republic, by Harriet BeecherStowe, brought back by special request." He had probably read Julia WardHowe's name on the film forty times before the sign went up. Hisassistant, I presume his daughter, played "In the Shade of the Old AppleTree" hour after hour, while the great film was rolling by. Many oldsoldiers were coming to see it. I asked the assistant why she did notplay and sing the Battle Hymn. She said they "just couldn't find it." Arethe distributors willing to send out a musician with each film?Many of the Springfield producers are quite able and enterprising, butto ask for music with photoplays is like asking the man at the news standto write an editorial while he sells you the paper. The picture with agreat orchestra in a far-off metropolitan Opera House, may be classed byfanatic partisanship with Grand Opera. But few can get at it. It hasnothing to do with Democracy.Of course people with a mechanical imagination, and no other kind, beginto suggest the talking moving picture at this point, or the phonograph orthe mechanical piano. Let us discuss the talking moving picture only.That disposes of the others.If the talking moving picture becomes a reliable mirror of the humanvoice and frame, it will be the basis of such a separate art that none ofthe photoplay precedents will apply. It will be the _phonoplay_, not thephotoplay. It will be unpleasant for a long time. This book is a struggleagainst the non-humanness of the undisciplined photograph. Any film iscorrect, realistic, forceful, many times before it is charming. Theactual physical storage-battery of the actor is many hundred miles away.As a substitute, the human quality must come in the marks of the presenceof the producer. The entire painting must have his brushwork. If wecompare it to a love-letter it must be in his handwriting rather thanworked on a typewriter. If he puts his autograph into the film, it isafter a fierce struggle with the uncanny scientific quality of thecamera's work. His genius and that of the whole company of actors isexhausted in the task.The raw phonograph is likewise unmagnetic. Would you set upon theshoulders of the troupe of actors the additional responsibility ofputting an adequate substitute for human magnetism in the phonographicdisk? The voice that does not actually bleed, that contains noheart-beats, fails to meet the emergency. Few people have wept over aphonographic selection from Tristan and Isolde. They are moved at theactual performance. Why? Look at the opera singer after the last act. Hiseyes are burning. His face is flushed. His pulse is high. Reaching hishotel room, he is far more weary than if he had sung the opera alonethere. He has given out of his brain-fire and blood-beat the samemagnetism that leads men in battle. To speak of it in the crassest terms,this resource brings him a hundred times more salary than another manwith just as good a voice can command. The output that leaves himdrained at the end of the show cannot be stored in the phonographmachine. That device is as good in the morning as at noon. It ticks likea clock.To perfect the talking moving picture, human magnetism must be put intothe mirror-screen and into the clock. Not only is this imperative, butclock and mirror must be harmonized, one gently subordinated to theother. Both cannot rule. In the present talking moving picture the morehighly developed photoplay is dragged by the hair in a dead faint, in thewake of the screaming savage phonograph. No talking machine on the marketreproduces conversation clearly unless it be elaborately articulated inunnatural tones with a stiff interval between each question and answer.Real dialogue goes to ruin.The talking moving picture came to our town. We were given for one show aline of minstrels facing the audience, with the interlocutor repeatinghis immemorial question, and the end-man giving the immemorial answer.Then came a scene in a blacksmith shop where certain well-differentiatedrackets were carried over the footlights. No one heard the blacksmith,unless he stopped to shout straight at us.The _phonoplay_ can quite possibly reach some divine goal, but it will beafter the speaking powers of the phonograph excel the photographingpowers of the reel, and then the pictures will be brought in as commentand ornament to the speech. The pictures will be held back by thephonograph as long as it is more limited in its range. The pictures areat present freer and more versatile without it. If the _phonoplay_ isever established, since it will double the machinery, it must needsdouble its prices. It will be the illustrated phonograph, in a moreexpensive theatre.The orchestra is in part a blundering effort by the local manager tosupply the human-magnetic element which he feels lacking in the pictureson which the producer has not left his autograph. But there is a muchmore economic and magnetic accompaniment, the before-mentioned buzzingcommentary of the audience. There will be some people who disturb theneighbors in front, but the average crowd has developed its manners inthis particular, and when the orchestra is silent, murmurs like apleasant brook.Local manager, why not an advertising campaign in your town that says:"Beginning Monday and henceforth, ours shall be known as theConversational Theatre"? At the door let each person be handed thefollowing card:--"You are encouraged to discuss the picture with the friend whoaccompanies you to this place. Conversation, of course, must besufficiently subdued not to disturb the stranger who did not come withyou to the theatre. If you are so disposed, consider your answers tothese questions: What play or part of a play given in this theatre didyou like most to-day? What the least? What is the best picture you haveever seen anywhere? What pictures, seen here this month, shall we bringback?" Here give a list of the recent productions, with squares to markby the Australian ballot system: approved or disapproved. The cards withtheir answers could be slipped into the ballot-box at the door as thecrowd goes out.It may be these questions are for the exceptional audiences in residencedistricts. Perhaps with most crowds the last interrogation is the onlyone worth while. But by gathering habitually the answers to that alonethe place would get the drift of its public, realize its genius, andbecome an art-gallery, the people bestowing the blue ribbons. Thephotoplay theatres have coupon contests and balloting already: the mostpopular young lady, money prizes to the best vote-getter in the audience,etc. Why not ballot on the matter in hand?If the cards are sent out by the big producers, a referendum could besecured that would be invaluable in arguing down to rigid censorship, andenable them to make their own private censorship more intelligent.Various styles of experimental cards could be tried till the vital one isfound.There is growing up in this country a clan of half-formed moving picturecritics. The present stage of their work is indicated by the eloquentnotice describing Your Girl and Mine, in the chapter on "Progress andEndowment." The metropolitan papers give their photoplay reporters asmuch space as the theatrical critics. Here in my home town the twelvemoving picture places take one half a page of chaotic notices daily. Thecountry is being badly led by professional photoplay news-writers who donot know where they are going, but are on the way.But they aptly describe the habitual attendants as moving picture fans.The fan at the photoplay, as at the baseball grounds, is neither alow-brow nor a high-brow. He is an enthusiast who is as stirred by thecharge of the photographic cavalry as by the home runs that he watchesfrom the bleachers. In both places he has the privilege of comment whilethe game goes on. In the photoplay theatre it is not so vociferous, butas keenly felt. Each person roots by himself. He has his own judgment,and roasts the umpire: who is the keeper of the local theatre: or theproducer, as the case may be. If these opinions of the fan can becollected and classified, an informal censorship is at once established.The photoplay reporters can then take the enthusiasts in hand and leadthem to a realization of the finer points in awarding praise and blame.Even the sporting pages have their expert opinions with due influence onthe betting odds. Out of the work of the photoplay reporters let asuperstructure of art criticism be reared in periodicals like TheCentury, Harper's, Scribner's, The Atlantic, The Craftsman, and thearchitectural magazines. These are our natural custodians of art. Theyshould reproduce the most exquisite tableaus, and be as fastidious intheir selection of them as they are in the current examples of the otherarts. Let them spread the news when photoplays keyed to the Rembrandtmood arrive. The reporters for the newspapers should get their ideas andrefreshment in such places as the Ryerson Art Library of the Chicago ArtInstitute. They should begin with such books as Richard Muther's Historyof Modern Painting, John C. Van Dyke's Art for Art's Sake, Marquand andFrothingham's History of Sculpture, A.D.F. Hamlin's History ofArchitecture. They should take the business of guidance in this new worldas a sacred trust, knowing they have the power to influence an enormousdemocracy.The moving picture journals and the literati are in straits over thecensorship question. The literati side with the managers, on theprinciples of free speech and a free press. But few of the aestheticallysuper-wise are persistent fans. They rave for freedom, but are not, as ageneral thing, living back in the home town. They do not face theexigency of having their summer and winter amusement spoiled day afterday.Extremists among the pious are railing against the moving pictures asonce they railed against novels. They have no notion that thisinstitution is penetrating to the last backwoods of our civilization,where its presence is as hard to prevent as the rain. But some of us aredestined to a reaction, almost as strong as the obsession. Thereligionists will think they lead it. They will be self-deceived. Movingpicture nausea is already taking hold of numberless people, even whenthey are in the purely pagan mood. Forced by their limited purses, theirinability to buy a Ford car, and the like, they go in their loneliness tofilm after film till the whole world seems to turn on a reel. When theyare again at home, they see in the dark an imaginary screen withtremendous pictures, whirling by at a horribly accelerated pace, aphotoplay delirium tremens. Faster and faster the reel turns in the backof their heads. When the moving picture sea-sickness is upon one, nothingsatisfies but the quietest out of doors, the companionship of thegentlest of real people. The non-movie-life has charms such as one neverbefore conceived. The worn citizen feels that the cranks and legislatorscan do what they please to the producers. He is through with them.The moving picture business men do not realize that they have to facethese nervous conditions in their erstwhile friends. They flatterthemselves they are being pursued by some reincarnations of AnthonyComstock. There are several reasons why photoplay corporations arecallous, along with the sufficient one that they are corporations.First, they are engaged in a financial orgy. Fortunes are being found byactors and managers faster than they were dug up in 1849 and 1850 inCalifornia. Forty-niner lawlessness of soul prevails. They talk eachother into a lordly state of mind. All is dash and experiment. Look atthe advertisements in the leading moving picture magazines. They are likethe praise of oil stock or Peruna. They bawl about films founded uponlittle classics. They howl about plots that are ostensibly from thesoberest of novels, whose authors they blasphemously invoke. They boo andblow about twisted, callous scenarios that are bad imitations of theworld's most beloved lyrics.The producers do not realize the mass effect of the output of thebusiness. It appears to many as a sea of unharnessed photography: sloppyconceptions set forth with sharp edges and irrelevant realism. Thejumping, twitching, cold-blooded devices, day after day, create theaforesaid sea-sickness, that has nothing to do with the questionablesubject. When on top of this we come to the picture that is actuallyinsulting, we are up in arms indeed. It is supplied by a corporationmagnate removed from his audience in location, fortune, interest, andmood: an absentee landlord. I was trying to convert a talented and noblefriend to the films. The first time we went there was a prize-fightbetween a black and a white man, not advertised, used for a filler. Isaid it was queer, and would not happen again. The next time my noblefriend was persuaded to go, there was a cock-fight, incidental to a Cubanromance. The third visit we beheld a lady who was dying for five minutes,rolling her eyes about in a way that was fearful to see. The convert wasnot made.It is too easy to produce an unprovoked murder, an inexplicable arson,neither led up to nor followed by the ordinary human history of suchacts, and therefore as arbitrary as the deeds of idiots or the insane. Avillainous hate, an alleged love, a violent death, are flashed at us,without being in any sort of tableau logic. The public is ceaselesslyplayed upon by tactless devices. Therefore it howls, just as children inthe nursery do when the awkward governess tries the very thing thediplomatic governess, in reasonable time, may bring about.The producer has the man in the audience who cares for the art peculiarlyat his mercy. Compare him with the person who wants to read a magazinefor an evening. He can look over all the periodicals in the localbook-store in fifteen minutes. He can select the one he wants, take thisbit of printed matter home, go through the contents, find the threearticles he prefers, get an evening of reading out of them, and be happy.Every day as many photoplays come to our town as magazines come to thebook-store in a week or a month. There are good ones and bad ones buriedin the list. There is no way to sample the films. One has to wait throughthe first third of a reel before he has an idea of the merits of aproduction, his ten cents is spent, and much of his time is gone. Itwould take five hours at least to find the best film in our town for oneday. Meanwhile, nibbling and sampling, the seeker would run such agantlet of plot and dash and chase that his eyes and patience would beexhausted. Recently there returned to the city for a day one ofGriffith's best Biographs, The Last Drop of Water. It was good to seeagain. In order to watch this one reel twice I had to wait through fiveothers of unutterable miscellany.Since the producers and theatre-managers have us at their mercy,they are under every obligation to consider our delicatesusceptibilities--granting the proposition that in an ideal world we willhave no legal censorship. As to what to do in this actual nation, let thereader follow what John Collier has recently written in The Survey.Collier was the leading force in founding the National Board ofCensorship. As a member of that volunteer extra-legal board which isindependent and high minded, yet accepted by the leading picturecompanies, he is able to discuss legislation in a manner which thepresent writer cannot hope to match. Read John Collier. But I wish tosuggest that the ideal censorship is that to which the daily press issubject, the elastic hand of public opinion, if the photoplay can bebrought as near to newspaper conditions in this matter as it is in someothers.How does public opinion grip the journalist? The editor has a constantreport from his constituency. A popular scoop sells an extra at once. Anattack on the wrong idol cancels fifty subscriptions. People come to theoffice to do it, and say why. If there is a piece of real news on thesecond page, and fifty letters come in about it that night, next monthwhen that character of news reappears it gets the front page. Some humanpeculiarities are not mentioned, some phrases not used. The totalattribute of the blue-pencil man is diplomacy. But while the motionpictures come out every day, they get their discipline months afterwardsin the legislation that insists on everything but tact. A tentativesubstitute for the letters that come to the editor, the personal call andcancelled subscription, and the rest, is the system of balloting on thepicture, especially the answer to the question, "What picture seen herethis month, or this week, shall we bring back?" Experience will teach howto put the queries. By the same system the public might dictate its owncut-outs. Let us have a democracy and a photoplay business working indaily rhythm.CHAPTER XVTHE SUBSTITUTE FOR THE SALOONThis is a special commentary on chapter five, The Picture of CrowdSplendor. It refers as well to every other type of moving picture thatgets into the slum. But the masses have an extraordinary affinity for theCrowd Photoplay. As has been said before, the mob comes nightly to beholdits natural face in the glass. Politicians on the platform have swayedthe mass below them. But now, to speak in an Irish way, the crowd takesthe platform, and looking down, sees itself swaying. The slums are anastonishing assembly of cave-men crawling out of their shelters toexhibit for the first time in history a common interest on a tremendousscale in an art form. Below the cliff caves were bar rooms in endlesslines. There are almost as many bar rooms to-day, yet this new thingbreaks the lines as nothing else ever did. Often when a moving picturehouse is set up, the saloon on the right hand or the left declaresbankruptcy.Why do men prefer the photoplay to the drinking place? For no piousreason, surely. Now they have fire pouring into their eyes instead ofinto their bellies. Blood is drawn from the guts to the brain. Though thepicture be the veriest mess, the light and movement cause the beholder todo a little reptilian thinking. After a day's work a street-sweeperenters the place, heavy as King Log. A ditch-digger goes in, sick andsurly. It is the state of the body when many men drink themselves intoinsensibility. But here the light is as strong in the eye as whiskey inthe throat. Along with the flare, shadow, and mystery, they face theexistence of people, places, costumes, utterly novel. Immigrants areprodded by these swords of darkness and light to guess at the meaning ofthe catch-phrases and headlines that punctuate the play. They strain tohear their neighbors whisper or spell them out.The photoplays have done something to reunite the lower-class families.No longer is the fire-escape the only summer resort for big and littlefolks. Here is more fancy and whim than ever before blessed a hot night.Here, under the wind of an electric fan, they witness everything, from aburial in Westminster to the birthday parade of the ruler of the land ofSwat.The usual saloon equipment to delight the eye is one so-called "leg"picture of a woman, a photograph of a prize-fighter, and some coloredportraits of goats to advertise various brands of beer. Many times, nodoubt, these boys and young men have found visions of a sordid kind whilegazing on the actress, the fighter, or the goats. But what poor materialthey had in the wardrobes of memory for the trimmings and habiliments ofvision, to make this lady into Freya, this prize-fighter into Thor, thesegoats into the harnessed steeds that drew his chariot! Man's dreams arerearranged and glorified memories. How could these people reconstruct thetorn carpets and tin cans and waste-paper of their lives into mythology?How could memories of Ladies' Entrance squalor be made into Castles inGranada or Carcassonne? The things they drank to see, and saw butgrotesquely, and paid for terribly, now roll before them with no afterpain or punishment. The mumbled conversation, the sociability for whichthey leaned over the tables, they have here in the same manner with farmore to talk about. They come, they go home, men and women together, ascasually and impulsively as the men alone ever entered a drinking-place,but discoursing now of far-off mountains and star-crossed lovers. AsPadraic Colum says in his poem on the herdsman:--    "With thoughts on white ships    And the King of Spain's Daughter."This is why the saloon on the right hand and on the left in the slum isapt to move out when the photoplay moves in.But let us go to the other end of the temperance argument. I beg to beallowed to relate a personal matter. For some time I was a field-workerfor the Anti-Saloon League of Illinois, being sent every Sunday to a newregion to make the yearly visit on behalf of the league. Such a visitoris apt to speak to one church in a village, and two in the country, oneach excursion, being met at the station by some leading farmer-citizenof the section, and driven to these points by him. The talk with this manwas worth it all to me.The agricultural territory of the United States is naturally dry. This isbecause the cross-roads church is the only communal institution, and thevoice of the cross-roads pastor is for teetotalism. The routine of thefarm-hand, while by no means ideal in other respects, keeps him fromcraving drink as intensely as other toilers do. A day's work in the openair fills his veins at nightfall with an opiate of weariness instead of ahigh-strung nervousness. The strong men of the community are churchelders, not through fanaticism, but by right of leadership. Through theiroffice they are committed to prohibition. So opposition to the temperancemovement is scattering. The Anti-Saloon League has organized theseleaders into a nation-wide machine. It sees that they get their weeklypaper, instructing them in the tactics whereby local fights have beenwon. A subscription financing the State League is taken once a year. Itcounts on the regular list of church benevolences. The state officerscome in to help on the critical local fights. Any country politicianfears their non-partisan denunciation as he does political death. Thelocal machines thus backed are incurable mugwumps, hold the balance ofpower, work in both parties, and have voted dry the agriculturalterritory of the United States everywhere, by the township, county, orstate unit.The only institutions that touch the same territory in a similar way arethe Chautauquas in the prosperous agricultural centres. These, too, bythe same sign are emphatically anti-saloon in their propaganda, servingto intellectualize and secularize the dry sentiment without taking it outof the agricultural caste.There is a definite line between our farm-civilization and the rest. Whena county goes dry, it is generally in spite of the county-seat. Suchtemperance people as are in the court-house town represent thechurch-vote, which is even then in goodly proportion a retired-farmervote. The larger the county-seat, the larger the non-church-goingpopulation and the more stubborn the fight. The majority of miners andfactory workers are on the wet side everywhere. The irritation caused bythe gases in the mines, by the dirty work in the blackness, by thesqualor in which the company houses are built, turns men to drink forreaction and lamplight and comradeship. The similar fevers andexasperations of factory life lead the workers to unstring their tensenerves with liquor. The habit of snuggling up close in factories,conversing often, bench by bench, machine by machine, inclines them toget together for their pleasures at the bar. In industrial America thereis an anti-saloon minority in moral sympathy with the temperance wavebrought in by the farmers. But they are outstanding groups. Theirleadership seldom dries up a factory town or a mining region, with allthe help the Anti-Saloon League can give.In the big cities the temperance movement is scarcely understood. Thechoice residential districts are voted dry for real estate reasons. Themen who do this, drink freely at their own clubs or parties. Thetemperance question would be fruitlessly argued to the end of time wereit not for the massive agricultural vote rolling and roaring round eachmetropolis, reawakening the town churches whose vote is a pitifulminority but whose spokesmen are occasionally strident.There is a prophecy abroad that prohibition will be the issue of anational election. If the question is squarely put, there are enoughfarmers and church-people to drive the saloon out of legal existence. Thewomen's vote, a little more puritanical than the men's vote, will makethe result sure. As one anxious for this victory, I have often speculatedon the situation when all America is nominally dry, at the behest of theAmerican farmer, the American preacher, and the American woman. When theuse of alcohol is treason, what will become of those all but unbrokenlines of slum saloons? No lesser force than regular troops could dislodgethem, with yesterday's intrenchment.The entrance of the motion picture house into the arena is indeedstriking, the first enemy of King Alcohol with real power where that kinghas deepest hold. If every one of those saloon doors is nailed up by theChautauqua orators, the photoplay archway will remain open. The peoplewill have a shelter where they can readjust themselves, that offers asubstitute for many of the lines of pleasure in the groggery. And a wholeevening costs but a dime apiece. Several rounds of drinks are expensive,but the people can sit through as many repetitions of this programme asthey desire, for one entrance fee. The dominant genius of the movingpicture place is not a gentleman with a red nose and an eye like a deadfish, but some producer who, with all his faults, has given every personin the audience a seven-leagued angel-and-demon telescope.Since I have announced myself a farmer and a puritan, let me here listthe saloon evils not yet recorded in this chapter. They are separate fromthe catalogue of the individualistic woes of the drunkard that are givenin the Scripture. The shame of the American drinking place is thebar-tender who dominates its thinking. His cynical and hardened soulwipes out a portion of the influence of the public school, the library,the self-respecting newspaper. A stream rises no higher than its source,and through his dead-fish eye and dead-fish brain the group of tired menlook upon all the statesmen and wise ones of the land. Though he saysworse than nothing, his furry tongue, by endless reiteration, is theAmerican slum oracle. At the present the bar-tender handles theneighborhood group, the ultimate unit in city politics.So, good citizen, welcome the coming of the moving picture man as a localsocial force. Whatever his private character, the mere formula of hisactivities makes him a better type. He may not at first sway his group ina directly political way, but he will make himself the centre of moresocial ideals than the bar-tender ever entertained. And he is beginningto have as intimate a relation to his public as the bar-tender. In manycases he stands under his arch in the sheltered lobby and is onconversing terms with his habitual customers, the length of the afternoonand evening.Voting the saloon out of the slums by voting America dry, does not, as ofold, promise to be a successful operation that kills the patient. In thepast some of the photoplay magazines have contained denunciations of thetemperance people for refusing to say anything in behalf of the greatestpractical enemy of the saloon. But it is not too late for the dry forcesto repent. The Anti-Saloon League officers and the photoplay men shouldask each other to dinner. More moving picture theatres in doubtfulterritory will help make dry voters. And wet territory voted dry willbring about a greatly accelerated patronage of the photoplay houses.There is every strategic reason why these two forces should patch up atruce.Meanwhile, the cave-man, reader of picture-writing, is given a chance toadmit light into his mind, whatever he puts to his lips. Let us look forthe day, be it a puritan triumph or not, when the sons and the daughtersof the slums shall prophesy, the young men shall see visions, the old mendream dreams.CHAPTER XVICALIFORNIA AND AMERICAThe moving picture captains of industry, like the California gold findersof 1849, making colossal fortunes in two or three years, have the sameglorious irresponsibility and occasional need of the sheriff. They areCalifornians more literally than this. Around Los Angeles the greatestand most characteristic moving picture colonies are being built. Eachphotoplay magazine has its California letter, telling of theputting-up of new studios, and the transfer of actors, with muchslap-you-on-the-back personal gossip. This is the outgrowth of the factthat every type of the photoplay but the intimate is founded on somephase of the out-of-doors. Being thus dependent, the plant can best beset up where there is no winter. Besides this, the Los Angeles region hasthe sea, the mountains, the desert, and many kinds of grove and field.Landscape and architecture are sub-tropical. But for a description ofCalifornia, ask any traveller or study the background of almost anyphotoplay.If the photoplay is the consistent utterance of its scenes, if the actorsare incarnations of the land they walk upon, as they should be,California indeed stands a chance to achieve through the films anutterance of her own. Will this land furthest west be the first tocapture the inner spirit of this newest and most curious of the arts? Itcertainly has the opportunity that comes with the actors, producers, andequipment. Let us hope that every region will develop the silentphotographic pageant in a local form as outlined in the chapter onProgress and Endowment. Already the California sort, in the commercialchannels, has become the broadly accepted if mediocre national form.People who revere the Pilgrim Fathers of 1620 have often wished thosegentlemen had moored their bark in the region of Los Angeles rather thanPlymouth Rock, that Boston had been founded there. At last that landingis achieved.Patriotic art students have discussed with mingled irony and admirationthe Boston domination of the only American culture of the nineteenthcentury, namely, literature. Indianapolis has had her day since then,Chicago is lifting her head. Nevertheless Boston still controls thetext-book in English and dominates our high schools. Ironic feelings inthis matter on the part of western men are based somewhat on envy andillegitimate cussedness, but are also grounded in the honest hope of ahealthful rivalry. They want new romanticists and artists as indigenousto their soil as was Hawthorne to witch-haunted Salem or Longfellow tothe chestnuts of his native heath. Whatever may be said of thepatriarchs, from Oliver Wendell Holmes to Amos Bronson Alcott, they weretrue sons of the New England stone fences and meeting houses. They couldnot have been born or nurtured anywhere else on the face of the earth.Some of us view with a peculiar thrill the prospect that Los Angeles maybecome the Boston of the photoplay. Perhaps it would be better to say theFlorence, because California reminds one of colorful Italy more than ofany part of the United States. Yet there is a difference.The present-day man-in-the-street, man-about-town Californian has anobvious magnificence about him that is allied to the eucalyptus tree,the pomegranate. California is a gilded state. It has not the sordidnessof gold, as has Wall Street, but it is the embodiment of the natural orethat the ragged prospector finds. The gold of California is the color ofthe orange, the glitter of dawn in the Yosemite, the hue of the goldengate that opens the sunset way to mystic and terrible Cathay andHindustan.The enemy of California says the state is magnificent but thin. Hedeclares it is as though it were painted on a Brobdingnagian piece ofgilt paper, and he who dampens his finger and thrusts it through finds analkali valley on the other side, the lonely prickly pear, and a heap ofashes from a deserted camp-fire. He says the citizens of this state lackthe richness of an aesthetic and religious tradition. He says there is nosubstitute for time. But even these things make for coincidence. Thisapparent thinness California has in common with the routine photoplay,which is at times as shallow in its thought as the shadow it throws uponthe screen. This newness California has in common with all photoplays. Itis thrillingly possible for the state and the art to acquire spiritualtradition and depth together.Part of the thinness of California is not only its youth, but the resultof the physical fact that the human race is there spread over so manyacres of land. They try not only to count their mines and enumerate theirpalm trees, but they count the miles of their sea-coast, and the acresunder cultivation and the height of the peaks, and revel in largestatistics and the bigness generally, and forget how a few men rattlearound in a great deal of scenery. They shout their statistics across theRockies and the deserts to New York. The Mississippi Valley isnon-existent to the Californian. His fellow-feeling is for the oppositecoast-line. Through the geographical accident of separation by mountainand desert from the rest of the country, he becomes a mere shouter,hurrahing so assiduously that all variety in the voice is lost. Then hetries gestures, and becomes flamboyant, rococo.These are the defects of the motion picture qualities also. Its panoramictendency runs wild. As an institution it advertises itself with thesweeping gesture. It has the same passion for coast-line. These are notthe sins of New England. When, in the hands of masters, they becomesources of strength, they will be a different set of virtues from thoseof New England.There is no more natural place for the scattering of confetti than thisstate, except the moving picture scene itself. Both have a genius forgardens and dancing and carnival.When the Californian relegates the dramatic to secondary scenes, both inhis life and his photoplay, and turns to the genuinely epic and lyric, heand this instrument may find their immortality together as New Englandfound its soul in the essays of Emerson. Tide upon tide of Spring comesinto California through all four seasons. Fairy beauty overwhelms thelumbering grand-stand players. The tiniest garden is a jewelled pathwayof wonder. But the Californian cannot shout "orange blossoms, orangeblossoms; heliotrope, heliotrope!" He cannot boom forth "roseleaves,roseleaves" so that he does their beauties justice. Here is where thephotoplay can begin to give him a more delicate utterance. And he can goon into stranger things and evolve all the Splendor Films into highertypes, for the very name of California is splendor. The Californiaphoto-playwright can base his Crowd Picture upon the city-worshippingmobs of San Francisco. He can derive his Patriotic and ReligiousSplendors from something older and more magnificent than the aisles ofthe Romanesque, namely: the groves of the giant redwoods.The campaign for a beautiful nation could very well emanate from the westcoast, where with the slightest care grow up models for all the world ofplant arrangement and tree-luxury. Our mechanical East is reproved, ourtension is relaxed, our ugliness is challenged every time we look uponthose garden paths and forests.It is possible for Los Angeles to lay hold of the motion picture as ournational text-book in Art as Boston appropriated to herself theguardianship of the national text-books of Literature. If California hasa shining soul, and not merely a golden body, let her forget herseventeen-year-old melodramatics, and turn to her poets who understandthe heart underneath the glory. Edwin Markham, the dean of Americansingers, Clark Ashton Smith, the young star treader, George Sterling,that son of Ancient Merlin, have in their songs the seeds of betterscenarios than California has sent us. There are two poems by GeorgeSterling that I have had in mind for many a day as conceptions thatshould inspire mystic films akin to them. These poems are The NightSentries and Tidal King of Nations.But California can tell us stories that are grim children of the tales ofthe wild Ambrose Bierce. Then there is the lovely unforgotten Nora MayFrench and the austere Edward Rowland Sill.Edison is the new Gutenberg. He has invented the new printing. The statethat realizes this may lead the soul of America, day after to-morrow.CHAPTER XVIIPROGRESS AND ENDOWMENTThe moving picture goes almost as far as journalism into the socialfabric in some ways, further in others. Soon, no doubt, many a littletown will have its photographic news-press. We have already the weeklyworld-news films from the big centres.With local journalism will come devices for advertising home enterprises.Some staple products will be made attractive by having film-actors showtheir uses. The motion pictures will be in the public schools to stay.Text-books in geography, history, zoology, botany, physiology, and othersciences will be illustrated by standardized films. Along with thesechanges, there will be available at certain centres collections of filmsequivalent to the Standard Dictionary and the Encyclopaedia Britannica.And sooner or later we will have a straight-out capture of a completefilm expression by the serious forces of civilization. The merelyimpudent motion picture will be relegated to the leisure hours withyellow journalism. Photoplay libraries are inevitable, as active if notas multitudinous as the book-circulating libraries. The oncomingmachinery and expense of the motion picture is immense. Where will themoney come from? No one knows. What the people want they will get. Therace of man cannot afford automobiles, but has them nevertheless. Wecannot run away into non-automobile existence or non-steam-engine ornon-movie life long at a time. We must conquer this thing. While the morestately scientific and educational aspects just enumerated are slowly ontheir way, the artists must be up and about their ameliorative work.Every considerable effort to develop a noble idiom will count in thefinal result, as the writers of early English made possible the languageof the Bible, Shakespeare, and Milton. We are perfecting a medium to beused as long as Chinese ideographs have been. It will no doubt, like theChinese language, record in the end massive and classical treatises,imperial chronicles, law-codes, traditions, and religious admonitions.All this by the _motion picture_ as a recording instrument, notnecessarily the _photoplay_, a much more limited thing, a form of art.What shall be done in especial by this generation of idealists, whoseflags rise and go down, whose battle line wavers and breaks a thousandtimes? What is the high quixotic splendid call? We know of a group ofpublic-spirited people who advocate, in endowed films, "safety first,"another that champions total abstinence. Often their work seems lost inthe mass of commercial production, but it is a good beginning. Suchcitizens take an established studio for a specified time and at the endput on the market a production that backs up their particular idea. Thereare certain terms between the owners of the film and the proprietors ofthe studio for the division of the income, the profits of the cult beingspent on further propaganda. The product need not necessarily be the typeoutlined in chapter two, The Photoplay of Action. Often some other sortmight establish the cause more deeply. But most of the propaganda filmsare of the action variety, because of the dynamic character of the peoplewho produce them. Fired by fanatic zeal, the auto speeds faster, therescuing hero runs harder, the stern policeman and sheriff become morejumpy, all that the audience may be converted. Here if anywheremeditation on the actual resources of charm and force in the art is afitting thing. The crusader should realize that it is not a good ActionPlay nor even a good argument unless it is indeed the Winged Victorysort. The gods are not always on the side of those who throw fits.There is here appended a newspaper description of a crusading film, that,despite the implications of the notice, has many passages of charm. It istwo-thirds Action Photoplay, one-third Intimate-and-friendly. The noticedoes not imply that at times the story takes pains to be gentle. This bitof writing is all too typical of film journalism."Not only as an argument for suffrage but as a play with a story, apunch, and a mission, 'Your Girl and Mine' is produced under thedirection of the National Woman's Suffrage Association at the Capitolto-day."Olive Wyndham forsook the legitimate stage for the time to pose as theheroine of the play. Katherine Kaelred, leading lady of 'Joseph and hisBrethren,' took the part of a woman lawyer battling for the right.Sydney Booth, of the 'Yellow Ticket' company posed as the hero of theexperiment. John Charles and Katharine Henry played the villain and thehonest working girl. About three hundred secondaries were engaged alongwith the principals."It is melodrama of the most thrilling sort, in spite of the fact thatthere is a moral concealed in the very title of the play. But who isworried by a moral in a play which has an exciting hand-to-hand fightbetween a man and a woman in one of the earliest acts, when the quickmarch of events ranges from a wedding to a murder and an automobileabduction scene that breaks all former speed-records. 'The Cause' comesin most symbolically and poetically, a symbolic figure that 'fades out'at critical periods in the plot. Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, the famoussuffrage leader, appears personally in the film."'Your Girl and Mine' is a big play with a big mission built on a bigscale. It is a whole evening's entertainment, and a very interestingevening at that." Here endeth the newspaper notice. Compare it with theBiograph advertisement of Judith in chapter six.There is nothing in the film that rasps like this account of it. Theclipping serves to give the street-atmosphere through which our Woman'sSuffrage Joan of Arcs move to conquest and glory with unstained banners.The obvious amendments to the production as an instrument of persuasionare two. Firstly there should be five reels instead of six, every sceneshortened a bit to bring this result. Secondly, the lieutenant governorof the state, who is the Rudolf Rassendyll of the production, does notenter the story soon enough, and is too James K. Hacketty all at once. Weare jerked into admiration of him, rather than ensnared. But after thatthe gentleman behaves more handsomely than any of the distinguishedlieutenant governors in real life the present writer happens to remember.The figure of Aunt Jane, the queenly serious woman of affairs, is one toadmire and love. Her effectiveness without excess or strain is in itselfan argument for giving woman the vote. The newspaper notice does notstate the facts in saying the symbolical figure "fades out" at criticalperiods in the plot. On the contrary, she appears at critical periods,clothed in white, solemn and royal. She comes into the groups with anadequate allurement, pointing the moral of each situation while sheshines brightest. The two children for whom the contest is fought arewinsome little girls. By the side of their mother in the garden or in thenursery they are a potent argument for the natural rights of femininity.The film is by no means ultra-aesthetic. The implications of the clippingare correct to that degree. But the resources of beauty within the readycommand of the advising professional producer are used by the women forall they are worth. It could not be asked of them that they evolvetechnical novelties.Yet the figures of Aunt Jane and the Goddess of Suffrage are somethingnew in their fashion. Aunt Jane is a spiritual sister to thatunprecedented woman, Jane Addams, who went to the Hague conference forPeace in the midst of war, which heroic action the future will notforget. Aunt Jane does justice to that breed of women amid the sweetnessand flowers and mere scenario perils of the photoplay story. The presenceof the "Votes for Women" figure is the beginning of a line of photoplaygoddesses that serious propaganda in the new medium will make part of theAmerican Spiritual Hierarchy. In the imaginary film of Our LadySpringfield, described in the chapter on Architecture-in-Motion, akindred divinity is presumed to stand by the side of the statue when itfirst reaches the earth.High-minded graduates of university courses in sociology and schools ofphilanthropy, devout readers of The Survey, The Chicago Public, TheMasses, The New Republic, La Follette's, are going to advocateincreasingly, their varied and sometimes contradictory causes, in films.These will generally be produced by heroic exertions in the studio, andmuch passing of the subscription paper outside.Then there are endowments already in existence that will no doubt bediverted to the photoplay channel. In every state house, and inWashington, D.C., increasing quantities of dead printed matter have beenturned out year after year. They have served to kindle various furnacesand feed the paper-mills a second time. Many of these routine reportswill remain in innocuous desuetude. But one-fourth of them, perhaps, arecapable of being embodied in films. If they are scientificdemonstrations, they can be made into realistic motion picture records.If they are exhortations, they can be transformed into plays with amoral, brothers of the film Your Girl and Mine. The appropriations forpublic printing should include such work hereafter.The scientific museums distribute routine pamphlets that would set thewhole world right on certain points if they were but read by said world.Let them be filmed and started. Whatever the congressman is permitted tofrank to his constituency, let him send in the motion picture form whenit is the expedient and expressive way.When men work for the high degrees in the universities, they labor on apiece of literary conspiracy called a thesis which no one outside theuniversity hears of again. The gist of this research work that is dead tothe democracy, through the university merits of thoroughness, moderationof statement, and final touch of discovery, would have a chance to liveand grip the people in a motion picture transcript, if not a photoplay.It would be University Extension. The relentless fire of criticism whichthe heads of the departments would pour on the production before theyallowed it to pass would result in a standardization of the sense ofscientific fact over the land. Suppose the film has the coat of arms ofthe University of Chicago along with the name of the young graduate whosethesis it is. He would have a chance to reflect credit on the universityeven as much as a foot-ball player.Large undertakings might be under way, like those described in thechapter on Architecture-in-Motion. But these would require much more thanthe ordinary outlay for thesis work, less, perhaps, than is taken forAthletics. Lyman Howe and several other world-explorers have already setthe pace in the more human side of the educative film. The list of Mr.Howe's offerings from the first would reveal many a one that would haverun the gantlet of a university department. He points out a new directionfor old energies, whereby professors may become citizens.Let the cave-man, reader of picture-writing, be allowed to ponder overscientific truth. He is at present the victim of the alleged truth of thespecious and sentimental variety of photograph. It gives the preciseedges of the coat or collar of the smirking masher and the exact fibre inthe dress of the jumping-jack. The eye grows weary of sharp points andhard edges that mean nothing. All this idiotic precision is going towaste. It should be enlisted in the cause of science and abatedeverywhere else. The edges in art are as mysterious as in science theyare exact.Some of the higher forms of the Intimate Moving Picture play should beendowed by local coteries representing their particular region. Everycommunity of fifty thousand has its group of the cultured who haveheretofore studied and imitated things done in the big cities. Some ofthese coteries will in exceptional cases become creative and begin toexpress their habitation and name. The Intimate Photoplay is capable ofthat delicacy and that informality which should characterize neighborhoodenterprises.The plays could be acted by the group who, season after season, havesecured the opera house for the annual amateur show. Other dramaticability could be found in the high-schools. There is enough talent in anyplace to make an artistic revolution, if once that region is aflame witha common vision. The spirit that made the Irish Players, all so racy ofthe soil, can also move the company of local photoplayers in Topeka, orIndianapolis, or Denver. Then let them speak for their town, not only ingreat occasional enterprises, but steadily, in little fancies, genrepictures, developing a technique that will finally make magnificencepossible.There was given not long ago, at the Illinois Country Club here, aperformance of The Yellow Jacket by the Coburn Players. It at once seemedan integral part of this chapter.The two flags used for a chariot, the bamboo poles for oars, the red sackfor a decapitated head, etc., were all convincing, through a directresemblance as well as the passionate acting. They suggest a possibletype of hieroglyphics to be developed by the leader of the local group.Let the enthusiast study this westernized Chinese play for primitiverepresentative methods. It can be found in book form, a most readablework. It is by G.C. Hazelton, Jr., and J.H. Benrimo. The resemblancebetween the stage property and the thing represented is fairly close. Themoving flags on each side of the actor suggest the actual color andprogress of the chariot, and abstractly suggest its magnificence. The redsack used for a bloody head has at least the color and size of one. Thedressed-up block of wood used for a child is the length of an infant ofthe age described and wears the general costume thereof. The farmer'shoe, though exaggerated, is still an agricultural implement.The evening's list of properties is economical, filling one wagon, ratherthan three. Photographic realism is splendidly put to rout by powerfulrepresentation. When the villager desires to embody some episode that ifrealistically given would require a setting beyond the means of theavailable endowment, and does not like the near-Egyptian method, let himevolve his near-Chinese set of symbols.The Yellow Jacket was written after long familiarity with the ChineseTheatre in San Francisco. The play is a glory to that city as well as toHazelton and Benrimo. But every town in the United States has somethingas striking as the Chinese Theatre, to the man who keeps the eye of hissoul open. It has its Ministerial Association, its boys' secret society,its red-eyed political gang, its grubby Justice of the Peace court, itsfree school for the teaching of Hebrew, its snobbish chapel, itsfire-engine house, its milliner's shop. All these could be made visiblein photoplays as flies are preserved in amber.Edgar Lee Masters looked about him and discovered the village graveyard,and made it as wonderful as Noah's Ark, or Adam naming the animals, bysupplying honest inscriptions to the headstones. Such stories can be toldby the Chinese theatrical system as well. As many different films couldbe included under the general title: "Seven Old Families, and Why theyWent to Smash." Or a less ominous series would be "Seven VictoriousSouls." For there are triumphs every day under the drab monotony of anapparently defeated town: conquests worthy of the waving of sun-banners.Above all, The Yellow Jacket points a moral for this chapter becausethere was conscience behind it. First: the rectitude of the Chineseactors of San Francisco who kept the dramatic tradition alive, atradition that was bequeathed from the ancient generations. Then theartistic integrity of the men who readapted the tradition for westernconsumption, and their religious attitude that kept the high teaching anddevout feeling for human life intact in the play. Then the zeal of theDrama League that indorsed it for the country. Then the earnest work ofthe Coburn Players who embodied it devoutly, so that the whole companybecame dear friends forever.By some such ladder of conscience as this can the local scenario beendowed, written, acted, filmed, and made a real part of the communitylife. The Yellow Jacket was a drama, not a photoplay. This chapter doesnot urge that it be readapted for a photoplay in San Francisco oranywhere else. But a kindred painting-in-motion, something as beautifuland worthy and intimate, in strictly photoplay terms, might well be theflower of the work of the local groups of film actors.Harriet Monroe's magazine, "Poetry" (Chicago), has given us a new sect,the Imagists:--Ezra Pound, Richard Aldington, John Gould Fletcher, AmyLowell, F.S. Flint, D.H. Lawrence, and others. They are gatheringfollowers and imitators. To these followers I would say: the Imagistimpulse need not be confined to verse. Why would you be imitators ofthese leaders when you might be creators in a new medium? There is aclear parallelism between their point of view in verse and theIntimate-and-friendly Photoplay, especially when it is developed from thestandpoint of the last part of chapter nine, _space measured withoutsound plus time measured without sound_.There is no clan to-day more purely devoted to art for art's sake thanthe Imagist clan. An Imagist film would offer a noble challenge to theoverstrained emotion, the over-loaded splendor, the mere repetition ofwhat are at present the finest photoplays. Now even the masterpieces areincontinent. Except for some of the old one-reel Biographs of Griffith'sbeginning, there is nothing of Doric restraint from the best to theworst. Read some of the poems of the people listed above, then imaginethe same moods in the films. Imagist photoplays would be Japanese printstaking on life, animated Japanese paintings, Pompeian mosaics inkaleidoscopic but logical succession, Beardsley drawings made into actorsand scenery, Greek vase-paintings in motion.Scarcely a photoplay but hints at the Imagists in one scene. Then theillusion is lost in the next turn of the reel. Perhaps it would be asound observance to confine this form of motion picture to a half reel orquarter reel, just as the Imagist poem is generally a half or quarterpage. A series of them could fill a special evening.The Imagists are colorists. Some people do not consider that photographicblack, white, and gray are color. But here for instance are seven colorswhich the Imagists might use: (1) The whiteness of swans in the light.(2) The whiteness of swans in a gentle shadow. (3) The color of asunburned man in the light. (4) His color in a gentle shadow. (5) Hiscolor in a deeper shadow. (6) The blackness of black velvet in the light.(7) The blackness of black velvet in a deep shadow. And to use thesecolors with definite steps from one to the other does not militateagainst an artistic mystery of edge and softness in the flow of line.There is a list of possible Imagist textures which is only limited by thenumber of things to be seen in the world. Probably only seven or tenwould be used in one scheme and the same list kept through oneproduction.The Imagist photoplay will put discipline into the inner ranks of theenlightened and remind the sculptors, painters, and architects of themovies that there is a continence even beyond sculpture and that seas ofrealism may not have the power of a little well-considered elimination.The use of the scientific film by established institutions like schoolsand state governments has been discussed. Let the Church also, in her ownway, avail herself of the motion picture, whole-heartedly, as inmediaeval time she took over the marvel of Italian painting. There was astage in her history when religious representation was by Byzantinemosaics, noble in color, having an architectural use, but curious indeedto behold from the standpoint of those who crave a sensitive emotionalrecord. The first paintings of Cimabue and Giotto, giving these formulasa touch of life, were hailed with joy by all Italy. Now the ChurchUniversal has an opportunity to establish her new painters if she will.She has taken over in the course of history, for her glory, miracleplays, Romanesque and Gothic architecture, stained glass windows, and themusic of St. Cecilia's organ. Why not this new splendor? The Cathedral ofSt. John the Divine, on Morningside Heights, should establish in itscrypt motion pictures as thoroughly considered as the lines of thatbuilding, if possible designed by the architects thereof, with the samesense of permanency.This chapter does not advocate that the Church lay hold of the photoplaysas one more medium for reillustrating the stories of the Bible as theyare given in the Sunday-school papers. It is not pietistic simpering thatwill feed the spirit of Christendom, but a steady church-patronage ofthe most skilful and original motion picture artists. Let the Churchfollow the precedent which finally gave us Fra Angelico, Botticelli,Andrea del Sarto, Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael, Michelangelo, Correggio,Titian, Paul Veronese, Tintoretto, and the rest.Who will endow the successors of the present woman's suffrage film, andother great crusading films? Who will see that the public documents anduniversity researches take on the form of motion pictures? Who will endowthe local photoplay and the Imagist photoplay? Who will take the firstgreat measures to insure motion picture splendors in the church?Things such as these come on the winds of to-morrow. But let the crusaderlook about him, and where it is possible, put in the diplomatic word, andcooeperate with the Gray Norns.CHAPTER XVIIIARCHITECTS AS CRUSADERSMany a worker sees his future America as a Utopia, in which his ownprofession, achieving dictatorship, alleviates the ills of men. Themilitarist grows dithyrambic in showing how war makes for the blessingsof peace. The economic teacher argues that if we follow his politicaleconomy, none of us will have to economize. The church-fanatic says ifall churches will merge with his organization, none of them will have totry to behave again. They will just naturally be good. The physicianhopes to abolish the devil by sanitation. We have our Utopias. Despitelevity, the present writer thinks that such hopes are among the mostuseful things the earth possesses.A normal man in the full tide of his activities finds that aworld-machinery could logically be built up by his profession. At leastin the heyday of his working hours his vocation satisfies his heart. Sohe wants the entire human race to taste that satisfaction. ApproximateUtopias have been built from the beginning. Many civilizations have hadsome dominant craft to carry them the major part of the way. The priestshave made India. The classical student has preserved Old China to itspresent hour of new life. The samurai knights have made Japan. Sailorshave evolved the British Empire. One of the enticing future Americas isthat of the architect. Let the architect appropriate the photoplay as hismeans of propaganda and begin. From its intrinsic genius it can give hisprofession a start beyond all others in dominating this land. Or such isone of many speculations of the present writer.The photoplay can speak the language of the man who has a mind World'sFair size. That we are going to have successive generations of suchbuilders may be reasonably implied from past expositions. Beginning withPhiladelphia in 1876, and going on to San Francisco and San Diego in1915, nothing seems to stop us from the habit. Let us enlarge thisproclivity into a national mission in as definite a movement, asthoroughly thought out as the evolution of the public school system, theformation of the Steel Trust, and the like. After duly weighing all theworld's fairs, let our architects set about making the whole of theUnited States into a permanent one. Supposing the date to begin theerection be 1930. Till that time there should be tireless if indirectpropaganda that will further the architectural state of mind, and laterbring about the elucidation of the plans while they are being perfected.For many years this America, founded on the psychology of the SplendorPhotoplay, will be evolving. It might be conceived as a going concern ata certain date within the lives of men now living, but it should nevercease to develop.To make films of a more beautiful United States is as practical and worthwhile a custom as to make military spy maps of every inch of a neighbor'sterritory, putting in each fence and cross-roads. Those who would satisfythe national pride with something besides battle flags must give ourpeople an objective as shining and splendid as war when it is mostglittering, something Napoleonic, and with no outward pretence ofexcessive virtue. We want a substitute as dramatic internationally, yetworld-winning, friend making. If America is to become the financialcentre through no fault of her own, that fact must have a symbol otherthan guns on the sea-coast.If it is inexpedient for the architectural patriarchs and their younghopefuls to take over the films bodily, let a board of strategy be formedwho make it their business to eat dinner with the scenario writers,producers, and owners, conspiring with them in some practical way.Why should we not consider ourselves a deathless Panama-PacificExposition on a coast-to-coast scale? Let Chicago be the transportationbuilding, Denver the mining building. Let Kansas City be the agriculturalbuilding and Jacksonville, Florida, the horticultural building, and soaround the states.Even as in mediaeval times men rode for hundreds of miles through perilsto the permanent fairs of the free cities, the world-travellers willattend this exhibit, and many of them will in the end become citizens.Our immigration will be something more than tide upon tide of raw labor.The Architects would send forth publicity films which are not onlydelineations of a future Cincinnati, Cleveland, or St. Louis, but wholecounties and states and groups of states could be planned at one time,with the development of their natural fauna, flora, and forestry.Wherever nature has been rendered desolate by industry or mere haste,there let the architect and park-architect proclaim the plan. Wherevershe is still splendid and untamed, let her not be violated.America is in the state of mind where she must visualize herself again.If it is not possible to bring in the New Jerusalem to-day, by publicact, with every citizen eating bread and honey under his vine andfig-tree, owning forty acres and a mule, singing hymns and saying prayersall his leisure hours, it is still reasonable to think out tremendousthings the American people can do, in the light of what they have done,without sacrificing any of their native cussedness or kick. It wassprawling Chicago that in 1893 achieved the White City. The automobileroutes bind the states together closer than muddy counties were held in1893. A "Permanent World's Fair" may be a phrase distressing to theliteral mind. Perhaps it would be better to say "An Architect's America."Let each city take expert counsel from the architectural demigods how totear out the dirty core of its principal business square and erect acombination of civic centre and permanent and glorious bazaar. Let thepublic debate the types of state flower, tree, and shrub that areexpedient, the varieties of villages and middle-sized towns, farm-homes,and connecting parkways.Sometimes it seems to me the American expositions are as characteristicthings as our land has achieved. They went through without hesitation.The difficulties of one did not deter the erection of the next. TheUnited States may be in many things slack. Often the democracy lookshopelessly shoddy. But it cannot be denied that our people have alwaysrisen to the dignity of these great architectural projects.Once the population understand they are dealing with the same type ofidea on a grander scale, they will follow to the end. We are notproposing an economic revolution, or that human nature be suddenlyaltered. If California can remain in the World's Fair state of mind forfour or five years, and finally achieve such a splendid result, all thestates can undertake a similar project conjointly, and because of themomentum of a nation moving together, remain in that mind for the lengthof the life of a man.Here we have this great instrument, the motion picture, the fourthlargest industry in the United States, attended daily by ten millionpeople, and in ten days by a hundred million, capable of interpreting thelargest conceivable ideas that come within the range of the plastic arts,and those ideas have not been supplied. It is still the plaything ofnewly rich vaudeville managers. The nation goes daily, through intrinsicinterest in the device, and is dosed with such continued stories as theAdventures of Kathlyn, What Happened to Mary, and the Million DollarMystery, stretched on through reel after reel, week after week. Kathlynhad no especial adventures. Nothing in particular happened to Mary. Themillion dollar mystery was: why did the millionaires who owned such amagnificent instrument descend to such silliness and impose it on thepeople? Why cannot our weekly story be henceforth some great plan that isbeing worked out, whose history will delight us? For instance, everystage of the building of the Panama Canal was followed with the greatestinterest in the films. But there was not enough of it to keep the filmsbusy.The great material projects are often easier to realize than the littlemoral reforms. Beautiful architectural undertakings, while appearing tobe material, and succeeding by the laws of American enterprise, bringwith them the healing hand of beauty. Beauty is not directly pious, butdoes more civilizing in its proper hour than many sermons or laws.The world seems to be in the hands of adventurers. Why not this for theadventure of the American architects? If something akin to this plan doesnot come to pass through photoplay propaganda, it means there is noAmerican builder with the blood of Julius Caesar in his veins. If there isthe old brute lust for empire left in any builder, let him awake. Theworld is before him.As for the other Utopians, the economist, the physician, the puritan, assoon as the architects have won over the photoplay people, let theseothers take sage counsel and ensnare the architects. Is there a reformworth while that cannot be embodied and enforced by a builder'sinvention? A mere city plan, carried out, or the name or intent of aquasi-public building and the list of offices within it may bring aboutmore salutary economic change than all the debating and votingimaginable. So without too much theorizing, why not erect our new Americaand move into it?CHAPTER XIXON COMING FORTH BY DAYIf he will be so indulgent with his author, let the reader approach thephotoplay theatre as though for the first time, having again a new pointof view. Here the poorest can pay and enter from the glaring afternooninto the twilight of an Ali Baba's cave. The dime is the singleopen-sesame required. The half-light wherein the audience is seated, bywhich they can read in an emergency, is as bright and dark as that ofsome candle-lit churches. It reveals much in the faces and figures of theaudience that cannot be seen by common day. Hard edges are the mainthings that we lose. The gain is in all the delicacies of modelling,tone-relations, form, and color. A hundred evanescent impressions comeand go. There is often a tenderness of appeal about the most rugged facein the assembly. Humanity takes on its sacred aspect. It is a crude mindthat would insist that these appearances are not real, that the eye doesnot see them when all eyes behold them. To say dogmatically that any newthing seen by half-light is an illusion, is like arguing that a discoveryby the telescope or microscope is unreal. If the appearances arebeautiful besides, they are not only facts, but assets in our lives.Book-reading is not done in the direct noon-sunlight. We retire to theshaded porch. It takes two more steps toward quietness of light to readthe human face and figure. Many great paintings and poems are records ofthings discovered in this quietness of light.It is indeed ironical in our Ali Baba's cave to see sheer everydaynessand hardness upon the screen, the audience dragged back to the streetthey have escaped. One of the inventions to bring the twilight of thegathering into brotherhood with the shadows on the screen is a simplething known to the trade as the fadeaway, that had its rise in acommonplace fashion as a method of keeping the story from ending with thewhite glare of the empty screen. As a result of the device the figures inthe first episode emerge from the dimness and in the last one go backinto the shadow whence they came, as foam returns to the darkness of anevening sea. In the imaginative pictures the principle begins to beapplied more largely, till throughout the fairy story the figures floatin and out from the unknown, as fancies should. This method in itssimplicity counts more to keep the place an Ali Baba's cave than many amore complicated procedure. In luxurious scenes it brings the soft edgesof Correggio, and in solemn ones a light and shadow akin to the effectsof Rembrandt.Now we have a darkness on which we can paint, an unspoiled twilight. Weneed not call it the Arabian's cave. There is a tomb we might havedefinitely in mind, an Egyptian burying-place where with a torch we mightenter, read the inscriptions, and see the illustrations from the Book ofthe Dead on the wall, or finding that ancient papyrus in the mummy-case,unroll it and show it to the eager assembly, and have the feeling ofreturn. Man is an Egyptian first, before he is any other type ofcivilized being. The Nile flows through his heart. So let this cave beEgypt, let us incline ourselves to revere the unconscious memories thatecho within us when we see the hieroglyphics of Osiris, and Isis. Egyptwas our long brooding youth. We built the mysteriousness of the Universeinto the Pyramids, carved it into every line of the Sphinx. We thoughtalways of the immemorial.The reel now before us is the mighty judgment roll dealing with thequestion of our departure in such a way that any man who beholds it willbear the impress of the admonition upon his heart forever. Those Egyptianpriests did no little thing, when amid their superstitions they stillproclaimed the Judgment. Let no one consider himself ready for death,till like the men by the Nile he can call up every scene, face withcourage every exigency of the ordeal.There is one copy of the Book of the Dead of especial interest, made forthe Scribe Ani, with exquisite marginal drawings. Copies may be found inour large libraries. The particular fac-simile I had the honor to see wasin the Lenox Library, New York, several years ago. Ani, according to theformula of the priesthood, goes through the adventures required of ashade before he reaches the court of Osiris. All the Egyptian pictures ontomb-wall and temple are but enlarged picture-writing made into tableaus.Through such tableaus Ani moves. The Ani manuscript has so fascinatedsome of the Egyptologists that it is copied in figures fifteen feet highon the walls of two of the rooms of the British Museum. And you can readthe story eloquently told in Maspero.Ani knocks at many doors in the underworld. Monstrous gatekeepers aresquatting on their haunches with huge knives to slice him if he cannotremember their names or give the right password, or by spells the priestshave taught him, convince the sentinels that he is Osiris himself. Tofurther the illusion the name of Osiris is inscribed on his breast. Whilehe is passing these perils his little wife is looking on by a sort ofclairvoyant sympathy, though she is still alive. She is depicted mourninghim and embracing his mummy on earth at the same time she accompanies himthrough the shadows.Ani ploughs and sows and reaps in the fields of the underworld. He iscarried past a dreadful place on the back of the cow Hathor. After asmany adventures as Browning's Childe Roland he steps into thejudgment-hall of the gods. They sit in majestic rows. He makes the propersacrifices, and advances to the scales of justice. There he sees his ownheart weighed against the ostrich-feather of Truth, by the jackal-godAnubis, who has already presided at his embalming. His own soul, in theform of a human-headed hawk, watches the ceremony. His ghost, which isanother entity, looks through the door with his little wife. Both of themwatch with tense anxiety. The fate of every phase of his personalitydepends upon the purity of his heart.Lying in wait behind Anubis is a monster, part crocodile, part lion, parthippopotamus. This terror will eat the heart of Ani if it is foundcorrupt. At last he is declared justified. Thoth, the ibis-headed God ofWriting, records the verdict on his tablet. The justified Ani moves onpast the baffled devourer, with the mystic presence of his little wiferejoicing at his side. They go to the awful court of Osiris. She makessacrifice with him there. The God of the Dead is indeed a strange deity,a seated semi-animated mummy, with all the appurtenances of royalty, andwith the four sons of Horus on a lotus before him, and his two wives,Isis and Nephthys, standing behind his throne with their hands on hisshoulders.The justified soul now boards the boat in which the sun rides as itjourneys through the night. He rises a glorious boatman in the morning,working an oar to speed the craft through the high ocean of the noon sky.Henceforth he makes the eternal round with the sun. Therefore in AncientEgypt the roll was called, not the Book of the Dead, but _The Chapters onComing Forth by Day_.This book on motion pictures does not profess to be an expert treatise onEgyptology as well. The learned folk are welcome to amend the modernismsthat have crept into it. But the fact remains that something like thisstory in one form or another held Egypt spell-bound for many hundredyears. It was the force behind every mummification. It was the reason forthe whole Egyptian system of life, death, and entombment, for the man notembalmed could not make the journey. So the explorer finds the Egyptianwith a roll of this papyrus as a guide-book on his mummy breast. The soulneeded to return for refreshment periodically to the stone chamber, andthe mummy mutilated or destroyed could not entertain the guest. Egyptcried out through thousands of years for the ultimate resurrection of thewhole man, his _coming forth by day_.We need not fear that a story that so dominated a race will be lost onmodern souls when vividly set forth. Is it too much to expect that someAmerican prophet-wizard of the future will give us this film in thespirit of an Egyptian priest?The Greeks, the wisest people in our limited system of classics, boweddown before the Egyptian hierarchy. That cult must have had a finepersonal authority and glamour to master such men. The unseen mysterieswere always on the Egyptian heart as a burden and a consolation, andthough there may have been jugglers in the outer courts of these temples,as there have been in the courts of all temples, no mere actor could makean Egyptian priest of himself. Their very alphabet has a regalenchantment in its lines, and the same aesthetic-mystical power remains intheir pylons and images under the blaze of the all-revealing noonday sun.Here is a nation, America, going for dreams into caves as shadowy as thetomb of Queen Thi. There they find too often, not that ancient priestessand ruler, nor any of her kin, nor yet Ani the scribe, nor yet any of thekings, but shabby rags of fancy, or circuses that were better in thestreet.Because ten million people daily enter into the cave, something akin toEgyptian wizardry, certain national rituals, will be born. By studyingthe matter of being an Egyptian priest for a little while, theauthor-producer may learn in the end how best to express and satisfy thespirit-hungers that are peculiarly American. It is sometimes out of theoldest dream that the youngest vision is born.CHAPTER XXTHE PROPHET-WIZARDThe whirlwind of cowboys and Indians with which the photoplay began, cameabout because this instrument, in asserting its genius, was feeling itsway toward the most primitive forms of life it could find.Now there is a tendency for even wilder things. We behold the half-drapedfigures living in tropical islands or our hairy fore-fathers acting outnarratives of the stone age. The moving picture conventionality permitsan abbreviation of drapery. If the primitive setting is convincing, thefigure in the grass-robe or buffalo hide at once has its rights over thehealthful imagination.There is in this nation of moving-picture-goers a hunger for tales offundamental life that are not yet told. The cave-man longs with anincurable homesickness for his ancient day. One of the fine photoplays ofprimeval life is the story called Man's Genesis, described in chaptertwo.We face the exigency the world over of vast instruments like nationalarmies being played against each other as idly and aimlessly as thechecker-men on the cracker-barrels of corner groceries. And thisinvention, the kinetoscope, which affects or will affect as many peopleas the guns of Europe, is not yet understood in its powers, particularlythose of bringing back the primitive in a big rich way. The primitive isalways a new and higher beginning to the man who understands it. Not yethas the producer learned that the feeling of the crowd is patriarchal,splendid. He imagines the people want nothing but a silly lark.All this apparatus and opportunity, and no immortal soul! Yet by faithand a study of the signs we proclaim that this lantern of wizard-drama isgoing to give us in time the visible things in the fulness of theirprimeval force, and some that have been for a long time invisible. Tospeak in a metaphor, we are going to have the primitive life of Genesis,then all that evolution after: Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy,Joshua, Judges, and on to a new revelation of St. John. In thisadolescence of Democracy the history of man is to be retraced, the sameround on a higher spiral of life.Our democratic dream has been a middle-class aspiration built on a bog oftoil-soddened minds. The piles beneath the castle of our near-democraticarts were rotting for lack of folk-imagination. The Man with the Hoe hadno spark in his brain. But now a light is blazing. We can build theAmerican soul broad-based from the foundations. We can begin with dreamsthe veriest stone-club warrior can understand, and as far as an appeal tothe eye can do it, lead him in fancy through every phase of life to theapocalyptic splendors.This progress, according to the metaphor of this chapter, will be led byprophet-wizards. These were the people that dominated the cave-men ofold. But what, more specifically, are prophet-wizards?Let us consider two kinds of present-day people: scientific inventors, onthe one hand, and makers of art and poetry and the like, on the other.The especial producers of art and poetry that we are concerned with inthis chapter we will call prophet-wizards: men like Albert Duerer,Rembrandt, Blake, Elihu Vedder, Watts, Rossetti, Tennyson, Coleridge,Poe, Maeterlinck, Yeats, Francis Thompson.They have a certain unearthly fascination in some one or many of theirworks. A few other men might be added to the list. Most great names arebetter described under other categories, though as much beloved in theirown way. But these are especially adapted to being set in opposition to alist of mechanical inventors that might be called realists by contrast:the Wright brothers, and H. Pierpont Langley, Thomas A. Edison, CharlesSteinmetz, John Hays Hammond, Hudson Maxim, Graham Bell.The prophet-wizards are of various schools. But they have a commontendency and character in bringing forth a type of art peculiarly at warwith the realistic civilization science has evolved. It is one object ofthis chapter to show that, when it comes to a clash between the twoforces, the wizards should rule, and the realists should serve them.The two functions go back through history, sometimes at war, other daysin alliance. The poet and the scientist were brethren in the centuries ofalchemy. Tennyson, bearing in mind such a period, took the title ofMerlin in his veiled autobiography, Merlin and the Gleam.Wizards and astronomers were one when the angels sang in Bethlehem,"Peace on Earth, Good Will to Men." There came magicians, saying, "Whereis he that is born king of the Jews, for we have seen his star in theeast and have come to worship him?" The modern world in its gentlermoments seems to take a peculiar thrill of delight from these travellers,perhaps realizing what has been lost from parting with such gentle seersand secular diviners. Every Christmas half the magazines set them forthin richest colors, riding across the desert, following the star to thesame manger where the shepherds are depicted.Those wizard kings, whatever useless charms and talismans they wore,stood for the unknown quantity in spiritual life. A magician is a man wholays hold on the unseen for the mere joy of it, who steals, if necessary,the holy bread and the sacred fire. He is often of the remnant of anostracized and disestablished priesthood. He is a free-lance in thesoul-world, owing final allegiance to no established sect. The fires ofprophecy are as apt to descend upon him as upon members of theestablished faith. He loves the mysterious for the beauty of it, thewildness and the glory of it, and not always to compel stiff-neckedpeople to do right.It seems to me that the scientific and poetic functions of society shouldmake common cause again, if they are not, as in Merlin's time, combinedin one personality. They must recognize that they serve the same society,but with the understanding that the prophetic function is the mostimportant, the wizard vocation the next, and the inventors' and realists'genius important indeed, but the third consideration. The war between thescientists and the prophet-wizards has come about because of thehalf-defined ambition of the scientists to rule or ruin. They give us thesteam-engine, the skyscraper, the steam-heat, the flying machine, theelevated railroad, the apartment house, the newspaper, the breakfastfood, the weapons of the army, the weapons of the navy, and think thatthey have beautified our existence.Moreover some one rises at this point to make a plea for the scientificimagination. He says the inventor-scientists have brought us the mysteryof electricity, which is no hocus-pocus, but a special manifestation ofthe Immanent God within us and about us. He says the student in thelaboratory brought us the X-ray, the wireless telegraph, the mystery ofradium, the mystery of all the formerly unharnessed power of God whichman is beginning to gather into the hollow of his hand.The one who pleads for the scientific imagination points out that Edisonhas been called the American Wizard. All honor to Edison and his kind.And I admit specifically that Edison took the first great mechanical stepto give us the practical kinetoscope and make it possible that thephotographs, even of inanimate objects thrown upon the mirror-screen, maybecome celestial actors. But the final phase of the transfiguration isnot the work of this inventor or any other. As long as the photoplays arein the hands of men like Edison they are mere voodooism. We have nothingbut Moving Day, as heretofore described. It is only in the hands of theprophetic photo-playwright and allied artists that the kinetoscope reelsbecome as mysterious and dazzling to the thinking spirit as the wheels ofEzekiel in the first chapter of his prophecy. One can climb into theoperator's box and watch the sword-like stream of light till he is asdazzled in flesh and spirit as the moth that burns its wings in thelamp. But this is while a glittering vision and not a mere invention isbeing thrown upon the screen.The scientific man can explain away the vision as a matter of thetechnique of double exposure, double printing, trick-turning, or stoppingdown. And having reduced it to terms and shown the process, he expects usto become secular and casual again. But of course the sun itself is amere trick of heat and light, a dynamo, an incandescent globe, to the manin the laboratory. To us it must be a fire upon the altar.Transubstantiation must begin. Our young magicians must derive strangenew pulse-beats from the veins of the earth, from the sap of the trees,from the lightning of the sky, as well as the alchemical acids, metals,and flames. Then they will kindle the beginning mysteries for our cause.They will build up a priesthood that is free, yet authorized to freedom.It will be established and disestablished according to the intrinsicauthority of the light revealed.Now for a closer view of this vocation.The picture of Religious Splendor has its obvious form in thedelineation of Biblical scenes, which, in the hands of the bestcommercial producers, can be made as worth while as the work of men likeTissot. Such films are by no means to be thought of lightly. This sort ofwork will remain in the minds of many of the severely orthodox as theonly kind of a religious picture worthy of classification. But there aremany further fields.Just as the wireless receiving station or the telephone switchboardbecome heroes in the photoplay, so Aaron's rod that confounded theEgyptians, the brazen serpent that Moses up-lifted in the wilderness, theram's horn that caused the fall of Jericho, the mantle of Elijahdescending upon the shoulders of Elisha from the chariot of fire, cantake on a physical electrical power and a hundred times spiritual meaningthat they could not have in the dead stage properties of the old miracleplay or the realism of the Tissot school. The waterfall and the tossingsea are dramatis personae in the ordinary film romance. So the Red Seaoverwhelming Pharaoh, the fires of Nebuchadnezzar's furnace sparing andsheltering the three holy children, can become celestial actors. Andwinged couriers can appear, in the pictures, with missions of import,just as an angel descended to Joshua, saying, "As captain of the host ofthe Lord am I now come."The pure mechanic does not accept the doctrine. "Your allegedsupernatural appearance," he says, "is based on such a simple fact asthis: two pictures can be taken on one film."But the analogy holds. Many primitive peoples are endowed with memoriesthat are double photographs. The world faiths, based upon centuries ofthese appearances, are none the less to be revered because machine-riddenmen have temporarily lost the power of seeing their thoughts as picturesin the air, and for the time abandoned the task of adding to tradition.Man will not only see visions again, but machines themselves, in thehands of prophets, will see visions. In the hands of commercial men theyare seeing alleged visions, and the term "_vision_" is a part ofmoving-picture studio slang, unutterably cheapening religion andtradition. When Confucius came, he said one of his tasks was therectification of names. The leaders of this age should see that this word"_vision_" comes to mean something more than a piece of studio slang. Ifit is the conviction of serious minds that the mass of men shall neveragain see pictures out of Heaven except through such mediums as thekinetoscope lens, let all the higher forces of our land courageously layhold upon this thing that saves us from perpetual spiritual blindness.When the thought of primitive man, embodied in misty forms on thelandscape, reached epic proportions in the Greek, he saw the Olympiansmore plainly than he beheld the Acropolis. Myron, Polykleitos, Phidias,Scopas, Lysippus, Praxiteles, discerned the gods and demigods so clearlythey afterward cut them from the hard marble without wavering. Ourguardian angels of to-day must be as clearly seen and nobly hewn.A double mental vision is as fundamental in human nature as the doublenecessity for air and light. It is as obvious as that a thing can be bothwritten and spoken. We have maintained that the kinetoscope in the handsof artists is a higher form of picture writing. In the hands ofprophet-wizards it will be a higher form of vision-seeing.I have said that the commercial men are seeing alleged visions. Take, forinstance, the large Italian film that attempts to popularize Dante.Though it has a scattering of noble passages, and in some brief episodesit is an enhancement of Gustave Dore, taking it as a whole, it is a falsething. It is full of apparitions worked out with mechanical skill, yetDante's soul is not back of the fires and swords of light. It gives tothe uninitiated an outline of the stage paraphernalia of the Inferno. Ithas an encyclopaedic value. If Dante himself had been the high director inthe plenitude of his resources, it might still have had that hollowness.A list of words making a poem and a set of apparently equivalent picturesforming a photoplay may have an entirely different outcome. It may belike trying to see a perfume or listen to a taste. Religion that comes inwholly through the eye has a new world in the films, whose relation tothe old is only discovered by experiment and intuition, patience anddevotion.But let us imagine the grandson of an Italian immigrant to America, ayoung seer, trained in the photoplay technique by the high Americanmasters, knowing all the moving picture resources as Dante knew Italiansong and mediaeval learning. Assume that he has a genius akin to that ofthe Florentine. Let him be a Modernist Catholic if you will. Let himbegin his message in the timber lands of Minnesota or the forests ofAlaska. "In midway of this our mortal life I found me in a gloomy woodastray." Then let him paint new pictures of just punishment beyond thegrave, and merciful rehabilitation and great reward. Let his Hell,Purgatory, and Paradise be built of those things which are deepest andhighest in the modern mind, yet capable of emerging in picture-writingform.Men are needed, therefore they will come. And lest they come weeping,accursed, and alone, let us ask, how shall we recognize them? There is nostandard by which to discern the true from the false prophet, except themood that is engendered by contemplating the messengers of the past.Every man has his own roll call of noble magicians selected from thelarger group. But here are the names with which this chapter began, withsome words on their work.Albert Duerer is classed as a Renaissance painter. Yet his art has itsdwelling-place in the early Romanesque savageness and strangeness. Andthe reader remembers Duerer's brooding muse called Melancholia that soobsessed Kipling in The Light that Failed. But the wonder-quality wentinto nearly all the Duerer wood-cuts and etchings. Rembrandt is aprophet-wizard, not only in his shadowy portraits, but in his etchings ofholy scenes even his simplest cobweb lines become incantations. Otherartists in the high tides of history have had kindred qualities, butcoming close to our day, Elihu Vedder, the American, the illustrator ofthe Rubaiyat, found it a poem questioning all things, and his veryillustrations answer in a certain fashion with winds of infinity, andbring the songs of Omar near to the Book of Job. Vedder's portraits ofLazarus and Samson are conceptions that touch the hem of the unknown.George Frederick Watts was a painter of portraits of the soul itself, asin his delineations of Burne-Jones and Morris and Tennyson.It is a curious thing that two prophet-wizards have combined pictures andsong. Blake and Rossetti, whatever the failure of their technique, neverlacked in enchantment. Students of the motion picture side of poetrywould naturally turn to such men for spiritual precedents. Blake, thatstrange Londoner, in his book of Job, is the paramount example of theenchanter doing his work with the engraving tool in his hand.Rossetti's Dante's Dream is a painting on the edge of every poet'sparadise. As for the poetry of these two men, there are Blake's Songs ofInnocence, and Rossetti's Blessed Damozel and his Burden of Nineveh.As for the other poets, we have Coleridge, the author of Christabel, thatpiece of winter witchcraft, Kubla Khan, that oriental dazzlement, and theAncient Mariner, that most English of all this list of enchantments. OfTennyson's work, besides Merlin and the Gleam, there are the poems whenthe mantle was surely on his shoulders: The Lady of Shalott, The LotusEaters, Sir Galahad, and St. Agnes' Eve.Edgar Poe, always a magician, blends this power with the prophetical notein the poem, The Haunted Palace, and in the stories of William Wilson,The Black Cat and The Tell-tale Heart. This prophet-wizard side of a manotherwise a wizard only, has been well illustrated in The AvengingConscience photoplay.From Maeterlinck we have The Bluebird and many another dream. I devoutlyhope I will never see in the films an attempt to paraphrase this master.But some disciple of his should conquer the photoplay medium, giving usgreat original works.Yeats has bestowed upon us The Land of Heart's Desire, The Secret Rose,and many another piece of imaginative glory. Let us hope that we may bespared any attempts to hastily paraphrase his wonders for the motionpictures. But the man that reads Yeats will be better prepared to do hisown work in the films, or to greet the young new masters when they come.Finally, Francis Thompson, in The Hound of Heaven, has written a songthat the young wizard may lean upon forevermore for private guidance. Itis composed of equal parts of wonder and conscience. With this poem inhis heart, the roar of the elevated railroad will be no more in his ears,and he will dream of palaces of righteousness, and lead other men todream of them till the houses of mammon fade away.CHAPTER XXITHE ACCEPTABLE YEAR OF THE LORDWithout airing my private theology I earnestly request the most scepticalreader of this book to assume that miracles in a Biblical sense haveoccurred. Let him take it for granted in the fashion of the strictlyaesthetic commentator who writes in sympathy with a Fra Angelico painting,or as that great modernist, Paul Sabatier, does as he approaches theproblems of faith in the life of St. Francis. Let him also assume, forthe length of time that he is reading this chapter if no longer, thatmiracles, in a Biblical sense, as vivid and as real to the body of theChurch, will again occur two thousand years in the future: events aswonderful as those others, twenty centuries back. Let us anticipate thatmany of these will be upon American soil. Particularly as sons anddaughters of a new country it is a spiritual necessity for us to lookforward to traditions, because we have so few from the past identifiedwith the six feet of black earth beneath us.The functions of the prophet whereby he definitely painted futuresublimities have been too soon abolished in the minds of the wise. Mereforecasting is left to the weather bureau so far as a great section ofthe purely literary and cultured are concerned. The term prophet hassurvived in literature to be applied to men like Carlyle: fiery spiritualleaders who speak with little pretence of revealing to-morrow.But in the street, definite forecasting of future events is still thevulgar use of the term. Dozens of sober historians predicted the presentwar with a clean-cut story that was carried out with much faithfulness ofdetail, considering the thousand interests involved. They have beencalled prophets in a congratulatory secular tone by the man in thestreet. These felicitations come because well-authorized merchants infutures have been put out of countenance from the days of Jonah andBalaam till now. It is indeed a risky vocation. Yet there is anundeniable line of successful forecasting by the hardy, to be found inthe Scripture and in history. In direct proportion as these men of fieryspeech were free from sheer silliness, their outlook has been consideredand debated by the gravest people round them. The heart of man craves theseer. Take, for instance, the promise of the restoration of Jerusalem inglory that fills the latter part of the Old Testament. It moves theJewish Zionist, the true race-Jew, to this hour. He is even nowendeavoring to fulfil the prophecy.Consider the words of John the Baptist, "One mightier than I cometh, thelatchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose: he shall baptize youwith the Holy Ghost and with fire." A magnificent foreshadowing, beingboth a spiritual insight and the statement of a great definite event.The heeded seers of the civilization of this our day have been secular intheir outlook. Perhaps the most striking was Karl Marx, in the middle ofthe capitalistic system tracing its development from feudalism andpointing out as inevitable, long before they came, such moderninstitutions as the Steel Trust and the Standard Oil Company. It remainsto be seen whether the Marxian prophecy of the international alliance ofworkingmen that is obscured by the present conflict in Europe, and otherof his forecastings, will be ultimately verified.There have been secular teachers like Darwin, who, by a scientificreconstruction of the past, have implied an evolutionary future based onthe biological outlook. Deductions from the teachings of Darwin are saidto control those who mould the international doings of Germany and Japan.There have been inventor-seers like Jules Verne. In Twenty ThousandLeagues under the Sea he dimly discerned the submarine. There is a typeof social prophet allied to Verne. Edward Bellamy, in Looking Backward,reduced the world to a matter of pressing the button, turning on thephonograph. It was a combination of glorified department-store and ConeyIsland, on a cooperative basis. A seventeen-year-old boy from thecountry, making his first visit to the Woolworth building in New York,and riding in the subway when it is not too crowded, might be persuadedby an eloquent city relative that this is Bellamy's New Jerusalem.A soul with a greater insight is H.G. Wells. But he too, in spite of hishumanitarian heart, has, in a great mass of his work, the laboratoryimagination. Serious Americans pronounce themselves beneficiaries ofWells' works, and I confess myself edified and thoroughly grateful.Nevertheless, one smells chemicals in the next room when he reads most ofWells' prophecies. The X-ray has moved that Englishman's mind moredangerously than moonlight touches the brain of the chanting witch. Onestriking and typical story is The Food of the Gods. It is not only a finespeculation, but a great parable. The reader may prefer other tales. Manytimes Wells has gone into his laboratory to invent our future, in thesame state of mind in which an automobile manufacturer works out animprovement in his car. His disposition has greatly mellowed of late, inthis respect, but underneath he is the same Wells.Citizens of America, wise or foolish, when they look into the comingdays, have the submarine mood of Verne, the press-the-button complacencyof Bellamy, the wireless telegraph enthusiasm of Wells. If they expresshopes that can be put into pictures with definite edges, they ordermachinery piled to the skies. They see the redeemed United States runningdeftly in its jewelled sockets, ticking like a watch.This, their own chosen outlook, wearies the imaginations of our people,they do not know why. It gives no full-orbed apocalyptic joy. Only to theyoung mechanical engineer does such a hope express real Utopia. He canalways keep ahead of the devices that herald its approach. No matter whatday we attain and how busy we are adjusting ourselves, he can be movingon, inventing more to-morrows; ruling the age, not being ruled by it.Because this Utopia is in the air, a goodly portion of the precociousboys turn to mechanical engineering. Youths with this bent are the mosthealthful and inspiring young citizens we have. They and their like willfulfil a multitude of the hopes of men like Verne, Bellamy, and Wells.But if every mechanical inventor on earth voiced his dearest wish andlived to see it worked out, the real drama of prophecy and fulfilment, aswritten in the imagination of the human race, would remain uncompleted.As Mrs. Browning says in Lady Geraldine's Courtship:--    If we trod the deeps of ocean, if we struck the stars in rising,    If we wrapped the globe intensely with one hot electric breath,    'Twere but power within our tether, no new spirit-power comprising,    And in life we were not greater men, nor bolder men in death.St. John beheld the New Jerusalem coming down out of Heaven prepared as abride adorned for her husband, not equipped as a touring car varnishedfor its owner.It is my hope that the moving picture prophet-wizards will set before theworld a new group of pictures of the future. The chapter on The Architectas a Crusader endeavors to show how, by proclaiming that America willbecome a permanent World's Fair, she can be made so within the lives ofmen now living, if courageous architects have the campaign in hand. Thereare other hopes that look a long way further. They peer as far into thecoming day as the Chinese historian looks into the past. And then theyare but halfway to the millennium.Any standard illustrator could give us Verne or Bellamy or Wells if hedid his best. _But we want pictures beyond the skill of any delineator inthe old mediums, yet within the power of the wizard photoplay producer_.Oh you who are coming to-morrow, show us everyday America as it will bewhen we are only halfway to the millennium yet thousands of years in thefuture! Tell what type of honors men will covet, what property they willstill be apt to steal, what murders they will commit, what the law courtand the jail will be or what will be the substitutes, how the newspaperwill appear, the office, the busy street.Picture to America the lovers in her half-millennium, when usage shallhave become iron-handed once again, when noble sweethearts must breakbeautiful customs for the sake of their dreams. Show us the gantlet ofstrange courtliness they must pass through before they reach one another,obstacles brought about by the immemorial distinctions of scholarshipgowns or service badges.Make a picture of a world where machinery is so highly developed itutterly disappeared long ago. Show us the antique United States, with ivyvines upon the popular socialist churches, and weather-beaten images ofsocialist saints in the niches of the doors. Show us the batteredfountains, the brooding universities, the dusty libraries. Show us housesof administration with statues of heroes in front of them and gentlebanners flowing from their pinnacles. Then paint pictures of the oldesttrees of the time, and tree-revering ceremonies, with unique costumes anda special priesthood.Show us the marriage procession, the christening, the consecration of theboy and girl to the state. Show us the political processions and electionriots. Show us the people with their graceful games, their religiouspantomimes. Show us impartially the memorial scenes to celebrate thegreat men and women, and the funerals of the poor. And then moving ontoward the millennium itself, show America after her victories have beenwon, and she has grown old, as old as the Sphinx. Then give us the Dragonand Armageddon and the Lake of Fire.Author-producer-photographer, who would prophesy, read the last book inthe Bible, not to copy it in form and color, but that its power and graceand terror may enter into you. Delineate in your own way, as you are ledon your own Patmos, the picture of our land redeemed. After fasting andprayer, let the Spirit conduct you till you see in definite line and formthe throngs of the brotherhood of man, the colonnades where the arts areexpounded, the gardens where the children dance.That which man desires, that will man become. He largely fulfils his ownprediction and vision. Let him therefore have a care how he prophesiesand prays. We shall have a tin heaven and a tin earth, if the scientistsare allowed exclusive command of our highest hours.Let us turn to Luke iv. 17."And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Esaias. Andwhen he had opened the book he found the place where it was written:--"The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he hath anointed me to preachthe Gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the broken-hearted, topreach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind,to set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year ofthe Lord."And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and satdown. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastenedon him. And he began to say unto them: 'This day is this Scripturefulfilled in your ears.'"And all bare him witness, and wondered at the gracious words whichproceeded out of his mouth. And they said: 'Is not this Joseph's son?'"I am moved to think Christ fulfilled that prophecy because he had read itfrom childhood. It is my entirely personal speculation, not brought forthdogmatically, that Scripture is not so much inspired as it is curiouslyand miraculously inspiring.If the New Isaiahs of this time will write their forecastings inphotoplay hieroglyphics, the children in times to come, having seen thosefilms from infancy, or their later paraphrases in more perfect form, canrise and say, "This day is this Scripture fulfilled in your ears." Butwithout prophecy there is no fulfilment, without Isaiah there is noChrist.America is often shallow in her dreams because she has no past in theEuropean and Asiatic sense. Our soil has no Roman coin or buried altar orBuddhist tope. For this reason multitudes of American artists have movedto Europe, and only the most universal of wars has driven them home. Yearafter year Europe drained us of our beauty-lovers, our highest paintersand sculptors and the like. They have come pouring home, confusedexpatriates, trying to adjust themselves. It is time for the Americancraftsman and artist to grasp the fact that we must be men enough toconstruct a to-morrow that grows rich in forecastings in the same waythat the past of Europe grows rich in sweet or terrible legends as men goback into it.       *       *       *       *       *Scenario writers, producers, photoplay actors, endowers of exquisitefilms, sects using special motion pictures for a predetermined end, allyou who are taking the work as a sacred trust, I bid you God-speed. Letus resolve that whatever America's to-morrow may be, she shall have a daythat is beautiful and not crass, spiritual, not material. Let us resolvethat she shall dream dreams deeper than the sea and higher than theclouds of heaven, that she shall come forth crowned and transfigured withher statesmen and wizards and saints and sages about her, with magicbehind her and miracle before her.Pray that you be delivered from the temptation to cynicism and thetimidities of orthodoxy. Pray that the workers in this your glorious newart be delivered from the mere lust of the flesh and pride of life. Letyour spirits outflame your burning bodies.Consider what it will do to your souls, if you are true to your trust.Every year, despite earthly sorrow and the punishment of your mortalsins, despite all weakness and all of Time's revenges upon you, despiteNature's reproofs and the whips of the angels, new visions will come, newprophecies will come. You will be seasoned spirits in the eyes of thewise. The record of your ripeness will be found in your craftsmanship.You will be God's thoroughbreds.       *       *       *       *       *It has come then, this new weapon of men, and the face of the whole earthchanges. In after centuries its beginning will be indeed remembered.It has come, this new weapon of men, and by faith and a study of thesigns we proclaim that it will go on and on in immemorial wonder.VACHEL LINDSAY.SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS,Nov. 1, 1915.***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ART OF THE MOVING PICTURE********** This file should be named 13029.txt or 13029.zip *******This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:http://www.gutenberg.net/1/3/0/2/13029Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.Project Gutenberg's The Pilgrimage of Pure Devotion, by Desiderius ErasmusThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Pilgrimage of Pure DevotionAuthor: Desiderius ErasmusRelease Date: January 20, 2005 [EBook #14746]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PILGRIMAGE OF PURE DEVOTION ***Produced by David Starner, Louise Hope, David King, and the OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team[Transcriber's note:The original text has no page numbers; instead, the first few leavesof each 16-page signature are marked. This information is shownbetween paired double lines: || A iij.||. Other page breaks havebeen marked with double lines ||A few apparent typographic errors were corrected and are listed atthe end of the text. Other possible errors are also noted but wereleft unchanged. All other spelling and punctuation are as inthe original.]       *       *       *       *       *                   A dialoge              or communication of             two persons, deuysyd           and set forthe in the la-            te tonge, by the noble              and famose clarke.             _Desiderius Erasmus_               intituled ye pyl-                  gremage of                   pure de-                     uoty-                      on.             Newly traslatyd into                   Englishe.       *       *       *       *       *|| [+] ij.||To the reder.Amongest the writinges of all men, dearly belouydreder, not onely of the diuersyte of tongues, but alsothe noble drawghts of so artificyall paynted figures,whiche haue so lyuely expressed to ye quycke ymage, thenature, ordre, & proporcyon of all states, asconcernynge the gouernaunce of a Christen comewealthe,that ther is (as I suppose) no parte of the scripture,which is not so enpowndyde, furnysshed, and set forthe,but that euery Christen man, therby may lerne his dewtyto god, hys prynce, and hys nebure, and so consequentlypasse thourough the strayte pathe of the whichescripture doth testyfye vpo, very fewe can fynde yeentrye, wherby thorough faythe in the redeptyon of theworlde thorowe ye bloode of Christe the sone of god, torayne || with the father and the holy goste eternally,accordynge to the promyse of Christe, sayinge. In myfathers hawse ther be many placys to dwell in, we wyllcome to hym and make a mansyon place with hym and Ihaue and shall open thy name vnto them, that the sameloue with the whiche thou louydest me, may be in theym,and I in the, and thys is the kyngdome of god so oftenmouyd to vs in holy scripture, whiche all faythfullshall possesse and inheret for euermore: where as yevnfaythfull, vnryghtswye, and synner shall not entre into the kyngdome of god, bycause, of chaugynge the gloryof gode immortall in to the ymage of a corruptyble man,and therfore to incentiously he hathe suffrede them towandre in theyr clowdes of ygnoraunce, preferrynge thelyes and corrupte || [+] iij.|| iudgmentes of man theveryte and the truthe of god, rather seruynge thecreature then the creator, amongest all the parties ofthe whiche (as was spoken at the begynnyng) thys alwayenot alonely in the newe law, but also in the oldeTestament was as a thynge moost abhomynable anddisplesant in the sight of gode prohybyte and forbyden:but our nature whiche hath in hym, the dampnablerepugnauce of synne agaynst the omnypotet power ofgode, lest euyn frome owre fyrst father Adam, is soenclyned to vyces, amongest the whiche it hath notgyuen the least parte to thys desperate synne ofydolatrye, agaynst the immaculate, and fearefullcommandement of god. Thou shalt haue no straunge Godsin my syght, that it is sore to be dreadde the sameiudgement to be gyuyn || vpon vs that was gyuen vponthe cytye of Ninyue to be absorped of the yerthe in tothe yre and vengeannce of gode, whiche hathe ben thecause that so many wryters bothe of late dayes, andmany yeres passede, haue euyn to deathe, resisted thesdampnable bolsterers of ydolatrye, gyuen theyr seluesto the crosse in example of reformacyon to theyrbretherne, bothe in wrytinge and cownsell, exhortyngethe flocke of Christe frome soche prophane doctryne,amongest whome the noble and famouse clerke _DesideriusErasmus_ hath setforthe to the quycke ymage, beforemennys eyes, the supersticyouse worshype and falsehonor gyuyn to bones, heddes, iawes, armes, stockes,stones, shyrtes, smokes, cotes, cappes, hattes, shoes,mytres, slyppers, sadles, rynges, bedes, gyrdles,bolles, || [+] iiij.|| belles, bokes, gloues, ropes,taperes, candelles, bootes, sporres, (my breath wasalmost past me) with many other soche dampnableallusyones of the deuylle to use theme as goddescontrary to the immaculate scripture of gode, morouerhe notethe as it were of arrogancye the pryuateiudgment of certayne that of theyr owne brayne woldecast out ymages of the temple, with out a comen consentand authoryte, some there be that alway seke halowes,and go vpon pylgramages vnder a pretense of holynes,whervpon thes brotherhoddes and systerhoodes be nowinuented, morouer they that haue ben at Hierusalem becalled knightes of the sepulcre, and call one an otherbretherne, and vpon palme-sondaye they play the folessadely, drawynge after them an asse in a || rope, whenthey be not moche distante frome the woden asse thatthey drawe. The same do they conterfayte that haue benat saynt Iames in Compostella. But they be morepernycyouse, that set forthe vncertayn relyques, forcertayne, and attrybute more to them than they oughteto haue, and prostytute or sett theym forthe forfylthye lukre. But now whan they perceyue, that thistheyr dapnable *Corbane [*A tresure boxe of ye Iewes.]dothe decay, and that theyr most to be lamented blyndnesand longe accustomed errours shuld be redressed, they, allfayre bothe of god and man set asyde, rebelle andmake insurrectyones contrary to the ordynaunce of gode,agaynst theyr kynge and liege lorde, prouokynge andallurynge the symple comynaitye to theyre dampnableypocrysye and conspyracy, myndyng || [+] v.|| and goyngeabout to preuente our most soueraigne lordes iudgment,not yet gyue vpon theyr Sodomiticall actes, and mosthorryble ypocrysy. But the worde of the lorde whichethey so tyrannously go aboute to suppresse with all thefauerours therof shall ouercome & destroy all soch mostto be abhorred & deceyuable inuegelers & dysturbers ofye symple people to soch detestable treason. And thatit may so do to the terryble example of thes and a11other rebelles and most dysloyal subiectes, and to yegreate comforthe & cosolacyo of his gracys faythfulland true comens. I requyre him which brethethe where hewillithe and raygnethe eternall gode to graut vnto ourseyde most dradde soueraygne lorde whose maiesty as iteuydently appereth onely applieth his diligence to theaduaunsynge || & lettynge forthe of the most holsomedocumenth and teachyng of almyghty god, to the redresof long accustome euylls and damnable sectes, to thesupportacion and mayntenaunce of godly and alowableceremonyes, to the suppressynge and most to be desiredabolishyng of the deuelishe and detestable vsurpedaucthoryties, dampnable errours and prophane abusesbrought in by that myghty Golyas, that obduratedPhareo, that proude Nembroth (whome god amede) thebyshope of Rome, to graunte (I say) vnto hys hyghnes,suche hys godly ayde and assistence, that hys gracewith hys moost honorable counsell (agaynst whome thisarrogant conspyracy is nowe moued and begonne) mayouercome and debelle the stud traytres as in tymespaste hys maiestye hath prudently || do other, that hauehertofore attempted to perpetrate and brynge to passelike sedicyous mishief, and so to establishe the hartesof hys gracys true subiectes that they may wyllynglyand according to theyr dueties, obey and fulfyll hysmost lawfull and godly ordened lawes and commaundementswherby they shall not onely do the thyng agreable togoddes wylle and teachynges, in that he willeth euerysoule to be subiected to the hygher power and obedyentto theyr prynce, but also (to theyr greate laude andprayse) shall shewe them selfe to be redy andconfirmable to do theyr dueties in aydyng hys excellenthyghnes to the reformacyon of all pernicious abuses &chiefly of detestable ydolatrye, whiche is so mucheprohibited in holy scripture and most displeasant togod, || for whiche intent and purpose the sayd mostnoble and famous clarke _Desiderius Erasmus_, compiled &made this dialoge in Laten, as it foloweth herafternowe lately translated into our mother the Englishhetonge. Auoyd therfore, most deare readere, all abuseswhereby any inconuenyence may growe, other to thehynderaunce of godes worde, to the displeasure of thyprynce, (whome thou arte so straytly commaunded toobaye, or to the domage of a publike weale, whicheaboue all vices is noted most to be abhorred, notalonely of the most holy wryteres and expownderes ofscripture, but also of prophane gentylles, whiche neuerperceyuyd other thinge than nature enclyned theyrhartes vnto, and so consequently to obtayne thefruytion of the godhode thorowe the faythe that was||    spoken of at the begynnynge to the         whiche the lorde Iesus Chri-           ste brynge vs all with a              perfaycte quyetnes,                   So be it.                       +       *       *       *       *       *|| A.||        A pylgremage, for pure deuocyo._Menedemus._ [*Signifieth to forsake.] What new thyngeys it, that I se? doo I nat see _Ogygyus_ my neybur,whom no ma could espie of all thes sex monthes before?yt was a sayng that he was deed, It is euen he, exceptthat I be ferre deceyuyd. I wyll go to hym, & byd hymgood morow. Good morow Ogygyus.[*was faynyd of an oldkynge of Thebanes.] Good morow to you Menedemus._Mene._ I pray you frome what contray do you come to vsayen so saffe. For here was a great comunicacyo thatyou dyd sayle streght to hell. _Ogy._ No, thankyd begod, I haue faryd as well syns I went hens, as euer Idyd in all my lyffe. _Me._ Well, a man may wellperceyue that all soche rumours be but vanytye. But Ipray you what araye is this that you be in, me thynkethat you be clothyd with cokle schelles, and be || ladeon euery syde with bruches of lead and tynne. And yoube pretely garnyshyd with wrethes of strawe & your armeis full of *snakes egges.[*Signifyeth bedes. Malsyngamys callyd parathalassia by cause it is ny to ye see.]_Ogy._ I haue bene on pylgremage at saynt Iames inCompostella, & at my retourne I dyd more relygyouslyvysyte our lady of Walsynga in England, a very holypylgremage, but I dyd rather vysyte her. For I was therbefore within this thre yere. _Me._ I trowe, it was butfor your pleasure. _Ogy._ Nay, it was for puredeuocyon. _Me._ I suppose you learnyd that relygyo ofthe Grecyanes. _Ogy._ My mother in law dyd make a vowethat if her dougther shuld be delyueryd of a man chyldalyue, than that I shuld go to saynt Iames onpylgremage, and ther to salute and thake hym. _Me._ Dydyou salute saynt Iames alonly in your name, and yourmothers. _Ogy._ No, in the name of all owre house._Me._ || A ij.|| Verely I thynke that your howshold aswell shold haue prosperd, in case you had not salutydhym at all. But I pray you what answer dyd he make toyour salutacyon. _Ogy._ Nothynge at all. But wha I dydoffre, me tought he dyd lawghe vpon me, and becke at mewith hedde, & dyd reche to me this cokleshell. _Me._Wherfore dothe he gyue rather suche schelles, thanother thynges. _Ogygy._ For the see, whiche is nye vntohym dothe mynystre plenty of suche. _Me._ O holy sayntIames, that bothe is a mydwyffe to women with chyld,and also dothe helpe his pylgrymes. But I pray you whatnew kynd of makyng vowes is that that whan a ma is ydlehe shall put the burden apon an other mannes bakke? Incase that you doo bynd youre selffe with a vowe, thatyf ye matter chaunche happyly whiche you haue in hande,that I for you || shall fast twyse in on weke, do youbeleue that I can fulfyl youre vow? _Ogy._ No, I doonot beleue it if that you dyd vowe it in youre awnename. It is but a sport with yow to mokke sayntes. Butthis was my mother in law, I must nedys obey her, youknow womenes affectyones, & I must obaye heres. _Me._If that you had not perfourmyd your vowe, what iopertyehad you be in? _Ogy._ I graunt, he could not haue hadan accyon ayenst me in ye law, but he myght fromhensforthe be deafe to my vowes, orels pryuyly sendsome calamytye or wretchednes amongste my housholde,yow know well enuffe the maneres of great men. _Me._Tell me now what that same honest ma saynt Iames dothe,and howe he farythe. _Ogy._ Moche colder tha he waswontyd to do. _Me._ What is the cause of it? His age?_Ogy._ Oh you scoffer, yow || A iij.|| know wel enoghethat sayntes wax nat olde. But this new learnynge,whiche runnythe all the world ouer now a dayes, dothecause hym to be vysytyd moche lesse than he was wontydto be, for if any doo come thay salute him alonly, butthey offre lytle or nothinge, and say that theyr monayemay bettre be disposyd amongste pore people. _Me._ O awykyd comunicacyon. _Ogy._ Ye & so great an Apostlewhiche was wotyd to stand all in precyous stones &gold, now stadythe all of wodde hauynge before hymskaresly a wax candle. _Me._ If it be trew that I here,it is great ioperdy lest that same chance to all therest of the sayntes. _Ogy._ I thynk it wel, for ther isan epistle abrode whiche our lady dyd wryte apon thesame matter. _Me._ What lady? _Ogy._ *She that hatheher name of a stone.[*Our ladi of stone in Raurachiawhiche is a certayne cuntre.] _Me._ I trawe it is inRaurachia. _Ogy._ That same || is it. _Me._ yow tell meof a stony lady, But to whome dyd she wryte? _Ogy._ Theepistle dothe playnely shew his name. _Me._ By whomewas it sent? _Ogy._ No dowbt but by an angell, whichedyd lay the wrytynges apo the aultre, wherof heprechythe to whome it was sent. And lest there shuld beany suspectyo of crafty couayance in you, you shall sethe epistle wryten with his owne hande. _Me._ Do youknow so well the hand of thangell whiche is secretaryto our lady? _Ogy._ Yee why nat? _Me._ By what argumet?_Ogy._ I haue redde that *Epithaphe [*Is a scripturewryten on a graue.] of Bede which was grauyd of theangell: and the letteres agre in all thynges. I haueredde also ye obligacyo whiche was sent to saynt Gylesas dothe aper. Dothe not thes argumentes proue thatmater to be good enoghe. _Me._ May a man loke aponthem? _Ogy._ ye and if you wyll swere to kepe it ||A iiij.|| preuy. _Me._ Oh you shall speake to a stone._Ogy._ Ther be stones now a dayes of that name veryslawnderous, that wyll hyde nothynge. _Me._ you shallspeake to a domme man, & yow trust nat a stone. _Ogy._Apon ye condycyon I wyll tell it, loke that you herewith bothe youre eyares. _Me._ So I doo.[The epistle of our Lady.]_Ogy._ Mary the mother of Iesu to *Glaucoplutus[*Glaucoplutus desirus of ryches.] sedythe gretynge.Insomoche as you folowe Luther, you nobly perswade,that it is but in vayne to call apo sayntes, do ye wellknow for that to be grettly in my fauore. For vntyllthys day I haue almost be slayne with the importunateprayers of men. Of me alone they askyd althynges, aswho shuld say my sone were alway a babe, because he isso faynyd and payntyd apo my breste, that yet he woldbe at my commaundemet and durst nat denye my petycyon,dredynge that if he denye my petycyon, || that I shulddenye hym my teate whan he is a thurst: and very oftthay requyre that of me, whiche a shamfast yongman darescantly aske of a Bawde, yee they be suche thynges as Iam ashamyd to put in wrytynge. Now comythe yemarchauntman and he redy to sayle into Spayne for avantage, dothe comytte hys wyues honesty to me. Thancommythe thet lytle preaty Nunne and she castythe awayher vayle redy to runne away, she leuythe with me thegood name of her vyrgynytye, whiche shortly sheentendythe to take monay for. Than cryeth the wykydsoudyer purposyd to robbe & saythe, blessyd lady sendme a good praye. Now comythe the vnthryfty dyasser andcryethe, send me good chance Lady & thow shalt haueparte of my wynnynges: and if the dyasse runne ayensthym, he blasphemes, and cursythe me, bycause || I wyllnat fauor his noghtynes. Now cryeth she that sellytheher selffe for fylthye lukre & saythe, swete lady sendme some costomers, & if I denye it, they exclame ayenstme & say, thou arte not the mother of marcy. Moreouerthe vowes of some women be no lesse wykyd tha folishe.The mayd cryeth & saythe, O swet Mary send me a fayreand riche husbond. The maryed woma saythe send megoodly chylderen. Now laborythe the woman with chyld,and cryeth dere lady dylyuer me of my bondes. Thancomythe ye olde wyffe, and saythe flowre of all womensend me to lyue longe withowt coghe and drynes. Nowcrepythe the the dotynge old man & saythe, lady send mefor to wax yonge aye. Tha comythe forth the phylosopherand cryethe send me some argumetis that be isoluble.The great prest cryeth send me a fat benefyce. Tha ||saythe the bysshope kepe well my churche. Tha cryetheye hye Iustyce shew me thy sone or I passe out of thisworlde. Tha saythe ye Cowrtyer send me trwe confessionat the howre of my deathe. The husbondman saythe sendvs temperate wether. The mylke wyffe cryethe owtblessyd lady saue our catell. Now if I denye anythyngeby & by I am crwell. If I comytte it to my sone, I herethem say, he wyll what so euer you wyll. Shall I thanalone bothe a woman and a mayd helpe maryneres,sawdyeres, marchantmen, dyasseres, maryed me, womenwith chyld, iudges, kynges, and husbondmen? ye and thisthat I haue sayd is the least parte of my payne. But Iam nat now so moche trobled with soche busynes, forthat I wold hartely thanke you, but that thiscommodytye dothe brynge a greater discomodytye withhym. I || haue now more ease, but lesse honor &profett. Before this tyme I was callyd quene of heuen,lady of the world, but now any man wyll skarsly say aueMaria or hayle Mary. Before I was clothyd with precyousstones and gold, and had my chaunges, and dayly therwas offeryd gold and precyous stones, now I am skarslycoueryd with halffe a gowne and that is all beeytenwith mysse. My yerly rentes be now so smalle that I amskarsly able to fynde my pore quere kepar to light awax cadle before me. Yet all this myght be sufferyd,but you be abowt to pluke away greater thynges, you beabowt (as they say) that what so euer any saynte hathein any place, to take hyt frome the churches, but takehede what you doo. For ther is no saynte without a wayto reuege his wronge. If you cast saynt Petre forthe ofthe churche, he may serue || you of the same sauce, andshite vp heuyngates ayenst you. ye saynt Paule hathehis sworde. Barthylmew is nat withowt his great knyffe.Saynt Wyllyam is harnysyd vnder his monkes cloke, natwithowt a greate speare. What canst thou doo ayenstsaynt George whiche is bothe a knyght & all armyd withhys longe spere and his fearfull sword? Nor sayntAntony is nat withowt hys weapenes for he hathe holyfyre with hym. Ye the rest of the sayntes haue theyrweapones or myschefues, whiche they send apon whomethey liste. But as for me thou canst not cast owt,except thou cast owt my sone, whiche I hold in mynearmes. I wyll nat be seperat frome hym, other thoushalt cast hym owt with me or els thou shalt let vsbothe be, except that you wold haue a temple withowt aChriste. These be the thynges that I wold || yow shallknow ymagyne you therfore what shal be your answer. Forthis thinge pleasythe me very well. Frome oure stonychurche the calendes of Auguste, the yere frome mysonnes passyon a M. CCCCC. xiiij. I stony ladysubscrybyd thys with myne owne hande. _Me._ Trewly thatwas a soro and fearfull epistle, I suppose thatGlaucoplutus wyll beware fro hesforthe. _Ogy._ Ye & ifhe be wyse. _Me._ Wherfore dyd nat that good sayntIames wryte to that man of the same mater. _Ogy._ I cannat tell, except it be bycause he is so ferre of, andnow a dayes men be moche searchyd for suche maters, &in theyr iornaye theyr lettres take frome them. _Me._I pray you, what god dyd send you into Englod? _Ogy._I saw the wynd maruelouse prosperouse thyderward, andI had almoste promysyd this to that blessyd lady ofWalsynga that I wold seke || her within .ij. yere,_Me._ What wold you axe of her. _Ogy._ No new thyngs atall, but suche as be comen, as to kepe saffe and sowndmy housholde, to encreasse my goodes, and in thys worldto haue a loge and mery liffe, and wha I dyeeuerlastynge lyffe in another worlde. _Me._ May nat owrlady grante the same at home with vs? She hathe atAntwarpe a moche more lordly temple tha at Walsyngame._Ogy._ I denye nat but it may be so, but in dyuersplaces she grantes dyuers thynges, wether it be herpleasur so to do, or bycause she is so gentle, that ascocernynge this purpose, she wyll gyue her selfe to ouraffectyoes. _Me._ I haue harde oft of saynt Iames, butI pray you describe to me the kyngdome of Walsyngam._Ogy._ Verely I shall tell you as shortly as I canne.Yt is the most holy name in all England, and you mayfynde some in || that yle, that suppose thayr substaceshal nat prospayre except they vysyte her with thayrofferynge euery yere ones as thay be able to gyue._Me._ Wher dothe she dwell? _Ogy._ At the vttermostparte of all England betwyxt the Northe and the Weste,nat vary ferre from the see, skarsly iii myles, thetowne is almost susteynyd by the resort of pylgrymes.The college is of Canoes, but thay be suche as hathethayr name of the Laten tonge and be called Seculares,a kynd betwyxte monkes & Chanones. _Me._ What you tellme of *Amphybyanes, [*Amphybyanes be thynges doutfull.]suche as ye mostre *Fyber is.[*Fyber is a beste of yesee & ye land.] _Ogy._ No thay be rather suche as the*Cocatrice. [*A Cocatrice wil kyll a man with a loke,]But withowt dissimulation, I shall put you owt of thisdowte in thre wordes. To them that thay hate, thay beChanones, and to them that thay loue thay be Monkes_Menede._ Yet yowe doo nat open thys redle. _Ogy._ ||I shall paynte it before youre eyes, if the bysshope ofRome doo shot hys thonderbowlt amogst all monkes, thaywyll than be chanones, & nat monkes, but and if he woldsuffre all monkes to take wyues, tha wyll they bemonkes, _Me._ O new partakeres, I wold to god they woldtake away my wyffe. _Ogy._ But to come to our purpose,the college hathe skarsly any other *emolumetes[*Rettes.] but of the liberalite of our lady. For thegreat offeryngs be kepyd stylle, but if ther be anylitle some of monaye offerid that goith to the comensof the company, & the mayster whome thay call pryoure._Me._ Be thay of a vertuous lyffe? _Ogy._ Nat to bedispraysyd, thay be more vertuous tha ryche of thayryerely renttes. The temple ys goodly & goregious, butoure Lady dwellythe nat in it, but that was purchasydfor the honor of her sone. She hathe her owne temple,|| B.|| that she may be of the ryght hand of her sone._Me._ Apon the right had. Whiche way dothe her sonneloke than? _Ogy._ It is well remembryd. Whan he lokytheto the West, his mother is apo his right hand, but whahe turnythe hym to the Este she is apon the lefte hand.But yet she dwellythe nat in that churche, for it isnat yet buyldyd all vpe, and the wynde runnythe thoroweuery parte with open wyndowes & dowres, and also natferre of is the Occiane seye father of all wyndes._Me._ what doo yow tell me wher dothe she dwell tha?_Ogy._ In ye same churche whiche I told you was nat allfynyshyd, ther is a lytle chapell seelyd ouer withwodde, on ether syde a lytle dore wher ye pylgrymes gothorow, ther is lytle light, but of ye taperes, with afragrant smell. _Me._ All these be mete for religyon._Ogy._ Ye Menedemus if you loke within you || wyll saythat it is a seate mete for sayntes, all thynges be sobright in gold, syluer, and precyous stones. _Me._ Youalmost moue me to go thyther also. _Ogy._ It shalnatrepente you of your iornay. _Me._ Spryngithe ther noholy oyle? _Ogy._ I trowe you dote, that spryngythe natbut owt of the sepulchres of sayntes, as saynt Andrew,& saynt Katere, owr lady was nat beried. _Me._ I grautI sayd amysse, but tell on your tale. _Ogy._ So mochemore as thay persayue youre deuocyo, so moche largerreliques wyl thay shew to you. _Me._ Ye and peradueturethat thay may haue larger offerynges, as is sayd that,many lytle offerynges makythe a heuy boxe. _Ogygy._ Herchaplens be alway at hand. _Me._ Be thay of yeChanones? _Ogy._ No, thay be nat permyttyd to be withher, lest that peraduenture by occasyon of thatreligyon, thay shuld be plukkyd || B ij.|| frome thayrowne religyo, and whylst thay kepe that virgyne, thayregard very lytle thayr awne virgynyte, alonly in thatinner chapell whiche is our ladyes preuy chabre, therstandithe a certayne Chano at the autre. _Me._ For whatpurpose? _Ogy._ To receyue and kepe, that whiche isofferyd. _Me._ dothe any man gyue ayenst hys wyll._Ogy._ No, but many men hathe suche a gentleshamfastnes, that thay wyll gyue some thynge to hymthat standythe by, other thay wyll offre more largely,whiche thay wold nat doo peraueture if that he wereabsent, that standithe there. _Me._ You tell me ofmannes affectiones, whiche I my selffe prouyd veryofte. _Ogy._ Ye trewly there be some so gyue to ourblessyd lady, that whan thay apere to put vpe thayrhandes to offre, with a pure cousyance, thay stayl thatwhiche other men hathe gyuen. _Me._ Than || lett no manbe there, wyll nat oure Lady shote her thonderbowlte atsuche. _Ogy._ Wherfor shuld our lady rather doo so,than God hymselffe, whom thay be nat affrayd to plukeowt hys robes, & breake ye churche walles therfore._Mene._ I am in a great doubt whether I shuld, rathermaruayle apon thayre wykyd boldnes, or Goddys greatgetlenes and longe sufferynge. _Ogy._ Apo the Northeparte ther is a certayne gaate, but lest that youshould make a lye, it is nat of the churche, but of thepale that compassithe a bowte the churche yarde, andthat hathe a lytle wykyt, suche as be in great mennesgaates, that who so euer wyll entre, must fyrst putinhys legge, nat withowt some ioperdie, and than bowedowne hys hedde. _Me._ It is ioperdie to goo thorowsuche a dore, to a mannes enemye. _Ogy._ So it is, thesexten dyd tell me that || B iij.|| ther was ones aknyght whiche fleeynge hys enemye, than aprochynge, dydride thorow ye wykyte, and than the wretche dispayryngein hym selffe, apon a soden motion, dyd commendhymselffe to ye blessyd virgyne, whiche was than athand. But now commythe the myrakle. By and by thatknyght was all in the churche yarde, and hys aduersarywas ragynge at the dore wowte. _Me._ And dyd he tellyou so maruylous a myrakle for a trewthe? _Ogy._ Nodowte. _Me._ But I suppose that he could nat solyghtely doo that to you so a great a philosopher._Ogy._ He dyd shewe to me in that same wykytte in aplate of coper, the ymage of the knyght fastenyd withnayles and with the same garmentes that the Englishmenwere wontyd to wayre at that tyme, as you may see inthat olde pictures, whiche wyl nat lye, Barbours had ||but lytle lyuynge at that tyme: and dieres & websteresgotte but litle monay. _Me._ Why so? _Ogy._ For he hada berd like a goote, and his cote had neuer a plyte,& it was so litle, that with strayte gyrdynge it maydhys body to apere lesse than it was. Ther was anotherplate, that was in quantyte and fourme like to acheste. _Me._ Well now it is nat to be doubtyd apo._Ogy._ Under ye wykyte ther was a grate of yrne, thatno man ca passe theryn but a footema, for it is natconuenyent that any horsse shuld tread after apon yeplace, whiche the knyght dyd cosecrate to owr lady._Me._ Nat withowt a good cause. _Ogy._ Frome that partetoward the Este, there is a litle chapell, full ofmaruayles and thyther I wete, ther was I receyuyd ofanother of our ladyes chaplenes, ther we knelyd downe,to make our litle prayeres. By & by, he broght forthe|| B iiij.|| the ioynte of a mannes fynger, thegreatyste of thre, which I kyssyd, & askyd whoserelyques thay were, he dyd say that thay were sayntPetres. What thapostle sayd I. Ye sayd he. Than I dydbetter beholde the ioynte, whiche for hys greatenesmyght well haue be a Gyates ioynte, rather than amannes. Than sayd I, saynt Peter must nedys be a greatman of stature. But at that word, ther was one of thegentleme that stode by, that could not forberelawghynge, for the which I was very sory. For if he hadholden hys pease, we had sene all the relyques, yet wemetely well pleasyd mayster Sexte, with gyuynge hym.ij. or .iij. grotes. Before that chapell there was alitle howsse, which he sayd ones in wynter tyme whanthat there was litle rowme to couer the reliques, thatit was sodenly broght & sett in that place. Under thathouse || there was a couple of pittes, bothe fulle ofwater to the brynkys, and thay say that ye sprynge ofthos pittes is dedicate to our lady, that water is verycolde, and medycynable for the hede ake and thathartburnynge. _Me._ If that cold water wyll hele thepaynes in the hede and stomake, than wyll oyle put owtefyre from hensforthe. _Ogy._ It is a myrakle that Itell, good syr, or els what maruayle shuld it be, thatcowld water shuld slake thurste? _Me._ This may well beone parte of your tale. _Ogy._ Thay say that thefowntayne dyd sodenly sprynge owte of the erthe at thecommaundement of our lady, & I dilygently examenyngealthynges, dyd aske hym how many yeres it was sythethat howsse was so sodenly broght thyther. Many yeresagone saythe he. Yet, sayde I, the wallys doo nat apereso old. He dyd nat denay it. No mor thes woden|| B v.|| pyleres. He cowld nat denay but that theywere sette there nat longe agoo, and also the mater dydplaynly testyfye ye same. Afterward, sayd I, thys roffewhich is all of rede dothe apere nat to be very olde,& he granted also, thes greete bemes which lyeouerthwerte, and these rafteres that hold vpe thathowsse were nat sett longe agone. He affyrmyd mysaynge. Well sayd I seynge that no parte of the housseis lefte but all is new, how can yow say that this wasthe house whiche was broght hyther so longe agoo. _Me._I pray you how dyd the howskeper, auoyde hymselffefrome your argumet. _Ogy._ By & by he dyd shew to vsthe mater by the skyne of a bayre whiche had hangyd bethe rafteres a longe season, and dyd almost moke thesymplenes of owre wyttes that could nat perceyue somanyfeste an argumete we beynge || perswadyd by thisargument, askid pardon of our ignorance, and callidinto our communycacyon the heuely mylke of our lady._Me._ O how like to the sone is the mother, for he hathleft to vs so moche blood here in erthe, & she so mochemylke, that a man wyl skarysly beleue a woman to haueso moche mylke of one chylde, in case the chyld shuldsukke none at all. _Ogy._ Thay saye the same of theholy crosse, whiche is shewyd in so many places botheopenly, and pryuately, that if ye fragmentes weregathered apon one heape, they wold apere to be a iustefraghte for a shipe, and yet Christe dyd bere all hiscrosse hymselffe. _Me._ But do nat you maruayll atthis? _Ogy._ It may welbe a strage thynge, but nomaruayle, seynge that the lord whiche dothe encreassethis at hys pleasure, is almyghty. _Me._ It is verygently expownded, but I am || afrayd, that many of thesbe faynyd for lukre. _Ogy._ I suppose that God wold natsuffre hymselffe to be deludyd of suche a fasshion._Mene._ Yis, haue nat you sene that wha bothe themother, the sone, the father, and the holy ghoste hathebe robbyd of thes sacrilegyous theues, that thaywoldnat ones moue, or styre nother with bekke or crakkewherby thay myght fray away the theues. So great is thegentles of God. _Ogy._ So it is, but here out me tale.This mylke is kepyd apon the hye aultre, and in themyddys ther is Christe, with his mother apon hys ryghthand, for her honor sake, the mylke dothe representethe mother. _Me._ It may be sene than? _Ogy._ It isclosyd in crystalle. _Me._ It is moyste tha? _Ogy._What tell you me of moystenes, wha it was mylkyd morethan a thowsand and fyue hunthrithe yere agone, it isso congelyd, that a ma wold || saye that it were chalketemperyd with the whyte of a egge. _Me._ Ye, but dothay sette it forthe bare? _Ogy._ No, lest so holymylke shuld be defowlyd with the kyssynge of men. _Me._You say well. For I suppose that ther be many thatkysse it, whiche be nother clene mouthyd, nor yet bepure virgynes. _Ogy._ Whan ye sexten sawe vs, he dydrunne to the aultre, & put apon hym his surplese, & hisstole about his nekke, knelyd downe relygyously, andworshipyd it, and streghtforthe dyd offre the mylke tovs to kysse. And at the ende of the aultre we knelyddowne deuoutly, & the fyrste of all we salutyd Christe,& than after we callyd apon our lady with thys prayer,whiche we had mayd redy for the same purpose. O mother& mayde, whiche dyd gyue sukke with thy virgynes teatesthe lorde of heuen and yerthe, thy sone Iesus Christe,we beynge puryfyed || thorowe hys precyous blode, dodesyre that we may attayne, and come to that blessydinfancye of thy colombynes meknes, whiche is immaculatewithout malice, frawde, or diseyte, and with allaffectyon of harte dothe couett and stody for theheuenly mylke of the euangelicall doctryne, to goforthe and encrease with it into a perfaycte man, intothe mesure of the plentefulnes of Christe, of whosecopany thou haste the fruycyon, togyther with thefather, & the holy ghost for euermore, so be it. _Me._Uerely thys is a holy prayer. But what dyd she?_Ogygy._ Thay bothe bekkyd at vs, excepte my eyeswaggyd, and me thoght that the mylke daunsyd. In themeanseson the sexten came to vs, withowt any wordes,but he held out a table suche as the Germanes vse togather tolle apon bridges. _Me._ By my trothe I hauecursyd veryofte suche || crauynge boxes, whan I dydryde thorowe Germany. _Ogy._ We dyd gyue hym certaynemonay whiche he offeryd to our lady. Tha I axyd by acertayne yonge man, yt was well learnyd, whiche dydexpownde and tell vs the saynge of ye Sexte, hys name(as fere as I remembre) was Robert alderisse, by whattokenes or argumetes he dyd know that it was the mylkeof owr lady. And that I very fayne, & for a goodpurpose desyred to knowe, that I myght stope themowthes of certayne newfanglyd felowes, that be wotydto haue suche holy relyques in derysyon and mokage.Fyrst of all the Sexten with a froward cowntenace woldnat tell, but I desyryd the yong man to moue hym moreinstantly, but somwhat more gently he so courteslybehauyd hymselffe, that and he had prayd owr ladyherselffe || after that fashion, she wold nat haue bedysplesyd therwith. And tha this mystycall chapleyn, asand if he had be inspyryd with ye holy ghoste, castyngeat vs a frounynge loke, as & if he wold haue shote atvs ye horryble thonderbolte of the greate curse, whatnede you (saythe he) to moue suche questyones, whan yowsee before your eyes so autentycall & old a table. Andwe were afrayd lest that he wold haue cast vs out ofthe churche for heretykes, but that oure monay dydtempte hys greate furye. _Mene._ What dyd you in themeaneseason? _Ogygyus._ What suppose you? We wereamasyd as and if a man had stryke vs with a clube, orwe had be slayne with a thonderclape, and we very lowlyaxid pardon of oure folishe boldenes, and gote vs fromethens. For so must we entreate holy thynges. || Fromethens we went in to ye howse where owre lady dwellithe,and whan we came there, we sawe another Sexten whichewas but a noues, he lokyd famylarly as and if he hadknowe vs, and wha we came a litle further in, we saweanother, that lokyd moch after suche a fashion, at thelast came the thyrd. _Me._ Perauenture thay desyryd todescrybe you. _Ogy._ But I suspecte another mater._Mene._ What was it? _Ogygy._ There was a certaynetheffe that had stole almost all owr ladyes frontlet,and I supposyd that they had me in suspycyon thereof.And therfore whan I was within the chapell I mayd myprayers to our lady after thys fashio. Oh cheffe of allwomen Mary the mayd, most happy mother, moste purevirgyne, we vnclene, and synners, doo vysyte the pure &holy, and after our abylytye we haue offeryd vnto the,we pray thy that thy || C.|| sone may grante this tovs, that we may folow thy holy lyffe, and that we maydeserue thorow the grace of the holy ghoste,spirytually to coceyue the lord Iesus Christ, & afterthat conceptyon neuer to be separat from hym, Amen.This done I kyssyd the aultre, and layd downe certaynegrotes for myne offerynge and went my waye. _Me._ Whatdyde our lady now, dyd nat she make one sygne, that youmyght know that she had hard youre prayeres. _Ogy._ Thelyght (as I told you before) was but litle, and shestode at the ryght ende of the aultre in the derkecorner, at the last the communicatyo of the fyrstSexten had so discoregyd me, that I durst not ones lokevpe with myne eyes. _Me._ This pylgremage came but tosmale effecte. _Ogy.._ Yes, it had a very good & meryende. _Me._ You haue causyd me to take harte of grasse,for (as Homere || saythe) my harte was almost in myhose. _Ogy._ Whan dynar was done, we returnyd to yetemple. _Me._ Durste you goo & be susspecte of felonye?_Ogy._ Perauenture so, but I had nat my selffe insuspicio, a gyltles mynde puttythe away feare. I wasvery desyrous to see that table whiche the holy Sextendyd open to vs. At the last we fownde it, but it washagyd so hye that very fewe could rede it. My eyes beof that fashion, that I can nother be callyd *Linceus,[*Linceus ys a beaste so quike eyed that it wyll seethorow any wall] nother purre blynd. And therefore Iinstantly desyryd Alldryge to rede it, whose redynge Ifolowyd with myne owne eyes, because I wold skarslytruste hym in suche a mater. _Me._ Well, now alldoubtes be discussyd. _Ogy._ I was ashamyd that Idoubtyd so moche, ye mater was so playne set forthebefore oure eyes, bothe the name, the place, the thyngeit selffe as it was || C ij.|| done, to be breffe,there was nothynge lefte owte. There was a mane whosname was Wylyam whiche was borne in Parise, a man verydeuoute in many thyngs but pryncypally excedyngerelygyous in searchynge for the relyques of all sayntesthorowowt all the world. He after that he had vysytydmany places, contrayes, and regyones, at the lastecame to Costantynenople. For Wylhelmes brother wasthere byshope, whiche dyd make hym pry to a certaynemayde, whiche had professyd chastyte, that hadde parteof oure ladyes mylke, which were an excedynge precyousrelyque, if that other with prayer, or monaye, or byany crafte it myghte be gotte. For all the reliquesthat he hadde gotte before were but tryfles to so holymylke. Wyllyam wold not rest there tyll that he hadgotte halffe of that holy mylke, but whan he had ||it, he thoghte that he was richer than Croeseus. _Me._Why nat, but was it nat withowt any goodhope? _Ogy._ Hewent tha streght home, but in hys iornay he fell seke._Me._ Iesu there is nothynge in thys worlde that isother permanent, or alwayes in good state. _Ogy._ Butwhan he sawe & perceyuyd that he was in greate ioperdyeof his lyffe, he callyd to him a frenchman, whiche wasa very trusty companyon to hym in hys iornay. Andcommaundyd all to auoyd the place, and make sylence, &pryuyly dyd betake to hym thys mylke, apon thiscondycyo, that if it chacyd to come home saffe & sowndehe wuld offre that precyous tresure to our ladyesaultre in Paryse, whiche standythe in the myddys of theryuere Sequana, whiche dothe apere to separat hymselffeto honor and obaye our blessyd lady. But to make shorttale. Wylyam is deade, & || C iij.|| buryed, theFrenchman mayd hym redy to departe apon hys iornay,& sodely fell seke also. And he in great dyspayre ofamendynge, dyd commyth ye mylke to an Englishma, butnat withowt great instance, and moche prayer he dydthat whiche he was mouyd to doo. Than dyed he. And yeother dyd take the mylke, and put it apon an aultre ofye same place the Chanones beynge present, whiche wereyt as we call Regulares. Thay be yet in the abbaye ofsaynt Genofeffe. But ye Englishma obtaynyd the halffeof that mylke, & caryed it to Walsynga in England, theholy ghost put suche in hys mynde. _Me._ By my trothethis is a godly tale. _Ogy._ But lest there shuld beany doubte of this mater, ye Byshopes whiche dyd grantepardon to it thayre names be wryten there, as thay cameto vysyte it, nat withowt thayre offerynges, and thayhaue || gyuen to it remyssyon, as moche as thay had togyue by thayre authorite. _Me._ How moche is that?_Ogy._ Fowrty dayes. _Mene._ Yee is there dayes inhell. _Ogy._ Trewly ther is tyme. Ye but whan thay hauegratyd all thayre stynte, thay haue no more to grante._Ogy._ That is nat so for whan one parte is goneanother dothe encrease, and it chansythe dyuersly euynas the tonne of Canaidus. For that althoghe it beincontynently fyllyd, yet it is alway emptye: and ifthou be takynge owt of it, yet there is neuer the lessein the barell. _Me._ If thay grate to an hunderithethowsand me fowrty dayes of pardone, wuld euery manhaue elyke? _Ogy._ No doubte of that. _Me._ And if anyhaue forty byfore dynar, may he axe other forty atafter souper, is there any thynge left than to gyuehim? _Ogy._ Ye, & if thou aske it ten tymes in onehowre. _Me._ I wold || C iiij.|| to God that I hadsuche a pardon bagge, I wold aske but .iij. grotes, andif thay wold flowe so faste. _Ogy._ Ye but you desyreto be to ryche, if that you myght for wyshynge, but Iwyl turne to my tale, but there was some good holy manwhiche dyd gyue this argumente of holynes to thatmylke, and sayd that our Ladyes mylke whiche is in manyother places, is precyous & to be worshipyd but thys ismoche more precyous, & to be honoryd, bycause the otherwas shauen of stones, but this is the same that cameout of the virgynes brest. _Me._ How kno you that?_Ogy._ The mayd of Costantynople, which dyd gyue it,dyd saye so. _Me._ Perauenture saynt Barnard dyd gyueit to her. _Ogy._ So I suppose. For wha he was an oldman, yet he was so happy that he sukkyd of ye samemylke, that Iesus hymselffe sukkyd apon. _Me._ But Imaruayle why he was || rather callyd a hony sukker thana mylke sukker. But how is it callyd oure ladyes mylkethat came neuer owt of her breste? _Ogy._ Yes it cameowt at her breste, but perauenture it light apon thestone that he whiche sukkyd knelyd apon, and ther wasreceyuyd, and so is encreasyd, & by ye wyll of god isso multyplyed. _Me._ It is wel sayd. _Ogy._ Whan we hadsene all thys, whyle that we were walkynge vpe & downe,if that any thynge of valure were offeryd, so thatanybody were present to see thaym ye Sextens mayd greathaste for feare of crafty couayece, lokynge apo thaymas thay wold eate thaym. Thay poynte at hym with therefynger, thay runne, thay goo, thay come, thay bekke oneto an other, as tho thay wold speake to thaym thatstand by if thay durste haue be bold. _Mene._ Were youafrayd of nothynge there? _Ogy._ Yis I dyd loke|| C v.|| apo hym, lawghynge as who shold saye I woldmoue him to speake to me, at laste he cam to me, andaxid me what was my name, I told him. He axid me if ytwere nat I that dyd hange vpe there a table of my vowewriten in Hebrew, within .ij. yere before. I confessidthat it was ye same. _Me._ Ca you wryte hebrewe?_Ogygy._ No but all that thay canat vnderstond, thaysuppose to be Hebrewe. And than (I suppose he was sendfor) came the posterior pryor. _Me._ What name ofworshipe is that? Haue thay nat an abbate? _Ogy._ No_Me._ Why so? _Ogy._ For thay cannat speake Hebrew._Me._ Haue thay nat a Bishope? _Ogy._ No. _Me._ What isye cause? _Ogy._ For oure lady is nat as yet so ryche,that she is able to bye a crosse, & a mytre, whiche beso deare, _Me._ Yet at least haue thay nat apresedente? _Ogy._ No veryly. What lettythe thaym?_Ogy._ That is a name || of dygnyte and nat of relygyo.And also for that cause suche abbayes of Chanones, doonat receyue the name of an abbate, thay doo call thaymmaysters? _Me._ Ye, but I neuer hard tell of pryorposterior before. _Ogy._ Dyd you neuer learne youregramere before. _Me._ Yis I know prior posterior amogstthe fygures. _Ogy._ That same is it. It is he that isnexte to the prioure, for there priour is posterior._Me._ You speake apon the supprioure. _Ogy._ That samedyd entertayne me very gently, he told me what greatelabure had be abowt ye readynge of thos verses, & howmany dyd rubbe thayr spectakles abowt thaym. As oft asany old ancyent doctor other of deuynyte or of thelawe, resorted thyder, by and by he was broght to thattable, some sayd that thay were lettres of Arabia, somesayd thay were faynyd lettres. Well || at the last cameone that redde the tytle, it was wryten in laten withgreate Romayne lettres, ye Greke was wryten withcapytale lettres of Greke, whiche at the fyrst syght doapere to be capytale late lettres, at thayr desyer Idyd expownde ye verses in laten, traslatynge thaym wordfor word. But wha thay wold haue gyuyn me for mylabour, I refusyd it, seynge that ther was nothynge sohard that I wold not doo for our blessyd ladyes sake,ye thogh she wold commaud me to bere this table toHierusale. _Me._ What nede you to be her caryoure,seynge that she hathe so many angelles bothe at herhedde and at her fette. _Ogy._ Than he pullid owt ofhys purse a pece of wodde, that was cutt owte of theblokke that our ladye lenyd apon. I perceyuyd by and bythorow the smell of it, that it was a holy thynge. Thanwhan I sawe so || greate a relyque, putt of my cappe,and fel down flatte, & very deuoutly kyssyd it .iij. or.iiii tymes, poppyd it in my pursse. _Me._ I pray youmay a man see it? _Ogy._ I gyue you good leue. But ifyou be nat fastynge, or if you accompanyed with yowrewyffe the nyght before, I conceyle you nat to loke aponit. _Me._ O blessed arte thou that euer thou gotte thisrelyque. _Ogy._ I may tell you in cowncell, I wold natgyue thys litle pece for all ye gold that Tagus hathe,I wyll sett it in gold, but so that it shall aperethorow a crystall stone. And than the Supprioure wha hesawe that I dyd take the relyque so honorably, hethoght it shuld nat be lost, in case he shuld shew megreater mysteries, he dyd aske me whether I hadde euersene our ladyes secretes, but at that word I wasastonyed, yet I durst nat be so so bold as to demandewhat thos || secretes were. For in so holy thynges tospeake a mysse is no small danger. I sayd that I dydneuer se thaym but I sayd that I wold be very glade tosee thaym. But now I was broght in, and as I had beinspired with the holy ghost, than thay lyghted acouple of taperes, & set forthe a litle ymage, natcouryously wroght, nor yet very gorgeous, but of ameruelous virtue. _Me._ That litle body hathe smalepowre to worke myrakles. I saw saynt Christopher atParise, nat a carte lode, but as moche as a greatehylle, yet he neuer dyd myrakles as farre as euer Iherd telle. _Ogy._ At our ladyes fette there is aprecyous stone, whos name as it is nother in Greke norLaten. The Frenchema gaue it the name of a tode,bycause it is so like, that no man (althoghe he beconynge) can set it forthe more lyuely. But so mochegreater is || the myrakle, that the stone is litle, thefourme of the tode dothe nat apere, but it shynythe asit were enclosyd within that precyous stone. _Me._Perauenture they ymagyne ye symylytude of a tode tobe there, euyn as we suppose whan we cutte ye fearnestalke there to be an egle, and euyn as chyldren(whiche they see nat indede) in ye clowdes, thynke theysee dragones spyttynge fyre, & hylles flammynge withfyre, & armyd me encownterynge. _Ogy._ No, I wold youshuld know it, there is no lyuynge tode that moreeuydetly dothe expresse hymselffe than it dyd thereplaynly apere. _Me._ Hetherto I haue sufferyd thy lyes,but now get the another that wyll beleue the, thy taleof a tode. _Ogy._ No maruayle Menedemus thogh you be sodisposyd, for all the world cannot make me to beleueyt, not & all doctoures of dyuynyte wold swere || itwere trewe. But that I sawe it with myne eyes, ye withthes same eyes, dyd I proue it. But in ye meanseson methynke you regard naturall phylosophye but litle. _Me._why so, because I wyll nat beleue ye asses flye? _Ogy._An do you nat se, how nature the worker of all thynges,dothe so excell in expressynge ye fourme bewty, &coloure of thaym maruylously in other thynges, butpryncypaly in precyous stones? moreouer she hathe gyuento ye same stones wonderouse vertu and strekthe that isalmost incredyble, but that experience dothe otherwysetestyfye. Tell me, do you beleue that a Adamand stonewold drawe vnto him stele withowt any towchynge therof,and also to be separate frome him ayen of hys owneaccorde, excepte that yow had sene it with yowre eyes._Me._ No verely, nat and if .x. Arystoteles woldperswade me || to the contrarye. _Ogy._ Therforebycause you shuld nat say thys were a lye, in case youhere any thynge, whiche you haue not sene prouyd. In astone callyd Ceraunia we see ye fashon of lightnynge,in the stone Pyropo wyldfyre, Chelazia dothe expressebothe the coldnes and the fourme of hayle, and thoghethou cast in to the hote fyre, an Emrode, wyllexpresse the clere water of the seye. Carcinas dothecounterfayte ye shape of a crabfishe. Echites of theserpente vyper. But to what purpose shuld I entreat, orinuestygate the nature of suche thynges whiche beinnumerable, wha there is no parte of nature nor in theelementes, nother in any lyuynge creature, other inplanetes, or herbes ye nature euyn as it were all ofpleasure hathe not expressyd in precyous stones? Dooyow maruayle tha that in thys stone at owre ladiesfote, || D.|| is the fourme and fashon of a tode. _Me._I maruayle that nature shuld haue so moche lesure, soto counterfayt the nature of althynges. _Ogy._ It wasbut to exercyse, or occupye the curyosytye of manneswytte, and so at the lest wyse to kepe vs fromeydlenes, and yet as thoghe we had nothynge to passe yetyme with all, we be in a maner made apon foles, apondyesse, and crafty iogeleres. _Me._ You saye verytruthe. _Ogy._ There be many men of no smale grauytye,that wyll say thys kynd of stones, if that you put itin vynagre, it wyll swyme, thoge you wold thruste itdowne with violence. _Me._ Wherfore do thay sette atode byfore our lady? _Ogy._ Bycause she hatheouercome, trode vnderfote, abolyshyd all maner ofvnclennes, poyso, pryde, couytousnes, and all wordlyaffectyones that raygne in man. _Me._ Woo be to vs,that hathe so many todes in owre hartes. || _Ogygy._We shal be purgyd frome thaym all, if we dylygetlyworshipe owre lady. _Me._ How wold she be worshipyd._Ogy._ The most acceptable honor, that thou canste dooto her is to folowe her lyuynge. _Me._ You haue toldall at ones. But this is hard to brynge to pass. _Ogy._You saye truthe, but it is an excellente thynge. _Me._But go to, and tell on as you begane. _Ogy._ After thysto come to owre purpose, the Supprioure shewyed to meymages of gold and syluer, and sayd, thes be pure gold,and thes be syluer and gyltyd, he told the pryce ofeuery one of thaym, and the patrone. Whan I wonderyd,reioycynge of so maruelous ryches, as was abowt ourlady, than saythe the Sexte bycause I percayue, thatyou be so vertuously affecte, I suppose it greatewronge, to hyde any thynge frome you, but now you shallsee the pryuytyes || D ij.|| of our lady, and than hepullyd owt of the aultre a whole world of maruayles, ifI shuld tell you of all, a whole daye wold nat suffyse,& so thys pylgremage chansyd to me most happy. I wasfyllyd euyn full withe goodly syghts, and I brynge alsowith me this wonderous relyque, whiche was a toke gyuento me froe our lady. _Me._ Haue you nat it prouyd, whatvalewre your woden relyque is on? _Ogy._ Yis, that Ihaue, in a certayne Inne within thys thre dayes, ther Ifownde a certayne man that was bestraght of hys wytte,whiche shuld haue be bownde, but thys woden relyque wasput vnder hys nekke pryuyly, wherapon he gad a saddeand sownd sleape, but in the mornynge he was hole andsownde as euer he was before. _Me._ It was nat thephrenysy, but the dronke dropsye, sleape ys wontyd tobe a good medicyne for ye dysease. || _Ogy._ Wha you bedysposyd to skoffe Menedemus, yt ys best that you gettea nother maner of gestynge stokke than thys, for I tellyou it is nother good nor holsome, to bowrde so withsayntes. For thys same ma dyd say, that a woman dydapere to hym, in hys sleape, after a maruelousefashion, which shold gyue hym a cuppe to drynke apon._Mene._ I suppose it was *Elleboru. [*Elleborum wyllrestore a man to hys senses that hathe lost the.]_Ogy._ That is vncertayne, but I kno well ye ma waswell broght into hys mynde ayen. _Me._ Dyd you othercome or goo by Sante Thomas of Cantorbury that goodarchebishope. _Ogy._ What els/there ys no pylgremagemore holy. _Me._ I wold fayne here of yt, and I sholdnat trouble you. _Ogy._ I pray you here, & take goodhedd. Kente ys callyd that parte of England, thatbuttythe apon Frauce and Flanders, the cheffe cytyethere of ys Cantorburye, in yt there be ij. || D iij.||Abbayes, bothe of thaym be of Saynte Benedycts ordre,but that which ys callyd Saynte Augustyns dothe apereto be the oldre, that whiche ys callyd now SaynteThomas dothe apere to haue be the Archebyshope ofCantorburys see, where as he was wontyd to lyue with asorte of monkes electe for hymselffe, as Byshopes nowadayes be wontyd to haue thayr howses nye vnto thechurche, but aparte frome other canons howses. In tymespaste bothe Byshopes & Chanones were wontyde to bemonkes, as may be playnly prouyd by many argumentes.The churche which ys dedycate to Saynte Thomas, dothestreche vpe apon heght so gorgeously, that it wyll mouepylgrymes to deuocion a ferre of, and also withe hysbryghtnes and shynynge he dothe lyght hys neybures,& the old place whiche was wontyd to be most holy, ||now in respecte of it, is but a darke hole and a lytlecotage. There be a couple of great hye toures, whichdoo seme to salute strangeres aferre of, and thay dowfyll all the contray abowt bothe farre and nere, withthe sownde of great belles, in the fronte of thetemple, whiche is apo the southe syde, there standgrauen in a stone thre armyd men, whiche with thayrcruell handes dyd sleye the most holy saynte Thomas,and there is wryten thayr surnames Tracy, Breton, andBeryston. _Me._ I pray you wharfore doo thay sufferthos wykyd knyghtes be so had in honoure. _Ogy._ Euynsuche honor is gyuen to thaym as was gyue to Iudas,Pylate, and Caiphas, & to the compauy of the wykydsowdyeres, as you may se payntyd in the tables that besett before aultres. Thayr surnames be putto lest anyman hereafter shuld vsurpe any || D iiij.|| cause ofthayr prayse. Thay be payntyd byfore mennes eyes,bycause that no cowrtyer after thys shuld laye violethandes other apo Byshopes, or the churche goodes. Forthes thre of this garde strayght apon that wykyd acte,wente starke madde, nor thay had neuer had thayr myndeayen, but that thay prayd to blessyd saynt Thomas._Me._ O blessyd pacyence of suche martyres. _Ogy._ Atour entre in, lord what a pryncely place dyd apere vntovs, where as euery ma that wyll may goo in. _Me._ Isthere no maruayle to be sene. _Ogy._ Nothynge but thegreate wydnes of the place, and a sorte of bokes,that be bownde to pyleres wherein is the gospell ofNicodemus, and I cannat tell whos sepulkre. _Me._ Whatthan? _Ogy._ Thay do so dylygetle watche lest any mashulde entre in to the quere of yron, that thay wyllskarsly suffre a man || to loke apon it, whiche isbetwyxte the greate churche & the hye quere (as thaycalle it) a man that wyll go thyther must clyme vp manystayres byfore, vndre the whiche there is a certaynewykyt with a barre that openythe the dore apon thenorthe syde. There standythe forthe a certayne aultrewhiche is dedycate to our lady, it is but a lytle one,and I suppose set there for no other purpose, but to bea olde monumet or sygne, that in thos dayes there wasno greate superfluyte. There thay saye that thysblessyd martyr sayd his last good nyght to our lady,wha he shuld departe hensse. In ye aultre is the poynteof the sword that styryd abowt the braynes of thysblessyd martyr. And there lye his braynes shed apon theyerthe, whereby you may well knowe yt he was neredeade. But the holly ruste of thys grat I deuoutlykyssed for loue of ye || D v.|| blessyd martyr. Fromthens we wet vndre the crowdes, whiche is nat withowthys chaplaynes, & there we sawe the brayne panne ofthat holy martyr whiche was thraste quyte thorow, allthe other was coueryd with syluer, the ouerparte of thebrayne panne was bare to be kyssyd, and there with allis seth forthe a certayn leden table hauynge grauyd inhym a tytle of saynte Thomas of Acrese. There hangealso the sherte of heyre, & hys gyrdle with hys herenbreches where with that noble champyo chastnyd hysbody, thay be horryble to loke apon, and greatlyreproue oure delycate gorgeousnes. _Me._ Ye perauetureso thay do the mokes slotefulnes. _Ogy._ As for thatmater I canat affyrme nor yet denye, nor yet it is nopoynte of my charge. _Me._ Ye saye truthe. _Ogy._ Fromethens we returnyd in to the quere, & apon || ye northesyde be ye relyques shewyd, a wonderouse thynge to se,what a sort of bones be broght forthe, skulles, iawes,thethe, handes, fyngres, hole armes, wha we hadworshipyd thaym all, we kyssyd thaym, that I thoght weshuld neuer haue mayd an ende, but that my pylgremagefelow whiche was an vnmete companyon for suche abusynes, prayd thaym to make an end of sethynge forthethayre relyques. _Me._ What felowe was that? _Ogy._He was an Englyshma callyd Gratiane colte a man bothevertuouse and well learnyd, but he had lesse affectyontoward pylgremages than I wold that he shuld haue._Me._ One of Wyclyffes scoleres I warrante you? _Ogy._I thynke nat, althoghe he had redde hys bokes, how hecame by thaym I cannat tell. _Me._ He dysplesyd maysterSexte greuosly. _Ogy._ Tha was there broght forthe ||an arme whiche had yet the redde fleshe apon it, heabhorryd to kysse it, a man myght se by hys countenancethat he was nothynge well pleasyd, & than by and bymayster Sexten put vp hys relyques. But than we lokydapo the table whiche was apo the aultre, and all hysgorgeousnes, aftrewarde thos thyngs that were hyddevnder the aultre. ther was nothynge but richesexcedynge, a man wold accompte both Midas and Cresusbeggers in respecte of thos riches that ther was settabrode. _Me._ Was ther no more kyssynge the? _Ogy._ No,but an other affection and desyre came apo me. _Me._What was that? _Ogy._ I syghed that I had no sucherelyques at home. _Me._ Oh a wycked desyre & an euylthought _Ogy._ I graunt, and therefore I axyd,forgyfnes of saynt Thomas before I remouyd one fote, todeparte out of the church. After || thes thus we werebrought in to ye reuestry, o good lorde what a goodlysyght was ther of vestmetes of veluet & clothe ofgolde, what a some of candlestykes of gold? We sawether saynt Thomas crosse staffe, ther was see also arede ouerlayed with syluer, it was but of a smallewyght, vnwrought, nor no longer then wold retch vnto amans mydgle. _Me._ Was ther no crosse? _Ogy._ I sawenone at all, ther was shewed vs a robe of sylke treuly,but sowed with cowrse threde, garnysshyd with nothergold nor stone. Ther was also a napkyn full of swetteblody, wher with saynt Thomas wypyd bothe hys nose andhys face, these thynges as monumetes of auncyentsobernes we kyssed gladely. _Me._ Be not these thyngesshowed to euery body? _Ogy._ No for sothe good syr._Me._ How happened it that you were in so goodcredens, that no || secret thynges were hyd frome you?_Ogy._ I was well acquyntede with the reuerende fatherGwylyame warham the archbyshope. He wrote .ij. or .iij.wordes in my fauour. _Me._ I here of many that he is ama of syngler humanite. _Ogy._ But rather thou woldestcall hym humanite it selfe if thou dydest well knowhym. For ther is in hym soche lernynge, so vertuouselyffe, soche purenes of maneres, that a ma cowld wysheno gyfte of a parfayte Byshope in him, that he hathenat. Frome thens afterward we were ladde to greaterthynges. For behynde the hyghe aultre, we ascedyd as itwere in to a nother new churche, ther was shewed vs ina chapell the face of the blessed man ouergylted andwith many precyous stones goodly garnysshed. A sodenchaunse here had almost marred the matter and put vsout of conceyte. _Me._ I tary || to knowe what euylchaunse yow wyll speke of. _Ogy._ Here my companyoGratia gote hym lytle fauoure, for he, after we had madan ende of praynge, inquyred of hym that sate by thehede, herke, he seyd, good father, is it true that Ihere, that saynt Thomas whyl he it lyued was mercyfulltoward ye poer people? That is very true saythe he, andhe bega to tell greatly of his liberalyte andcompassyon that he shewede to the poer and nedy. Thensayd Gratia: I thynke that affection and good mynd inhim not to be chaungyde, but that it is now mochebetter. Unto this graunted ye keper of the hede, agaynsayd he, then in as moche as thys holy man was sogratyouse vnto ye poer, whan he was yet poer, & he hymselfe had nede of monay for ye necessarys of hys body,thynke ye nat that he wold be contet, now that he is soryche, and also nedethe || nothynge, that if a poerwoma hauynge at home chylderne lakynge mete and drynke,or els doughters beynge in danger to lose thervirginite, for defaute of ther substaunce to mary themwith, or hauynge her husbande sore syke, and destituteof all helpe, in case she askyd lycens, & pryuyly stoleaway a small porcyon of so greate riches, to sukkre herhowshold, as and if the shold haue it of one that woldother leane, or gyue it to herre? And whan he wold natanswere that kepyd the golden hedde, Gracyane, as he issom what hasty, I, saythe he, doo suppose playnly, thatthis holy man wold be gladde, yf that she, now beyngedeade, myght sustayne the necestiye of pore people. Butthere mayster parson begone to frowne, & byte hyslyppe, with hys holowe eyes lyke to *Gorgone [*A mosterthat hathe snakes for heares apon her hedde.] yemonstre to luke apo vs. I doo not dowbte he wold haue|| cast vs out of the temple, and spytte apo vs,but that he dyd knowe that we were comendyd of thearchebsyhope. But I dyd somwhat myttygate the manesire, with my fayre wordes, saynge that Gratiane dyd natspeake as he thoghte, but that he gestyd as he waswontyd to doo, and stoppyd hys mouthe with a fewe pens._Mene._ Treuly I do greatly alow your goodly fashion,but oftentymes ernestly I cosyder, by what meaynes theymay be acopted without faute & blame, that bestow somoche substance in buyldyng churchys, in garnysshynge,and enrychynge them without all mesure. I thynke astouchyng the holy vestmentes, & the syluer plate of thetemple ther ought to be gyuyn, to the solempne seruys,hys dygnyte and comlynes, I wyll also that the buyldyngof the churche shall haue hys maiesty decent and|| E.|| conuenyent. But to what purpose seruyth so manyholy water pottes, so many cadlestyckes, so many ymagesof gold. What nede there so many payre of organes (asthay call them) so costely & chargeable? For one payrecan not serue vs: what profyteth ye musicall criyngeout in the temples that is so derely bought and payedfor, whan in the meaneseson our brothers and systersthe lyuely temples of Christe liynge by the walles/dyefor hungre & colde. _Ogy._ Ther is no vertuouse or wyseman, that wold nat desyre a meane to be hadde in thesthynges. But in as moche as thys euyl is growen andspronge vp of superstityon beyond mesure, yet may itbetter be sufferde, specially when we consyder on theother syde the euyll conscience and behauyor of themthat robb the churches of what so euer iuellys ther maybe so founde, thes || ryches were gyuen in a manergreat men, & of pryncys, the whiche they wold hauebestowede vpon a worse vse, that is to say other at thedyce or in the warres. And if a man take any thyngefrom thense. Fyrst of all it is taken sacrylege, thenthey hold ther handes that were accustomed to gyfe,besyde that morouer they be allured & mouyde torobbynge & vaynynge. Therfore thes mene be rather thekepers of thys treasures the lordes. And to speake aworde for all, me thynket it is a better syght tobeholde a temple rychely adourned, as ther be some withbare wolles, fylthy and euyl fauorde, more mete forstables to put horses then churches for Chrystenpeople. _Me._ Yet we rede that Byshopes in tymes pastewere praysede and comended bycause they solde the holyvesseles of theyr churches, and with that money helpedand releued the || E ij.|| nedy and poure people._Ogy._ Thay be praysede also now in our tyme, but thaybe praysed onely, to folow ther doynge (I suppose) thaymay not, nor be any thynge dysposede. _Me._ Iinterrupte and lett yowr comunycatyon. I loke now forthe coclusyon of ye tale. _Ogy._ Gyffe audyence, I wyllmake an ende shortly. In the meane seson comyth forthehe that is the cheffe of them all. _Me._ Who is he? theabbot of the place? _Ogy._ He werythe a mytre, he mayspend so moche as an abbot, he wated nothynge but yename, and he is called prior for this causetharchebyshope is take in the abbotes sted. For in oldtyme who so euer was archbyshope of ye dyocese, thesame was also a monke. _Me._ In good faythe I wold becontent to be namyde a Camelle, if I myght spendeyerely the rentes and reuennes of an abbot. _Ogy._ Mesemede he was a || man bothe vertuous and wyse, and notvnlearnede Duns diuinite. He opened the shryne to vs inwhiche ye holle body of the holy ma, thay say, dotherest and remayne. _Me._ Dydste thou see hys bones._Ogy._ That is not conuenient, nor we cowld not come toit, except we sett vp laders, but a shryne of wodcouerede a shryne of gold, when that is drawne vp withcordes, tha apperith treasure and riches inestimable._Me._ What do I here? the vilest part and worst wasgolde, all thynges dyd shyne, florishe, and as it werewith lyghtnynge appered with precyouse stones and thosemany and of great multitude: some were greater than agowse egge. Dyuerse of ye monks stode ther aboute withgreate reuerence, the couer takyn a way, all we kneleddowne and worshyped. The pryor with a whyte roddeshowed vs euery stone, addynge therto the || E iij.||frenche name, the value, & the autor of the gyfte, forthe cheffe stonys were sent thyther by great prynces._Me._ He ought to be a man of an excedyng witt &memory. _Ogy._ You gesse well, how beit exercyse & vsehelpeth moche, for euyn the same he dothe oftentymes.He brought vs agayne in to the crowdes. Our lady hathether an habitacyon, but somwhat darke, closed rowndeaboute with double yren grats. _Me._ What feared she?_Ogy._ Nothinge I trow, except theues. For I saw neuerany thing more laden with riches synse I was borne ofmy mother. _Me._ You show vnto me blinde ryches._Ogy._ Whe they brought vs candells we saw a sightpassynge ye ryches of any kynge. _Me._ Dothe it excedeour lady of walsynga? _Ogy._ To loke vpo this, isricher, the secret tresure she knoweth her selfe, butthis is not shewede, but to great || men, or tospecyall frendes. At the last we were brought agayne into the reuettry, there was taken out a cofer coueredwith blacke lether, it was sett downe apon the table,it was sett open, by and by euery body kneled downe andworshipyd. _Me._ What was in it? _Ogy._ Certayne torneragges of lynnen clothe, many hauynge yet remaynynge inthem the token of the fylthe of the holy mannes nose.With these (as they say) saynt Thomas dyd wype a waythe swett of hys face or hys neke, ye fylthe of hysnose, or other lyke fylthynes with whiche mannes bodydothe abownde. Then my companyon Gratian, yet onesagayn, got hym but smalle fauour. Unto hym an Englysheman and of famylyare acquayntenance and besyde that,a man of no smalle authorite, the Prior gaff gentyllyone of the lynne ragges, thynkynge to haue gyuen|| E iiij.|| a gyfte very acceptable & pleasaunt, ButGratian there with lyttle plea sede and content, notwith out an euydent synge of dyspleasure, toke one ofthem betwene hys fyngers, and dysdaynyngly layd it downagayne, made a mocke and a mow at it, afterthe maner of puppettes, for thys was hys maner, if anything lykede hym not, that he thought worthy to bedespysede. Wher at I was bothe ashamed and wonderouslyafrayed. Not withstondynge the Prior as he is a man notat all dull wytted, dyd dyssemble the matter, & afterhe had caused vs drinke a cuppe of wyne, gentylly helet vs departe. When we came agayne to London. _Me._What shuld ye do at Londo: seynge ye were not farrefrom the see cost, to seale in to yowr cuntre? _Ogy._It is true. But that see cost I refused and gladely dydfle from it, as from a place that is || noted and moreeuyl spoken of it, for robbyng, stelynge, and vntruedealynge, then is of dangerouse ioperdy in the see, bethat hyll Malea wher many shyppes be drowned & vtterlydestroyed for euer. I wyll tell the what I dyd se thelast passage, at my commynge ouer. We were many caryedin a bote frome Calys shore to go to the shyppe.Amongest vs all was a pour yoge ma of Frauce, andbarely appayrelled. Of hym he demauuded halfe a grote.For so moche thay dow take and exacte of euery one forso smalle a way rowynge. He allegede pouerty, then forther pastyme thay searched hym, plucked of his shoes,and betwene the shoo and the soule, thay fownde .x. or.xij. grotes, thay toke the from hym laughyng at themater: mockinge and scornyng the poer & myserableFrenchman. _Me._ What dyd ye fellow than? _Ogy._ Whatthyng dyd || E v.|| he? He wept. _Me._ Whether dyd theythys by any authoryte? _Ogy._ Suerly by the sameauthoryte that thay steyle and pycke straungers malesand bowgettes, by the whiche they take a way mennespursys, if they se tyme and place conuenyent. _Me._I meruayll that they dare be so bold to doo soch adede, so many lokynge vpon them. _Ogy._ They be soaccustomed, that they thynk it well done. Many thatwere in the shyp lokede owt and sawe it also, in thebote were dyuerse Englyshe marchauntes, whiche grudgedagaynst it, but all in vayne. The boteme as it had bena tryflyng mater reiosed and were glade that they hadso taken and handelyd the myserable Frenchman. _Me._I wold play and sporte with these see theues, & hangethem vpon the gallowes. _Ogy._ Yet of such both theshores swarme full. Here tell me, I pray the. What ||wyll great me do, whe theues take vpo them toenterpryse soch masterys. Therfore, herafter I hadleuer go fourty myllys aboute, the to go that way,thoffe it be moche shorter. Morouer euyn as ye goyngedowne to hell, is easy and leyght, but ye comynge fromethens of greate dyffyculty, so to take shyppynge ofthis syde the see, is not very easy, and the landyngevery hard & dangeroufe. Ther was at London dyuersemaryners of Antwerpe, with them I purposed to take thesee. _Me._ Hathe that cutre so holy maryners? _Ogy._As an ape is euer an ape, I graute, so is a marynereuer a maryner: yet if thou compare them vnto these,ye lyfe by robbynge, and pyllynge and pollynge, theybe angelles. _Me._ I will remembre thy saynge, if atany tyme I be dysposed to go and se Englade. But comeagayne in to ye waye, frome whens I broght the|| E vi.|| owt. _Ogy._ Then as we whent toward London notfarre from Canterbury, we came in to a great hollow andstrayt way, morouer bowyng so downe, with hyllys ofeyther syde, that a man can not escape, nor it cannotbe auoyed, but he must nedes ryde that way. Upo thelefte hand of the way, ther is an almes howse for oldepeople, frome them runnyth on owt, as sone as they herea horseman commynge, he casteth holy water vpon hym,and anone he offereth hym the ouerlether of a shoobownde abowte with an yerne whope, wherin is a glasselyke a precyouse stone, they that kysse it gyf a peceof monay. _Me._ In soche a way I had leuer haue an almeshowse of olde folkes, then a company of stronge theues._Ogy._ Gratian rode vpon my lefte hande nerer the almeshowse, he caste holy water vpon hym, he toke it inworthe so so, || when the shoo was proferred hym, heasked what he ment by it, saythe he, it is saynt Thomasshoo. There at he turned and was very angry, & turnedtoward me: what (saythe he) meane these bestes, thatwold haue vs kysse ye shoes of euery good man? Why doothey not lyke wyse gyue vs to kysse the spottel, &other fylthe & dyrt of the body? I was sory for the oldma, & gaue hym a pece of money to coforthe hym withall. _Me._ In myn opynyo Gratian was not all togetherangry with owt a good cause. If shoes and slyppers werekept for a toke of sobre lyuynge, I wold not be mochdyscontent ther with, but me thynks it is a shame fullfashyon for shoes, slyppers, and breches to be offeredto kysse to any man. If some wold do it by there ownefre wyll, of a certene affectyo of holynes, I thynkethey were whorthy of pardon. _Ogy._ It were || betternot to thes thynges, if I may say as I thynke, yet owtof thes thynges that cannat forthwith be amended, it ismy maner if ther be any goodnes thereyn, to take itout, and apply it to the best. In ye meanseson thatcontemplacyo and light delited my mynde, that a good mais lykened to a shepe, an euyll man to a benemousebest. The serpent after she is dede, ca stynge no more,not withstondyng with her euyll sauour and poyson sheinfecteth and corruptyth other. The shepe as loge asshe is a lyue norryseth with her mylke, clothet withher wolle, makyth riche with her lambes, when she isdeade she gyueth vs good and profytable lether, and allher body is good meat. Euen so, cruell men, gyuen allto the world, so longe as they lyue be vnprofitable toall me, when they be deade, what with ryngyng ofbellys, and pompyouse || funeralles they greue themthat be on lyue, and often tymes vexe ther successourswith new exactyones. Good men of the other syde at allassais be profytable to all men, and hurtfull to nooman. As thys holy man, whyle he was yet alyue, by hysgood example, hys doctryne, his goodly exhortatyonsprouokyd vs to vertuouse lyuynge, he dyd cofort thecoforthlesse, he helped ye poure, ye and now that he isdeade, he is in a maner more profytable. He hathebuylded thys costly & gorgeouse churche, he hath causedgreate authoryte thorough out all Englande vnto theordre and presthode. At ye last, thys pece of the showdothe susteyne a company of poure people. _Me._ Thys isof my faythe a godely cotemplacyo, but I maruayllgreatly, seyng you ar thus mynded, that ye neuer dydvysyte saynt Patryckes purgatory in Yerlande, of the ||whiche the comyn people boost many wonderouse thynges,whiche seme to me not lyke to be true. _Ogy._ Of asuerty ther is not so meruelouse talkynge of it here,but the thynge it selffe doth fare excede. _Me._ Hastthou bene ther than, & gonne thorow saynt Patryckespurgatory? _Ogy._ I haue saylede ouer a ryuer ot hell,I went downe vnto the gates of hell, I saw what was doether. _Me._ Thou dost me a greate pleasure, if thouwyll wotsaue to tell me. _Ogy._ Lett this be theprohemy or begynnynge of owr communycatyon, longeenough as I suppose. I wyll gett me home, & cause mysouper to be made redy, for I am yet vndynede. _Me._Why haue you not yet dyned? is it bycause of holynes?_Ogy._ Noo of a truthe, but it is bycause of enuy andeuyll will. _Me._ Owe ye euyll wyll to yowr bely? _Ogy._No, but to the couetyse || tauerners euer catchynge andsnatchynge the whiche when they wyll not sett afore aman that is mete & conuenyent, yet they are not afeardeto take of straugers that, whiche is bothe vnright andagaynst good consciens. Of thys fashyo I am acustomedto be auengede vpon the. If I thynke to fare well atsouper other with myne acquayntauns, or with some hostsom what an honest man, at dyner tyme I am sycke in mystomacke, but if I chaunce to fare after myne appetyteat dyner, before souper also I begynne to be well atease in my stomacke. _Me._ Wre ye not ashamede to betaken for a couetouse fellow & a nygerde? _Ogy._Menedeme they that make cost of shame in soche thynges,beleue me, bestow theyr money euyll. I haue lerned tokepe my shame for other purposys. _Me._ Now I longe forthe rest of yowr comunycacyon, || wherfore loke to haueme yowr geste at souper, where ye shall tell it moreconuenyently. _Ogy._ For sothe I thanke you, that yeoffere yowr selfe to be my gest vndesyred, when manyhertely prayed refuse it, but I wyll gyue yow doublethankes, if ye wyll soupe to day at home. For I mustpasse that tyme in doynge my dewty to my howsehold. ButI haue counsell to eyther of vs moche more profytable.To morrow vnto me and my wyfe, prepare our dyner atyowr howse, then and if it be to souper tyme, we willnot leyue of talkynge, vntyll you say that ye are wery,and if ye wyll at souper also we wyll not forsake you.Why, claw you your hede? prepare for vs in good faythwe wyll come. _Me._ I had leuer haue no tales at all.Well go to, you shall haue a dyner, but vnsauery,except you spyce it with good & mery tales. _Ogy._ Buthere || you, are ye not mouyd and styrrede in yourmynde, to take vpon yow these pylgremages? _Me._Perauenture it wyll sett me a fyre, after ye haue toldme the resydew, as I am now mynded, I haue enough to dowith my statyons of Rome. _Ogy._ Of Rome, that dydneuer see Rome?. _Me._ I wyll tell you, thus I go mystatyons at home, I go in to the parler, and I se vntothe chast lyuynge of my doughters, agayne frome thenseI go in to my shope, I beholde what my seruauntes,bothe men and women be doynge. Frome thense intothe kytchyn, lokynge abowt, if ther nede anyof my cownsell, frome thense hyther and thytherobseruynge howe my chylderne be occupyed, whatmy wyffe dothe, beynge carefull that euerythynge be in ordre, these be statyons of Rome._Ogy._ But these thynges saynt Iames wold dow||    for yow. _Mene._ That I shuld se vn-         to these thynges holy scriptu-             re commaundethe, that               I shuld commyt the                charge to sayntes                  I dyd rede yt                    neuer com-                      maun-                      ded.              God saue the kynge                     FINIS.       *       *       *       *       *[Corrected Errors:  _v_ = verso (back of page)[+] iiij.the pryuate iudgmegt of certayne    _was_ iudgmegt[+] v.cosolacyo of his gracys faythfull and true comens    _was_ ofh is[+] v. _v_prudently    _was_ prudenly, but catchword has _prudently_[+] vi.but also (to theyr greate laude and prayse)    _was_ prayse([+] vi. _v_Desiderius Erasmus    _was_ Dsiderius ErasmusBWhan he lokythe to the West    _was_ te WestD iij. _v_to the company of the wykyd sowdyeres    _was_ compauyD v.Frome thens we returnyd in to the quere    _was_ returuydE ij. _v_Me semede he was a man bothe vertuous and wyse    word _a_ printed only as catchwordE viij.I haue saylede ouer a ryuer to hell    _was_ otAdditional Problems:[+] iiij.to use theme as goddes    _u_ printed for _v_whervpon thes brotherhoddes and systerhoodes    _v_ printed for _u_A Good morow Ogygyus. / Good morow to you Menedemus.    change of speaker not markedC v._Ogy._ No veryly. What lettythe thaym? _Ogy._ That isa name of dygnyte and nat of relygyo.    change of speaker not markedE ij. _v_What do I here? the vilest part and worst was golde,    change of speaker unclearEnd of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Pilgrimage of Pure Devotionby Desiderius Erasmus*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PILGRIMAGE OF PURE DEVOTION ******** This file should be named 14746.txt or 14746.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/4/7/4/14746/Produced by David Starner, Louise Hope, David King, and the OnlineDistributed Proofreading TeamUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of Dickens in Camp, by Bret HarteThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: Dickens in CampAuthor: Bret HarteRelease Date: May 14, 2004 [EBook #12337]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DICKENS IN CAMP ***Produced by David Garcia and PG Distributed ProofreadersDICKENS IN CAMP_BY BRET HARTE_WITH A FOREWORD BY_Frederick S. Myrtle_[Illustration]_San Francisco_JOHN HOWELL1922.[Illustration]FOREWORD       *       *       *       *       *"Dickens In Camp" is held by many admirers of Bret Harte to be hismasterpiece of verse. The poem is so held for the evident sincerity anddepth of feeling it displays as well as for the unusual quality of itspoetic expression.Bret Hart has been generally accepted as the one American writer whopossessed above all others the faculty of what may be called heartappeal, the power to give to his work that quality of human interestwhich enables the writer and his writings to live in the memory of thereading public for all time. By reason of that gift of his Bret Hartehas been popularly compared with his great contemporary beyond theseas, greatest of all sentimentalists among writers of fiction,Charles Dickens.Just how far the younger author selected the elder for his ideal, builtupon him, so to speak, & held his example constantly before his mentalvision, may be always a matter of debate amongst students of literature.There can be no question of the genuineness of the Californian writer'sadmiration of him who made the whole world laugh or weep with him atwill. It is recorded Harte that at seven years of age he had read"Dombey & Son," and so, as one of his biographers, Henry Childs Merwin,observes, "began his acquaintance with that author who was to influencehim far more than any other." Merwin further declares that "the readingof Dickens stimulated his boyish imagination and quickened that sympathywith the weak and suffering, with the downtrodden, with the waifs andstrays, with the outcasts of society, which is remarkable in bothwriters. The spirit of Dickens breathes through the poems and stories ofBret Harte just as the spirit of Bret Harte breathes through the poemsand stories of Kipling. Bret Harte had a very pretty satirical veinwhich might easily have developed, have made him an author of satirerather than of sentiment. Who can say that the influence of Dickens,coming at the early, plastic period of his life, may not have turnedthe scale?"Another of his biographers, T. Edgar Pemberton, says his admiration forCharles Dickens never waned, but on the contrary, increased as the yearsrolled by. Harte himself, referring in later years to his childhooddays, to his father's library and the books to which he had access,spoke of "the irresistible Dickens." Mr. Pemberton states, also,that Bret Harte always felt that he owed a deep debt of gratitude toCharles Dickens.Small wonder, then, that, Bret Harte no matter how unconsciously,should have adopted here and there something of the style and some ofthe mannerisms of Dickens. This is directly traceable in his writings,even to the extent of his resorting, here and there, to oddities ofexpression which were peculiarly Dickensian.The English writer, on his part, reciprocated in no small degree thefeeling of admiration which his works had aroused in the young American.His biographer, John Forster, relates that Dickens called his attentionto two sketches by Bret Harte, "The Luck of Roaring Camp" and "TheOutcasts of Poker Flat," in which, writes the biographer, "he had foundsuch subtle strokes of character as he had not anywhere else in lateryears discovered; the manner resembling himself but the matter fresh toa degree that had surprised him; the painting in all respects masterlyand the wild rude thing painted a quite wonderful reality. I have rarelyknown him more honestly moved."Dickens gave evidence of this feeling of appreciation in a letteraddressed to Harte in California, commending his literary efforts,inviting him to write a story for "All the Year Round" and bidding himsojourn with him at Gad's Hill upon his first visit to England. Thisletter was written shortly before Dickens' death and, unfortunately,did not reach Bret Harte until sometime after that sad event.When word of the passing of "The Master," as he reverently styled him,reached Bret Harte he was in San Rafael. He immediately sent a dispatchacross the bay to San Francisco to hold back the forthcoming publicationof his "Overland Monthly" for twenty-four hours, and ere that time hadelapsed the poetic tribute to which the title was given of "Dickens inCamp" had been composed and sent on its way to magazine headquartersin the Western metropolis. That was in July, 1870.Late in the '70s, while on his way to a consulship in Germany, BretHarte visited London for the first time. There he was taken in chargeby Joaquin Miller, the Poet of the Sierras, who in his reminiscencesrelates: "He could not rest until he stood by the grave of Dickens.At last one twilight I led him by the hand to where some plain lettersin a broad, flat stone just below the bust of Thackeray read 'CharlesDickens.' Bret Harte is dead now and it will not hurt him in politics,where they seem to want the hard and heartless for high places, it willnot hurt him in politics nor in anything anywhere to tell the plaintruth, how he tried to speak but choked up, how tears ran down and fellon the stone as he bowed his bare head very low, how his hand trembledas I led him away."Many years later, in May, 1890, Bret Harte, in response to a requestfor a facsimile of the original manuscript of "Dickens in Camp" repliedin part:"I hurriedly sent the first and only draft of the verses to the officeat San Francisco, and I suppose after passing the printer's andproof-reader's hands it lapsed into the usual oblivion of all editorial'copy'."I remember that it was very hastily but very honestly written, and itis fair to add that it was not until later that I knew for the firsttime that those gentle and wonderful eyes, which I was thinking of asbeing closed forever, had ever rested kindly upon a line of mine."The poem itself breathes reverence for "The Master" throughout. Toresidents of California, who revel in the outdoor life of her mountains& valleys, the poem has a particular attraction for its camp-fire spiritwhich to us seems part and parcel of that outdoor life. It is a farcry, perhaps, from the camp-fires of 1849 to the camp-fires of 1922,but surely the camp-fire spirit is the same with us in our Westernwonderland today as it was with those rough old miners who sat aroundthe logs under the pines after a day of arduous and oft disappointingtoil. Surely the visions we see, the lessons we read in the camp-fireglow, are much the same as they were then. Surely we build the samecastles in the air, draw the same inspirations from it. BiographerForster pays the poem this tribute:"It embodies the same kind of incident which had so affected the masterhimself in the papers to which I have referred; it shows the gentlerinfluences which, in even those California wilds, can restore outlawed'roaring campers' to silence and humanity; and there is hardly anyform of posthumous tribute which I can imagine likely to have bettersatisfied his desire of fame than one which should thus connect with thespecial favorite among all his heroines the restraints and authorityexerted by his genius over the rudest and least civilized of competitorsin that far, fierce race for wealth."In the twining of English holly and Western pine upon the great Englishnovelist's grave the poet expresses a happy thought. He calls East andWest together in common appreciation of one whose influence was notmerely local but worldwide. He invites the old world and the new tokneel together at the altar of sentiment, an appeal to the emotionswhich never fails to touch a responsive chord in the heart of humanity.Frederick S. MyrtleSan Francisco, CaliforniaApril, 1922       *       *       *       *       *[Illustration]DICKENS in CAMP       *       *       *       *       *Above the pines the moon was slowly drifting,  The river sang below;The dim Sierras, far beyond, uplifting  Their minarets of snow.The roaring camp-fire, with rude humor, painted  The ruddy tints of healthOn haggard face and form that drooped and fainted  In the fierce race for wealth;Till one arose, and from his pack's scant treasure  A hoarded volume drew,And cards were dropped from hands of listless leisure  To hear the tale anew;And then, while round them shadows gathered faster,  And as the firelight fell,He read aloud the book wherein the Master  Had writ of "Little Nell."Perhaps 'twas boyish fancy,--for the reader  Was youngest of them all,--But, as he read, from clustering pine and cedar  A silence seemed to fall;The fir-trees, gathering closer in the shadows,  Listened in every spray,While the whole camp, with "Nell" on English meadows,  Wandered and lost their way.And so in mountain solitudes--o'ertaken  As by some spell divine--Their cares dropped from them like the needles shaken  From out the gusty pine.Lost is that camp, and wasted all its fire:  And he who wrought that spell?--Ah, towering pine and stately Kentish spire,  Ye have one tale to tell!Lost is that camp! but let its fragrant story  Blend with the breath that thrillsWith hop-vines' incense all the pensive glory  That fills the Kentish hills.And on that grave where English oak and holly  And laurel wreaths intwine,Deem it not all a too presumptuous folly,--  This spray of Western pine!       *       *       *       *       *  THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY COPIES OF THIS BOOK  PRINTED BY EDWIN GRABHORN FOR JOHN HOWELL.  TITLE PAGE AND DECORATIONS BY JOSEPH SINEL.  THIS IS COPY NO. [Handwritten: 37]End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Dickens in Camp, by Bret Harte*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DICKENS IN CAMP ******** This file should be named 12337.txt or 12337.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/2/3/3/12337/Produced by David Garcia and PG Distributed ProofreadersUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALLThe Project Gutenberg eBook, The Mirror of Literature, Amusement, andInstruction, Vol. 19, Issue 552, June 16, 1832, by VariousThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Mirror of Literature, Amusement, and Instruction, Vol. 19,Issue 552, June 16, 1832Author: VariousRelease Date: March 17, 2004  [eBook #11616]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: US-ASCII***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE,AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION, VOL. 19, ISSUE 552, JUNE 16, 1832***E-text prepared by Jonathan Ingram, David King, and the Project GutenbergOnline Distributed Proofreading TeamNote: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this      file which includes the original illustration.      See 11616-h.htm or 11616-h.zip:      (http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/1/1/6/1/11616/11616-h/11616-h.htm)      or      (http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/1/1/6/1/11616/11616-h.zip)THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.VOL. 19. No. 552.]  SATURDAY, JUNE 16, 1832.   [PRICE 2d.       *       *       *       *       *THE BRAHMIN BULL, IN THE ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS, REGENT'S PARK.[Illustration: THE BRAHMIN BULL, IN THE ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS, REGENT'S PARK.]The Zoological Society possess several _Zebus_, or Indian oxen. Thesewere formerly considered a distinct species, but zoologists are now ofopinion that the Zebu is merely a variety of the common ox, "although,"as Mr. Bennett observes, "it is difficult to ascertain the causes bywhich the distinctive characters of the two races have been in theprocess of time gradually produced."[1] Their anatomical structure isprecisely the same, and the only circumstances in which the two animalsdiffer consist in the fatty hump on the shoulders of the Zebu, and inthe somewhat more slender and delicate make of its legs.    [1] Gardens and Menageries of the Zoological Society Delineated    Quadrupeds--vol. i.The object of the Zoological Society in their collection of Zebus is theintroduction of an improved breed of oxen. The larger specimens are keptat the farm at Kingston Hill, and only a pair of small ones are reservedfor the Gardens, in addition to the Brahmin Bull, who occupies thecentral division of the Cattle Shed.[Illustration: Brahmin Bull in Cattle Shed.]The specimen before us has been received by the Society from India, andis one of the largest that has ever been seen in Europe. It is equal insize to the larger breeds of our native oxen, and is of a slaty grey onthe body and head; with cream-coloured legs and dewlap, the latterexceedingly long and pendulous; very short horns directed upwards andoutwards; and ears of great proportional magnitude, and so flexible andobedient to the animal's will as to be moved in all directions with thegreatest facility. Although a full-grown male, he is perfectly quiet,good-tempered, and submissive, and receives the caresses of strangerswith apparent satisfaction.The whole of the breeds of Zebus are treated with great veneration bythe Hindoos, who hold it sinful to deprive them of life under anypretext whatever. They are in general used as beasts of draft,principally for purposes of husbandry, but a select number (of which thespecimen before us is one,) are exempted from all services, and evenidolized.Bishop Heber,[2] calls them _Brahminy_ Bulls, and tells us they areturned out when calves, on different solemn occasions by wealthyHindoos, as an acceptable offering to Siva. It would be a mortal sin tostrike or injure them. They feed where they choose, and devout personstake great delight in pampering them. They are exceeding pests in thevillages near Calcutta, breaking into gardens, thrusting their nosesinto the stalls of fruiterers and pastry-cook's shops, and helpingthemselves without ceremony. Like other petted animals, they aresometimes mischievous, and are said to resent with a push of their hornsany delay in gratifying their wishes.    [2] Narrative of a Journey through the Upper Provinces of India,    vol. i. 4to., 1828.We may here in connexion with the Zoological Gardens, notinappropriately introduce the following graphic passage from theconcluding Number of Mr. Landseer's "Characteristic Sketches ofAnimals." It appears as a "Note by the Editor," Mr. John Barrow, andrepresents the labours of the Zoological Society as very gratifying tothe subscribers and the public.[3]    [3] We are indebted to the _Literary Gazette_ of Saturday last    for early cognizance of this extract."By the spirit and perseverance with which they have succeeded in_domiciling_ their magnificent collection of living animals in theRegent's Park--by the knowledge and experience they have evinced in thearrangements adopted in that establishment, and the good taste, skill,and industry, they have employed in carrying into effect its multiplieddetails--they have accomplished a task of far higher importance, and ofinfinitely nobler character, than that of merely providing for allclasses of an enlightened metropolis an additional source of amusementand recreation. Such a collection, so maintained and so displayed,advances--slowly but certainly--the best interests of morals andphilosophy. The curiosity which it excites, the gratification itaffords, operate, though with differing degrees of intensity, on themost uncultivated and the best informed of those who visit it, to begetinquiry and awaken reflection; and in what can inquiry and reflection,thus originated, determine, but in producing or extending the mostsublime impressions of the beneficence, the power, and the providence,of the Great Author of Creation? The physical mechanism of birds, themuscular energies of brutes, strike us at first with wonder, or move uswith mingled terror and delight; but the activity of the human mind willnot suffer us long to remain at this point of simple excitement. Weinvoluntarily begin to analyze the properties of animals, the relationsof their structure to those properties, the adaptation of the parts tothe whole of that structure, and the conformity of their physicalendowment and their instincts to the various _habitats_ or regions inwhich they respectively exist. Whether we reason from causes to effects,as from instinct to habit; or endeavour, upon an inverted process, toarrive from the consideration of effects at causes, as from habit toinstinct; or attempt, upon the analysis and analogies of admitted factsin the natural history of one animal, to deduce a theory of the historyof another,--we shall find this mysterious but beautiful chain ofrelation and adaptation unbroken, impassable, perpetual.       *       *       *       *       *"Observe how this infant colony, of which we are especially speaking,has already been peopled! The majestic rusa, captured in the sultryforests of Bengal, and the elegant gazelle, which has once bounded overthe parching deserts of Barbary, have become intimate and make theircouch with the white reindeer, brought from the icy wastes of Lapland.The misshapen but harmless kangaroo of New Holland is a fellow-lodgerwith the ferocious gnu of Southern Africa; and the patient llama, whohas left the snowy sides and precipitous defiles of the Andes,contemplates without terror its formidable neighbours, the wolf of thePyrenees, and the bear of the stupendous mountains of Thibet. In theimmediate vicinity of the sacred bull, whose consecrated life hasheretofore been passed in luxurious freedom or insolent enjoyment on thebanks of the Ganges or the Jumna--feeds the gaunt and shaggy bison,which crops with sullen tranquillity a herbage more nutritious but lessgrateful to him than he loved to cull among the stony pastures of theAlleghany range, or of the howling solitudes surrounding Hudson's Bay.Though thousands of leagues have interposed between the arid sands fromwhich they have been imported into this peaceful and common home, thecamel of the Thebais, as he ruminates in his grassy _parterre_, surveyswith composed surprise the wild dog of the Tierra del Fuego and thesharp-eyed dingo of Australia. Around the ghastly sloth-bear,disentombed from his burrows in the gloomiest woods of Mysore orCanara--and his more lively congener of Russia--the armadillo of Braziland the pine marten of Norway display a vivacity of action and acheerfulness of gesture which captivity seems powerless to repress. Theelephant of Ceylon, and the noble wapiti of the Canadas, repose beneaththe same roof; and from his bath, or his pavilion, the Arctic bearcontemplates--not his native rocks and solitudes, the crashing oficebergs, and the Polar seas, alternately lashed into terrific fury orhemmed in by accumulating precipices of ice; but--monkeys of almostevery size, form, and family, which gambol in the woods of Numidia orGundwana; in the loftiest trees of Sumatra; on the mountains of Java; bythe rivers of Paraguay and Hindustan; of South America and South Asia;among the jungly banks of the Godavery and the woody shores of thePamoni, of the Oroonoko, and the Bramahputra--in short, in every sunnyclime and region where the rigours of his own winter are not onlyunknown, but inconceivable. There is something sublime in the mereconsideration of the prodigious remoteness from one another of thevarious points from which these animals have thus been collected;something gratifying to human pride, in the thought that neither thefreezing atmosphere of the countries which surround the Pole, nor thefierce heats of those which lie beneath the Line, or are enclosedbetween the Tropics--neither destructive climates, nor tracklessdeserts, nor stormy oceans, can interpose obstacles powerful enough toquell the enterprise of man!--that the rocky caverns of the loneliestsea-coasts, and the deepest recesses of inland forests, are insufficientto protect from him the most terrible beasts of prey which inhabitthem;--and that, in short, all the kingdoms of nature pay tribute to hissagacity or his power, his courage or his curiosity. This feeling isheightened, amidst the scene we have attempted to describe, by stillmore numerous representatives of the feathered race. Birds of theboldest wing and brightest hues--the denizens of the woods and thewaters--of every variety of plumage, habit, song, and size--from thesplendid macaw and toucan to the uncouth pelican and the shapelesspuffin--from the gigantic ostrich to the beautiful but diminutive goldenwren; in short, all the birds which are congregated in this spot come,literally, from every corner of our globe. The great alpine vulture mayhave sailed above the heights of Hohenlinden; the Egyptian vulture haveroosted on the terraced roofs of Cairo, or among the sacred walls ofPhylae; the condor, have built in the ruined palaces of the Incas ofPeru; the flamingo or the ibis have waded through the lakes and marsheswhich surround the desolation of Babylon; the eagle of America haveranged, perhaps daily, over those narrow straits which separate twoworlds and bid defiance to all navigation! The emu has long sincetracked the vast interior of that fifth continent whose inland rivers,tribes of mankind, quadrupeds, and mineral and vegetable productions,remain still, to us, sealed mysteries. The crowned crane has drawn itsfood from the waters of that vast lake of Tschad, in the search forwhich so many Europeans have perished; the little stormy petrel, borneon the surge, or wafted by the gale, has travelled to every shore thathas been visited by the tempests in which it loves to rove; and thewandering stork, like the restless swallow, has nestled, indifferently,among the chimneys of Amsterdam, the campaniles of Rome or of Pisa, andon the housetops of Timbuctoo. In looking round upon these various birdsand quadrupeds of all the regions of our globe--in considering thedistant countries of their birth--their strangeness to us in feature orin form--the endless varieties of their instincts, their habits, theiraffections, their antipathies, their appetites--the several importantoffices they are destined to perform in what may be called the physicaleconomy of the world,--in observing the powers of offence in some, ofdefence in others, and the astonishing means which have been supplied tocertain classes of them destitute both of one and the other, ofprocuring their subsistence with equal facility,--it is surelyimpossible not to ascend to the contemplation of that all-wise andbenevolent Power which has called all these creations into being, andthus informed and thus endowed them!"       *       *       *       *       *ST. PANCRAS OLD CHURCH.(_To the Editor._)In No. 546, of _The Mirror_, you gave a History of Old Saint PancrasChurch. Will you allow me to say that it is not at a Church in the Southof France, where prayers are said for the souls of those that are buriedhere, but at the Church of St. Peter, at Rome. A writer in the _MorningHerald_ of August, 1825, states thus: "The History of the Old Church ofSaint Pancras is not a little singular; it is one of the oldest in thecounty of Middlesex, and the parish it belongs to one of the largest,being eighteen miles in circumference. The name was sent from Rome bythe Pope, expressly for this church, which has the only general Catholicburial ground in England; and mass is daily said in St. Peter's, atRome, for the repose of the souls of the faithful, whose bodies aredeposited therein; and it was also the last church in England whose belltolled for mass, or in which any Catholic rites were celebrated. A fewmonths ago an Italian showed me an Italian prayer-book, in which was acoloured drawing of St. Pancras Church; he told me it was held in greatveneration at Rome, and prayers are said daily in St. Peter's, for itsprosperity, and it is considered to be the oldest church now standing inEurope." A writer in the _Gentleman's Magazine_, 1749, states thus:"Christ's sacred altar here first Britain saw. Saint Pancras is includedin that land granted by Ethelbert, the fifth King of Kent, to theCathedral Church of St. Paul, London, about the year 603. The firstmention that has been found to be made of this church, occurs in theyear 1183; but it does not appear whether it was, or was not, of recenterection."It is said there was a silver tomb in this church, which was probablytaken away at the time of the commonwealth. About a mile from thechurch, in a field in Kentish Town, is the Gospel Oak, under which,tradition says, that Saint Austin, or one of his monks, preached. Nearthe church was a medicinal spa, which once attained some celebrity underthe name of St. Pancras' Well, and was held in such estimation as tooccasion great resort of company to it during the season. It is said thewater was tasteless, but had a slight cathartic property.Dr. Stukely, in a work published in 1756, says there was a Roman campwhere St. Pancras Church stands.The old church was repaired in 1827, when the old gallery was takendown. It was reopened under the name of St. Pancras Chapel, August 1828,by the Rev. James Moore, L.L.D., the Vicar; on which occasion hedelivered a lecture, in which he gave a history of the church.Since the year 1822, five new churches have been erected in this parish:the New St. Pancras Church, Euston-square; Regent Church,Sidmouth-street; Somers Church, Seymour-street; Camden Church,Pratt-street; and Highgate Church, on the Hill.The first Bishop of Calcutta, the Rev. Thomas Fanshaw Middleton, D.D.was Vicar of St. Pancras. He died of a stroke of the sun, on the 8th ofJuly, 1822. _A Parishioner of St. Pancras._       *       *       *       *       *MARY OF CAMBRIA.--A SONNET.(_For the Mirror._)  There was a maiden once would come and sit  Upon our mountain, the long summer day;  And watch'd the sun, till he had beauteous lit  The mist-envelop'd rocks of Mona grey:  Beneath whose base, the timid hinds would say,  Her lover perish'd; and from that dread hour,  Bereft of reason's mind ennobling ray,  Poor Mary droop'd: Llanellian's fairest flower!  Why gazeth she thus lone; can those soft eyes  Interpret aught in each dim cloud above?  Yes, there's more joy in her wild phantasies  Than reasons in its sober power could prove.  List to her wild laugh now; she smiles and cries,  It is my William's form; he beckons from you skies.    _The Author of a Tradesman's Lays_[4]    [4] In our correspondent's notice of Mrs. Hemans in No. 550, for    "Lady then," read "this Lady."This little metrical record is founded on fact. In the year 1808, ayoung female visited the grey, sterile mountain tract of Cefu Ogo, inDenbighshire, each day successively for two months. Her lover, who was aseaman on board one of the Welsh traders, had often met her there, and atranquil, uninterrupted walk it afforded them, for exchanging thereciprocities of their mutual affection. He was lost not far from theiron-bound coast of Carnarvonshire, but nearer towards Anglesea. I sawher frequently, and her demeanour was most peaceable, except towards theevening, when her benighted fancy would conjure up a variety of pleasingexpressions, which were uttered in the Welsh language; and wereinvariably directed towards her lover, whom she often fancied waspresent with her. I was happy to hear, that through the kindsuperintendence of the late Dr. Jones, of Denbigh, she in a greatmeasure recovered her faculties, but died two or three years after atLiverpool.       *       *       *       *       *SHAKSPERIANA.(_For the Mirror._)  "Each scene of many-colour'd life he drew  Exhausted worlds,--and then imagin'd knew."            JOHNSON.So much has been said, and said so well, respecting the writings ofShakspeare and the peculiar character of his genius, that it would be ahopeless as well as a presumptuous task to attempt adding anything topublic information on that head. But I know not that any one hasventured to point out a few of those instances in which our greatdramatist has stooped to plagiarize. That he must have done so, at leastoccasionally, is a matter of course, as no voluminous writings were evergiven to the world that were not the result of study as well as originalthought, for genius must ever be corrected by judgment, and what isjudgment but the child of experience and study? Observation alone cantell us, that man is an imitative animal, and philosophy teaches us thathis ideas are not innate; he must borrow them at first in a simple formfrom those around him, and though by the association of these ideas, andthe gradual extension and improvement of them, he may eventuallygenerate new ones, yet some traces cannot but remain of what wasoriginally lodged in the mind, and will come into play as occasion maycall them forth. Shakspeare was a perfect master of human nature, but hewas a master of our language as well; he was indeed one of those whohave improved it, but he could never have himself arrived at the degreeof perfection in which he found it, had he not derived assistance fromothers, and made himself intimately acquainted with our purest nationalworks of talent. Thus, he could never have been so ignorant as he issaid to have been of English literature.Little is known of Shakspeare's earlier years, except that he was sentto the free school at Stratford, where he acquired the rudiments of thelearned languages; that he was never a distinguished classic is certain,but it is equally certain that he must have been acquainted with theGreek dramatists by the use of translations, though he may not have hadscholarship enough to study them in the original. So many parallelpassages might be drawn from this source, that the task would be anendless one; besides the fact is so well known and admitted, that itwould be unnecessary. "We find him," says Mr. Pope, "very knowing in allthe customs of antiquity." In _Julius Caesar, Coriolanus_, and otherplays where the scene is laid at Rome, not only the spirit but themanners of the ancient Romans is exactly shown, and his reading in theancient historians is no less conspicuous. It is well known at theuniversities of this country, that on any public examination, be theplay either tragic or comic, the students are frequently required toproduce parallel passages from the writings of Shakspeare: now it mightindeed with some reason be supposed that occasionally the same ideaswould present themselves to different minds, and where two writers areequally well acquainted with the nature of man, and equally skilled inanalyzing his passions, it might well, I say, be supposed, that suchtrue and acute observation would suggest similar ideas, and perhaps eventhe same method of defining them. Yet when this similarity is frequentinstead of occasional, when the unusual peculiarity of the sentimentrenders it startling and suspicious, then the above supposition becomestoo extensive even for prejudice to admit. Such however is the casehere, and so the matter stands between Shakspeare and the ancientdramatists. Even some of the machinery he has made use of is not hisown. Thus, the seemingly ingenious introduction of "The Play" into_Hamlet_, is borrowed from an old Greek drama, where Alexander, thetyrant of Pharos, is struck with remorse for his crimes upon viewingsimilar cruelties to his own, practised upon the stage.At that earlier period of literature when Shakspeare flourished, bookswere few in number, and consequently scarce; yet there can be no doubtthat our author seized every opportunity of improving and strengtheninghis mind: whether he had any acquaintance with the modern languages isunknown, but he has certainly introduced many French scenes in hisworks, and he has taken several of his plots, such as that of _Romeo andJuliet_, from the Italians. As to his own language, he is said to havemade the poems of Chaucer principally his study, so that it would not bequite fair to produce any plagiarisms from that writer; but I give thereader a few specimens of English literature taken from other quarters,which seem to have afforded Shakspeare ideas, or else matter, to workupon. The following passage is from one of our oldest dramas, and itwill readily call to the recollection of the reader, the celebratedspeech of Claudio in _Measure for Measure_:  "To die is sure to go we know not whither,  We lie in silent darkness, and we rot.  Perhaps the spirit, which is future life,  Dwells, salamander-like, unharm'd in fire,  Or else with wand'ring winds is blown about  The world; but if condemned like those  Whom our uncertain thought imagines howling,  Then the most loath'd and the most weary life,  Which age, ache, penury or imprisonment  Can lay on nature, is a Paradise.  To what we fear of death."The sentences that follow are from a small historical work I have fallenin with, written in old English, but without its date; about a fourthpart of the matter contained in this little book is to be found woveninto the different historical plays of Shakspeare, but the underwrittenextracts are very nearly in his own words, allowing, of course, for themore poetical expression.(_Fall of Wolsey._) "Being near his end, he called Sir William Kingstonto him, and said, 'Pray, present my duty to his majesty, who is a nobleand gallant prince, and of a resolved mind, for he will venture the lossof his kingdom, rather than be contradicted in his desires. And now, Mr.Kingston, had I but served my God as diligently as I have served theking, he never would have forsaken me in my grey hairs!'" (Compare thiswith Cardinal Wolsey's speech to Cromwell, _Henry VIII._, Act iii.)Amongst other particulars in this book, concerning _Richard III._ wehave the following: "The Protector coming in council, seemed more thanordinarily merry, and after some other discourses, 'My lord (says he tothe Bishop of Ely) you have very good strawberries in your garden inHolborn, pray let us have a dish of them.' 'With all my heart,' repliedthe bishop, and sent for some. Afterwards, the Protector knit his browsand his lips, and rising up in great wrath, he exclaimed, 'My lords, Ihave to tell you, that that old sorceress, my brother Edward's widow,and her partner, that common prostitute, Jane Shore, have by witchcraftand enchantment been contriving to take away my life, and though byGod's mercy they have not been able to finish this villany, yet see themischief they have done me; (and then he showed his left arm,) how theyhave caused this dear limb of mine to wither and grow useless.'" (Vide_Richard III._ Act iii. Scene 2.)Shakspeare was contemporary with Bacon, and he no doubt valued andstudied with attention, the writings of that great man. The working upof the splendid dialogue between Iago and Othello, may not impossiblyhave been suggested by this sentence of Lord Bacon: "Breaking off in themidst of what one was about to say, (as if he took himself up) breeds agreater appetite in him with whom you confer, to know more." (Vide_Essays_.)But let us drop the tone of attempted criticism, which ill becomes anembryo writer at any time, and still less so when Shakspeare is thetheme. Having mentioned Bacon, perhaps the following authenticateddialogue may not be uninteresting to the reader, especially as it isonly to be met with in one or two scarce books:(_Shakspeare._) "I have heard, my lord, that a certain arch in TrinityCollege, Cambridge, would stand until a greater man than your lordshipshould pass through it."(_Bacon._) "Did you ever pass through it, Mr. Shakspeare?"(_Shakspeare._) "No, my lord, I never was at Cambridge."(_Bacon._) "Then we cannot decide which of us two is the greater man. Iam told that most of the professors there pass under the arch withouttear; which indeed shows a wise contempt of the superstition."(_Shakspeare._) "I rejoice to think that the world is yet to have agreater man than your lordship, since the arch must fall at last."Several of Shakspeare's least amusing plays are supposed to be not ofhis composition, such as _Henry VI._, and _Troilus and Cressida_, withthe exception of the master-touches and some of the finer speeches,which probably were introduced by him. This, however, is a trick oftrade in every department of science; and when we see, for instance, thecollected works of some great artist, it would be ridiculous to supposethat his whole lifetime could have sufficed for so much handicraft, andperhaps in reality, only the faces and more delicate parts were the workof his pencil.To return to Shakspeare. The objections to his style, which are many,especially to a more modern reader, are excusable from several causes.The writers of the Elizabethan age and previously, were all of them verycoarse in their mode of expression, and the dramatists not very delicatein their plots, though in doing so they did but obey the dictates offashion and the bad taste of the times. Even prolixity andcircumlocution were countenanced, and the insufferable conceits we meetwith in the poems of Donne, Cowley, and others, were highly relished inthose days. Euphaeism (mentioned so often by Sir W. Scott in _TheAbbot_,) was also then in vogue, and all these various peculiarities ofstyle, language, &c. were indispensable in all that was offered to thepublic. Shakspeare's fondness and propensity for punning may claim thesame excuse, viz. "the hoary head and furrowed face of custom;" yetthere are some of these puns interspersed through his works, which aresad blots indeed to our modern fastidious eyes, and that we could wellwish to see expunged; such a one now is this:  "Say, '_pardon_,' king, let pity teach thee now."  "Speak it in French, king, say, '_pardonnez moi_.'""A quibble (says Dr. Johnson,) gave him such delight that he was contentto purchase it by the sacrifice of reason, of propriety, and even oftruth; a quibble was to him the fatal Cleopatra for which he lost theworld, and was content to lose it!"Schiller, who is styled "the Shakspeare of Germany," and who is soardently admired at the present day, has indeed taken our author for hismodel; he has in many respects been too servile a student, for hisplagiarisms are both close and numerous. Thus, any one acquainted withhis celebrated play of _The Robbers_, will readily recollect that thewhole story is built upon the secondary plot in _King Lear_, between theDuke of Gloucester and his two sons; one of these who is a naturalchild, and a villain withal, contrives to poison the mind of the father,and to eject the legitimate son from his favour; it will be foundexactly thus in Schiller's famous story of "The Robbers." It must beacknowledged, however, that foreigners in general have never idolizedShakspeare, or paid him that devoted adoration, which his countrymenboth pay and think him entitled to. Hear Voltaire's overdrawn and evenpaltry criticism of _Hamlet_. "The tragedy of _Hamlet_ is a gross andbarbarous composition, which would not be supported by the lowestpopulace in France and Italy. Hamlet goes mad in the second act, Opheliain the third; he takes the father of his mistress for a rat, and runshim through the body. In despair, the heroine drowns herself. Her graveis dug on the stage, while the grave-diggers enter into a conversation_suitable_ (!) to such low wretches, and play, as it were, with deadmen's bones! Hamlet answers their abominable stuff, with follies equallydisgusting. Hamlet, with his father and mother-in-law, drink togetherupon the stage; they sing at table, afterwards they quarrel, and battleand death ensue. In short, one might take this performance for thefruits of the imagination of _a drunken savage_." (_Letters on theEnglish Nation._)In another place, this writer says, "Shakspeare had not a single sparkof good taste, or knew one rule of the drama. In one of his _monstrousfarces_, to which he has given the name of Tragedies, we find the jokesof the Roman shoemakers and cobblers introduced in the same scene withthe orations of Brutus and Antony." (See Voltaire's _Essays on Tragedyand Comedy_.) Here this rival dramatist again objects to anyintroduction of the lower orders on the stage, and seems averse towhatever is natural, and to depicting life as it is; but if any excuseis necessary for Shakspeare on this head, we must remember that thestage was in his time, and indeed is now perhaps, more particularlylevelled to please the populace, and its success more immediatelydepends on the common suffrage; accordingly the scenes of our Englishdrama, and Shakspeare's scenes particularly, are very often laid amongtradesmen and mechanics, and though it may be contrary to all goodtaste, the author is compelled to indulge in bombast expressions,pompous and thundering rhymes, and sometimes even ribaldry and mean,unmannerly buffoonery.During his lifetime, Shakspeare acquired reputation principally throughhis poems, which from some unaccountable cause, are now comparativelyneglected, and we may add unfortunately so for the enjoyment of thepublic. These poems were more admired than his plays, and what speakshigher in their favour, they are more expressively alluded to bycontemporary writers. The "Venus and Adonis" is a splendid piece ofcomposition, and very touching in its sentiment; even its illustriousauthor was proud to call it "the first heir of his invention." We havefrom it one of our most popular songs, which constitutes one of itsstanzas:  "Bid me discourse, I will enchant thine ear,    Or like a fairy, trip upon the green,  Or like a nymph with long dishevell'd hair    Dance on the sands, and yet no footing seen."His ready talent for composition was singular, and perhaps unparalleled;his mind and hand ever went together, and it is reported he was neverknown to blot a line. He was an actor occasionally in his own plays, butit does not indeed appear that he excelled in this art.Shakspeare never considered his works worthy of posterity, and waslittle careful of popularity while he lived; having acquired acompetency by his labours, he retired to Stratford, and spent theremainder of his life in ease and retirement, like a private gentleman.His income was estimated at L200. The epitaph--not that on his monument,but on the rude stone actually covering his remains is to the followingeffect, and thus curiously written:  "Good friend, for Jesus SAKE forbeare  To digg T--E dust EncloAsed HERE                    T  Blese be T--E man   spares TEs stones                 T  y  And curst be hey moves my bones."I conclude this rather desultory article with Lord Lyttleton's splendideulogy on him, which in a few words expresses more than the finestPhilippic to his memory--"If all human things were to perish except theworks of Shakspeare, it might still be known from them what sort of acreature Man was!"F.       *       *       *       *       * SIR THOMAS FOWLER'S LODGE, ISLINGTON.[Illustration: SIR THOMAS FOWLER'S LODGE, ISLINGTON.]Few parishes in the environs of London are so rich in architecturalantiquities as the "considerable village" of Islington. Canonbury-house,of which a solitary tower remains, is said to have been thecountry-residence of the Priors of St. Bartholomew, and to have been_re_built early in the 16th century. Highbury belonged also to thePriory. The existing relics are chiefly of the Elizabethan age. Thelodge, represented in the cut, belonged to an old mansion; the propertyof the Fowler family, built in 1595, which appears on a ceiling. Thehouse fronts Cross-street, and the lodge is at the extremity of thegarden, and adjoins Canonbury Fields. It is most probable that this wasbuilt as a summer-house by Sir Thomas Fowler, the younger, whose armsare placed in the wall, with the date 1655. It has been absurdly calledQueen Elizabeth's Lodge, but with no other foundation than her majestyhaving passed through it when on a visit to Sir Thomas Fowler.The Fowlers appear to have been of some note. Sir Thomas Fowler, theelder, who died in 1624, was one of the jury on Sir Walter Raleigh'strial: his son, Sir Thomas, was created a baronet in 1628; the titlebecame extinct at his death. Some coats of arms were taken out of thewindows of the old mansion. Among these were the arms of Fowler andHeron. Thomas Fowler, the first of the family who settled at Islingtonmarried the daughter of Herne, or Heron, of that place.[5]    [5] See Harl. MSS., No. 1551.The Pied Bull, near Islington Church, is stated to have been theresidence of Sir Walter Raleigh; though Oldys, in his _Life of Raleigh_,says there is no proof of it; and John Shirley, of Islington, another ofRaleigh's biographers, records nothing of his living there. Thestatement is, however, renewed in a Life of Sir Walter, published in1740.       *       *       *       *       *FINE ARTS.       *       *       *       *       *THE PANORAMA OF MILAN.By the aid of Mr. Burford's panoramic pencil, the sight-hunter of ourtimes may enjoy a kind of imaginary tour through the world. At oneseason he wafts us to the balmy climes of India--next he astounds uswith the icy sublimities of the Pole (a fine summer panorama, by theway)--then to the glittering spires, minarets, and mosques ofConstantinople--then to the infant world of New Holland--and back to theOld World, to enjoy scenes and sites which are hallowed in memory's fondshrine, by their association with the most glorious names and events inour history. We remember the philosophical amusement of the great LordShaftesbury, in contriving _all the world in an acre_ in his retreat atReigate: what his Lordship laboured to represent in his garden, Mr.Burford essays in his panoramas--in short, he gives us all the world onan acre--of canvass.Reader, we do not hold the grand secret of life to be the art ofhoaxing, when we tell you that for a Greenwich fare you may betransported to the classic regions of Italy--that a walk to LeicesterSquare will probably delight you more than a ride to Greenwich, littleas we are inclined to underrate the last of the pleasures of the people.The contrast is forcible, and the intellectual advantage to be enjoyedin the metropolis too evident to be overlooked.At the Panorama, _Florence_ is in the upper circle, and _Milan_ in thelower one. The main attraction of the latter is the celebratedcathedral, which forms, as it were, the nucleus of the scene. The pointof view has been objected to, as the spectator is placed about mid-wayup the cathedral, and thus looks down into the streets and squares ofthe city; but, it should be remembered, that he also enjoys the distantcountry, which he could not have done had the view been from the area ofthe city; and, as we have before said, the beauty of the _paysage_ isone of the perfections of Mr. Burford's paintings. Its present successmay be told from the _Description:_"Beyond, the eye ranges to an immense distance over the rich and fertileplains of Lombardy, Piedmont, and the Venetian States, luxuriant withevery description of rural beauty, intersected by rivers and lakes, andthickly studded with towns and villages, with their attendant gardens,groves, and vineyards. The Northern horizon, from East to West, isbounded by the vast chain of the Alps, which form a magnificentsemicircle at from eighty to one hundred and twenty miles distant, MonteRosa, Monte Cenis, Monte St. Gothard, the Simplon, &c. covered witheternal snow, being conspicuous from their towering height; towards theSouth the view is bounded by the Apennines, extending across thepeninsula from the Mediterranean to the Adriatic; and on the South-west,the Piedmontese hills, in the neighbourhood of Turin, appear a faintpurple line on the horizon, so small as to be scarcely visible; thepurity of the atmosphere enables the eye to discern the most distantobjects with accuracy, and the brilliant sunshine gives inconceivablesplendour to every part of the scene; each antique spire andcuriously-wrought tower sparkles brightly in its beams, whilst the darkfoliage of fine trees, even in the heart of the city, relieves the eye,and produces a beautiful and pleasing effect."The cathedral will be recollected as the finest specimen extant ofpointed Gothic architecture, and termed by the Milanese, the eighthwonder of the world. It is entirely of white marble, and its highestpoint four hundred feet from the base. A better idea of its minute aswell as vast beauty will be afforded by the reader turning to ourengraving of the exterior in vol. xiv. of _The Mirror_. It issuccessfully painted in the Panorama, although it has not the dazzlingwhiteness that a stranger might expect; and, on it are those beautifultinges which are thought to be shed by the atmosphere upon buildings ofany considerable age. This effect is visible ever in the fine climate ofItaly: it is ingeniously referred to by Sir Humphry Davy in his lastwork[6] to the chemical agency of water. He speaks, however, rather ofthe _decay_ produced by water, of which _tinge_ is but the first stage.The latter is very pleasing, and, about two years since, the fineportico of the Colosseum, in the Regent's Park, was artificiallycoloured to produce this effect of _time_, as it has been poeticallyconsidered.    [6] "Consolations in Travel, or the Last Days of a Philosopher."    1830.The City of Milan is not particularly interesting, though to anuntravelled beholder, it has points of attraction. He may probably bestruck with the vast extent of some of the structures when compared withthe puny buildings of our own country and times; and the space occupiedby the palaces will but remind him of the mistaken magnificence ofBuckingham, or the gloomy grandeur of St. James's. Again, the plasteredand fancifully coloured fronts of the dwelling-houses, their gaydraperies, &c. but ill-assort with the heavy red-brick exteriors of ourmetropolis; although this contrast is to be sought elsewhere than inexternals. Mr. Burford's summary, or characteristics of the city may bequoted:"The form of the city is nearly circular, about ten miles incircumference, although perhaps the thickly built and more denselypopulated part may be confined to an area of half that size. There areseveral large and handsome squares, but the streets, with very fewexceptions, are neither wide nor regular; the pavement is formed likethat of Paris, of small, sharp pebbles, with occasionally a narrowfootway on each side, and the addition of two (or in the wider streetsfour) strips of flat stones in the centre, forming a sort of railway, onwhich the carriage wheels run with great smoothness and very littlenoise. The churches, hospitals, establishments for the poor, and otherpublic institutions, are numerous, and display all the richness andmagnificence of Italian architecture, and are at the same time endowedon a most liberal scale; the ancient palaces of the nobles, vast andrude, bear stamp of the importance of the city in the middle ages, whenthey served as domestic fortresses and lodged well-appointed andnumerous retinues; and although they cannot at present vie with those ofRome or Genoa, yet they display considerable architectural luxury, andcontain fine collections of works of art; attached to many are large andwell-stocked gardens, which add much to the beauty of the city. Verylittle regard is paid to regularity of appearance in the generalbuildings; they vary in height from two to five stories, and are builtof brick, or granite from the Lago Maggiori, plastered, coloured, orornamented, according to the taste of the owner; many are still withoutthe luxury of glass in the windows; the shops are numerous and wellfurnished; their entrances, as well as those of the coffee-houses, arefrequently defended only by a coloured drapery, which, with the silktapestry hung at the church doors, and occasionally from the balconies,&c., has a gay and pleasing effect; indeed the whole appearance of thecity is cheerful and flourishing."The groupes and incidents in the streets will amuse the spectator. Thereis _Policinel_--the eternal Punch--with his audience, a short distancefrom the Cathedral. All over Europe, the most enlightened portion of theworld, is this little _Motley_ to be seen frolicking with flashes ofsatire; the motto for his proscenium should be _hic et ubique_.One of the beauties of this Panorama is the masterly effect of _theItalian_ sky. There are fewer cloudless days in Italy than the strangermay imagine, but Mr. Burford was fortunate in his season.       *       *       *       *       *SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.       *       *       *       *       *CHIT CHAT OF THE DAY.There is a good share of pleasant patter in the following abridged fromthe _Metropolitan_."Every one says that I am an odd person; I presume I am, and so is everyone else taken singly. I can prove that by Cocker. One and one maketwo--two is even, one is odd, I am but one. There's logic for you. I amalso a rambler by temperament. I ramble my person at my own free will,and my mind rambles quite indifferent as to its intimate connexion withthe former. I look at the stars, and my thoughts are of women--I look atthe earth, and my thoughts run upon heaven--I frequent the opera, andmoralize upon the world and its vanities--I sit in my pew at church, andmy thoughts ramble every where in spite of my endeavours and those ofthe parson to boot--I live in town all the year, because it's thefashion to be here in the season, and because I prefer London most whenI can walk about where there is nobody to interrupt me. In the season, Iam allowed to walk into every body's house, very often get an invite tofill up an odd corner, and as there generally is an odd corner at everyparty, and I do not stand at a short notice, I eat more good dinnersthan most people. I am not a fool, and yet not too clever, so thatpoised in that happy medium, I hear all, see all, know a great deal ofwhat is going on, and hold my tongue. When people inhabit their townhouses, I spend the whole day going from one to the other. I consider ahouse the only safe part of the metropolis. Were I to frequent thestreet during the season, I am so apt to fall into a brown study, thatI'm certain to be jostled until I am black and blue--I have found myselfcalculating an arithmetical problem at a crossing, and have not beenaware of my danger until a pair of greys sixteen hands high in full trothave snorted in my face--I am an idler by profession, live at a club,sleep at chambers, and have just sufficient means to pay my way andindulge my disposition. But I've not stated why I particularly like townwhen it is empty. It is because I feel relieved of all the fashionableet ceteras. By the time the season is over I am tired of dinners, ofwine, of the opera, the eternal announcement of visiters at parties andballs, the music, the exotics, the suppers, the rattling of carriages,and the rattling of tongues. I rejoice at last to find London _endeshabille_--I can then do as I please without any fear of losing mycharacter as a fashionable man. I consider that I can in London extractmore amusement in a given quantity of ground than at any other place. Astreet will occupy me for a whole day: with an indifferent coat, andnothing but silver in my waistcoat pocket, I stop at every shop-windowand examine every thing. Should it so happen that the prices are affixedto every article displayed, I make it a rule to read every one of them.I know therefore when Urling's lace is remarkably cheap, the value ofmost articles of millinery, the relative demands for boots, shoes, andhats, and prices of 'reach-me-downs' at a ready-made warehouse. At apawn-broker's shop-window I have passed two or three hours veryagreeably in ascertaining the sums at which every variety of second-handgoods are 'remarkably cheap,' from a large folio Bible as divinity,flutes and flageolets as music, pictures and china as taste, gold andsilver articles as luxury, wedding rings as happiness, and duellingpistols as death. I could not of course indulge in these peripateticfancies during the season without losing caste, but there is a seasonfor all things."       *       *       *       *       *"Talking of pictures, by the way, what a marvellous falling off is therein Wilkie!--a misfortune arising, as I take it, from a struggle afternovelty of style. There is a portrait of the King by him in SomersetHouse Exhibition, like nothing on earth but a White Lion on its hinderlegs, and there was one a year or two since of George the Fourth in aHighland dress--a powerful representation of Lady Charlotte Bury,dressed for Norval. Look at that gem of art, his Blind Fiddler, now inthe National Gallery, or at his Waterloo Gazette, or at the Rent Day,and compare any one of them with the senseless stuff he now produces,and grieve. His John Knox--ill placed for effect, as relates to itsheight from the ground, I admit; but look at that--flat as ateaboard--neither depth nor brilliancy. Knox himself strongly resemblingin attitude the dragon weathercock on Bow steeple painted black. HasWilkie become thus demented in compliment to Turner, the Prince ofOrange (colour) of artists? Never did man suffer so severely under ayellow fever, and yet live so long. I dare say it is extremely bad tasteto object to his efforts; but I am foolish enough to think that one ofthe chief ends of art is to imitate nature as closely as possible. Look,for instance, at Copley Fielding's splendid drawing in the Water ColourExhibition, of vessels in a gale off Calshot; and certainly I have neveryet seen any thing either animal or vegetable at all like the men,women, trees, grass, mountains, which appear in Mr. Turner's works."This is of course an individual opinion, but I think it may beexpressed without any fear of incurring a charge of ill-nature, when onething is recollected. Copley Fielding cannot be a bad artist; Proutcannot be a bad artist; Nash cannot be a bad artist; De Vint, Stanfield,Reinagle, Calcott, none of these can be called bad artists; yet not oneof these gentlemen, eminent as they are, produce any thing like Turner'sdrawings. Now if they are all wrong, Mr. Turner is quite right; but itis utterly impossible _he_ should be so, if they are."Everybody knows the story of the sign-painter in the country, who couldpaint nothing but a red lion; and accordingly he advised everyinn-keeper and alehouse-keeper in the neighbouring village, who appliedto him, to have the sign of the Red Lion. This did very well for aconsiderable time, and the painter practised so successfully that not ahamlet or town, for ten miles round, that had not its red lion; until atlength a new-comer, who, like Daniel of old, thought there were quite asmany lions round him as were wanted, suggested to the artist that heshould like to have a swan for the sign of his small concern. In vainthe painter protested, Boniface was resolute. 'Well,' said the ruralApelles, 'if you will have a swan you must, but you may rely upon itwhen it is finished, it will be so like a red lion, you would not knowthe difference.' So Turner, if he were to paint a blackbird, it would beso like a canary when it was finished, you would not know one from theother."Among other sights, I was induced to go and visit the 'Fleas,' lastSaturday. Never was there such an imposition; instead of beingharnessed, they were tied by the hind legs, and the combatants, poorwretches! were pinched by the tails in tweezers, and of course movedtheir legs in their agony. Well, thought I, as I went out, I have beenin Spain, and Portugal, and Italy, and have passed many a restlessnight, but hang me if ever I was so flea bitten in my life as I havebeen to day; and I thought of my shilling and the old proverb."There is a picture of Lord Mulgrave in the Somerset House exhibition,very like, painted by Briggs. The best portrait there, is Pickersgill'sLord Hill; as a likeness, it is identity; and I admire it the more, fromthe total absence of what the painters call accessories. It is simple,and though honourably decorated, is unadorned by what is considered'groscape' drapery; and yet Mr. Pickersgill was at one time anunqualified admirer of cloaks; every hawbuck of a fellow who sat to him,was wrapped up in a cloak: this he has conquered, and we rejoice at it.The portrait of Lady Coote is a good picture; it is a pity that herladyship had not sat a few years earlier; but that is no affair of thepainter. A picture of Lady Londonderry, in the costume of QueenElizabeth, by a Frenchman is amazingly like. There is a story about thisdress which only proves the advantages of making experiments before anygrand display. The petticoat of the Virgin Queen, as personated by herladyship, was so thickly covered with diamonds, that the substratum ofmaterial could scarcely be seen; and nothing could be more splendid thanthe effect; but the diamonds glittered all round the dress, behind andbefore, and at the side; and so long as her ladyship paraded themagnificent suite of her apartments, all was well, and all shonebrilliantly; but lo and behold, when her ladyship threw herselfgracefully on her mimic throne, she found that she might as well besitting in her _robe de chambre_ on a pebbly pavement, or a heap offlints just prepared for Macadamization. Stones, though precious, arestill stones, and the jump the Marchioness gave when she first felt thefull effect of her jewels, is described as something prodigious. Sohandsome a person, however, might easily dispense with such ornaments. Aqueen of hearts may always look down upon a mere queen of diamonds."And what are we to say of other representations? What a sensation (atany other period how much greater would it have been!) Mr. SheridanKnowles' Hunchback has made: why Mr. Sheridan Knowles made his hero aHunchback I cannot imagine. The play is an admirable play; and what isas strange a part of the affair as any, is the acting of the author. Tosay it is finished, or fine, would be to talk nonsense; but it is plain,straightforward, common-scene acting, which very much surprised us, moreespecially from an author, still more from an Irish author; and morestill from an author, who in private life is a perfect enthusiast, and afine phrenzied-eye orator. Fanny Kemble never appeared to greateradvantage in public--in private, her charming conduct with regard to herbrother, the young soldier, speaks volumes for her. They say she isgoing to marry a son of Keppell Craven's, Lord Craven's uncle. They metfirst, I believe, at the acting of Lord Leveson Gower's play of Hernani,at Bridgewater House, when Mr. Craven reaped much histrionic fame as anamateur. Of one thing we are quite sure, Miss Kemble will act wellwherever she may be placed in the world."One of the best conundrums I have heard for a long time, is attributedto that excellent and agreeable fellow, Yates, who is amongst those whodo credit to the stage. Whether it is his own, or not, is a question torest upon his veracity. It is this--'When does an alderman look like aghost?' Answer. 'When he's a _gobbling_.' This is surely a _jeud'esprit_. By the way, Rogers begins to whistle now; not in fear, orharmony, or for amusement, but I am afraid from the effects produced byadvanced age. I regret this--he is an excellent person, and agentlemanly poet; and I never shall forget the patience with which hebore a most unintentional misquotation, made from his works, and in hispresence, by a man of the name of Barton, who wanted to compliment him,by recollecting his verses. The story that he quoted was Rogers' prettysong of  "Dear is my little native vale,    The ring-dove builds and warbles there,  Close by my cot she tells her tale,    To every passing villager.""Mr. Barton--who he was I never found out--having eulogized this littleeffusion with a superhuman ecstacy, repeated it right to a line--but notto a word. He gave it us thus--  "Dear is my little native vale,    The ring-dove builds and warbles there,  Close by my cot she _shows_ her _tail_    To every passing villager.""Not a muscle moved in Mr. Rogers' pale and placid countenance, youwould hardly have thought he lived; but turning to Luttrell, whose mouthtwisted and whose eye rolled at the fun of the mistake, he simplywhispered, 'Non _tali_ auxilio, &c.' Barton survived it, and is stillalive and merry."I perceive that there have been changes at the Admiralty. Dyer, Darch,and Riley superannuated. Hay takes Darch's place as reading clerk. Thisis right. Hay is a gentleman, and a man of business. Met SirFrancis--which Sir Francis, you would say, for there are two whofrequent the Admiralty, the obtuse and the clever. I mean the clever.'Well, Frank, how goes on the Vernon, and how did she go off the otherday? No want of water, I presume.' 'No; thank _heaven_ for that! Why,she went off beautifully, but the lubberly mateys contrived to get herfoul of the hulk, and Lord Vernon came out of the conflict minus a legand an arm.'--'Who had you there?' 'Upon my honour I hardly know. I wasso busy paying my devoirs to Lady Graham; she looked for all the worldlike a mermaid, as she stood by the bows and christened the vessel. Herhair hung down as straight as the lower rigging when first put over themast heads.'--'I wish I had such a beautiful mermaid for a wife,'replied H----, who had joined and listened to our conversation. 'What apretty creature is that Miss E----; she looked as fresh as if she hadjust come out of a shower bath.' 'Well, so she had.'"       *       *       *       *       *"I went to the Opera on Tuesday to hear Mariani. She issplendid--confounded plain, but that's no consequence. That Grisiscreams rather too much, although she acts well, and has a prettyperson, if it was washed. I believe Brugnoli's toes are made of _castiron_. _Toe_ K--g, could make no impression upon them. You know how K--gobtained that name. He is a little puffy fellow, who goes about town,making acquaintance with every body--is endured at watering places forhis poodle qualities of 'fetch and carry:' he is very anxious to becomeacquainted with noblemen, and his plan is to sidle up and tread verylightly upon an aristocratical toe--then an immediate apology, and theapology is followed also with the wind and weather, and the leadingtopic of the day, a knowledge of his lordship's friends or relations,and a good morning. The next day when they meet, a polite bow from Mr.K--g, and if an opportunity offers he enters into conversation, and thusestablishes his acquaintance."Such is his EXTREME method of introducing himself, which deservescredit for its ingenuity and exclusiveness. I once knew a man who hadonly one story, and that was about a gun. His difficulty was tointroduce this story, and he at last succeeded, like K--g, by the use ofhis foot. When sitting after dinner he would stamp under the table andcreate a hollow sound. Then, God bless me! what's that--a gun? By theby, talking about guns--and then came his story."       *       *       *       *       *THE SELECTOR; AND LITERARY NOTICES OF _NEW WORKS._       *       *       *       *       *THE MESSIAH._By Robert Montgomery._The subsequent passages exhibit many of the beauties and few of theblemishes of Mr. Montgomery's new poem:THE WILDERNESS.  Oh, when hath mind conceived  Magnificence beyond a midnight there,  When Israel camp'd, and o'er her tented host  The moonlight lay?--On yonder palmy mount,  Lo! sleeping myriads in the dewy hush  Of night repose; around in squared array,  The camps are set; and in the midst, apart,  The curtain'd shrine, where mystically dwells  Jehovah's presence!--through the soundless air  A cloudy pillar, robed in burning light,  Appears:--concenter'd as one mighty heart,  A million lie, in mutest slumber bound.  Or, panting like the ocean, when a dream  Of storm awakes her:--Heaven and Earth are still;  In radiant loveliness the stars pursue  Their pilgrimage, while moonlight's wizard hand  Throws beauty, like a spectre light, on all.  At Judah's tent the lion-banner stands  Unfolded, and the pacing sentinels,--  What awe pervades them, when the dusky groves,  The rocks Titanian, by the moonshine made  Unearthly, or yon mountains vast, they view!  But soon as morning bids the sky exult,  As earth from nothing, so that countless host  From slumber and from silence will awake  To mighty being! while the forest-birds  Rush into song, the matin breezes play,  And streamlets flash where prying sunbeams fall:  Like clouds in lustre, banners will unroll!  The trumpet shout, the warlike tramp resound,  And hymns of valour from the marching tribes  Ascend to gratulate the risen morn.PATRIARCHAL TIMES.  A vision of that unforgotten prime,  The patriarchal age, when Earth was young,  A while oh: let it linger!--oh the soul  It breaketh, like a lovely burst of spring  Upon the gaze of captives, when the clouds  Again are floating over freedom's head!--  Though Sin had witherd with a charnel breath  Creation's morning bloom, there still remain'd  Elysian hues of that Adamic scene,  When the Sun gloried o'er a sinless world,  And with each ray produced a flower!--From dells  Untrodden, hark! the breezy carol comes  Upwafted, with the chant of radiant birds.--  What meadows, bathed in greenest light, and woods  Gigantic, towering from the skiey hills,  And od'rous trees in prodigal array,  With all the elements divinely calm--  Our fancy pictures on the infant globe!  And ah! how godlike, with imperial brow  Benignly grave, yon patriarchal forms  Tread the free earth, and eye the naked heavens!  In Nature's stamp of unassisted grace  Each limb is moulded; simple as the mind  The vest they wear; and not a hand but works,  Or tills the ground with honourable toil:  By youth revered, their sons around them grow  And flourish; monarch of his past'ral tribe,  A patriarch's throne is each devoted heart!  And when he slumbers on the tented plain  Beneath the vigil stars, a living wall  Is round him, in the might of love's defence:  For he is worthy--sacrifice and song  By him are ruled; and oft at shut of flowers,  When queenly virgins in the sunset go  To carry water from the crystal wells,  In beautiful content,--beneath a tree  Whose shadows hung o'er many a hallow'd sire,  He sits; recording how creation rose  From nothing, of the Word almighty born;  How Man had fallen, and where Eden boughs  Had waved their beauty on the breeze of morn;  Or, how the angels still at twilight love  To visit earth with errands from the sky.ISAIAH.  Terrific bard! and mighty--in thy strain  A torrent of inspiring passion sounds--  Whether for cities by the Almighty cursed,  Thy wail arose--or, on enormous crimes  That darken'd heav'n with supernat'ral gloom,  Thy flash of indignation fell, alike  The feelings quiver when thy voice awakes!--  Borne in the whirlwind of a dreadful song,  The spirit travels round the destin'd globe,  While shadows, cast from solemn years to come,  Fall round us, and we feel a God is nigh!  But when a gladness from thy music flows,  Creation brightens!--glory paints the sky,  The Sun hath got an everlasting smile,  And Earth in temper'd for immortal spring--  The lion smoothes his ruffled mane, the lamb  And wolf together feed, and by the den  Of serpents, see! the rosy infant play.THE SAVIOUR.  As o'er the grandeur of unclouded heaven  Our vision travels with a free delight,  As though the boundless and the pure were made  For speculation--so the tow'ring mind,  By inward oracle inspired and taught,  The lofty and the excellent in mind adores.  Then, Saviour! what a paragon art Thou  Of all that Wisdom in her hope creates--  A model for the universe--Though God  Be round us, by the shadow of His might  For aye reflected, and with plastic hand  Prints on the earth the character of things--  Yet He Himself,--how awfully retired  Depth within depth, unutterably deep!  His glory brighter than the brightest thought  Can picture, holier than our holiest awe  Can worship,--imaged only in I AM!  But Thou--apparell'd in a robe of true  Mortality; meek sharer of our low  Estate, in all except compliant sin;  To Thee a comprehending worship pays  Perennial sacrifice of life and soul,  By love enkindled;--Thou hast lived and breathed;  Our wants and woes partaken--all that charms  Or sanctifies, to Thine unspotted truth  May plead for sanction--virtue but reflects  Thine image! wisdom is a voice attuned  To consonance with Thine--and all that yields  To thought a pureness, or to life a peace,  From Thee descends--whose spirit-ruling sway,  Invisible as thought, around us brings  A balm almighty for affliction's hour--  Once felt, in all the fullness of Thy grace  The living essence of the living soul,--  And there is faith--a firm-set, glorious faith,  Eternity cannot uproot, or change--  Oh, then the second birth of soul begins,  That purifies the base, the dark illumes,  And binds our being with a holy spell,  Whereby each function, faculty, and thought  Surrenders meekly to the central guide  Of hope and action, by a God empower'd.THE CRUCIFIXION.  A God with all his glory laid aside,  Behold Him bleeding,--on his awful brow  The mingled sorrows of a world repose--  "'Tis FINISH'D,"--at those words creation throbs,  Round Hell's dark universe the echo rolls--  All Nature is unthroned--and mountains quake  Like human being when the death-pang comes--  The sun has wither'd from the frighted air,  And with a tomb-burst, hark, the dead arise  And gaze upon the living, as they glide  With soundless motion through the city's gloom,  Most awfully,--the world's Redeemer dies.       *       *       *       *       *SPAIN AND PORTUGAL.We quote the following from the _Cabinet Cyclopaedia_ history of thesecountries:_The Penitential Habit._"From the fifth century," says Masden, "or from the beginning of thesixth, the custom prevailed in Spain of the infirm, when so heavilyafflicted as to be in danger of death, piously assuming the tonsure andthe penitential habit, and engaging to continue both through life, ifGod raised them up. As the use of this penance became common enough tothrow discredit on the piety of all who did not thus undertake it, ifthe sick or dying man was unable to demand the habit, his relations orfriends could invest him with it, and his obligation to a penitentiallife thenceforward was as great as if that obligation had been imposed,not by others, but at his own request, since, as he was charitablysupposed to be thus piously inclined, he must of necessity wish tobecome a penitent. This continued in force until king Chindaswind,impressed with the abuses to which it had given rise, decreed that insuch cases the obligation imposed by others should be void unless thepatient should afterwards ratify it when in a sound state of mind.Penitents of this class might remain in their own houses, withoutseclusion within the walls of a monastery; but they were for evercompelled to wear the habit and shaven crown, to shun business anddiversions, to lead exemplary and chaste lives: if single, they couldnot marry; if married, they could not enjoy the privileges of the state:hence, though they inhabited not the cloister, they were of thereligious order, and consecrated to God.""This penance was not merely assumed by such as were anxious to makeatonement for some heavy sin; it was often voluntarily undertaken byindividuals whose lives had been blameless, and who were anxious by thiswork of supererogation to increase their stock of merits. If thepenitent died of his disease, the intention of his sacrifice wasbelieved to be availing in the sight of Heaven; if he recovered, hebecame a monk. No less a doom than excommunication, and a rigorouspenitential seclusion during life within the walls of a monastery, werehurled against such as married, or used their conjugal privilege, orlaid down the habit. If, however, the married penitents were _veryyoung_ at the time he or she entered on the monastic obligation, in caseof recovery the bishop had power to permit the use of matrimony acertain number of years. This was called an _indulgence_ or_dispensation_, the _debitum conjugale_ being totally annihilated by theobligations of the new state."This custom is not yet extinct in Spain, though, like many others of asimilar kind, its observance is daily weakening since the period of theFrench revolution, and of the increased intercourse between the twonations. Many of the greatest names in the Spanish annals voluntarilyassumed the profession, and thereby ceased to be laymen. Among these wasthe author of Don Quixote."       *       *       *       *       *THE GATHERER.CONCEALED SORROW.(_From the portfolio of a Correspondent._)There oft times dwells within the human breast, a grievous and a bittersorrow; a sorrow once formed--seldom, if ever, entirely eradicated. Suchsorrow hath borne down to the grave many a noble, though ill-fated,heart; there to seal up the remembrance of the degraded, the broken,feelings of its once fine nature, and for ever crush the spirit of itslove. It is a sorrow that cometh not as the whirlwind's rushing blast,in the fury of the tempest, or as the lion's roar; but rather as thesoft, still moan of the desert's poisoned breeze, or as the silentgnawing of a cankering worm: so comes it preying on our heart's fondesthopes till they gradually sink to ruin and oblivion. It is a grief thatmortal eyes cannot see; it is only keenly felt; its tears are thewasting away of health, and its lamentation is the low beating of asinking pulse. The loudest cry of its woe is but the dull, bitter sighof its lonely unhappiness, engendered by the deep misery of the secretdepression of its mental complaining, making the heart like a fadedflower in a gloomy wilderness; like a blighted tree in a sultry waste.Weep! weep! and sigh from thy very soul; yet thy sorrows will not end;their root will still remain to spring and spread afresh. Unhappy theythat such sorrows have! alas! for them! R.N._Pleasure Gardens._--Has it never occurred to any nurseryman that hisgarden might be made delightful and profitable promenades for thepublic, at a low charge for admission? In the neighbourhood ofPhiladelphia, we learn from a communication to the _Gardeners'Magazine_, there is a class of gardens very distinct from any in thiscountry; those of plant-growers, who to a small nursery, and green andhot-houses, add the appendage of a tavern. The two principal ones ofthis description are kept by Mr. Arran, and M. d'Arras: the first has avery good museum in his garden; and the latter possesses a beautifulcollection of orange and lemon trees, very large, but trimmed after theFrench fashion. These places are the resort of many of the citizens;Philadelphia having no park, or national gardens, for the purpose ofrecreation._American Prejudice._--Everything British creates a spirit of rivalryamong the vulgar Americans. A great number of the workmen's anecdotesare directed against the aristocratical bearing of Englishmen: nothinggives greater delight to the rustics than to hear of the Honourable D.S.or Lord John P. having been the last served, or badly served, at an innfor being surly to the waiters, &c._Cheap Fruit._--In Philadelphia, peaches are 25 cents, (about ashilling) per bushel; pine-apples from the West Indies from 5 to 15cents. (2d. to 6d.) each, and water melons cheaper._Newtown Pippin._--Near New York, at the residence of Mrs. Col. More, isthe original tree of the celebrated apple called the Newtown pippin. Itstands in the centre of an old orchard; the tree divides itself about2-1/2 or 3 feet from the ground; but, although the estate has been inthe possession of Colonel More's family for two centuries, they areunable to give any account of its origin; consequently the tree must beof very old standing._Hyde Park on the Hudson River._--Our Hyde Park on this side the water,can bear no comparison with its namesake on the other side of theAtlantic, The latter is extensive; the rides numerous; and the varietyof delightful distant views embrace every kind of scenery. Thepleasure-grounds are laid out on just principles, and in a mostjudicious manner; there is an excellent range of hot-houses, with acollection of rare plants; remarkable for their variety, theircleanliness, and their handsome growth. The construction and arrangementof the farm buildings deserve the strongest praise; but, in fact,everything connected with Hyde Park is performed in a mannerunparalleled in America. The proprietor of Hyde Park is Dr. DavidHosack, a gentleman well known in the literary and scientific world--theSir Joseph Banks of America._Modern Cincinnatus._--Near Bordentown, in the state of New Jersey isthe seat of the Count de Survilliers, elder brother of NapoleonBuonaparte, and formerly King of Spain. He has effected greatimprovements on this estate, and is now actively employed in others. Itis most gratifying to see this amiable nobleman withdrawing himself fromthe busy scene of politics into retirement, and expending his princelyfortune in rural improvements._Fiddling Poetry._--The following may be seen in the first volume ofPurcell's _Catches_, on two persons of the name of Young, father andson, who lived in St. Paul's Churchyard; the one was an instrumentmaker, and the other an excellent performer on the violin:--  "You scrapers that want a good fiddle well strung,  You must go to the man that is old while he's Young,  But if this same fiddle you fain would play bold,  You must go to his son, who'll be Young when he's old.  There's old Young and young Young, both men of renown,  Old sells, and Young plays, the best fiddle in town;  Young and old live together, and may they live long,  Young to play an old fiddle, old to sell a new song."                      P.T.W._Greenwich Hospital._--The foundation-stone of this magnificent buildingwas laid June 30, 1696, by John Evelyn (the treasurer), with a selectcommittee of the commissioners, and Sir Christopher Wren, the architect,precisely at five in the evening, _after they had dined together_!Flamstead, the royal astronomer, observing the punctual time byinstruments. The time is not unworthy of remark. The King (Charles II.)subscribed 2,000_l._; the Archbishop of Canterbury, Lord Keeper Sommers,Dukes of Leeds, Pembroke, Devonshire, Shrewsbury, and Earls of Dorsetand Portland, 500_l._ each; with others amounting to upwards of9,000_l_. According to a note by the Treasurer, four months after thefoundation, the work done amounted to upwards of 5,000_l._ towards whichthe treasurer had received only 800_l._, there being among thedefaulters the king's 2,000_l._, paid by exchequer tallies on thepost-office, "which," says he, "nobody will take at 30 per centdiscount:" so that we see the suspension of great works for want offriends was never uncommon; though this was a "season of debt anddisgrace" in England. The sum paid in Evelyn's time towards buildingGreenwich Hospital, seems to have been upwards of 69,000_l_._Major Mason and George II._--During the siege of Fort St. Philip, ayoung lieutenant of the Marines was so unhappy as to lose both his legsby a chain shot. In this miserable and helpless condition, he wasconveyed by the first opportunity to England, and a memorial of his casepresented to an honourable Board, in order to obtain some additionalconsideration to the narrow stipend of half-pay. The honourable Boardpitied the youth, but disregarded his petition. Major Mason had the poorlieutenant conducted to court on a public day, in his uniform, where,posted in the guard-room, and supported by two brother officers, hecried out as George II. was passing to the drawing-room, "Behold, greatsire, a man who refuses to bend his knee to you; he has lost both inyour service." The king, struck no less by the singularity of thisaddress, than by the melancholy object before him, stopped, and hastilydemanded what had been done for him. "Half-pay," replied the lieutenant,"and please your majesty." "Fie, fie, on't," said the king, shaking hishead, "but let me see you again next levee-day." The lieutenant did notfail to appear at the place of assignation, when he received from theimmediate hands of royalty, five hundred pounds, smart money, and apension of two hundred a-year.       *       *       *       *       *_Printed and published by J. LIMBIRD, 143, Strand, (near SomersetHouse,) London; sold by ERNEST FLEISCHER, 626, New Market, Leipsic; G.G.BENNIS, 55, Rue Neuve, St. Augustin, Paris; and by all Newsmen andBooksellers._***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT,AND INSTRUCTION, VOL. 19, ISSUE 552, JUNE 16, 1832********** This file should be named 11616.txt or 11616.zip *******This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:http://www.gutenberg.net/1/1/6/1/11616Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS,' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALL*** END: FULL LICENSE ***The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Sorrows of a Show Girl, by KennethMcGaffeyThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Sorrows of a Show GirlAuthor: Kenneth McGaffeyRelease Date: December 20, 2003  [eBook #10508]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: US-ASCII***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SORROWS OF A SHOW GIRL***E-text prepared by Rick Niles, Kat Jeter, John Hagarson, Rosanna Yuen, andthe Project Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading TeamTHE SORROWS OF A SHOW GIRLA STORY OF THE GREAT "WHITE WAY"BY KENNETH MCGAFFEY1908These Stories were originally printed in_The Morning Telegraph_, New York.CONTENTSChapterExplanation 1  Sabrina Discourses Theatrical Conditions 2  The Carrier Pigeon as a Benefit to Humanity 3  Sabrina Receives Money from an Unexpected Source 4  Sabrina Receives Her Fortune and Says Farewell to the Hall Bedroom 5  Sabrina Visits Her Patents in Emporia, and Shocks that Staid Town 6  Details of How Sabrina Stood Emporia on Edge and was Ejected    Therefrom 7  The Chorus Girls' Union Gave their Annual Ball 8  Sabrina Falls In Love with a Press Agent with Hectic Chatter 9  Sabrina Returns to the Chorus, so that She Can Keep Her Automobile    Without Causing Comment10  Sabrina and Her Former Room-mate Involved in an Argument at a    Beefsteak Party11  The Dramatic Possibilities of the "Mangled Doughnut"12  Sabrina Passes a Few Remarks on Love, Comedians, and Spring Millinery13  Sabrina Scores a Great Personal Success14  Methods of the House Breakers' Association Disclosed15  Sabrina Denounces the Male Sex as Being All Alike, and Threatens to    Take the Veil16  After Investigating the Country Atmosphere Carefully, Sabrina Says    the Only Healthful Ozone is Out of a Champagne Bottle17  Sabrina Visits the Racetrack and Returns with Money18  A Pink Whiskered Bark Tries to Convert the Merry-merry19  Sabrina Advises Chorus Girls, Charging Time for their Company20  Sabrina is Married and Goes Abroad on Her Wedding TripEXPLANATION.In the following chapters some of Sabrina's remarks are likely to causethe reader to elevate his eyebrows in suspicion as to her truecharacter.In order to set myself right with both the public and the vast army ofSabrinas that add youth and beauty to our stage, and brilliancy andgaiety to our well known cafes, I wish to say that she is all that sheshould be. She is a young lady who, no matter how old she may be, doesnot look it. She is always well dressed, perhaps a little in advance ofthe fashion, but invariably in good taste. Among strangers or in publicplaces her conduct is all that could be desired, while with those of herown set she becomes more familiar and may occasionally lapse into slang.Fate may compel her to earn her own living or she may receive an incomefrom a source that has nothing to do with these stories. Any personwithout the circle of theatrical or newspaper life is looked upon as aninterloper by Sabrina and treated accordingly. Hundreds of her like maybe found any evening after the theatre in the cafes and restaurants ofthe "wiseacres" known as the "Tenderloin."KENNETH MCGAFFEY.    In which Sabrina rushes on the scene and begins to discourse    breathlessly on theatrical conditions, boobs that send poetry    for presents, the tribulations of hunting employment, and the    outlook for a New Year's dinner.CHAPTER ONE"Ain't it appalling," demanded Sabrina, the Show Girl, "ain't itappalling the way the show game has gone to the morgue this season?"I never seen nothing like it since I been in the business, and while Iain't going to flash no family Bible that's been some time. Why, showsthat were making money if they played to thirty-two dollars on the dayjust naturally died. Me? You know I wasn't hep to the outlook. I comeprancing into town fresh from doing one-night stands through theuncultured West. We did bum business for fair, but shucks, there ain'tfive dollars' worth of real money in all of Southern Kansas at no time.Salaries! Huh! I had to send home for money to pay my fines with. Icavort gaily out to hunt a job and find a line from Mr. Seymour's officethat made the run on the Knickerbocker Trust Company look like thenightly window sale of 'The Evangelist.' I never seen so many of myfriends in town at one time in my life, and if you make a noise like adollar-bill anywhere between the two Flatirons you're liable to be thecenter of a raging mob. I heard it breathed that all the theatricalstorehouses in town were playing to S.R.O."I got a chance to shake down a little change as prima donna with aturkey show. What do you know about that? I played with one lastThanksgiving, and--excuse these tears--it was a college town and theshow was on the blink. 'Nough said. The manager hasn't left there yet."Oh, Listerine, have you heard the news? Alia McGraw has turned poetess.You know she always was peculiar. I was visiting her the other eveningin her dressing room when she declared that she was going to give up herdramatic art and go to painting word pictures. Whatever they are. Yousee it was this way: She had a boob on her staff who was paying her hisdevoted attention. According to her statistics that's all he ever didpay for. Well, he commenced doing advance work about a present he wasgoing to give her until he got poor Alla to thinking that it was nothingless than an automobile, and she treated him accordingly. One morning amessenger boy makes his entrance into the flat and hands her a book. Canyou beat that? The only thing that kept Alia from foaming at the mouthwas because she was combing her Dutch braid. It--the book--was called aRubaiyat by Omar Quinine, or something like that. This Omar party neverwrote a comic opera in his life. But Alla wasn't discouraged, for shelooked through every page in hopes of finding a Clearing Housecertificate, but not a leaf stirred. All she came across was a markedverse that went something like this: "A book of verse underneath a bough,    A Jug of wine, a loaf of bread and thou  Beside me sitting in the wilderness--    Oh, wilderness is Paradise enow."Did you ever hear of such a short sport? Wanted to buy it by the kegand go sit under a tree in Bronx Park. As soon as Alla run out oflanguage she sat down and in less than three hours doped out an answer.I got it here on the back of her laundry list: "A book of verse is not what I can use,    But give me, if still my love is thine,  A wine list from which to pick and choose.    Cut out the shady bough for mine. "Give your bough to some nice 'feller,'    And if you would make my life sublime  Put me in some cool rathskeller    And we'll forget the jug of wine. "Wine in a jug! What do I hear?    Not with a loaf of bread and thou,  A cheese sandwich and a glass of beer,    Unless you've changed your brand ere now. "This sitting in the wilderness may be fine    For those who the realms of nature seek,  A restaurant is at least a paradise divine    With payday on the first of every week."I guess maybe that won't show him up! Ain't it just glorious? It'skinda wabbly on its feet, but just think, it's her first attempt. Shesaid there were a lot more things she could say, but even her desire tobe a poetess wouldn't let her forget that she was a lady. Alla told methat the height of her ambition was to write the words of a popular songand have Harry Von Seltzer sing it in the College Inn. She can't evermake a hit as a poem producer though 'cause she hasn't got high cheekbones and teeth like a squirrel. Alla was pensive all through the firstact, and while she was making her change from a lady-in-waiting to abathing girl she remarked that she was going to write an ode--past tenseof I O U, I guess--entitled 'Thoughts on Hearing Ben Teal Conduct aChorus Rehearsal.' They won't let her publish it."What do you know about the new law about tanks having to have theirnames on the barroom door? I see where the Metropole will lose moneyunless they furnish disguises to their steady customers. Can you imaginethe suspense certain parties will feel when they rush into a shop fortheir early morning 'thought mop' and have to cling to the bar whileArthur looks up their past performances in Bingham's Bartenders' Guide."A gentleman friend had the kindness to extend me courtesies to 'TheWitching Hour' the other evening, and listen to muh: There is some classto that show. Ain't you seen it? It's a song and dance about this mentaltelepathy gag. There is a gambling gentleman who can tell a poker handevery time. The only reason he ain't a heiress is because his consciencejumps up and gives him a kick in the face. This party in the playinfluences people's minds. He thinks of something, and people miles awaythink of the same thing. All the same wireless. Take it from me, there'sa whole lot to it at that. I was out with a kind friend the otherevening whose general disposition is to try and make Frank Daniels looklike a spendthrift, so I knew it would be beer for mine unless I made agreat mental effort, so all the way up the street in the taxicab I justheld thumbs and concentrated my mind--I saw more new style hats,too--and said to myself, 'For Heaven's sake, order wine,' 'Please loosenup and order wine.' All to myself, you understand, never once out loud,for though I am in the business I don't seek the reputation as a workinggirl."Well I hope I may never look a lobster in the face again. No, I am notspeaking of this party. But I hope I may never look a lobster in theface again if he didn't swell all up, prance into the eat hut and saycareless like over his shoulder to the waiter, 'A bottle of that Brut.'Just like that. I tried the concentration gag on him for a pearl ring hehad on, thinking I had him under the gypsy curse, but there was a personwho had the nerve to call herself a lady who had been saying thingsabout me sitting at another table with a Harry who had led me to believethat I was his own little Star of Hope, and I just couldn't get my mindcentered."Honest to goodness, I don't know what I'll do unless I find work. Mysuite of apartments is reduced now to one hall room and a closet, andthe Dennett & Child's circuit is beginning to look like K. & E. booking.The only thing I can think of for me to do is to get engaged and hockthe betrothal ring for a meal ticket."Me for roller skates. Here I've been hunting a job until I wore out twopair of these Sorosis things and not a bush shakes. Can't even sign acontract for a Friday night amateur contest. By gum, I'd take a jobbarking for a snake race. I had an offer to go into vaudeville. What doyou know about that? The act hasn't any time yet, but it will get timeas soon as it makes good, and to make good all its needs is a trialperformance, and the backer thinks he knows where he can get a trialperformance, and to get ready for the trial performance will requireabout five weeks' rehearsal at nix per week. Do you think a stunt likethat is worthy of my attention? Adversity does sure land on the poorchorus doll with both feet at every stage of the game."I was reading in the paper the other day that some old pappy guy out inChi was making a noisy fuss that the chorus ladies stay up too latenights. I wish somebody would show him to me, that's all I ask, justshow him to me. I suppose old Pink Whiskers was a chorus man oncehimself and has got all the dope on the subject. So we stay up late, dowe? I suppose he will be wanting us to read helpful books instead ofmaking up, next. To my mind, of course I may be wrong, but to my mindthe staying up late nights ain't half as bad as getting up in themorning. Of course, I don't know who or what this old wop is that madethis crack, but if he thinks we spend most of our time in sinfulidleness he'd better copper his bet. All we do is rehearse all morning,matinee all afternoon, performance all evening and travel all night. Therest of the time we have to ourselves, and he thinks we frivol. Why, heain't wise to half the privations they force on us. Would you believeit? I have gone forty weeks without never even catching a glimpse ofBroadway, and once went for ten without even a cheese sandwich to bringgladness to my heart. Can you beat that? And then he goes and turnsloose a rebel yell because when we do get a little time to ourselves westay up late nights. Oh, Mellen's Food! When does he want us to stay up?Mornings? Some wise boy once said, 'Early to bed, early to rise, but youdon't meet any prominent people,' and I guess maybe he wasn't right. Hegot the number then all right, all right, and he didn't have to speakharsh to Central at that. We gotta do something to amuse ourselves, andI never had a traveling gentleman yet conduct me to a watch meeting. Agirl comes out of the stage door tired and lonesome; some village cut-upprances out and gets acquainted; the girl is hungry, so why not? Perhapsshe is sending money home every week and can't afford a little lunchafter the show herself. No, that's no taproom jest. There is more thanone of the merry-merry putting her little sister through school anddon't you forget it for a minute. And he gets sore because we stay uplate nights. He'd better roll another pill, get at the cause and thenhang the curfew on a few of those town romps. If he hands out anothersong and dance number like that again, send him up to me, I'll give hima bunch of inside info that will make him think something broke loose."I managed to slip in and see 'The Talk of New York' the other night.Say, that's a great play. Did you get wise to the way that Kid Burnsparty juggles the loose talk? I don't believe there ever was a partythat slings slang the way that guy does. My mother was always particularabout my bringing up, and if I ever passed out any of this George Cohanstyle of repartee she would give me a slap on the map and tell me tochase back and handle my harangue as per Mr. Webster. So, though I havetraveled about a bit, I still retain my pure English, even when I losemy temper, which is going some for a lady."What am I going to do New Year's? I know one thing. I ain't going toplay an encore to the sozzle session number I pulled off last season.Didn't you hear about it? Evidently you were not on Broadway last NewYear's Eve. A couple of young ladies and myself were playing aprogressive hell party all up and down the main street. You see, youplay it this way. A guy comes up and blows a horn in your ear. You swatthe horn quickly on the end with your hand. If the guy swallows morethan half the horn you win and are allowed to 'phone for the ambulance.But that was only a prelude to the main event. Ah, me! I blush tochronicle it. There were so many shows in town that the supply ofcollege students didn't come up to the demand, and as me and the bunchhad sorta turned them down after they went and lost all their money onthe Thanksgiving game, so we had an intimation that developed into ahunch that our little 'welcome' mat on the doorstep would not be crowdedwith an eager throng. We engaged a couple of window tables at the Cafedes Beaux Minks realizing that though we were not in the money we werestill on the track. This was last New Year's Eve. New Year's afternoonwe held a reception up at Miss Verneaque's flat, took up a collectionfor the widows and orphans and cleared 4.43 apiece on it. The place gotpinched and we all had to hide on the roof until the cops beat it. Butnot for me this year. Me for the peaceful kind of a celebration. I don'tknow what to do. The only people I have on my calling list now are theagents, and they will all be home splashing in the egg-nog."Gee, but I wish I was home. Was you ever in a country town on a NewYear's Day? Say, list. Sixty laughs in sixty minutes looks like a busyday at the morgue compared to the laughs they hand out in one of thoseone-night stand dumps. The Sons of Temperance all go out and get a bunon ad lib. and everybody inhales good cheer. I sang in the choir. HonestI did, but it didn't take. I got a silver cigarette case yet thechoirmaster gave me. But no home this year; me to the Cafe des Enfants.What? Will I? Don't make such a foolish noise. I'll be there with myhair in a braid. Two-thirty at Hector's. Say, you've got the GoodSamaritan looking like a rent collector. So long."    In which Sabrina discloses a little of her past and those of the    members of the company, tells how she was a bridesmaid and goes    into detail in regard to the benefit to humanity of having    carrier pigeons trained to rush the growler.CHAPTER TWOI was strolling down Broadway the other afternoon with Oscar when wehappened to meet Miss Sabrina, the show girl. I introduced them, ofcourse, and then retired to the background. This is what followed:"I am very glad to meet you, Mr. Jenkins. I've heard the party herespeak of you.""Yes; and I have heard him say several nice things about you.""Is that so?""Sure. But don't take it to heart; he means well.""Well, I can only say he treats me like a true friend.""Speaking of treats, I'll buy the beer.""My goodness! Ain't you afraid of catching cold--taking so much moneyout of your clothes all at once?""What was that you handed out? Come again, please.""I merely remarked that it was awful kind of you.""Oh, that's all right; I always was careless with my money.""I always like this place; it reminds me so much of the back of the drugstore in Emporia.""Then you are from the West, Miss De Vear.""Oh, yes, indeed, I'm a Western girl pure and simple--""You said, 'pure and simple,' did you not?""I most certainly did, and I'd like to see the party that's got anythingon me. I come from a dead swell family, I do. I may be only a poorchorus girl, but by gosh! I was brung up right. Did you know that I wasfeatured for three seasons in the church choir in my home town and wouldhave had it for life if the stage manag--I mean the choirmaster hadn'tforgot he was a gentleman; so I just quit rather than cause talk. Why,would you believe it?--my father was mayor of Emporia for nearly twoterms. You'd be surprised if I told you my real name and some of thepeople I am related to. Say, what are you going to do with that book?Trying to dope out whether you can buy another drink, I suppose.""No. I'm just keeping track of the girls I met whose fathers are mayorsof towns. I've got forty-seven for Providence, R.I., fifteen for Peoria,Ill., ten for Atlanta, Ga., and your two makes seven for Emporia. I'vegot fifty-three for chief of police, twenty-one fire captains, andeleven postmas--""Excuse me, but are you trying to infer that I am telling an untruth?""Oh, forget it! Can't you stand a little jolly without going up in theair?""Well, I'll accept your apology, but I don't like to have people castingslurs on my pa and ma, and beer wont appease my wrath when I feel like ahighball."Go as far as you like. I was only ordering what I thought you wereaccustomed to.""Say, Mr. Percival B. Fresh, you certainly are the village wag when itcomes to the Oriental repartee, ain't you?""Sure I am, but I have to go to the mat when they commence to dish outthis Emporia humor. Oh. Laza! Do you care for the one in red?""Of course I may go wrong, but in my mind no gentleman would makeremarks about another girl when he is with a lady.""Say, girlie, you're all right--lovely hair, beautiful eyes and allthat--but cut it; drop in your penny and get wise to yourself. That's agreat show you are with.""When was you out front?""Night before last.""Night before last! My Heavens! Wasn't I a sight? You know the girl Idress with had been out to a wine supper and she came splashing into thedressing room lit up like a show window and cried my makeup box full oftears over the death of her baby sister, and the way I had to put it onI thought was sure good for a fine, and to make matters worse some hussygot next to all my toothpicks and I had to use a hairpin for a liner;but did you notice the way that cat of a soubrette keeps me out of thespotlight? Professional jealousy, that's all; but it don't do me no goodto kick, because the stage manager sends her silk stockings and thatkind of junk, while the best I get is a chance to hold hands with theelectrician; but, of course, he gets his orders.""Say, that piece of work that stands on the end opposite you is all tothe berries, ain't she?""Her!""Surest thing you know. She looks like a night-blooming pippin to me.""My, gracious, Mr. Jenkins, I never knocked a living soul, but I don'tmind telling you as a friend that I personally would not degrade myselfby speaking to her, and of course you know that the hair she wears isnot her own. I haven't a thing in the world against the poor creature,but it has been breathed around the company that she is not all sheshould be. Of course, I don't know positively, but it is what everybodysays, and I only wish she would make good with that four bits of mine.""Well, I'm glad there's no hard feeling between you two, as I would liketo meet her.""I'm very sorry, but you will have to pardon me if I refuse to give youa knockdown, for I would steer no friend of a friend of mine up againsta flim flam where there's so many nice girls running loose. Take TessieSamonies, for example, she ain't very pretty, but she's awfully cute,and after she gets a couple of sloe gins boosted into her she certainlyis the life of the party.""All right, frame it up for me and I'll open wine or a window orsomething to show that I'm a true sport.""You bet I will, and we'll have a nice little family party, no knockingor nothing; just sit and talk real friendly like.""That's the idea and if anyone starts the anvil chorus they get theskiddo. What? Who will we have?""Well, let's see, we'll have Tessie and you, me and Silent Murphyhere--and let's see who else?""Joe Zeweibaum and Miss Veronique.""Not yet. Joe is all right in a crowd if you can keep him from talkingabout his sales, but the dame--not for me, for if there's any one getsmy goat she's it.""Shall we have Frank Millar and his first wife?""Oh, heavings! No! For if we did his third wife would hear about it andthen she would knock me to my husband, for you know they are engaged, soif she hears anything about me you can bet she plays it up strong.""Well, can't you think of some one else?""No, I don't know a soul that is any good but us four. My goodness, I'vegot to roll my hoop and do a shopping number, get my hair gargled--Islept in it last night--and see a sick friend."Fate sure does sic tribulations on me at every turn of the road. Thisbusiness of hunting employment has got to be so balmy that I snort andjump sideways every time anybody says 'job.'"Now that the first of the year has kicked in, I thought everythingwould be as merry as a marriage bell, but as yet there hasn't been aripple on the water. The only thing that acts as a star of hope to mymiserable existence is a date with a Summer stock that opens the firstof June, and there is a heap of smoke around that. I wish some one wouldtip me off to some way of earning an honest living without having toresort to a sock full of sand or a strong arm. But why be downhearted? Ihaven't drunk up all my Christmas presents yet. As a last hope I canload upon them and get some kind ambulance to drag me up to the dippydepartment of some nice hospital. Honest, I am getting so thin thatbefore long I won't be able to understudy a drop of water in Mr. Hawk'sHippodrome."A nice gentleman presented himself to me on Broadway the other eveningand, after passing the compliments of the season, invited me out toinhale a young table d'hote. The way I sprang to his side made a leapfor life seem like sinful idleness. And where do you think he took me? Iask as a friend, Where do you think he took me? To one of those jointswhere you get everything from soup to nuts, including a scuttle full ofred ink for thirty-five scudi. I was going to balk and rear in theharness when he started to lead me up the steps of the foundry, but as Ialways maintained discretion is the better part of valor, I'm two-bitsahead anyway you play it. So I climb into the nosebag without a peep.Yet--would you believe it?--when that wop came to cash in he shook themothballs out of a roll of bills that looked like nine miles' worth ofhall carpet. I had been acting very reserved heretofore, but when hemade this flash he commenced to look like a very dear friend of mine whohad been very kind to me in moments of adversity. I apprised him of thefact, and the dog had the temerity to pin his pocket shut with a safetypin right before my eyes. I come to find out later that he was a pressagent. Ain't it scandalous the way the Friars wine and dine thedramatists every few weeks? I tried to agitate a bunch for the chorusgirls to give a dinner to Ben Teal or William Seymour, but while theywere all willing to be in on the big eat the way they ducked thefinancial responsibilities would have made you think it was ahalf-salary clause."The other day I put my ear to the ground and then cavorted madly aroundto Mr. Savage's office to see if there was anything doing in the 'MerryWidow' line. The handsome gentleman on the other side of the deskallowed a ripple of merriment to float over his features and then spakeas follows: 'All we got to do is to toll the bell in the old churchtower and nine companies will answer like the fire department.' You knowI could have gone with the Paris 'Prince of Pilson' company, but thoseFrench gentlemen are so emotional. One tried to bite my ear in Jack'sthe other night."Did I tell you about Mamie de Vere becoming a bride again? She believesin marrying at leisure and divorcing in haste. The justice of the peacethat always ties her nuptial knot told her that if she bought a ticketshe could save 50 cents per wedding and he would hand it to the happybridegroom as her dowry. Well, anyway they got maried after the show, sothat she wouldn't loose her job. I was maid of honor. Honest I was.Don't it sound funny? And I carried her bouquet as the bridal partymarched up the hall to the office of the justice of the peace. Just ashe was about to pronounce the last sad rites a hurdy-gurdy startedplaying 'Don't Get Married Any More, Ma,' with variations. Well, it madeMamie so nervous. You know she always was a hysterical creature. It madeher so nervous that she had to have Wilbur--that's her husband--go outand put a bug on the Ginny before she would allow the flag to drop. Thenwe went out and had our wedding breakfast. There were six or eight inthe crowd, I don't rightly remember which, for sometimes there would beonly a few and then again it would be a turbid throng."A couple of whisky sales gentlemen joined our little gathering andproposed a race. You know I do so love athletic sports. I don't meanprize fighters or ball players, but feats of strength. The whiskygentlemen had a little the best start, for they had been running trialheats. The way we staged that drinking number was a crime. How we endedup I care not, neither do I spin. I can merely state that Mamie and Islid for home in a sea-going taxicab, leaving Wilbur saying things tothe head waiter that no lady would listen to."Oh, say, are you here with any extra junk? No, this ain't no touch. Butif you have got a reckless bundle I know how you can double it in a fewweeks. A gentleman friend of mine was captain of a fake wire-tappinggame until he got put out of business by the hard times and the lack ofsuckers--synonymous. He is selling stock of a proposition that hasanything from Goldfield chased back to the desert. This is the scheme:Listerine. He's going to train carrier pigeons to rush the growler. TheChorus Girls' Union have already elected him an honorary vice-president.You see, he gets these birds and trains them to carry the pail in theirteeth and smell out the nearest saloon, even a blind tiger--no matterwhere they are. Then he rents the birds out by the dozen to thetheatrical organizations--special rates to musical comedies--so that allthe poor merry-merry has to do if there is no gentleman without is get abird from the property man, beat it for the furnished room, drop tencents in the bucket, write a little note to the bartender merelystating: 'Mother has company, so not so much foam, please,' open thewindow and start the dove of peace on its mission of happiness. Youneedn't be afraid of the pigeon sneaking up an alley and drinking halfof it and then coming back with the stall, 'The boss is on tonight;there ain't no bellhop to tip and all the bird wants is three or fourgrains of corn, mother, and its just as happy and care free as if youopened wine. Won't that be a boon to humanity, though? If he don't get aCarnegie medal things are run wrong. Another stunt he is going to pulloff is canned cheese sandwiches. Well, I got to toddle along. TheLadies' Auxiliary to the Anvil Chorus is going to hold a meeting in AllaSweenie's apartments. Was you ever one of them? Well, when those damesget on the job and are grouped it makes Elinor Glyn's opinion of thePilgrim Mothers seem like words of praise. So long."    In which Sabrina receives money from an unexpected source, and    brings to light how she came to receive it and what she intends    doing when the entire sum is given her.CHAPTER THREE"Providence has got to throw something besides 'crap,' some time orother," remarked Sabrina, the show girl as we complimented her upon hernew gown. "And I guess I am there with rings on my fingers and bells onmy toes, or words to that effect. Take me by the hand and lead me tosome secluded nook and I will unburden my young soul."When we had seated ourselves and the waiter had retired for the secondtime she began:"You have been hearing me put up a plaintive plea about being on therocks. Well, I was. I had everything in hock but my self-respect, and Ihad that ready to tuck under my shawl at a moment's notice and rush offto Uncle Sim's. But never again for muh. I was up in my suite wonderingif I could sign checks at Child's when the landlady shoved a letterunder my door--she could have shoved a dog under just as well as not. Idive for the epistle, thinking, perhaps, it is some word ofencouragement from Matt Grau. I tear open the envelope and pull out aletter and out drops a piece of paper that could look like it meantmoney. It's a cinch I beat it to the floor. It was a check. I staggeredagainst the gas stove I was so surprised; then I unfolded it and it wasmade out to me. Can you beat that? To me, and in my real name, for onehundred, count 'em, one hundred cold, hard Clearing House certificates.The only thing that kept me from having a scene with myself was the factthat I had drank up all my merry Yuletide gifts. Well, by and by, afterpiping off the check, counting it, biting it, smelling it, I had senseenough to look at the letter. This is going to be a long, sad tale, soyou had better--yes, that's it--a little more of the same. You see, itwas this way."Last season when I--thank goodness--when I was with a Broadwayproduction instead of a road show, a certain party, whom I had met whileout on the one-night stands the season before, came stampeding into townand it fell upon my fair young shoulders to show him the sights.Query--Did I show him the sights? Answer--Yes, I did show him thesights. If there was any place we didn't see it was because you had tohave an introduction to get in."Then Edward became inoculated with an idea that it would be a good planto consume all the booze on Broadway, thereby preventing others fromliving intemperate lives. Such a chance. You know the new tunnelcouldn't hold the reserve supply of liquids that can report for duty ata minute's notice on the corner of Forty-second and Broadway. The firsttime I got hep to those proceedings was when I received the glad tidingsover the phone from a hospital steward that a friend of mine was tryingto bite holes in the detention sheet and shrieking my name."I grabbed a book on 'Pink Animals I Have Met' and flew to the rescue.When I got to the cot there was Edward's cherubic mug peeping out fromunder about four miles of nice clean bandages and an attendant sittingdaintily on his chest. When he saw me he calmed down and dismissed themenagerie for the nonce. 'Dearie,' he said, taking my shrinking littlehand in his, 'it was awful. It's only by mere chance that you find mecustodian of this Reptile Bazar instead of one of these "mangledremains" things. It was this way. I had been down to the bar lapping upa few drinks and pretty soon a band comes up the street. I go out tolook it over and there is nothing in sight, so I go back and get Arthurto mix me up another to see if it won't make me feel better. I drinkthat and hear the band again. I run out just in time to see it hidingbehind the post. It's bum harmony at that, so I go upstairs to take anap."'I'm lying there on the bed when all of a sudden the door opens and inmarches twelve little soldiers, about six inches high, dressed in bluepants and red coats. They climb and start to pull off a zouave drill onthe foot of the bed. That made me sour, for I don't feel like a militarypageant, so I lift up my foot and kick them out on the floor. Thesoldiers don't say a word, but jump up and climb out through thetransom. In about five minutes the door opens and in marches the wholearmy, all about six inches high. Gee, there must have been a million ofthem, for all I could see was blue pants and red coats. I'm lying thereon the bed, taking it all in, when up rides a dinky little officer on ahorse. He salutes me and I salute him, just to let them know that therewasn't any hard feeling. Then he says, "I am glad to state that you havebut one life to lose for your country; therefore we are going to shootyou." Well, you know me, Dearie. I jumped out of the window. The nexttime I come out of it here is this guy doing snake charming stunts on mystomach.'"Can you beat that for a pipe? I look after this party with all theloving care of a sister, and thanks to the doctor and a pump we pulledhim through. When he was able to be shipped home I went down to thetrain to see him off and as he kissed me goodby he said, 'Don't youworry, kid, I won't forget this.' I didn't pay any attention to hischatter, thinking it nothing but balloon juice. But this letter saysthat he died about a week ago and left ten thousand to me in such a waythat it won't do his wife no good to yelp. Ten thousand! Gee, ain't thatan awful huge lot of money for one poor little merry-merry to beburdened with! The lawyers sent that first hundred along to show thatthey are not pikers, and said that the rest would be along in a fewdays. Gosh! I won't know what to do with it. I can't get that much in mylittle lisle thread bank without spoiling the contour of that new gowneffect I am going to be poured into. Clothes, well I should hope so,dear. When the true meaning of that effusion soaked into my system, theway I grabbed my hat and took it on the run for the dressmaker's was acaution to cab horses."I'm going to get a bunch of clothes and then slide for home. You knowmy father was mayor of Emporia for nearly a whole term, and I can goright back into society. That is a great burg; if anybody wears anythingbut a Mother Hubbard on week days they are doped out as a actress. Sure!That's the way they know that there's a show in town, that and the band.That town will have nothing but the best. If a show isn't good enough tohare a band it might as well cancel. It's a great show town, all right;sometimes they have two shows there the same week, 'East Lynne' andsomething else. The Boston Store has the 'Pilgrim's Progress' on therecent fiction counter."Well, I must rush right along. I've got to go over to some place andget a mile or two of those puff gags, mine are all moth eaten. I've gotsome more things to buy and then I am going around and make faces at allthese theatrical agents. Bye bye."    In which Sabrina receives the balance of the fortune, says    farewell to the hall bed-room, secures more imposing quarters, a    French maid, an automobile and other accessories as befitting    her station.CHAPTER FOUR"I've got Adversity laying on her back and purring with Contentment,"remarked Sabrina the Show Girl, as she stepped out of a taxicab in frontof a cafe, "and I guess she'll stand hitched for a few minutes. Tell mydriver to wait and then come in and have a little liquid nourishment.This is the only place I can find where one can get any kind of service.My, ain't I getting fussy? Here 'two weeks ago coffee and butter-cakeswere a banquet. But why dig up the past, and I reiterate the remark,'Let the dead bury its dead.' If anybody mentions Mink's to me I amliable to throw a foaming fit and fall in it. Every time I pass a breadline I am filled with sorrow for the poor unfortunates, while heretoforeI got sore because they had beaten me to it."Sure, the lawyer guy kicked in with the balance of the ten thousand,and I am now busily engaged in putting it where it will do the mostgood. Moved? Well, I should hope so, dear. Instead of existing in atwo-by-four hallroom, with an airshaft exposure, where you have to openthe door to think, I am now residing in a real suite. Maybe you think Idon't keep Estelle--that's my maid--on the job. She's the busyproposition about that dump. As soon as I come out of my beauty sleep inthe morning I ring the bell and in capers Estelle with a dipperful ofchocolate, which I sip while reclining on my couch, and you can take itfrom me it's got this stunt of romping about a cold room in a cantonflannel kimona trifling with the affections of a gas stove beat to apurple pulp."Then after reading the morning paper I arise, take a bawth, and Estelledoes my hair. That is, she does part of it. I can't bear any one's teethbut my own on my Dutch braid. You know some people are sensitive thata-way. After the hair dressing number I inhale about 4 worth ofbreakfast and then lounge about my little nest. I call it my little nestbecause it is finished in birdseye maple. I always have eggs forbreakfast, and Estelle puts on the finishing touches with a featherduster and I boss the job, smoking a cigarette. I always was strong forhaving things harmonize. I suppose it is my artistic temperament. Ialways drink cordials the same color as my hat. After that everything isfixed to my entire satisfaction, and I won't stand for cigarette buttsbeing kicked under the bed, either. I'm that particular. Then about noonthe dressmaker makes her entrance and I pick out my gowns. Clothes! Say,when I line out of here for that dear Emporia I'll have to buytwenty-five tickets so as I can get a baggage car free. I'll need it.From the apparel I am purchasing you'd think I was wardrobe mistress fora number two 'Talk of New York' company. If I don't make those cannedgoods drummers in front of the Palace Hotel think there is something intown besides a 'Tom' show I hope I never see Broadway again."Then along toward afternoon I climb into some chic frock--getthat?--and taxey down here to look things over. Say, maybe you don'tthink this butterfly existence is all to the berries. The other eveningI kicked down to a show I once worked in and, believe me, if some ofthose dames knew what they looked like from the front they certainlywould rush out and hide in the cow lot."Honest, there is one doll who thinks she has got every prize beauty inthe country biting her finger nails with jealousy. Well, she came out,led out at that. I nearly dropped dead in my seat. You know that I amnot a knocker, and there is nothing I hate worse than to hear one ladypan another behind her back, so I will merely make this statement. Ifthis person would stop trying to use up all the number 18 in the block,would get operated on for knock-knees, have her face changed and stoptrying to be a very dear friend to the whole bald-headed departmentduring the opening chorus, she'd be all right and might get a job with amedicine show. I know how she keeps her job all right, all right. Iain't mentioning any names, but a certain party, old enough to be hergrandfather, had to put money into the show before they would even lether have her voice tried. I was out to dinner with the same crowd thatshe was with the other evening. Arthur and I were sitting at the tablein the restaurant waiting for the rest of the crowd when in she canters,dressed up regardless like a queen in a book, in a low-neck gag. She runa bluff as if she just had it made, but if a certain K. & E. wardrobemistress ever catches her with it on this party is due to get pinchedfor petty larceny. As soon as she spotted me she rushed over and yelped,'Oh, Sabrina, I'm charmed to see you.' And kissed me--the cat. Then shesaid, 'Dearie, I understand you have inherited a fortune.' And raisedher eyebrows just like that. Now I had been kidded enough about thatlegacy of mine, and when that doll, that ain't such a muchness herself,commences to hand out inferences, I naturally lost my goat, butremembering that I am now a lady I let go of my hatpin and merelyremarked, 'Yes, but I came by it honestly, and I can safely say that Iam no Foxy Grandpa's fair-haired child.'"That terse remark made her sit up and take notice, for she had beentelling one of the members of the party who she was trying to make a hitwith that she got her money from her large estates in England. The onlything she knows about England she learned at a Burton Holmes lecturethat she got into on a ticket she found in the subway."The gentlemen of the party called time and we sat down to the table.She started putting on airs and telling what she knew about the Thawtrial, so to let her know that I was right there I passed out this one,'It's a cinch if anybody did any shooting to save your life he'll getthe chair the first throw out of the box, and the jury won't be out anylonger than it takes to get their hats, either.' Say, if she had had agun she'd have shot me. One of the gentlemen remarked to me, 'You don'tcare for this young lady, do you?' I said, 'Sure, I like her. I like herabout as much as Bingham likes Jerome.'"This female party started to drinking champagne as if it were suds, sonaturally it wasn't long before she got a snootful, and one of thesecrying kind, all the party began to kid her until at last she sobbed,'Well, there is always one place I can go to where I am welcome.' One ofthe guys said, 'Yes, dearie, I know it, but it is after 1 o'clock nowand that place is closed.' Then little Bright Eyes beat it and we allhad a real nice evening after that. Oh! She's a smooth one, all right;she nearly made me lose my job once if it hadn't been that the stagemanager was carrying my suitcase I would have been decorated with mylittle two weeks out in the wilds somewhere. You see it was this way: Wehad a tree, not the one Arthur owned, but another, and one of thecomedians had to stand inside of it for about fifteen minutes before hecould make his entrance--laughing number--this was only a dinky littleplace and only had one small airhole. Well, this foxy dame stuffed thisairhole full of limberger cheese, so when it came time for his entranceinstead of coming forth blithe and gay as per book, the comedian cameout looking as if he had apoplexy, the same naturally causing themerry-merry to giggle ad lib. Did you ever see a wild fish? Honest, whenthat man came off I thought he was going to commit murder; what he saidon the subject is not for me to repeat. Right in the middle of theharangue this dame remarks, 'I think it was Sabrina.'"The next think she thunk was to wonder who let go of the asbestoscurtain, for I happened to overhear that 'aside' and bounced astage-brace on her think tank. If she had gone on again that night itwould have been in a wheeled chair. Another stunt she did was to putlampblack all over the tenor's glove and he wiped it off on the prima'sshoulders so she looked like a zebra in a bathing suit, and every timeshe would tell the firemen when the chorus men were getting freshcourage by smoking cigarettes in their dressing rooms, but that is allover now and my stage career is ended until I spend all this surpluscash. I take it on the run for that dear Kansas tomorrow, so I think Iwill go and see if Estelle has finished packing. Try and be good while Iam gone, and if anything happens for goodness sake wire me, for out inthat neck of the woods even paying for telegrams from New York is apleasure. Au revoir."    In which Sabrina makes a visit to her parents in Emporia,    returns after but a brief stay and chronicles some of the events    that transpired while in the city of her birth.CHAPTER FIVE"Kill the prodigal, the calf has returned!" cried Sabrina the Show Girl,as her taxicab drew up to where we were standing."Thought you were in Emporia!" we exclaimed in surprise."I was. I came; I saw; I conquered. Or whatever whoever said it, did.Jump in and I'll tell you all about it. Fine business. I had moreexciting events than ever appeared before under one canvas. But neveragain. You know when I started about ten days ago? Trouble? Why, I hadmore trouble than a manager with nine stars and one good dressing room.And I had to leave Estelle, my maid, here at that. I tried to get astateroom, but nothing doing, so me for a berth with the common herd.Train going along fine, about 3 in the morning me pounding my fair youngear in lower six, when all of a sudden. Biff! Mr. Engine slaps a cow inthe back and the whole works deserts the track and the caboose I'm inslides over the bank, turns over on her side and dies, lower six at thebottom. I get handed the following--one suitcase, two pairs of shoes anda fat hardware salesman from upper five. Not forgetting my womanlyrights I turn loose a rebel yell and start to climb out of the oppositewindow with the kind assistance of the arm of the berth, the face of thefat salesman and a broken window, appearing as the Pink Pajama Girl onthe side of the car that was at that time understudying the roof."When I got out I turned loose a couple more whoops on the clear morningair just to let them know that I was still on the job, and took a casualsurvey of the disaster. Naturally our car was the goat and the only onethat had gone wrong. The fat salesman does the appearing act next,dragging his suitcase; waived formality and asked me if I would have adrink. Me for the drink, and then I got him to climb back down andrescue the rest of my apparel, and I dressed standing up there on theside of the car, much to the edification of the train crew that were notbusily engaged in assuring the other dames in the car that they were notdead. By and by along comes another train, and they load us all in andwe get to Chicago only about four hours late. Me being that fatigued Irushed right up to the Sherman House, but there wasn't a room vacant onthe top floor, so I knew I would not feel at home there, so I gocapering over to the Annex."Gee, but that Chicago is a bum town, and yet in Emporia they look uponit as a Mecca of pleasure. The only pleasure I ever got there was tryingto analyze the smells from the stock yards. They don't eat anything inChicago but chop suey. Did you ever shoot any of that junk into yoursystem? Them can have it that likes it; but never again for muh. You getit in a little dish, and the blooming stuff smells as if it was somerelation to a poultice; you eat it and then go home and chew all theenamel off the bed. No, I don't know what it is made of; if I did Iwouldn't eat it. That's the only thing Chicago is good for, chop sueyand smells. When they get through talking about the World's Fair perhapsthey will think up some new form of amusement. I met a wop in Chicago,one of these real romantic kind that only grow there. I was seated in asecluded corner of the ladies' waiting room of the Annex, and he came upand asked me if I didn't want to step in the Pompeian room and hear thewaters of the fountain lapping up against the marble. I told him I muchpreferred to be up against a bottle of wine and do the lapping myself.He, with that true Chicago gallantry, said, 'Excuse me first, I want to'phone a friend.'"I'm glad I didn't hold my breath while he was gone. I think he musthave taken a surface car for Oak Park. Those Chicago rum-dums are thetrue sports, all right, all right. If necessity compels them to buyanything stronger than beer they commence to look sassy at the waiterand talk loud. Chicago is sure rightly named when they call it the WindyCity. You just ought to have heard the line of jolly some of those boystried to hand out to me. To me, mind you, to me! They must have thoughtthat I was some unsophisticated young ingenue that never had beenfurther away from State street than an occasional excursion across thelake to St. Joe."I sloshed around town for a couple of days just to give those people achange from the usual run of Randolph street romps, then I hit thehummer for bleeding Kansas and Emporia."Say, I had a great first entrance into that burg and nothing else; buta crate of lemons got off to crab the act. When I climb down off thehurdle, behold, the village choir right there on the job to see thetrain come in. The arrival of the train--notice the train--is what youmight call the main event of the day. As soon as the village yokels sawmy trunks being unloaded they all did the grand duck for the theatre tostrike the house manager, thinking it was a show. I hadn't tipped mymitt to the folks, so they were not at the tank to give me the parentalembrace, but after giving the necessary instructions to the baggage manI climbed into the Palace Hotel bus and romped up to my ancestors'abode."Business of weeping on neck. Mother wigwags father, who comes over fromthe grocery store, where he is electing the President of the UnitedStates. Business of rejoicing ad. lib. Sister comes in from the villageschool; neighbors kick in to see what's coming off. Entrance of trunks,gasps of surprise by populace. Distribution of presents by muh."That night there was a young people's meeting at the church. A youngpeople's meeting is a signal for every old dame in the township that'snot married to iron out her white silk waist and take it on the run forthe tabernacle. After the usual prelude the minister got up and said,'We would like a few words from Sabrina, who has lately returned to ourlittle flock from the busy scenes of the great and wicked metropolis.' Ihad to get up and hand out the usual stereotyped and mimeographed stuffabout being glad to be in their midst once again and it did my heartgood to see so many bright and shining faces, etc., etc. I had on amodest little frock that had only lanced me about three hundred and madethe aurora borallis look like a dark night. So that the admiring publicwouldn't overlook any bets in the costume line I enlivened my discoursewith these illustrated song gestures, every move a picture."After the olio the Busy Brigade of the Ladies' Auxiliary took thenapkin off a group of sandwiches and a bath tub of lemonade and we allhad an awful time with ourselves cracking rare quips. Me the center ofan admiring throng. They all knew I was an actress and they asked me toact. You know the extent of my acting, a champagne dance and a burlesqueon the 'Merry Widow' waltz, and my lines are limited to, 'Oh! girls,here comes the prince, now, hurrah, hurrah, hurrah.' Therefore I duckedthe request to exhibit my art. I was going home after the show--I meanentertainment--and Waldo, the fellow I went with before I got senseenough to blow the burg with a musical comedy--Waldo started to walkhome with me. I will say this much for Waldo before I go any further, hehas a good eye for the future, even though he is working in a grocerystore."Waldo and I were walking down the quiet country lane, he telling me allthe news that had been pulled off while I had been away. When we gotdown to the garden gate what do you think came off? Waldo proposed.Honest, he proposed, just like that. Waldo's intentions were sincere,but his work was lumpy and he went up in his lines a couple of times. Hedidn't pass it out half as strong as these city chaps do when they don'tmean it. I instructed Waldo to can his chatter and forget it. Waldo gotreal indignant because I wouldn't fly with him and tried to grab me. NowI hadn't been prowling about New York alone without learning how to takecare of myself, so I gave him the heel and the way he went to the matwas a caution for further orders. Waldo was a nice boy, but he wasrough, so after the jolt he got he had sense enough to beat it."Say, I had an awful time for the next two or three days. But neveragain. I'll never go any further out in the country than Claremont.These rural districts are for those that like them, but if I can haveBroadway for a country lane you won't hear a peep out of me. Honest,when I see a car with 'Forty-second street, crosstown,' on it I wantedto gallup up and kiss the motorman."Well, I've got to leave you here. Will tell you how I happened to leaveEmporia the next time I see you. Take it from me, I had rather be ashine on Broadway than a glare anywhere else. So long."    In which Sabrina chronicles some more of the adventures that    happened to her while visiting her parents and details how she    stood the town on edge, was ejected therefrom, and the remarks    she made on the subject.CHAPTER SIX"They say a rolling stone gathers no moss, but it's a cinch that thispebble could have gathered a bunch of lemons since she has fallen intoher inheritance if she had but listened to their plaintive plea,"remarked Sabrina, the Show Girl, after we had seated ourselves at thetable."Has some one been seeking your hand in marriage?" she was asked."Honest, there are more dubs around this town who had rather get marriedthan work than there are actors on Broadway now. I have had threeproposals since I have been back, one of marriage. I told them all 'no.'That I preferred to live a la carte. I could have become a farmer'sbride in Emporia if I had but said the word. I didn't tell you how Icame to sneak that snare, did I? You know I went out there with theintention of staying a month, surging around and showing the villagebelles that May Manton wasn't the only authority on correct dress. Tendays was my limit."The family and every one agreed that my metropolitan broadmindednesswas too much of a strain on the sense of morality of the peasantry, asit were. No, nothing of the slightest consequence, nothing that wouldhave caused the inhabitants of Broadway to even arch their eyebrows. AllI did was to inhale a snootful and go out with a friend and stand thethriving little village of Emporia up on end and tip it over. 'Tis astrange tale. List, and I will unfold it to you. One day I was waftingslowly and sedately down to the Boston Store for my mail when lo! andbehold, what did I see out in front of the Palace Hotel but anautomobile. Believe me when I tell you, it was the first time I hadlooked a radiator in the face for a week. Two young fellows weremonkeying around the machine, and as they were nice-looking chaps I gavethem the furtive glance, and one of them stopped and asked me if hehadn't been introduced to me in the Harlem Casino. At any other time Iwould have taken his remark as a deep insult, inferring as it did that Iwas so far from Forty-second street, but now I could have fell on hisneck and cried with joy. I told him that I had never met him in theplace he had mentioned, but to let it go at that, and if he even knewwhere Harlem was it was introduction enough."Come to find out they were making a trip across the continent, and hadstopped there to get a little gasolene for the machine. We talked thingsover and I found out that they knew several people I did, and anywaythey were from New York and that helped a heap. They were going to leavethat afternoon, but I prevailed upon them to stay over until the nextday. I was invited into the hotel for dinner, and we opened the firstbottle of champagne wine, as they say out West, that had been opened inEmporia since the Governor went through. In truth, the bottle wascovered with specks, and the label had faded so you could hardly readit, but when the cork went 'wop!' three traveling men at the next tableburst into tears."After we had consumed all the champagne wine they had in the snare, Itipped them off to a speak-easy, and we decided to ride down there inthe machine, and then go for a little tour, as it were. By this time ithad been noised through the city that some one had taken the bottle outof the show window, and a large crowd had assembled to see theplutocrats come forth. We capered blithely out to the machine, climbedin and hiked for the blind tiger. After the usual red tape the captainsold us about two quarts of jig-juice--the kind that makes a jack-rabbitspit in a bulldog's eye."Anon, we again went for a ride, and I am here to state that the way webreezed through that village made the proverbial Kansas cyclone look asif it was running on crutches. The inhabitants that didn't duck for thecellars stood on the plankwalk and made rude and discomplimentaryremarks. Some well-meaning Rube had tipped his mitt to the town marshal,and that worthy cluck had stretched a rope from the blacksmith shop tothe corner of the livery stable, so naturally we had to pause. EnterMarshal R.U.E. with business of making a pinch. After filing the usualprotests we were haled before the Magistrate. Here's a copy of thetestimony:   Marshal--Judge, Your Honor, these prisoners are charged with   defacing landmarks, violating the pure food law, exceeding the   speed limit and disorderly conduct. Judge, Your Honor, these   miscreants defaced our landmarks by drinking the only bottle of   champagne wine that has ever been in our village--the bottle that   for so long has graced the window of our leading hotel and was   looked on with pride and reverence by the townspeople. A bottle   that has been cherished for generations until these monsters came   with their ill-gotten gold and purchased same.   They violated the pure food law by drinking said bottle of   champagne which has been proven by the State Board of Examiners to   contain 18 per cent. alcohol. The aforesaid prisoners exceeded the   speed limit by rushing through our quiet streets at a terrific   pace, to the danger of the lives and limbs of our wives and   children.   The prisoners at the bar are charged with disorderly conduct by the   following facts: They emptied said bottle of champagne, which was   reputed to hold one quart. That bottle of said wine was emptied   completely, which is proven by your marshal, who, after the orgy in   our leading hotel, did approach a waiter of said hotel and ask for   a taste of said wine, but upon investigation the bottle was found   to be entirely empty.   The aforesaid bottle contained one whole quart of an intoxicating   beverage and was distributed among three people. Therefore, Judge,   Your Honor, the prisoners must have been intoxicated and therefore   disorderly. Your Honor, the prosecution rests its case.   Judge--Prisoners, step to the bar. You are charged with, etc., ad   lib. What have you to say before sentence is passed upon you?   Prisoners--Not a blamed word.   Judge--I find the prisoners guilty and sentence them to pay a fine   of 50, or ten days in the city prison.   Prisoners--Gee, you must be going to build a new courthouse.   Judge--Five dollars for kidding the court."I knew those fellows couldn't stand the strain of the 55 fine, so,turning my back in maidenly modesty to the court, I dug down in thelisle-thread bank and came up with a hundred dollar bill, the first oneever seen in Emporia. I tossed it carelessly on the desk, remarking,'Take it out of that.' You could have knocked the court's eyes off witha club. I don't think he ever saw that much money in one group before inhis life. The clerk of the court grabbed the fresh-air fund and did arubber into the family safe for the change. All quiet along the Potomac.The whole blooming city didn't have change for a century note. Can youbeat that? And they say there is no graft in Kansas. They had to go overto the speakeasy for a change. What do you know about that? A court of aProhibition State going to a gin-mill for money."After we got through telling the court what he reminded us of and whathe looked like, we tripped out to the machine and climbed on board andstarted out again. We rode around until 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning,and I got to bed just as the help was getting out to do the chores.Maybe you don't think that evening's amusement caused some scandal."Why, before breakfast the entire population was wise to the fact thatSabrina, the pride and glory of the village, was out drinking liquor andplaying progressive hell with a couple of strange gentlemen."If you want anything known in one of those wopburgs, just tell it tothe butcher--it's got a town crier or a litho threesheet faded. Motherhad the info on the whole game before she got the curl papers out of herhair. A couple of the Ladies' Auxiliary to the Herbert Killjoy Memorialdid picket duty out in front of the house all night so as to be first inwith the glad tidings."They galloped up like Sheridan twenty miles away. The Killjoy sistersbeat it, and I was just assuring mother that getting pinched wasconsidered very distingue by the upper crust of the eastern metropoliswhen in prance the village selectmen followed by the deacons of thechurch. When they came into view I knew the bell had rung on Sabrina,the souse. They all came in looking like the first act of a funeral, andHomer Jenkins, the head deaconorine, looked real solemn, and said, 'Weregret to inform you that we have found it our painful duty to dismissyour daughter from the church.' I spoke up real gay like and said, 'Goas far as you like, I never was a commuter anyway.'"The selectmen were at the bat next and the main guy of that informedfather that I would have to be put under bond to keep the peace, as myactions of yesterday in drinking the champagne wine had caused nine ofthe village near-sports to get stewed on Rhinewine and seltzer, and toplease let them have the money now, as they had to pay the mayor'ssalary to-morrow. Then I delivered my philippic as follows: 'If youspangled-eyed dubs think you are going to shake me down for any morechange you had better drop in your penny and get next to yourselves.Nix, not. I've already coughed up more than the rest of the entirepopulation, and you are not going to lance me for any more just becauseI've got a bundle. You're good people, you've got big feet, and I wouldlike to see you run fast. Now beat it. I'm going to blow the burg on thenext caboose, and while I don't wish you any bad luck I hope the townhall burns down. Now take it on the run or I will give you all a goodscolding and send you to bed.' And the funny thing about it is, theyslid. I tell the folks that my light is hid under a bushel in Emporia,grab the bus, and here I am and nothing short of an explosion will makeme leave. Put this on your 'call board,' the only good thing about thesehick hamlets is they remind you of New York because they are sodifferent. So long. Don't fall down the elevator shaft."    In which Sabrina attends a ball given by the Chorus Girls' Union    and frivols extensively in the vineyard and later does a    specialty with ice skates and a bottle of arnica.CHAPTER SEVEN"All work and no play makes Jack a dead one," remarked Sabrina, the ShowGirl, as we met her at the appointed place. "Don't I look like the wreckof the Hesperus? Honest to goodness, I feel like nine dollars' worth ofdog meat hanging out of a hospital window. Was you at the ball, also? Imean did you attend last night's festivities? Ah, me! The joy andlaughter of yesterday is sure the hangover of today. I thought I wouldcaper down to the ball last night and just see how the other half lived,and instead of being a mere obtrusive observer I developed into what youmight term the main event of the evening. You see it was this way. TheChorus Girls' Union, of which I am now a member, gave a ball incommemoration of the event of the Mayor vetoing Tim Sullivan's billabout women smoking in public. It was instigated by the 'Knight for aDay' girls, because when they went to plead before the Aldermen thenewspapers forgot to mention the show they were from, so that the longtalk didn't do the press agent any material good, as it were. The hallwas tastily decorated with pictures of the Aldermen embellished withcigarette butts and champagne corks."By the way, if you see smoke coming from the Knickerbocker TheatreBuilding, don't turn in a fire alarm, for it is just the Friars showingtheir good feeling by trying to smoke up all the Friar cigars andcigarettes in town."All of our set was there, and numerous telegrams of regret were readfrom the road companies. As I say, I was seated quietly in a rathskellerlistening to the noise, when one of the young ladies inadvertentlyremarked that there was to be big doings at a nearby hall, and suggestedthat as she was selling tickets, it would be a good plan to buy some andgo and look the affair over, not to mingle with the throng, but merelyto add tone to the event. That listened very well indeed, and we allclimbed into a cabbage and vamped over."We managed to secure a box and were seated surveying the dancers, ofwhich there were a few, and the wine agents, of which there was a herd,until one of the said agents happened to spy our little crowd, and withthat true Southern gallantry for which wine agents are so noted, he sentover a quart bottle for each one of the party, but in the excitement ofthe moment forgot to include glasses, so rather than look a gift horsein the mouth, metaphorically speaking, we did not mention the oversightand contented ourselves with drinking out of the bottles in truedemocratic spirit. Did you ever imbibe Tiffany Water direct from itsnative heath, as it were? No? Then let me warn you from that lurkingpitfall. It has the same taste, but the effect, di mi, the effect ismultiplied by six."All of a sudden I became inoculated with a wild desire to burst forthinto song, and also with the idea that when it came to tripping thelight fantastic toe I had Genee looking like the first lesson in a 5course. With that hunch in mind I shook the rest of the mob anddescended to the floor accompanied by my personal press agent. I waswearing, at the time, one of my latest importations both underneath andoutside. When the band for the nineteenth time struck up the 'MerryWidow' waltz, by permission of Henry W. Savage, I capered out upon thefloor, where, much to the edification of the assembled multitude, Ipulled off a combination of the 'Merry Widow' waltz and Dance of theSeven Veils that will be the talk of the town until Bingham doessomething else foolish. Did it cause excitement! Well, say, if it hadn'tbeen for the kindness of a friend I would at this time been pacing aprison corridor in striped pajamas."Honest, when I came to this morning and Estelle--that's my maid--toldme what I had done, I vowed that I never would speak to a wine agentagain, for I was just that mortified. After me remembering to be a lady,and then before a mob to kick over the traces and crab the act. Believeme, every time I see an advertisement for that brand of wine a blushmantles my cheeks. Sure, I can blush. See. And for tears, it's just liketurning on the faucet in the bath tub. All the young creatures in ourset have to be there with the blush of modesty and the tear tank, for inthe heat and gayety of a wine party, when some one springs a travellingman's story if we couldn't flash a flush we would be doped out as beingbrazen hussies, and tears are always handy. Either for the police, thelandlord or an ardent suitor. The modern girl has to be equipped for anyemergency like a hook and ladder truck. But here I am giving away allour girlish secrets."Take it from me I'll never again gallop around the juniper bowl. Iwouldn't be a lush worker like that Alla McCune for another 10,000legacy. She's just started the habit lately. She thinks it's stylish.Sure, every time she goes out with a crowd that drink anything strongerthan beer she thinks she is in society. Every time she gets a snoot fullshe falls in love. Fact. My, such a scene as she caused in the hotel theother evening. She doped it out this way: She was all alone, a stormynight, a bottle of Scotch and a syphon. Why not light up? Talk aboutyour Great White Way, why, she had it looking like a dark alley inDarkest Brooklyn. Along about 6 o'clock in the evening a gentlemancalled to see her. As soon as he entered the portal Alla knew that shehad at last met her soul twin."She was hanging on to the table at the time and when she let go toembrace him, instead of being clasped to his yearning bosom, as she hadplanned, her knees gave away and she skated on her profile across thedivan. This cluck, being of a timid nature, instead of running for theammonia, slammed the door and sprinted for the elevator. Alla, as soonas the door closed, realized that she had been jilted, and resolving notto be canned without a struggle, she threw on her pony coat over herkimono, and pinning her hat roguishly over one ear, she fled the snareand ran down eight flights of steps into the street, with two coon bellboys after her. She turned into Broadway, going like Hose No. 7, withher kimono streaming to the breeze, and ran all the way down to Rector'sand into the door before she was stopped by the head waiter. The twobell boys caught up and loaded her into a cab before the police came andmanaged to get her back up to the hotel, though the fight she put up wasa caution. Wine is sure a mocker and Scotch highballs is fierce."I heard from the folks in Emporia the other day and they are stilltalking over the time I and the two guys in the automobile pulled off.The minister sprung a long sermon on the effects of strong drink on theyoung and the Emporia Wasp--you know they did call it the Bee, but theguy that bought it from the Bee people renamed it the Wasp, because hegot stung worse than any bee could sting--the Emporia Wasp came out witha long editorial about the profligate rich and the Attic DebatingSociety had a big pow-wow in the basement of the church on the subject,'Be it Resolved, That more people are killed by strong drink than byhanging.' All this had such a moral effect on the young that the sodafountain didn't sell a claret phosphate for three weeks after. And theLadies' Aid got so busy over Azbe Lewis, the town drunkard, that he hadthree proposals of marriage, but he decided to take the lesser of theevils and stick to drink. I think he ain't such a dope at that."Say, sniff. Can you detect the low, plaintive cry of an arnica bottle?I am learning how to skate. Yes, I fell for it. Fell for it is good.'Course I did. All over the ice. You see it was this way. I was up to atea one of the girls gave in honor of the judge getting a divorce fromhis wife--we call it a tea because there wasn't any there. We were allsitting around panning those who were not among those present, until atlast one of the girls who didn't dare leave till the party broke upsuggested that we go down to the park and take a skate. The hostess wasreal nice. She suggested that it wasn't necessary to beat it clear downthere to get a skate, as she had some in the house, and if we drank thatup the Dutchman on the corner knew she was good for any amount withinreason. But we didn't mean what she meant, so we departed. Going down Ibecame perhaps a little too excited over the coming event and went tosome length to inform the assembled skirts that when it came to cuttingice I, not seeking to boast, but I was there, forte, and such pastimesas writing names or doing Dutch rolls I considered rudimentary in theskating number and only performed by the immature."I may have overestimated my ability some, for I had never been onskates before in my life, but I'm no piker and I follow that oldprinciple of willing to try anything once, so when it came time I letthe boy put the skates on without a murmur, and was assisted to the iceby about six or eight eager hands. Say, I looked out at the gang glidingabout, gave the signal to let go the ropes and took the fatal step.Curtain. Say, I went round so fast both skates clinched in my marcelwave. Would you believe it, there wasn't hardly any one in sight when Istarted falling, but before I got through the police had to move thecrowd on. The only thing I could do gracefully was to throw a faint. Iturned one loose until somebody tried to force a glass between my teethand then I came to, but it was only water, so I had a relapse. Then anice gent kicked in with a flask and I came to. Maybe you think thoseartful kidders didn't hand it to me. Anybody but a lady would have losther temper and cursed them. But I told them where to get off, and don'tyou forget it, but I used no language that would have led people tothink I was anything but what I should be. After that I managed to skatearound a little, but let me tell you, that night I got down on the floorto take my shoes off all right, but it took Estelle--that's my maid--anda derrick to get me up again. Say, it's getting late and I must begoing. You know Mabel is now a bride again, and her little husband hasbeen staying down at the club instead of loitering about the flat, sothe other night when he knocked on the door to get in, Mabel said, 'Isthat you, Charles?' And now she can't get him out of the house nights.You see, her husband's name is Arthur. So long."    Sabrina now falls in love with a press agent with the hectic    chatter. He proposes and is accepted, and Sabrina shows her love    and devotion by going his bail when he is arrested for    permitting his jealousy to get the better of him in a    restaurant.CHAPTER EIGHTWho's the guy that said "Love laughs at locksmiths?" Just show him tomuh. I'll show him where he got in wrong. It's enough to get a perfectlady's goat. My Wilbur tried it the night he got pinched, and all he gotwas a clout on the knob from the desk sergeant and a languishing numberin a prison, and I don't dare to go within a mile of the drum.The way I caper from one tribulation to another would make a sick womanout of far stronger than me. Yes, I have at last found a man that lovesme for myself alone. He's a press agent, and he hands it out so sincerethat I know he must mean part of it. He's going to buy me an engagementring as soon as he gets his expense account. He's with a Broadwaymusical comedy, and though he has run some of the girls' pictures, hehas not made the slightest advance toward any of them.He's been coming to see me for nearly a month. My heart went out to himthe minute he said he had a stand in with three city editors.Us actresses never get over our theatrical training. He's a quiet party,and instead of hanging about the Knickerbocker bar with the rest of theagents, he stays in the office and pounds out copy. He gave me abeautiful silk parasol that I know didn't cost him less than four pairsof seats. And all this before he asked me for my hand in marriage.Honest, I'll never forget the night he proposed as long as I live. Notthat I never was proposed to before, and some of them would have had mestarred, but the romantic surroundings and all that kind of thing. Itwas this way: Me and him were the guests at a beefsteak party, and afterthe fourth drink he commenced to show me marked attention, and when wegot out of the cab in front of my hotel he offered to help me upstairs,though I generally have a bellboy for that purpose, and when we had gotup in my apartment and Estelle had gone to give the bellhop a quarterand the pitcher, he popped the question, and such beautiful language, Iremembered it the next morning and wrote it down.He held my shrinking little hand in his and said, "Say, Kid, you've madean awful good showing with me. Believe it, I could plant your stuff allthe rest of my life, and while I ain't much of a litho myself, still Ican get away with it and am the man who invented red on yellow. I can'tpay for many electric signs for you, but still if you'll plant yourheart in my cut-trunk I'll guarantee there won't be any excess and I'mmaking money enough to O.K. most of your extras."Listen, Party, we'll split my salary fifty-fifty every Saturday night.I got good backing in the bank, and I want you to be my little star. Youangel!"Wasn't that sweet? That word angel aroused my suspicions for the nonce,for angels are the ones who generally get lanced, but he handed it outso fervent that I knew he would make good on some of the points, so fromforce of habit I said, "Bring out your contract."And with those tender words and the pitcher the bellhop had brought backwe plighted our troth.What do you know about that? I don't believe I ever before was as muchin love as I am now. Why, I ain't been to see any other show but his fortwo weeks. Of course, I have been engaged before and handed out thiseye-glistening-with-adoration gag before, but it was done only to varythe monotony of my former theatrical career and increase my income.What! Sure I get an allowance from the fellows I'm engaged to. It's onlyfair. Ain't I got a trooso to buy? Te, he!If I'd saved all the money I have been given to purchase troosos with Iwould have a bunch that would make Gladys Vanderbilt's layout look likea gingham wrapper. Sure, ain't it worth money to those wops to have thepure love of a good, true girl? Gee, don't make me laugh like a baby.I was betrothed to six at one time, and the diamond rings I wore madethe prima bite her finger-nails with jealousy. Oh, I had a great graft.I had a birthday in every week stand. System? Well, I should hope so,dear.We'd work it this way: Alla McSweeney and I were chumming together, andnaturally Monday night after the show we would meet some folks. We wouldhave a real nice time, and along about fourth highball time after theshow Wednesday night Alla would whisper real confidential into one ofthe fellows' ear that I was going to be twenty-one Friday and "we girls"are planning to give her a little surprise, and did he want to come inon it.Every time the Johns would fall, except in Milwaukee, and nobody evergot anything out of that town anyway. Then Alla would whisper that thecompany was going to present me with a loving cup because I was such agood fellow, and if they wanted to chip in now was their chance, andanything was acceptable from 5 up, and to bring his friends.Alla would tout it up something fierce, I being totally unconscious towhat was coming off.Friday night would come around and Alla would borrow the loving cup fromthe property man that the tenor used in the drinking number, put itunder her shawl and caper over to the appointed cafe.I would be the center of a bunch of merry cut-ups all wanting to blowout the candles on my birthday cake.After the wine got to flowing freely and the crowd all jolly Alla woulddrag out the prop and make a nice little speech on behalf of thecompany.Me--you know I would be that flustered that I didn't know what to do,and when Alla would say that other people beside the members of thecompany had assisted I would be so gratified that I could scarce keepback the tears.All the clucks that hadn't chipped in would feel so bad because theyweren't included in my outburst of gratitude that nine times out of tenthey would sneak out and try to break into a jewelry store.Then Saturday Alla and I would do the great divide.Take it from me, when I came in off the road that season I had a roll ofthe evergreen that looked like a bundle of hall carpet.But now that I am an heiress I do not have to adopt those subterfuges inorder to get the daily Java. But I couldn't work those stunts on myWilbur; he's too wise, and being in the business he's hep to all thatkind of work.He's a good, nice, honest fellow, as press agents go, and I think I cansafely trust him with my innocent heart.If he don't--well, you know me. If he don't think he run up against thebusiness end of a cyclone it will be because I got throat trouble andcan't talk.Honest, my fair young brow is commencing to get wrinkled trying to dopeout whether I want to become a bride or lead the free and easy life of abachelor girl.Of course, if I get married and don't like it divorces are easy enoughto get, and then being a widow saves a girl a whole lot ofembarrassment, for she don't have to pretend to not understand some ofthe innuendoes that are now and then sprung during the modernconversations.But, on the other hand, Wilbur isn't there with a very big fresh airfund, and by perseverance I might cop out a Pittsburg millionaire andbecome famous.Marriage is worse than a lottery; it's a strong second for the showbusiness. You never can tell.Wilbur sure does treat me nice--he's promised that I shall be a flowergirl at the Friar Festival when it comes off in May. Ain't that nice ofhim?Gee, but that's going to be the grand doings.Are you going to the ball?Say, the round of festivities I am pulling off lately would make aperson think I was a society bud.Oh, come closer, listen. A certain party wants me to go out invaudeville. What do you know about that? Can you see me doing two-a-dayand getting in a contest with Eva Tanguay or Vesta Victoria or theRussell Brothers. I would go in a minute, though I promised mother whenI quit burlesque that I would never again wear tights.When I was in the business if I couldn't get a job on my voice all I hadto do was to flash a photo taken as Captain of the High Jinks Cadets,and then--in a minute.Flo. Ziegfield made me all kinds of offers to go in the "Soul Kiss," butthe blondes were all full, and you can see me in a brindle wig?I am willing to sacrifice nearly anything for Art, but when it comes toleaving nineteen dollars' worth of puffs in a dressing room where youcan't pick your company, not for little Sabrina.I used to have trouble enough with my number eighteen and lip stick andthe bunch of near-lady kleptomaniacs that the manager made a greatmistake taking on the road in the last show I was with.Well, to get back to vaudeville, I don't know whether to do a singleturn or put on a big act with a dancing scene or a prizefight in it.Those things go big nowadays.I could get the music publishers to slip me a little on the side forusing their songs, too. Of course I don't need the money, for I've gotthe biggest part of that ten thou. inheritance left yet; but still itwould keep me busy and away from the cafes, for now all I do all daylong is to roam around from one place to another imbibing booze andballoon juice.It's beautiful billiards all right for the time being, but I always feelso on the blink the next morning.Wilbur doesn't care; that is, he said he knew I had artistictemperament, and if I wanted to get it out of my system, vaudeville wasas good as anything.I was talking to a guy the other day that is in vaudeville, and he saidthat down around the St. James Building you could buy acts by the pound.Another guy wanted to take my money and star me in a musical comedy.Wasn't he the kind gent?Gee, I didn't tell you how Wilbur come to get pinched, did I? Well, itwas this way:You know Wilbur is of Spanish descent even though he was born inCanarsie, and he has a very jealous disposition; so the night after Ihad promised to be his own little star of hope he discovered me in acertain cafe with another party. This other party was a dramatic criticand I was touting Wilbur's show, but Wilbur didn't know that, so when hesaw me sitting there having the time of my young life he lost his nannyand caused a scene, forgetting this other party was a critic in hispassion.The head waiter threw them both out, and the critic, seeing the policecoming, said: "This is an actor trying to lick me," and naturally thecops nearly beat poor Wilbur to a pulp.I went down to the station house and tried to get Wilbur out, but thepolice were so rude that I had to tell them where to get off, and theythreatened to jug me, so I slid.Wilbur got out the next day, though, and told me over the 'phone that heloved me all the more for trying to come to his rescue. I wish theywould import the Emporia police force here. I can lick him myself.My! is it that late? Wilbur will be waiting to take me over to Childs'.So long!    Sabrina returns to the chorus so that she can keep an apartment,    a maid and an automobile without causing comment. She also talks    of getting a house-boat for the summer with some girl friends    and discourses on the advisability of having the wardrobe    mistress for a chaperone.CHAPTER NINE"Virtue has its own reward and that's all it ever gets," remarkedSabrina, the Show Girl, as we met her on the street. "I am once again awage-earner. This floating around town as one of the idle rich is all tothe peaches for a while, but as a continuous performance it makes a poorshowing. You know when I first became an heiress I had a call-board putup in my boudoir and a little notice pinned on it that read, 'Rehearsal,10 o'clock to-morrow, everybody,' and then I would lay in bed all morningand make faces at it."Everybody had a large bunch of fun kidding me about my inheritance tillI was nearly bug. Why, would you believe it? I couldn't go to dinner orriding with a gentleman friend, but some humorous dame sitting atanother table would arch her eyebrows and then, if I introduced them tothe gent, they would say, 'I am very glad to meet you, Mr. Suchandsuch;how are things in Pittsburg?'"At last it got so bad that I decided to go back to work and earn mylittle twenty per, so that I could keep my automobile and wear goodclothes without the slightest taint of suspicion on my character. Withthat noble end in view I started on the still hunt. Nothing doing withthat traveling thing."I tucked my little scrapbook under my arm and sat in the waiting-room.After hanging around in there for about half an hour I would bepermitted to glide into the big boss. I had a nice little monologueframed up as to my virtues--no, that's the wrong word--ability."None of the managers asked me what I had done, but what did I GET."When I called on the gentlemen by whom I am now employed he said:'Talent? Oh, piffle! Can you wear tights?' He said that to me."I merely mentioned that I used to work for Mr. Ziegfeld and he hired meat once. I didn't even have to show him my picture taken as Aphrodite ina classical art study."I went over to rehearsal, and of all the frowsy dames I ever piped--farbe it from me to knock, but they looked like a bunch of pie-trammersthat had just rushed over from Child's. The stage manager was a friendof mine, and I asked him when he had started an old ladies' home, and hetold me--mind you, this is the strictest confidence--that the divorcecourts and the cheap rates from Pittsburg was raising Cain with the cropof merry-merries."I was standing over near the piano when the leading lady galloped in.Believe me the dog she put on would make you think that she had everyother star looking like a twinkle, and before she landed where she isnow she was leading lady for a moving picture company."But the comedian--honest, when he gets a couple under his belt he isjust that funny--gee! I nearly howled my head off at him calling thetenor Gertrude."Say, he got awfully peevish and was mad enough to crush a grape when hefound out that he couldn't have the 'spot' when he does his duet numberwith the ingenue, and when he found out that he would have to dress withthe character comedian, who is a low, coarse brute, always drinking beerin the dressing room and not sharing with anybody, he got so mad Ithought he would burst into tears."He's another of these exaggerated ego guys, every move a picture, wearshis handkerchief up his sleeve and all that kind of guff."The funniest thing about the whole show is that the author is stagingthe piece, and what he don't know about the show business would make theLenox Library look like a news stand He wanted the tenor to hold theprima so she couldn't show her rings. And that's the only thing that gother the job--her jewelry."We open in Hartford in a couple of weeks and then play Washington andthen come in here for a run."Honest, the way those two towns fall for this: 'Manager Soandso is tobe congratulated upon securing for his next week's attraction Mr.Suchandsuch's elaborate production of the great London success, 'TheRancid Prune,' with the following all-star cast of metropolitanfavorites.' And some of them, ach, Himmel!"I do wish that the merry Springtime would hurry up and kick in. Themcan have the Winter that likes it, but not for little Angel-face; giveme the summer and that 'Robins Nest Again' number."When the bock beer signs again wave in the breeze and the Dutchman inthe delicatessen don't think you are a bug when you ask for Summersausage; when the mint commences to sprout in the cigar box on the fireescape and all nature seems glad. I just love those trips on the nightboat up the Hudson with the searchlight: shining on the trees and theice tinkling in the highball glass as the steward comes down the deck."You know that I am naturally--even when sober--of a romantic andemotional temperament, but those nights I can sit and hold hands andinhale cocktails until daylight without an effort."And then Sundays down at Manhattan Beach dubbing around in a bathingsuit--and take this from me as advance information, the bathing suit Iam going to wear this year is going to chase the waves clear out in theocean. I don't know yet whether I can wear it at Rockaway or not; it's acinch I can't if they have another moral wave like they did last year.It's chic without being bizarre."And I can safely say without fear of successful contradiction that Ilook well in it, and if I can keep my hair from getting wet I'll be theone best bet. But if the briny mingles with my marcel wave--good night,nurse!"One of Mr. Hepner's assistants told me that if salt water ever touchedmy golden tresses that the only thing I could do to keep them fromturning green was to get scalped."A friend of mine who owns a yacht is going to send his wife anddaughter on a trip to Europe, and he told me to count myself one of aparty of six that are going to make a tour of all the neighboringresorts--no, not that kind--Summer resorts. Fresh!"We had the one grand time last year."I never had a more enjoyable time. Just press a button and the stewardwas right on the job to take your order."Anything from a glass of hops to a Merry Widow cocktail, and you didn'thave to dig once. Everything paid for ad lib."Ah! those happy evenings that appeal so to every true lover of Natureand well mixed drinks. To sit and listen to the lapping of thewaters--and booze."Us girls are talking about getting a houseboat this season if we don'thave to work. Of course, the chances are that it will never come off,but up to date that is the last dressing room pipe."We are figuring on getting a nice place within trolley distance ofBroadway and then get several of our wine agent friends to stock it forus."We won't need much furniture--an ice box and a corkscrew are the onlyreal necessities."Do you think it would cast asparagus on my character if I should residein a houseboat unchaperoned."Oh, we can get the wardrobe mistress for a chaperone, but why talkshop; and besides she gets a bun on and goes to sleep in a hamper, andwe girls have to pack our own bundles, and if she got soused whilechaperoning the mob it would take away the otherwise proper air ofrefinement and leave us open to the gibes and scoffs of those who werenot so fortunate as to be invited to our houseboat."Say, I don't want to indulge in brag or ostentation, but the gown I amgoing to wear to the Friar festival they are going to pull off in May isgoing to have some class to it."Wilbur--that's my betrothed--is going to be one of the main guys, andwhen it comes his day to get the showing keep your eye on muh."I think Mr. Klaw and Mr. Erlanger are just the nicest men to give theFriars the New York Theatre for the big doings."You want to go. All our set will be there with their hair in a braid."Oh, yes; Wilbur and I are getting along just splendid. We have beenengaged now for nearly two weeks and have only broken it off threetimes."I went to see 'Miss Hook of Holland' the other night and Wilbur gotjealous and told me that if his show wasn't good enough for me to seewithout having to go to others to just come across with his ring and hewould cancel the engagement."I, being a girl of some spirit and pride, just naturally yanked Mr.Ring off and threw it at him."That made him hedge and before long we were cooing over a bottle ofwine like a couple of turtle doves."You can't take any too much off these men. Keep 'em guessing; thats mysystem. And then they will walk sideways, so as to not overlook anybets."Take that Alla McSweeney for example. She falls in love and is alwayson the job, like Faithful Fido. Sits around the flat and gazes at hisphoto all day and from quitting time on she is there with her ear to theground waiting to hear him get out of the elevator."That aint little Sabrina's graft."Nix. Wilbur calls up and I tell him to wait a minute and let him coolhis heels downstairs for a while, and then when I do send for him tocome up he is more glad to see me and manages to amuse himself inhunting for a stray glove or a handkerchief."And then sometimes when he calls up I am out, just to let him know thathe is not the only star performer."That stunt keeps them at heel all the time and so busy trying to keeptrack of you that they don't have time to look for any other dame. Sothat it works both ways for the dealer, and a couple of tears willalways copper any wrong play you make."This Beatrice Fairfax dope may be all right in the simple countrymaiden, but it don't go in the show business worth a whoop. You've gotto be on your toes in this game and play no steady system."My, how I run on! Here I will be late for rehearsal and will have togive the stage manager an excuse and he will fall for it until some timeI have got good reason for being late, and then he will call me."Say, is it considered au fait for a bride-about-to-be to do a littleplugging for wedding presents this early in the game? Well, so long."    Sabrina in this chapter attends a beefsteak party and becomes    involved in an argument with a certain party who was formerly    her roommate but whom she left quietly and by night.CHAPTER TEN"Don't I look like a tea store chromo?" inquired Sabrina as Estelle, hermaid, opened the door. "Oh, such a time I had! Never again will I go tosee that Alla McSweeney. Pipe my dial! Get onto the scratch! There aresome wounds that even powder cannot hide. It all started this way. Thegirls down at Wilbur's show decided to give a beefsteak in honor of theprima donna getting the can. Believe me, if they had let a hanging piecefall on her she would have got but half what was coming to her. Cat!Well, I should say so, dear. She spoiled the whole effect of that 'I'dRather Be a Lemon Than a Quince' number just because she wouldn't letthe pony girls share the spot in the picture. Honest, she caused moretroubles than Louis Nethersole's English actors ever imagined they had."I met her socially several times, and she certainly was perfectlylovely to me. But when she got back on the stage, why, she even had thestagehands stepping sideways, and you know them. And the managercouldn't call his soul his own until he had loaded her into a cab and onher way. Wilbur told me that while on the road that between watching thepanners in the box offices and keeping her from throwing a fit on thestage he got gray-headed. As for her maid, I can only say, 'Help thatpoor creature.' One time the maid pinched her foot while buttoning hershoe and what does the prima donna do but bounce her whole makeup box onthe top of the maid's defenseless nob. And the way she looks on thestreet compared to what she does on the stage, that makeup box mustcertainly have been of some size. Of course I am not roasting the poorcreature, for it may be temperament instead of temper, but I am merelystating what I have heard."But to get back to the big eat. The prima donna got too gay and whenthey struck New York the home office got wise and she wouldn't stand acut in her salary, so they just naturally decorated her with the festivebug and told her to take a whirl at vaudeville or something else realmean. Say, when the news got out that she was to leave everybody was sohappy that even the chorus men went out and bought each other a beer.What do you think of that? Well, anyway the mob got together after theperformance and decided to celebrate the event in fitting and properstyle by getting soused, and Alla kindly donated her new flat. Yes, theJudge caught a sleeper on Wall Street and she was in strong with the copon the beat and the people on the floor below her had moved on accountof the noise. Selfish people. They didn't want to do anything all nightbut sleep, and Alla complained that they were wearing out the steam pipeby pounding on it."After the show the whole outfit cleaned all the makeup off exceptbehind the ears and took it on the lope for Alla's domicile. Me beingthe guest of honor, I naturally kicked in late. Gee! everybody of anyimportance was there, even some of the principals, and every other showin town sent at least one representative. Say, the drum was so crowdedthat some of the couples had to turn the fire escape into aconservatory. They would crawl out there and bombard the neighborhoodwith empty bottles, until the cop on the corner would rap and then forsome two or three minutes the block would be as silent as a tomb."Wilbur of course was there in his official capacity as press agent, tonot only add tone to the gathering, but to make sure that it reached thenight desk of all the papers, for if these society guys get a column anda half they ought to be willing to slip us poor chorus dolls a couple ofsticks and keep it from under police news."I was there to see that Wilbur did not, under the influence of thecharming company, make any remarks that might be misconstrued by any ofthe assembled gathering as a declaration of love. For them dolls arealways on the job and the only time they don't catch a live one is whentheir hands are tied. Jealous? What! Me? Not so you can notice it, but Iain't going to have anybody have anything on me, and while I caused noscenes, I left the impression that I had Wilbur trained so that he wouldroll over and play dead at the word of command. While these 'keep offthe grass' signs don't do much good, still they run a horrible bluff.Did Wilbur get wise to this move on my part? Not on your life! If hefound out that I was, figuratively speaking, riding herd on him, hewould get chesty and all swelled up until it would be my painful duty tolance him. I don't know yet whether Wilbur is a rhinestone Billie or aWhisky amber Billie with a dash of bitters Billie, but I am On the JobBetty, all right, all right."Well, to get back to the beefsteak. After all the guests had assembled,which was maybe some 2 a.m., they started in. It was merely the ordinarystunt of beer and beefsteak and beefsteak and beer, but the hours wereenlivened by the vaudeville performances of the guests. This was beforethe precinct sergeant knocked on the door. One old frump that must havebeen tramming a mace in the Roman Hanging Gardens got a yen that wasdoing imitations she had Elsie Janis and Gertrude Hoffman looking like acouple of false starts. Another took the hooks out of her marsel waveand did that time-worn stunt of 'Laska.' Then one of the chorus men gavean imitation of George Cohan, as usual. But that don't explain thescratches; does it?"To go back sometime, there was a certain skirt that I used to room within Chicago when we were both broke, but one night she went out with abunch of siss-boom-ah! boys and came home with a large and juicy snootfull and spent the early morning hours in leaning out of the window ofthe apartment and whistling through her fingers to the milkmen, as wellas staging a disrobing number in the middle of the room with thecurtains up to such an extent that the inhabitants of the outlyingdistricts had to wait sometime for their morning milk."This, naturally grated on my refined sensibilities, so the next morningwhile she was yet beating the hay, I packed my little suitcase and tookit on the run away from there, leaving her, you might say, on the pan. Iwent into the pony ballet of a La Salle Theatre show--can you see me asa pony?--and I heard that she was advancing Art with a stock burlesquein South Chicago. That evening she was among those present at theaforementioned social function. And while we kissed and embraced eachother with the affection of long lost sisters, still I could detectabove the odor of cocktails an underlying current of soreness. So weclinched, but I took particular pains to see that we went clean in thebreakaway."A young gentleman from Pittsburg was one of the guests and thiscreature naturally put herself forward to make him have a real nice timeand, while I am true to Wilbur, still I think it my duty to be kind toevery one. This Chicago party got the hunch that I was trying to beather to this Pittsburg wop and she managed to get him in a corner and Icould see out of the corner of my eye that she was making a strenuouseffort to reveal some of my past, and, while I have never done anythingthat would cast a breath of suspicion on my spotless character, still Iknew that this party would not hesitate for a minute to do someromancing, so I naturally edged over toward that particular corner as ifI was not noticing myself do it, and overheard her inform the gent, thatwhile I had the outward appearance of an innocent young babe, I was aviper at heart, and had beat it out of Chicago with some ten or twelvethousand dollars' worth of her personal jewelry."Shucks! All the jewelry she ever had was a diamond stickpin she bit outof a gentleman's scarf when they were going home in a cab, and all shehad left of that was the pawn ticket."Naturally hearing the libelous remarks, I was compelled to defendmyself, so I quietly interrupted her conversation by remarking lightlyover her shoulder, 'Ah! I see, Laura, that you are still a member of theArm and Hammer band, and I wish to mention in passing that the only tenor twelve thousand dollars' worth of jewelry you ever had you returnedto the property man every night after the ballroom scene.'"As for me eloping with your belongings all you ever had was a dirtyhandkerchief kimona, a Fluffy Ruffles skirt and a near-seal jacket, andyou had to throw a chill when you entered a cafe so as not to have totake that off. If you had you would have been disgraced for life."After those kind remarks Laura's goat naturally make a quick exit. Shejumped to her feet, and with one of those 'Parted on Her Bridal Tour'expressions, said: 'It's you, is it, Sabrina; you were always noted asthe Butting-in Kid. But now if you have got all of that humorousmonologue of yours out of your system you can toddle right along andsell your matches, as this kind gentleman and I are discussing a fewwords in private and do not wish them to get all over town.'"'Can that chatter,' said I, 'and don't forget the happy days you spentat Sid Euson's.' Right there is where I got that scratch. But I beingpretty nifty with my fins gave her a cuff on the chops that she won'thave to put down in her diary to remember. I was just fishing for anopening to land when Wilbur stayed my upraised arm, and I could onlygive her a kick on the limb with my French heel. Naturally the noise andthe words attracted some attention even from that bunch; that is, itcould be heard above the usual hum of conversation. The dame, knowingthat I was in the right, tried to tuck the Pittsburg party under her armand duck the dump, but Pittsburg being a game guy, stuck for the bigshow, and Laura loped for the 'L' alone."Wilbur was naturally surprised and grieved at my actions, and for amoment allowed the green-eyed monster to take up standing room in hisheart, thinking that I had succumbed to the wealth of the coal dealer,but my ready outburst of maidenly tears quickly set me to rights. Thatwas the only thing that marred the evening, except one of the girlsspoke kindly to a chorus man, and he, poor fellow, threw a fainting fitand we had to force the only jig juice in the crowd between his clinchedteeth before he could be revived."Yes, I am still on the stage, but I have got the stage manager trainedso that I only have to slip him a five spot any night I fail to appear.No, there isn't much doing except that some of the girls are rehearsingfor the soul kiss contest, but I personally do not have to advertise."What! Going? Say, on your way down tell the barhop to mix me up a lifepreserver in a rose glass."    Sabrina touches on the advantages of having a hotel for chorus    girls and makes several comments on the dramatic possibilities    of "The Mangled Doughnut," with which she is rehearsing.CHAPTER ELEVEN"Say," remarked Sabrina, as we met her in front of her favorite cafe,"say, loosen up, cough, give down, come to, kick in. You've got todonate for a couple of tickets to the annual benefit of the Unemployedor Otherwise Disabled Chorus Girls' Home, and the quicker you comeacross the quicker your suffering will be over. Sure we are going tohave a benefit that will make even the Friar Festival get up and humpitself. And you know that's going to be some show. The Chorus Girls'Mutual Knocking Society is going to build a home so that the poor dollwho comes in from the high grass in her normal condition, broke, canhave some place to go and rest and refresh herself without having tohock a couple of wedding rings before she can have her hotel trunk sentup."There's going to be fifty sleeping rooms and ninety-six maids, so thatif the poor skirt wakes up in the morning feeling far from a well womanall she has to do is to tickle the zing-zing and the maid is right thereon the job. There is to be nineteen sound-proof parlors with two pianosin each parlor."While there will be a chaperon, of course, she will permit the youngladies to entertain their friends in a quiet and ladylike manner untilthe porter starts cleaning up the bar in the morning. The inmates willof course be allowed to sign checks, but from visitors only cash will beaccepted."Can you see a mob of those merry dames around that drum? Talk aboutyour something doing every minute! Say, it will look like open timearound that shack. Burlesquers are canceled. They can't come into thehome. Well, they never have much of a home anyway, so they don't missmuch."Burlesque is sure one strenuous existence. Mother made me quit. Thatand the doctor telling me that I would ruin myself standing around adraughty stage in tights. And besides those burlesque stage handscertainly are cruel. Why, you have to put the money right in their handbefore they will beat it across the alley for a can of suds. If thatain't cruelty I don't know what is. Do they think us girls would enjoyour refreshment if we have to pay for it ourselves. Why, it hasn't gotthe same flavor. Do you think a girl lacks class when she puts salt inher beer?"That home will be a great thing. Imagine going home every night withoutwondering if your room is locked and the landlady sitting on your trunksat the top landing. You can just flounce into your nest any old time andknow that everything is right there, unless one crafty girl has bribedthe chambermaid for the key. You can never tell about those people. Why,I know one girl who kept stealing hairs out of the different wigs in thedressing-rooms until she had enough to make a Dutch braid, and then sheput on such a front and chest that she wouldn't speak to any of theother girls should she happen to meet them socially. I have alwayswanted a home, not that I haven't been offered several, but I mean apermanent one. But to continue about the benefit."Wilbur is going to manage it, and he expects to shake down enough tostart us housekeeping, but, of course, that is strictly under your hat,and I pray you do not mention it. I think we can get Mr. Erlanger to letus use the New York Theatre if we promise not to damage the fixtures. Helets every other benefit have it and he certainly wouldn't object to afew poor chorus girls pulling off a shindy, seeing as how they did somuch for his success."Suppose none of us had gone on in the chorus of 'Ben-Hur'? Just thinkwhat would have happened. Didn't know there was a chorus in 'Ben-Hur'?Say, what are you trying to do, kid me, or just show me a good time?"I was around yesterday trying to get some of the oldtime merry-merrywho are now some of our leading actresses to appear at the benefit, butthey all threw a fit at the mere mention of the fact that they had oncecarried a spear. For my part I see nothing degrading in the work, evenif we are held up to the gibes and chaff of some of these newspapernear-humorists."It certainly is an honorable calling, and if you look good from thefront you can always have your pick of the menu. So that any dame thatcan hand out the frightened fawn glance need never starve."Ain't it funny the way these Johns stick their noses to the ground andstart on the trail of 'the soldiers, villagers, etc.'? They'll pass upanything just to be able to stick their arm through the stage door andhand the doorkeeper a bunch of violets."They will leave Flossie, the belle of the village, waiting at the gateany time a burlesque three-sheet shows up on the side of the blacksmithshop. And right down front, with their feet on the base drum, handingout the coy glances before the first curtain is a foot from the stage."Yep, I'm still rehearsing with 'The Mangled Doughnut,' and the authorof the book told me yesterday, in the strictest confidence, that it willbe the best first-night performance Hartford ever saw."He says he expects to stay up all that night rewriting the book, but heis willing to sacrifice a few hours' sleep in the interest of Art. Andfor the musical numbers, as we are rehearsing forty-two songs, some ofthem ought to go. The only thing wrong with the show as far as I can seeis that the prima donna acts like she was in a trance. It is my personalopinion--of course I wouldn't have you breathe this to a living soul forworlds--but it is my personal opinion that she sniffs the white. Sheeither does that or jabs, though it don't show on her arm. The leadingcomedian is a sad affair."He would make a good understudy for a morgue, and that's about all.Why, I offered him suggestions for some new business in his cafe sceneand he went up-stage on the run and informed me that when he desiredinstructions from the chorus concerning the way to handle his part hewould address me in writing. I said to him: 'Far be it from me to getgay, old top, but I would respectfully suggest that you get busy withthe pen and ink.' Then he was going to have me fired. Such a chance."He had better find out what I know about the past history of the personwho hired me before he hands out any lurid language about my dismissal.I know right where I stand, and though I am one of the shop girls in thefirst act, instead of having my regular place as an American heiress, Iknow right where I stand every shake out of the box."Viola St. Clare is sure having the one strenuous time with her newhusband. The poor dear is nearly balmy in the crumpet from worry. Yousee, they have been married but four long weeks, and the last threenights he has been coming home sober, and she believes he is deceivingher, so she is trying to get enough money from him so that she can hirea private detective to have him shadowed."They tell me that Sam Harris has to punch a time clock. I know onething, and that is when I am married Wilbur will not be one of theleading lights of the Knickerbocker, even if I have to prance down thereand drag him out by the neck. Gee, there ain't much doing in town now.Wilbur and a couple of friends are already running trial heats for theTwenty-three Club dinner, and if he ever recovers from that ourengagement will be announced. I am having the photographs taken now."Tell me, do you think it's good form for a lady to have her weddingannouncement accompanied by pictures of herself in tights. Wilbur saysthat it won't help me, but it will do the show a lot of good, and hesays somebody connected with my show should be done good besides themanager."I will say one good word about our show--it has a grand first act. Theother two acts may be on the cheese, but the first act is good. Theauthor says the first act of a show is the only one that needs anyattention, because it is the only one the critics ever stick for anyway.We got great scenery; the second act is made of what you might call acomposite set, being composed out of all the scenery from the otherfailures this year."Did I say other failures?""I spoke inadvertently. 'For this elaborate production, with itsall-star cast of metropolitan favorites and its famous beauty chorus,'as Wilbur says, may be all right."Mind you, I only say may."The first act is laid in a quince plantation, and the quinces of thechorus are discovered at curtain rise picking the luscious fruit. Thereis a naval vessel in the harbor. This was put in so the tenor could wearhis white duck uniform; he had to wear something, and when themanagement found that he had a white duck uniform--every tenor has, youknow, or he wouldn't be a tenor--when the management found that he had auniform they took the money they had advanced for costumes away from himand rewrote the first act."As I say, we lemons are picking quinces or we quinces are pickinglemons, any way you want to take it, and after finishing the openingchorus we rush up stage, open center, and in comes the prima donna in apony cart--a stone boat would suit her better, but that is neither herenor there--see pony cart, chance for number by pony ballet, with sixtrained doughnuts--you see that's where the title of the play isintroduced. That's the only time the title shows up except a duetbetween the leading lady and the tenor entitled 'I Had Rather be aDoughnut in Harlem Than a Butter Cake in Childs'.'"The prima and the tenor do an imitation of the 'Merry Widow' waltz. Theauthor didn't want that put in, but the backer of the show convinced himthat nowadays every true musical comedy had an imitation of the 'MerryWidow' waltz, so he let it slide."After that in comes the comedian as the valet of a wealthy Americanjust arrived on the battleship."He has got a great entrance. It's brought out by some plot lines spokenby two of the chorus girls that he has taken a taxaballoon from the boatand while up in the air he bites the rope of the balloon in two in a fitand falls center stage with a red spotlight on him. That's the musicalcue for his song."'I'd Rather Be Up in the Air Than Up in the Bronx.' He has learnedtwenty-two extra verses and says that he will give them all if theushers' hands hold out."When he is through in comes the soubrette, formerly a lady boilermakerin Canarsie, but now disguised as an adventuress, in search of themissing papers."She has the papers in a locket given her by her mother, but don't knowit until the comedian bites her on the neck in the third act and breaksthe chain, when the locket falls to the ground and the papers fall out."The second act is a scene in Maxim's, where the leading lady is washingdishes. That gives more comedy, with the comedian as a dish."The American is hiding from his wife and goes to Maxim's because heknows she'll be there. If she wasn't, shucks! There wouldn't be no show."He does his specialty with a piece of cheese--not the prima donna--andafter that the American Beauty Chorus comes in and does a refinedcan-can."My how I have run on! I just know I'll be late for rehearsal, but don'tforget the benefit. We need the money, Wilbur and me. So long!"    In which Sabrina prepares to leave town with the show, but    pauses to pass a few remarks on love, comedians, murders, maids,    spring millinery and the advisability of anyone marrying their    first husband.CHAPTER TWELVE"Goodbye, dear," said Sabrina, as we met her hurrying up Broadway. "Ourshow leaves town to-morrow. We got to get to Hartford in time for adress rehearsal before the evening performance. My, such a time we havehad. You know the comedian we had threw up the sponge at the last minuteand we had to dig up another. Thank goodness, this one is a gentlemanand not getting fresh with the merry-merry every time he gets a chance."Oh, say, was you at the Friars' Sunday Night in Bohemia a couple ofweeks ago? The Friars spend every night in Bohemia or the Knickerbockerbar, so Wilbur says. But honest, this was a great stunt, seconded onlyby the Festival they are going to pull off in May."The curtain went up on what looked like a busy day in Childs', andWells Hawks was in the spotlight, surrounded by a bevy of blondes andempty champagne bottles. They tell me that Gus Edwards had to blindfoldHawks to lead him up to the table where the empty bottles were, and asfor the girls, it was with a great effort that they restrainedthemselves."All they could do was to look at the empty bottles, hold their nosesand drink mineral water. Ain't it awful, Mabel? Anyway, everybody had agood time, so what care they for gibes and jeers? Many the time have Iheld a champagne cork to my nose, closed my eyes and dreamed that I washaving a time. Well, to continue about our show. Wilbur says it willnever go, because they only got block stands, and an agent ain't got noshow without at least one kind of a litho. Wilbur said it hurt theartistic instinct of a billposter in these hick towns to put up allblock stands, and you generally have to slip them a little something tobe sure that they burn up all the extra stuff, so that the manager ofthe company wouldn't find it should he go snooping around the bill roomwhen the show gets in town. He says if they get a good litho of akilling or a chorus they will go out of the way to stick them up justfor art's sake. Wilbur is going to give me a suit case full of hardtickets to the Friar Festival, and told me to mace every John I cameacross on the road for as many as he would stand for. He said the more Isent in the more he would know I loved him. Wilbur is so romantic!"This new comedian we got with the show is pretty good, but of course Ican see defects. And the new prima donna is real nice. She asked me intoher dressing-room the other afternoon and slipped me a little ideaencourager that she had in a flask. But the way she is in love with thetenor, honest, it's sickening to me. She watches him from the time hecomes in the theatre until the time he leaves, and then calls him up onthe 'phone at his home."The other day when he asked one of the girls to tie the ribbon in hiscuff she got so jealous that I thought she was going to give the poorkid a lam on the lamp. What she can see in that tenor is beyond me. Whatanybody can see in a tenor has got me guessing, for that matter. Wilbursays that's just the way with temperamental people, and he lost a jobonce just because he forgot to land pictures in the Sunday editions ofall the newspapers in town of the manager's own particular guiding star,but planted a bunch of her dearest friend instead. He says there's nopleasing them, and the only way to have peace and harmony around thewhole show shop is to print flashlights of the entire company. And eventhat looks like blazes, for the editor will always reduce aneight-column flashlight to a two-column cut, no matter how many drinksyou buy him."He says he saw a murder once--was the only witness, in fact--and hetook it on the run to a newspaper office and offered to trade a CharlesSommerville to the editor for a reading notice about the show, and theeditor told him that they could get all they wanted from the police, andwhat they didn't get wouldn't hurt the public if they didn't know aboutit. He says if that wouldn't give the press agent art a kick in the necknothing would."Wilbur says he loves his art and nothing pleases him better than tofind a box office that will take his I O U. Us chorus have been sureworking hard the past week, and Ben Teal has been just that kind andgentle, and didn't put a one of us on the pan. We certainly have gotsome lovely costumes; they ain't much to them, but what there is isbeautiful. They smell a little of camphor, but they have been packedaway in hampers ever since last season, and that accounts for it."I got a fine scene with the comedian and should score a great personaltriumph. All of us girls are lined up for his entrance in the secondact, and when he comes in he walks right over to me and says: 'Ah,little one. How are you on the Queen's wedding day,' 'Queen's weddingday,' that's my cue, and I say, 'Very well, thank you kindly, noblesire.' Aint that great? It takes nearly a whole side. I was rehearsingit in my apartment this morning with Estelle, but she was so rotten asthe comedian that I took away the last 5 I gave her for a tip."These menials have no talent in their souls. Estelle, that's my maid,says she has no desire to elevate the drama, and she had rather be amaid for a chorus girl any time--there's more money in it. She may beright at that."Alla McSweeney is going to start a New Thought Church. She says thatshe has a whole flock of new thoughts and it would be quite fashionableto start this new think stunt. She said she would tell us her newthoughts if she thought we would never breathe a word to a livingbreathing soul. Gee, that lets our gang out."They couldn't keep quiet if it killed them. Honest, for a bunch ofknockers, perfect both in single handed knocking and team work, our sethas anything bound to the bannister in New York."But what care I? Spring is coming and we will all soon hike to BathBeach. Honest, for a country place with all the conveniences of homeBath Beach is the top liner. You can put a can under your shawl and rusha couple of blocks and always get it full of the best, and if you putbutter around the side of the pail the barkeep ignores the fact and goesright ahead."I may get a motor boat this summer if Wilbur gets his summer snap atthe island."Coney, I mean, not Blackwell's."He has never been over there except to take flowers to the Poillonsisters. They love nature so. Charlotte says it makes her homesick everytime she sees a Joy Line boat go by."The benefit season will soon open and any person that has a couple ofthousand dollars to pay for a theater can git a benefit for himself andmaybe draw down a couple of hundred more. The benefit for the chorus,girls has gone up in the air, for none of them would acknowledge thatthey were chorus girls."They were either show girls or pony dancers, and that let them out.Anyway, each girl wanted to bring her maid, and the dressing rooms wouldhave been so full of maids that there would have been no room for thedolls. I had it all framed up, too. I had six wine agents and a whiskysalesman who guaranteed to appear, and that alone would have made thething a financial success. But what could I do?"Our bunch has been rehearsing five weeks without salaries, and with theexcessive taxicab rates we got no money to spend on clothes to wear tothe ball, and the wardrobe mistress keeps an awful tab on the costumehampers."A certain friend of mine, who, by the way, I wouldn't trust any furtherthan I can throw an elephant by the tail, had the nerve to take me up inher apartment the other day and show me her new bathing suit she hadjust imported from Paris. It was a swell thing all right, but sewed inthe waistband was a piece of cloth that said 'Burgomaster 2' on it, soyou can draw your own conclusions."Honest, the way some girls steal is something awful. Take it from me,it's nothing less than stealing to swipe a wardrobe. Of course, if theshow is going to close it's all right, but from a successful production,never. Lifting a scarfpin from a soused party is all right, for he issupposed to do something to remunerate the lady for wasting her time bytaking her to supper."Spring has sure come and I do just glory in nature. I suppose that isbecause I was brought up in the country. We never have anything butnature in Emporia."Oh, I heard from the folks the other day, and they tell me that Emporiais now growing to be some town. The bank is putting up a four-storybrick building, which is going to be looked on as the villageskyscraper."The town council has already passed resolutions restricting the heightof the buildings to six stories. They ain't going to take the chancethat New York does, and have some of these big tall ten-story affairstopple over into their streets."All the yaps out in that neighborhood are lining out for the springplowing now while the yaps here are lining out for the spring millineryopenings. I already got the dressmaker on the job for seven or eightmodest little frocks that will make them sit up and take notice Sundaysdown at Manhattan Beach."I have decided that I am going to be an athletic girl this summer, andam already taking exercise every day. Why, I walk all the way from thesubway to the hotel, and that's nearly half a block."Say, what do you know about this? Posey Golden has married her firsthusband."Honest! You know they were divorced shortly after she got a good job,and have been living apart ever since."She married again to the nicest gambler you ever met. But he got stungon a sleeper, and had to hock the family jewels, and Posey said that wascruelty, for she could never have the face to go down to the dining roomfor breakfast without all of her diamonds on; she had worn them everyday since they struck the St. Reckless, and she was afraid it mightcause talk among the waiters and guests because she always treated themwith a calm air of condescension, and they would lay for the chance toget in a hammer. So she put in a bid for a divorce and got it."Then she met her first better half on the street and, after having alittle supper, they decided to sneak through the tunnel, take it on therun for Newark and again become one."Imagine anybody going to Newark to get married! Imagine any one goingto Newark for anything!"They got married and came back to town just as happy as if nothing hadever happened. My, I hope Wilbur and I will be that way! I think he issincere even if he does write good notices about girls in his show."Well, I must toddle along and see if Wilbur has cashed his yet, so thatI can get the rest of that new hat. If it ain't too much trouble you cansend me a bunch of flowers for our opening night in Hartford. So long."    The show gives its opening performance and Sabrina scores a    great personal success. She speaks at some length of the kissing    craze and makes several comments on the time she had while out    of town.CHAPTER THIRTEEN"Are you coming to the opening tonight?" began Sabrina, the Show Girl,before she had given her order. "I don't know if you can get a seat ornot, because the management is tired of having the same old gang out infront, and have donated about two-thirds of the house to the ladies atthe Martha Washington, for they know more about a real show thananybody, because they read the dramatic page of all the fashionmagazines, and the other third of the house will be taken up by thedramatic critics and their friends."We had a great opening in Hartford. The theatre was crowded four rowsback. The first act went great, but we couldn't tell how the last onewent, because nobody but the author and composer stayed for it, and theyare a little partial."I scored a great personal triumph, and the way I read my lines was notonly greeted with applause, but with laughter. In fact, I made such adecided hit that the prima donna, who, by the way, is worse than thefirst, because she drinks, had the manager take my lines away from meand give them to somebody who could not read them as well. If I wasn'tafraid she would blackball me for the P.W.L. I would raise a kick. Theidea of an old frump like that letting professional jealousy interferewith Art."After the performance that night the author got busy and rewrote thewhole second act, and had it all ready by the time we landed inWashington."Do you think we get a chance to rush around and mingle with theCongressmen and other such truck? Not on your life. It was to the showshop for us and do the big rehearsal all day, and we only had time toslip out and soak up a sandwich and get back in time for the evening'sperformance."I changed my tights from blue to pink for the first night and scoredanother personal triumph. So much so that the soubrette made it a pointto stand in front of me every time she did a number with the chorus. Shebelonged over on the other side in front of the Glonesganes creature, inorder to dress the stage, and the manager jumped all over her formoving."The show went big that night, and the next day some of the criticsspoke favorably of it. I don't care what they say, it's a good show, andas the plot has been almost entirely eliminated it should go well here."After rehearsing all day Tuesday we were allowed to walk up and downPennsylvania avenue and get acquainted. I met a gentleman who said hehad been introduced to me in New York, and he certainly treated megrand. We went over to the Willard for supper, and he just tossed themenu toward me, careless like, and said, 'Got to it, kid.' Talk aboutyour Southern gallantry! A bunch of these near-sports will rush a girlinto a feedshop, and they have no more than got seated at the tablebefore he will commence talking about the big dinner he has just had, sothat the poor thing feels like a burglar if she eats anything more thana couple of lobsters. But not this Percival, he frankly admitted that hehadn't had anything to eat for a week and scratched no entries."I wish these New Yorkers were that way--nothing personal dear--but theyhave become so callous to feeding the merry-merry that they have the bigeat dodging stunt down to a science. The only way to get more than atwo-dollar, including wine, feed out of most of these moss-coveredpocketbooks is by blasting."Why, I have known certain parties to adopt the subterfuge of going outto telephone and then beating it to avoid paying the check. Thus leavingthe poor feedee to pay the bill or wait longingly for a friend to showup on the horizon."A gentleman who will pull off a deal like that is not worthy of theconfidence of one of our sex. But, understand, I am not by any meansdamning the whole male sex, for I have met gentlemen who threw the lidof their grouch bag in the gutter and didn't care if they ever found itagain. Those is the kind of parties that has my trust. Me grub, and Igot money in the bank? Sure I do. I got to keep in training somehow, soif I did lose my inheritance I wouldn't be out of practice."Wilbur don't blame me for it. He says that the object in life of anagent and a chorus girl is to plant everything they can get their finsinto whenever they can, for it don't last long, and the good peopleain't healthy. And goodness knows I sure do need my health. For though Iappear to be a strong, robust creature I am a frail woman."Wilbur can moan and groan around with a hangover for a couple of days,but I have to be right on the job all the time with this smiling faceand laughing eye thing, or he would seek some other place for sympathy.Why, many a morning I have spoke light and happy words of cheer to himover the 'phone with a tongue as thick as a board-walk and the inside ofmy nob yearning to burst loose and flop around in the cool morning air."Do I caper up to the transmitter and sob, 'Oh, darling, I fear me thatI am not long for this earth!' Never! I take a long drink of ice water,and when his 'Is this you, kid?' comes over the wire I chirrup back,real bright and gay, 'Right O, Kiddo!' and when he says he don't believehe can live through the day, do I suggest that we die together? Not I! Itell him to forget it and go downstairs and have George mix him up a mugfull of the hair of the dog that bit him. That shows the love of a goodwoman."Was you at the Chorus Girls' Ball last Saturday night? My, I wouldhate to cast any reflections on the judges, but their choice certainlywas bum. Still I suppose they are old men and not up on the modern 1908rules on osculation."In their day when a young man imprinted a chaste salute on a dame'salabaster forehead he was supposed to go into a fit of delight, but notaccording to this year's book. Now they clinch with a strangle hold andstick till one or the other drops from exhaustion. I did not enter thecontest, for I am not a chorus girl; I am a show girl, if you please.What's the difference? Five a week."This kissing craze is getting to be something scandalous. Not that Iobject to it. But I blush to think that the time-honored customs thatwere once performed in the front parlor, with the gas turned low, is nowused in contests and numbered as a feat of strength."Wilbur and I went to the ball together, and as soon as he struck thehut he wanted to rush right over and run a few trial heats with thecontestants, but the easy way with which I made him change his mind wasa joy to the eye. He said to me as we went in the door, I think I willtoddle over to the paddock and see if the fillies are in form. He wasmaking a wild rush to check his shawl when I mentioned casual like, asif I wasn't noticing myself saying it, 'You know that I am an addedstarter.' Bing! Skyrockets! Wilbur goes up in the air and comes down allspraddled out."'What!' he pipes, as soon as he got his breath, 'my financed bridebilled to appear in a hugging handicap? Not yet! Sabrina you certainlydo jag my jib to think that you would enter into such a deal. From nowon our trail parts.' 'Oh, I don't know,' I said. 'What's sauce for thegoose is sauce for the gander, and if you pull off any stunts you canfigure that I will be in the running. And that goes as it lays.'"That was no nice language for a lady, but it put the brakes on Wilbur'sosculatory aspirations so quick that he stopped with a jolt. He canceledthe date and we went up into the box and stood in the receiving line forwine agents."Wilbur knew that he had to stand hitched or I wouldn't let him go tothe Twenty-three Club dinner tonight. He has been training for the eventfor the last two weeks, and he says that he will be able to outdistancethe bunch before 4 a.m., and you know that's going some."It's a pity they wouldn't let us women in on their feed deals. They goout and fill up on beefsteak while we have to stick around and drown oursorrows in a cheese sandwich. And goodness knows that while they arenourishing they don't give you any new ideas."I only hope our show is a success, for if Wilbur and I get marriedevery penny will help, and I don't want to lance my personal fresh airfund for anything more than a bridal veil. Wilbur and I are just liketwo doves, but I am taking no chances, for press agents are ficklepeople."With all due regard to Wilbur's feelings I must say that the agent ofour company is a dog. He had the nerve to come up to us girls and wantus to beat it up and down Broadway with signs boosting the show on ourbacks. A doll would stand a swell chance in Jack's with a big signreading, 'Go see 'The Abused Cruller' at the Folly' on her vertebrae,now wouldn't she?"Can you see me as the walking three-sheet? I make exhibition enough ofmyself on the stage without prancing up and down with one of thosethings tied to my Fluffy Ruffles."I just had an awful time in Washington. One of the girls that dressesin the same room with me came in with one of those crying buns on andshed so many weeps in my makeup box that I had to put it on with anatomizer."I did all a human being could do to bring her to--rubbed her hands andslapped her face; but even then she was in no fit condition to appear.Go on she would, in spite of my prayers, and what does she do when shecomes tripping on, blithe and gay as a school girl, but stumble and do aslide on her profile half way across the O.P. side, just as the tenorwas starting the chorus to his song, 'Bevey in Little Children.' Hebeing a nervous party springs a blue note that got the musical directorhysterical and he forgot to give the bass drum man his cue and the wholething went to blazes."It was lucky that the stage manager was making a date on the dressingroom stairs, or what she would have got would have been a-plenty."You know Laura O'Toole who was married a few weeks ago? Well, she isagain a widow. Her husband got a job with a road show. She was thinkingof wearing mourning, but her husband staked her to the price of a newspring suit and she said that conventionalities could go hang, as shehad a shape and was going to show it. I don't blame her. Why let griefput it on style?"Gee, it won't be long before summer, and then we will get our salariesreduced. That's the trouble with the people I work for. Every time theyget a success here in town they start to reduce salaries. If the companywould stand for it we would be owing them money every week before theend of the season. They think a girl hasn't nothing to do but ridearound in an automobile and look sweet."Well, me to get on the war paint. Say, have you offered your servicesfor the Friar Festival yet? Well, you had better get on the job if youwant to consider yourself classy. So long! Oh, you know the ushers willhand flowers over the footlights if you just tell him who they are for.Bye-bye."    The show opens on Broadway and Sabrina shows surprise at the    number of harsh words in the English language. She discloses the    methods of the Lease Breakers Association and mentions the    events that transpired at a little informal gathering.CHAPTER FOURTEEN"My, did you see what the critics said about our show?" exclaimedSabrina, Show Girl, as her maid opened the door. "Wasn't it awful? Ididn't know there were so many mean words in the book. And the nerve ofthem to pan me after meeting several of them socially. One of them saidthat I looked so good standing up that it was a crime to have me sitdown, but when I spoke for goodness sake get the muffler. The mut! Ishould go down and horsewhip him. But no, that's what us people thatfigure in public are bound to get. They never say a good word untilafter the minister says, 'Dust thou art to dust returneth,' and thensome cluck is liable to come along and dig up a bunch of letters."I am thinking seriously of taking a flat until summer. I don't likethis hotel, one has to keep so many conventionalities. Why, the otherday my 'phone was out of order and I ran down to the desk in my kimonato telephone and the clerk had the nerve to call me for it. Can yousurpass that? I told him to open his ears and let his head cool off."I was looking at a nice flat the other day, but they want me to sign alease. What do I know about a lease? There ain't no half salary clausein it. If I did sign the lease and want to beat it all I would do wouldbe to call in the Lease Breakers' Association and I could leave the nextday. That mob responds to a call like the crowd in the Cadillac whensome one says, I'll buy,' and you can take it from me that's going some."Sure, haven't you heard of the Lease Breakers' Association? Theyguarantee to break any lease in less than a week. It is composed of amob of select ladies and gentlemen who can make the most noise. A personwishing to leave their abode and handicapped with a lease has but toblow the whistle for this gang and furnish plenty of refreshments andthere is nothing to it. I attended one the other evening and we all hadthe one grand time."A friend of mine has ceased being married and naturally has no more usefor a whole flat, so she approached the cruel landlord and asked for arelease. Did she get it? Not. He told her that she would have to stickor stand the consequences. Does she tear out a bunch of hair and raveall over the room? Not her. She gets the members of the Lease Breakerson the 'phone and that night they hold the big celebration and the nextmorning four tenants kicked to the landlord. The morning after that thewhole building kicked in a body and the janitor had to repair twoceilings. Then the guv asked her to move and she refused until he gaveup her month's rent. She was foolish like one of those birds they call afox. I guess, yes. These landlords have to go some if they want to getahead of the simple Bohemians. What they want rent for beats me. Theyown the houses and that ought to satisfy them."If I do get this flat, take it from me, we will pull off the grand onetime. I intend to hold a reception every evening after the show until Iget a request to move."Say, here's the big jest in our set. You know, Olga Jones and herhusband don't get along very well together. Their temperaments don'tjibe."Well, her soul mate and she had given hubby the slip and were down inmy apartments putting on the finishing touches to the big eats. SoulMate was telling the story of his life to Olga when in kicks the damethat Soul Mate had formerly been in love with."They are both wise people and neither tip their mit, though Soul Mategrew restless with his feet. This was about 4 a.m. and the mere shank ofthe evening, as it were. When all of a sudden, Bing! Bing! on the doorand in waltzed Olga's handicap, who had been out and soaked up a souse,and not finding little wifey when he returned to the hut, he starts outon a still hunt and ropes in my shack."Hubby comes in carrying weight for grouch and pipes party offive--Blonde Party, Olga, Soul Mate, Wilbur and me. Calls down wifey fornot coming home. Business of language. I kick in and tells him to have adrink. Nothing to it. Oil on the troubled waters looked like an alsoran."Hubby was perfectly content and after a drink or two he beat it,telling wifey to hurry home. Fine. Blonde Party finds she is fifth wheeland also ducks. Then Olga lands on Soul Mate. 'Who is this peroxideparty?'"'Only an old passing fancy,' chirrups Soul Mate."Olga tears her hair and bites out a bunch of hectic language abouthaving the only man she ever loved being false, and how life is naughtbut a hollow bubble and all that kind of rot. Wilbur having sportingblood was for kidding them on and seeing if they would mix it, but medesiring peace and quiet told what I didn't know about the affair andsquared things. Business of embracing."Did you pipe the sassy half-sheets Mr. McManus got out for the FriarFestival? Ain't they just too pretty for words? Do you know who that guyreading the Friar song down in the corner is? Don't breathe a word andI'll tell you. It's Phil Mindel. Honest it is. George sketched it fromlife one night over at the Booze Arts."Us chorus girls were talking of marching to Albany in a body with drumsbeating and flags flying and demanding that the anti-betting bill beditched. It is something fierce the way these reformers are trying toput the bee on our pleasures."I just dote on horse races. Why, I can go to the track and sit in thecafe for hours. I wonder what these guys think we are going to do withour spare time this summer? Sit at home and make sofa pillows? Why,there is no greater sport in the world than riding out to Sheepshead orJamaica in an auto and then borrowing money from your escort to bet onthe patty-pats. It's a great system. If you lose the John gets nothing,and if you win you take everything, so it is fair for all parties."If they want to do something truly noble they should put those movingpicture shows out of business. Pretty soon when they want the chorus toshow up they will let down a sheet, throw on the picture and turn loose,'Welcome, your highness, welcome' on the phonograph. I ain't mentioningany names, but there is a bunch of these parties that belong on a movingpicture."What do you know about the circus? Ain't it all to the pickles? Methere the other matinee in a real box, courtesy of the management. Didyou get your attention called to the two Janes that did the ride in thehurdics down the hill? Some class to that act. Imagine looping the loopin the air! Not for Sabrina, the pride of the chorus. As long as I canmake my living on my shape you don't catch me trying to damage itsoaring around in the atmosphere. Not for five dollars more a week, asbad as I need the money."I went to see Wells Hawks and the elephants. Both of them are permanentfixtures, though they do say that he is kept busy looking after theanimals at both the Hip. and the circus. And the clowns! May I be struckdead if I didn't just rear back and howl my head off at those crazyclucks."Alla McSweeney certainly is a sneeze. She has no idea of the fitness ofthings. I was telling her just the other day. I said, 'Alla, youcertainly are no piker. You'll go out and mace a good fellow for a bigfeed just as if he was a John. Now, that ain't right. When you are outwith a James go to it and eat your head off. But when you are out withsome one in the business or a newspaper man be circumscribe. Though youmay want to wade through the whole dope sheet hitch your desire andorder what you think he can afford, and lay back until you get a liveone.'"What? Sure we do. If a Jane goes out with a John that has nothing but.Nothing's too good for her and walking is hard on the feet. The moremoney the wop spends the bigger sport he thinks he is, but a fellowprofessional has honorable intentions, sometimes, and it is consideredwise not to show what you are accustomed to until after he has boughtthe ring or written some letters. I may go out with some fellow andorder everything from soup to nuts just to show him that I can, but theway I won Wilbur's heart was by ordering a cheese sandwich the firsttime he invited me out."My goodness! How I run on, and here it is getting late. Well, I musttoddle along and see how the Friar Festival is. I have a personalinterest in that. So long. Say, the next time you expect to get lancedfor the big feed tell her you were once in the business and it will saveyou money. Ta, ta."    In which Sabrina has a row with the stage-manager, leaves the    show, frivols in the vineyard, denounces the male sex as being    all alike, threatens, to take the veil, but finally falls upon    the neck of her betrothed and all is forgotten.CHAPTER FIFTEENWe came upon Sabrina seated alone at a table in the rear of a cafe; herhat was tilted rakishly over one ear, a couple of strands of hair werehanging down over her forehead, a bright spot glowed on each cheek andher eyes had a dim, moist appearance. The table was covered with glassesand bottles and the chairs looked as if they had been hastily shovedback.As we approached her she waved her hand joyfully and exclaimed, 'Welcomebri' Springtime. Wel-come to our country village. You--you behold in methe only living survivor of the wreck of the Hesperus. Parade ri' up,and give the waiter your hat, coat and vest and bevy in. Though I havejust given nineteen dollars' worth of hair puffs away assou-sou-ven--you say it, I feel like a new born child. Once again I amcare fre' and heart fre'. Tra la la la le. I have just decorated Wilburwith the sacred order of the bee and I--hurray! hurray!--am no longer anear-bride. Take it fr'm muh I feel so happy I don' care if I get spotsall over the fron' of my waist. I feel like a lark. Yes shur, abottled-in-bond lark. Whatever that ish. An' I still got the engagemen'ring at that."Waiter! Waiter! Garsong! Thish gentleman has a few words to shay toyou, an' don' take no for an answer. Oh, yes, you arch your eyebrows insus-sus-picioning and shay that I have been two-stepping around thejuniper bowl and I will answer, 'Right O!' Just like that."I make it a rule to cel'brate all suspicious occasions by revelry andgoo' cheer. Oh, won' I have a head in the morning! But now."Behold I appear as Columbine! I toil not neither do I spin. Listen, mydear. The last two days have been fraught--whatever that is--withincidences that would bring gray hairs to the head of much strongerwomen than I."It came off last night. I was out to supper with a couple ofgentlemen--Wilbur and an-another gent. We were so busy talking thingsover that I didn't get to the theater until the middle of the first act.My, I never saw a man so peevish as that stage manager. I had no morethan exchanged the courtesies of the day with the stage doorkeeper andasked after his sick child than that mut-faced sneeze that calls himselfa stage manager had the nerve to rush up an fine me five dollars. Wha'dayou think of that?"I told him that I positively refused to appear the rest of the evening.Then he told me that I was fired? What do you know about that? I said,calm and dignified, like the perfec' lady I am, 'All ri', you can do asyou please with your old show, I don't care, I don't care, nothingbothers me,' and with those kind words I caper up to the dressing roomand take that expensive gown I wear in the third act and stuck it in thewash bowl and turned on the water. It needed cleaning anyway. Then I puta few things that oughta belong to me in my makeup box and beat it."I had to kiss everybody in the company goo' bye and that made the stagewait and the manager came chasing around without any goat and tol' menever to darken his door again. That's all ri' with muh. His bloomingdoor was dark enough anyway. Then I waltz back to where Wilbur and thegentleman are and break the news. Wilbur gets sore, for since Icommenced wearing those pink tights he doped out a great dramatic careerfor me. And naturally he was vexed. For he saw no show of being able tolay off work."Wilbur started to chide me. I was in too gra' a nervousness state to bechid' an' I tol' him sho. Did he have compassion and pity on muh in myvis-vis-situdes? No! Abso-o-o-lutely no! I says all ri' old top, if youlook at it that way I guess I can bear up through the heat of the daywithout your assistance, an' if it's just the same to you I will toddleri' along and peddle my matches."Wilbur pricks up his ears at those few words and tries to copper hisremarks, but not for a minute could I see through the fog."I just gather up my skirt and sweep majestically out of the room, jumpinto taxicab and proceed to hunt pleasure and relaxation. What do youknow about that?"Ah! here is the little waiter with his shining morning face. Get meanother one of the same and keep your eagle eye on these gentlemen'smugs and see that they do not get dry. Say, take it from me, if I feltany better I'd break out in a rash. I abso-o-o-o-lutely have no regardfor the future. I don' care whether school keeps or not, and Curfew canring her young head off for all I care. I am going to make old Omar feellike a temperance lecturer before I get through this celebration. I amwilling to drink everything but 'Merry Widow' cocktails, for they makeyou want to steal your own clothes."I was expecting to enjoy a box at Ted Marks' big pow-wow at the NewYork this afternoon, but I fear me at about that time the only thing Iwill be in condition to attend will be the usual hang-over party in theMetropole."Mr. Marks is sure the one clever party. He's going to organize a clubcalled 'The Human Nightkeys.' Any one that goes to bed before daylightis barred. Lee Harrison offered his services as sergeant-of-arms to seethat the rule is observed."Now that Summer is coming on this sleep question is getting shoved offin a dark corner by itself. It always was a waste of time."I don't care a whoop for the best man that breathes and now that I haveslipped Wilbur the go'-by I shall never fall in love with one of his sexagain. Tell muh, do I look all ri'. I haven't detailed the rest of thisadventure, have I? Well, I left Wilbur and met a nice quiet party thatwas singing 'We're Afraid to Go Home in the Dark' over in Jack's and Iat once began to mingle. They were all good fellows, so I nearly gavethem heart trouble by ordering wine for the crowd."I will not endeavor to chronicle the amount of lush I tucked away. Iwill only state that if I had not been a good friend to the bell hops Inever would have gotten upstairs."Estelle, that's muh maid, was sitting up with her face to the panewaiting for me to come home, and just to show her how grateful I was Igave her all of Wilbur's pictures and all the change I had in mystocking. Waiter, you are forgetting your duties in part."I finally got to bed and then I pulled off the big cry. Booze, youunderstand, and not because I lost that hot-air shooting, lush-working,expense-account-grubbing wah of a Wilbur. I should say not. Don't thinkthat I wear pink tights and can't get the best man that ever breathed."I am not a bit like that Glonesganes creature. Why, she actually throwsherself at the head of every man she meets. Honest, you can't take herout to supper in a crowd before she's engaged to some two or three inthe party. Fact. Ask any of the girls. We all swore to tell the samestory about her."Am I going back on the stage. Well, I should hope so, dear. What do youthink I would do with myself if I didn't have to beat it to the shop atleast once a day. I tried it once when I first got my fortune, but lifebecame so monotonous and I got so fat that I had to start rehearsing inorder to get back to my former self."Say, I think the last dipperful made me feel better. Waiter, come outof your trance. Gee, but I do feel great."Won't you all have a little something to eat. A steak smothered inpickles or something like that. Go as far as you like. You know I ain'tthat kind of a girl. When I'm treating there's no entries scratched. Goahead do as you please. I ain't going to get married, so I don't have tosave my money."You just watch Wilbur hedge. I got spies out and they say he's been inevery cafe in town looking for me. Wants to make up. Watch little birdiehere. If he comes monkeying around me again I'll pick up one of theseand knock him clean out from under his hat. Trifler. How I ever fell forhim certainly gets me. How anybody could love a press agent or an actorgets me for that matter. I have been crossed in love and am running nomore chances."I shall never get married. Never! That statement is for publication. Ishall live in peace and quiet near some good cafe and drown my old agein mixed drinks."You needn't think I am soused, but I am going to tell you this. UnlessWilbur and I make up the Friar Festival will have to get along withoutmy services. Why, I got every John in town so bunked that every timethey see me coming they take it on the run for some place that I can'tget to 'em, 'cause I lance 'em for a pair of seats every time our trailscross."I lost eight dinner engagements last week just on that account and whatdo I get for it? Ice water. That's all."Wilbur rushes up and demands more seats and the committee thinks he ishaving an awful rush of business and its muh with my shoulder to thewheel. I had a run in with Wilbur already about the Friar Girl thatHarrison Fisher drew on the front of the programme. Wilbur told me thatI could have the job and I finds out that he told everybody in thecompany the same thing. Press agents is crafty people. And he can playboth ends against the middle in a manner that would make your hair curl."I don't care! I don't care! Wilbur can run and make faces at himself.Nothing bothers muh. Waiter, are you asleep at the switch? I am nolonger a fiancee. I am a free woman."Say, what'yer going to do 'morrow? Let's get one of these taxicabthings and see if we can't run it to death."I never found the limit yet on one of those gasmeter attachments, an' Iam the inquisitive soul. Line out to Claremont or some of those foolishplaces. Sure, we'll start early, about noon, and enjoy the beautifulSpring-air and highballs. Are you on? Sure I'll be there with my hair ina braid. I am the Rural Kid these days and a stunt like that suits mefrom the ground up."Who is that coming in the door? Why, its Wilbur! He sees me! Do I lookall ri'? Here, Wilbur, here. Sit down and have a drink, dear, I havebeen looking for you everywhere. Forget that deal last night. So longfellows. Waiter give me the check; I don't care what becomes of my moneynow."    Sabrina gives an automobile party to several of her friends so    that they may enjoy the country air, but after investigating the    atmosphere carefully the opinion of the entire party is that the    only healthful ozone is that that comes out of a champagne    bottle.CHAPTER SIXTEEN"Where you all going?" demanded a voice, and looking around wediscovered Sabrina, the Show Girl, and two of her girl friends seated ina big red automobile that was drawn up to the curb. "Come on, jump in,"she continued. "We are out to commune with nature for a few minutes andyou might just as well be a commuter as the rest of us. Ain't this theone grand weather?"No, you sit back here. We will make Wilbur sit up in front so that wecan see he don't grub the eats. He's inside lancing the management for agroup of free lunch and a package of liquid refreshments. Here he comesnow. Bless his young heart he's got his arms full. Ain't it grand to beloved by such a man?"No, Wilbur, you get up in the hurricane deck and we all will sit in thecaboose. Have we got everything? Alla, did you forget the hot-water bagfull of cracked ice for the champagne? Now, let's see where shall we gofirst to get the most nature? We can stop at the Cadillac, the Circle,the Casino in the Park and then make a quick jump to Claremont."In that way we can get some of the delightful Spring air and not be farfrom a head waiter at any time. Thats right, Sadie, you big gump, putyour feet on the crackers. Those were bought to eat and not to be usedas a door mat. Still, if you must wipe your feet we can print 'Welcome'on one of the crackers and you can clean your Dorothy Dodds till you areblack in the face."Is everything ready? Do I look all right? Wilbur, give the motorman twobells. Look out, there! There goes Er Lawshe with a plaster cast ofGenee under his arm. Do you want to make him drop it and break hisheart?"Sadie, it is not necessary to give the furtive glance to everygentleman who admires the machine. Go ahead and see if you can't scrapethe paint off the cop. Alla, my dear, you know it isn't necessary tostart eating now, you'll get yours, and besides several of the places wewill stop at have free lunches, so you can have all that you areaccustomed to without making inroads on the provision supply at thisstage of the game."What 'a we got in the larder? Fifteen bottles and 10 cents' worth ofcrackers. My! it seems to me you are squandering an awful lot of moneyon food. Of course, if we get shipwrecked or something they may come inhandy, but at present writing they are excess baggage."Whoa, chauffeur! Don't you see that bock beer sign? Whenever you seeone of those turn the corner and stop at the family entrance. Hitch themachine and we will all soon see what mine host has in the way ofnourishment. Sadie, it is not necessary to show such unseeming haste, asit is now but early noon and the place does not close until aftermidnight."This is a low-browed dump, but any port in a storm, as the poets say.As I am directing this Cook's tour we will have but one drink here."Wilbur, how do you know that the bar-keeps name is George? Have youbeen false to me and been here with another? Bartenders are calledGeorge just like Chinamen are called John? What are you trying to baleout to me? Do you think I am a boob?"Now, Alla, go to it and quench your thirst, for it may be severalblocks before we stop again. My, ain't this warm weather glorious! Itmakes one so thirsty. Come, people, let's get back in the herdic, for wehave a long journey ahead of us."There you go again, Sadie. Stepping all over the crackers. Before weget through we will have to take them in capsules. Look out for thatcar! Gee, those cars are bad enough without being mashed up more by somesneeze wagon. Certainly we'll go through the Fifth avenue entrance tothe park. I may be some things, but I am no piker, and, besides, we gotas much license as anybody. I remember when I used to go horsebackriding through here every morning and I always had my groom in abeautiful red livery following me. I had the most beautiful black horseand an elegant riding habit. Why, there wasn't a day but what I wasinvited out to lunch. Sadie, that was very uncalled for. I am in notrance. You, of course, not being accustomed to those things, naturallylook upon those people who were brought up on such stuff as balloonjuice merchants. Maybe that will make you stand hitched."Look at that hearse go by us. Driver, if you are any good you will makethat outfit look as if they were bound to the bannister."That's right, give them a touch of high life. Zow-e, if we are goingless than a mile a minute I hope I have to walk home. Cheese, there's abike cop. Can you loose him? Beat it. Good-by, Bobby. Look out, there'sanother one in front. Slow up, for goodness sake, or we will be pinched.What is it, sergeant? Oh, no, sir. Not more than six miles an hour, I amsure."This machine has got a dudedad on it that prevents it from going morethan ten. Won't you have a little drink, officer? Just smile on the gentin the front seat; he's right there with the distillery. Wilbur, chasethe roof off a jug of suds for the Lieutenant. I tell you, Captain, onmy honor as a lady, we are not going more that six miles an hour. Musttake us to the station! Why, you low-down, monkey-faced excuse for asparrow cop, would you have the crust to stand up in front of a judgeand tell him that we were going faster than ten miles an hour? If youwant to get us to the station it's a cinch you will have to push themachine. Walk! Not so you could notice it. The only way you can get methere is to drag me by the hair of my head, and if you dare lay yourmitts on my new marcel wave I will report you to your Commissioner, andif a certain friend of mine don't stand strong enough with him to haveyou broke, I'll eat my ostrich plume!"Will let us go if we promise not to do it again? Why, certainly wewon't, Sergeant. Thank you, Lieutenant. Here's a little something forthe Relief Fund. Good-by, Captain. Wilbur give the driver two bells. Thenerve of that guy thinking he could pinch me. I'll have you know that Iam only nicked by the best cops on Broadway, and not by any high-grassconstable. Hand 'em salve, pardy, hand 'em salve. A soft answer turnethaway wrath. If that don't turn the trick use a brick."Oh, gee, there it is. Go around and come up the other side so we can beseen from all the tables."Let's take this table. Waiter, get on the job, as these gentlemen andladies wish to address a few remarks to you. Oh, there's GraceMcSweeney. Pipe the hat she is sporting. Bum taste, it strikes me. Whois that slob with her? Oh, hello, dear! I was just speaking of your newhat to Sadie. We both admired it so."We were wondering how you could wear it coming up on the Subway. I'vefound that the wind blows them all to pieces in my car. Who's the wop?From Pittsburg? Oh, is that so? He reminds me so much of a very dearfriend of mine that was sent up for life. No, I suppose it's not thesame party, though they are as alike as two peas. No, I don't care tomeet him. You know one in my position cannot afford to associate withevery Tom, Dick and Harry. Must you toddle? Good-by, dear."Cat! Did you get wise to the way I slipped her the sassy roast? Well,here's down the Irish channel. Varlet, fill up the flagons again. I justlove to sit here and look out at Nature and the railroad tracks and thebrick scows."Where do we go from here? You made me think I was back in the business.Oh, I don't care. Yonkers, over in Westchester County, or we can takethe ferry for Jersey if you want to go out in the wilderness. It makesnot an iota of difference to muh. Just as long as the chauffeur stayssober. Shall we hike? Lets slip up the drive for a ways. Sadie, are youever going to have sense enough to keep your hoofs off those crackers?Honest, I don't believe your think tank is feeding properly. Why don'tyou blow in it and clear it out?"Sure, I'll caper out to Yonkers if the rest of the crowd want to. I amjust that kind of a fellow. Ain't I, Wilbur, dear? Oh, my, don't formercy sakes disturb him. He's hunting locations for the Friarthree-sheets that Mr. Gillen slipped 'em. He's got Mr. McManus' artstudies planted now so that the burg looks like a Kansas town the dayafter the number two car of the circus leaves."Did you know that they are enlarging the secret tunnel in the newFriary so that Toxen Worm can get his getaway if the occasion shouldarise? Honest, it looks like the front view of the Hoboken tunnel. Oh,law me, what is that in the offening? Eureka! It's another cafe, or domuh eyes deceive me? I am athirst, let us rest our weary beast andpartake of a flagon of nut brown ale. Say, I guess I would be bad inthis Shakespeare thing. Alight, fair maids, and nominate your ideaprovokers."Waiter, follow those people's directions and do not let the mice buildnests under your feet. Sink this and we will then continue our journey."Now, Sadie, as a friend I ask you don't do a ballet on them crackers.Run over the mutt. What care we for life. Gee, the canine is right thereas the artful dodger. Ah! what? Bing! What was that? A puncture! My! Forgoodness sake, how long will we be bogged down. Oh, we can wait thatlong, can't we, dears? Pipe the yokel. Shall I hand him a game ofchatter? No? Oh, very well."Let's have a picnic. Wilbur, get on the job and skid out the liquids.Alla, you may bring out what is left of the crackers. If that womanhasn't paraded over them biscuits until there isn't a piece there bigenough to make a nice comfortable mouthful for a young flea."Throw 'em away, we don't want to overload our stomachs anyhow. Can yousurpass that for a man. Here we've come all these weary miles carefullynursing these bottles to our bosoms and then that excuse there has thecrust to speak up and say, 'I forgot the corkscrew.' Can you beat it?Wilbur, you just get on the job and pull them out with your teeth. Getaway, you big standup and fall down, I'll show you how to get them out.What do you think us fair sex wear hat pins for, hey, shover? Want someof this jig juice for your tire? Right-o! Ain't I the English scamp? Gother fixed all right? Climb in, folks, and we will journey homeward, forI am beginning to feel thirsty and you certainly don't get the sametreatment here that you do in town. Sadie, now that the crackers aregone I wish you would please remember that that is my foot. Say, you cannever learn some of these dolls nothing. Nothing personal, my dear,though your hair is light."Don't you dish me out any hectic language, for I am a lady. I mightforget myself and smear one all over you. Wilbur, are you going to situp there and see your near-bride insulted by a woman? If you don't comeback here and make her stop abusing me I'll take and bump your twohearts together. Now that goes if you hear it and I am speaking in nowhisper."Can that fight talk even if this is a pleasure party. My, how time doesfly! We are nearly home now. Let's all go down the street and see what'sdoing. Must you leave us? Don't rush away in the heat of the forenoon.So long. My, I am glad that man's out of the machine!"    Sabrina, in spite of the anti-betting law, goes to the race    track and returns with money. She also drops a few remarks    concerning gentlemen who claim their scarf-pins have been    purloined by ladies.CHAPTER SEVENTEEN"Them Senators that put the kibosh on that racetrack bill can considerthemselves as personal friends of every chorus Fluff that ever scanned adope sheet," remarked Sabrina, the Show Girl, as she alighted from a newbig automobile. "Pipe the ferry-boat. It's all mine; name on everypiece. And I am personally thankful to those gents that I am the proudpossessor of the same."Did I catch? Well, I should hope so, dear. I landed this buzz wagon outof a ten dollar pike bet. Can you surpass it? Talk about playing inluck. Wait until I touch wood. Wilbur says betting on the races beatstrifling with the affections of an expense account all to pieces."You know that, though I lead a simple and uneventful existence, theinheritance that was left me was pretty near all in, and it was eitherup to me to get married, get a job on one of the roofs or catch a liveone, and I thought the best of all the evils was to catch theaforementioned live one. I am not one of these Janes that goes dottyover the pit-i-pats, and though I always sit up until The MorningTelegraph comes out on the street, the racing news is not the firstthing I turn to."Wilbur's show closes in a couple of weeks and he is going to the islandfor the summer. Can that old stuff. I mean Coney, not Blackwell's. Ibeen piking around for a hunch for some time, and just the other eveningI was out with a party who is interested in the bet placing business atall of the big tracks, and he said he was hep to a few killings, and anytime I would come out he would give them to me and I could play theother books."Knowing that he had influence, I naturally took an interest in him,but, say, this is a long, sad story and--. Ah, certainly! I knew youcould not suppress your Southern hospitality much longer--that is, Ihoped you couldn't. Yes, waiter; bring me a long one."Well, I took a peep at my check-book about a week ago and decided thatit was me for the track. I meets this wop and he certainly lands me inright. He gives me a twenty case note and the card. I got the twentychanged and plants ten of it in the Lisle Thread Bank, making up my mindthat no matter what happened the day would not be ill-spent."I plays his tip at 8 to 1 on the first race and ketches. Out of thatninety I plant forty. Still following the kind gentleman's advice Ipikes the fifty on a dog in the second race and he never does come in."Can you beat that? This betting person picks the whole card but thisone race. I lose my fifty and was thinking seriously of going home whenI got a yen to try it again, so I dug up a twenty out of the hose.Honest, it nearly broke my heart to separate myself from that roll, butI just had to do it. I get twenty to one, go into hysterics at thequarter, faint at the half, but come to in time to see my money comingin so far ahead it looked as if he was out for a pleasure trip. Can yousee me with that 400 in my mit? Talk about throwing fits. Why, I had theLeamy Ladies looking like children romping on the nursery floor."There was nothing to it. I had a hunch to grab the bundle and beat itfor home and crawl under the bed. And then I had another hunch that toldme to stick for the big show. I plant one century in my war bag and getseven to two on the next with the other three. I win."Then I do want to go home. I felt ill."But just then a gentleman introduced himself to me and we went and hada little drink. That made me feel better, and so I ditched the purveyorof refreshments and fled to the clubhouse. There is nothing more to tellexcept that I couldn't lose and I came home in an automobile with myclothes so full of this evergreen stuff that I looked as if I hadspavins or something else."I made 6,000 on the day, which is not so bad for a poor fluff like me.That night the gentleman who gave me the tips called me up and wantedhis original twenty back, saying the public got all his roll. Can youbeat that? I told him I thought he was a moonstone sport, and to neverdarken my door again."He needed money bad, and through a friend I let him have a couple ofthou on this machine. Ain't I the business woman?"Wilbur and I have just been riding ourselves to death ever since. Hehas been acting awful lately. Ever since he heard that Friar Weber andFriar Field were going to appear together at the festival he has beensoused. It was all I could do to restrain him from kissing Phil Mindelin the Cadillac the other evening. He just don't care what he does."Have you bought your tickets? Let me see. I have six choice ones herein the seventh row. You'll want to bring your family, of course, 'causeit will be the chance of a lifetime. Nothing like it seen before underone canvas. For stellar attractions it's going to have Barnum & Bailey'slooking like a Sunday school entertainment. Yes, sir, and I personallywill be there like the Trinity chimes."Alla McSweeney has gone and blown herself for one of these racecoursehats. You know these big things that have a half-mile track around theoutside. While I do not wish to injure the poor dear, still I will saythat she certainly looks one of these long-handled Jap umbrellas. Youknow she is such a skinny thing! Honest, this new hip style they areboosting this season just saved her life. She was getting saddle gallsfrom carrying so many naturals. I wouldn't say this unless I absolutelyknew, and of course I have seen her early in the morning when youhaven't."There are little confidences us girls exchange in the privacy of ourboudoirs that would never do for the ear of a man. She tried to get ajob as one of those six-foot girls in 'The Love Waltz,' but the managertold her she had better go with a circus. She naturally queried 'Why?'And he, the rude thing, told her she could get a job as a quarter-pole.That's why she could never get a job with the Held show. She was allright in low neck, but when it came to tights! Well, you know bowlegsnever did appeal to the front row."Mind you, I wouldn't say a thing that would hurt her character theleast bit, but you should have seen the way she carried on when she wasout in Chicago. You know that anyone who runs around with those La Sallestreet spendthrifts loses class, anyway, and she just tore around thatNorth Side something scandalous, and till my dying day I never willforget the scene she and the comedian's wife had on the platform in thatdear Peoria."Alla, bless her heart, she is a good soul, is a flighty creature andshe accepted the attentions of the comedian which his wife was notsupposed to be jerry to. But one day some gabby girl put wifey next. Wewere all down to the station waiting for the train to come in when upromps wifey to this doll, who is making the big talk with a chorusman--just shows you what extent she will go for company--she was talkingto this chorus man and wifey capers up to her and says: 'You beenflirting with my husband, haven't you?' And hauling off wifey hangs oneon Alla's map that is a thing of beauty and a joy forever. Bing goesAlla to the platform down and out. She was in such a trance that we hadto rub her hands and borrow a drink from the press agent, who came backwith the show to see if he couldn't get his salary, before she wouldcome to. Pale, why that girl was so white that her number eighteenlooked like big gobs of red paint on each cheek."I never saw a girl so surprised in my life. For the nonce she wasnonplussed. She didn't know what to make of it. When she did you shouldhave heard the language she used. It is not for me to tell it in arespectable crowd, for I only use it to Estelle, that's my maid, whenshe pulls my hair, but it was certainly not fit for publication in afamily newspaper."She's continually getting into trouble. If it ain't one thing it'sanother. It's a wonder to me she hasn't been pinched oftener than shehas."I never will forget one time she was out riding with a handsomegentleman from Pittsburg in a cab and while leaning on his shoulder hisdiamond scarfpin got caught in her teeth. She being a bashful youngthing--then. Well, when she takes her head off his shoulder the pinnaturally comes along, too, and then she got afraid that he would thinkshe was trying to nick it so she stuck the pin in her hat band,intending to restore it on the way home. But in the next cafe theystopped in she picked a fight and left him in a huff. Would you believeit, that guy had the nerve to come around the next day and declare thatshe had pinched the bauble and threaten to land her in the booby hatchif she didn't come across."And they call that chivalry!"No true gentleman would ever threaten to have a lady sent up."Did he get his pin? Well, I should say not. She threw such a strongbluff about suing him for defamation of character that he came acrosswith two hundred cold to keep her quiet. But don't breathe this to asoul unless they promise not to tell. I wouldn't have it get out that Iever said anything about her for worlds, for, though we are the best offriends, I am leaving her no opening to hand me one."Don't think for a minute that I have a past I am afraid to bring beforeme. My fair young life has been as quiet and uneventful as an old millstream. Fact. You see, still water runs deep and the race is not alwaysto the swift. And goodness knows I would have no one say that about me.I'm a Bohemian, whatever that is. Lots of dames I know have pasts. Why,every time you mention Sid Eusons to Laura she nearly coughs up a spasmand to even breathe medicine show to a certain leading man I know hewill immediately cut you off his calling list."The benefit business is not as prosperous this year as it has beenheretofore. I know several parties that have actually lost money onthem."Now that Lent is over I am going to have a good time. I always observeLent some way. This year I swore off refusing drinks or suppers. Wilburand I expect to be made one as soon as he locates his next season's job.He's got one in sight that looks pretty good."A certain party has signed for it, but Wilbur gets it if this partydrops dead, so now Wilbur is following him around telling him that helooks poorly. We ought to be very happy when we get married, for Wilburwill be out ahead of a show all season and I will be here in New York.What more would a happy bridal couple desire?"Well, I must toddle along, as the hour is late and my automobile isgetting impatient."Be good, and don't forget that you promised on your word and honor totake six tickets for the Friar Festival from me. Say, party, if you needany change give me the office and I will slip it to you."    Sabrina makes a few remarks concerning a pink-whiskered bark who    is trying to convert the merry-merry and questions the propriety    of going on an extended yachting cruise with a grass widow for a    chaperone.CHAPTER EIGHTEEN"Say" remarked Sabrina, as we reached her table the other evening. "Didyou hear the gladsome tidings? Some purple-whiskered bark is going tocaper in this country from dear old Lunnon and deal out religion to theFluffs of the merry merry. Can you surpass it?"He is going to slip it to us in our tea. Like knockout drops, I guess.Gee, can you see him distributing tracts to that mob. It's a cinch thatthey will make good curl papers, anyway."The only way to convert most of these dames is to wait until themorning after a birthday party and work the remorse gag before they havea chance to get a bracer for their hangover."Can you see him taking a bunch of them out on a picnic like he did inEngland. Claremont or Far Rockaway for theirs, and if he didn't comeacross with the big feed with the necessary liquid trimmings it would bethe tar and feathers for his. I have had several wine agents try toconvert me, but I always stick to the same brand. Let him come over andwe will show him a time that will make old Pap Dowie's reception looklike a twinkle."At that, us chorus dames ain't so worse. Of course there are a bunch ofshines in the aggregation, but I guess if you kept tab you would findout that about nine-tenths of them slide for home as soon as they getthe cosmetic off their eyelashes. It's the other tenth that try to bethe human night keys that crab the act for the whole works."There's more dolls keeping their little sisters in convents than thereis ones buying white-topped shoes. The poor Jane has to go somewhere tomake her forget the blooming show shop."A bunch of these high-browed clucks jump all over the villages, ladiesof the court, etc., and think it's their fault that the price oflobsters is so high."Maybe the price of lobsters is high, but did you ever see a chorus girlbuy one for herself?"An actress gets handed hers at every stage of the game, just because afew make the big noise. These old cranks are always laying for a chanceto get a little limelight, and they naturally make the big talk aboutpeople that are in the public eye, and those that they know nothingabout."They should either furnish those guys with a muzzle or give them a pikeat the inside of the show business so that they would either keep theirtrap shut or know what they are talking about. I will admit that thereare some grand wonders in this business, but that is no reason why thewhole game should be crabbed, and all get the pan for the actions of afew."You all know that I am broad minded. I believe that everybody shouldhave a good time if they can keep sober. Of course I don't meanpainfully sober, but not to get disgustingly disgusting so that theyhave to be dragged to the taxi. That I call going too far, and entirelyunnecessary."If a fluff commences to get too moist around the lamps she shouldeither plead a headache and slide for the curled hair or throw herdrinks on the floor when the host is holding hands or exchanging quipswith one of the other ladies in the party."Drink is an awful thing, especially the next morning. Thanks toWilbur's teaching, I take a spoonful of olive oil every evening before Iduck the hut, so I can sit in with the best and have the seatingcapacity of a bonded warehouse."I pray thee do not breathe these little maidenish confidences, for itmight make hard feeling between me and some of my gentlemen friends Ihave had to get checked at numerous places of refreshment."Wilbur is so busy getting ready for the Friars' Festival that you can'tchase a word out of him about anything else. Mr. Erlanger, Lee Schubert,Lew Dockstader and Fred Thompson have all kicked in for their boxes, andit is expected that a few more will realize the merits of the attractionand kick in this week."To see the paper they have had given to them you'd think it was thestoreroom of the Bailey Show."I ain't saying nothing, but you just wait until those guys get throughwith the long-handled brushes. They are going to give Friar Green thejob of tacking cards because he is quick on his feet. The big festivalcomes off next Thursday, so if you haven't bought your seats it's timeto get busy. It will be the one best bet in the show line this season."Just think, Mr. Weber and Mr. Fields are going to appear together forthe first time in years."Honest, I am so excited over the affair that I can hardly wait. Wilburgot two seats in the first row, and I'll be there with new frock on, myhair in a braid and my feet in the orchestra pit. Between the festivaland the new clubhouse it's got Charley Cook running around in circles.And Wells Hawks is so busy doping out stuff that I saw him pass anelephant the other day without speaking to it."Harry Alward is working three eight-hour shifts every day, and thewhole blooming gang have gone so noodley that they won't even stop tobuy me a drink, and you can take it from me that when those guysoverlook a chance to do something for somebody in distress something hasgone wrong, or there is a big hen on."What was I talking about? Oh, yes. Have you heard the latest gossip?Alla McSweeney is wearing 'Merry Widow' cocktails on the outside oftaxicabs now. That poor dear has to swallow a sinker with everything sheinhales. And she always comes up bright and cheerful with her face tothe pane waiting for the next one. I've seen her go under four times inan evening, and though a little pale she is always there with the chimeswhen the curtain drops."Yes, I put on my light ones some two weeks ago. I got jerry that therewould be some class to the humidity, so I made the quick change."I cannot decide yet what to do for the summer. I don't know whether togo down to Bath Beach and take a cottage, go to the mountains or go backto Emporia for a trip. I got run out of that hick hamlet the last time Iwas there, and I am afraid if I go back I might get lynched. You cannever tell what those emotional tillers of the soil are going to donext. Why, they are just as liable to vote for Bryan as not."I have been invited out to Far Rockaway for a week or two. Mr. CorsePayton is going to make his summer home out there, and if he is within aradius of ten miles I know we are slated for the one grand time. He isso full of Iowa gallantry that he wouldn't let even a dog go by withoutoffering it a highball. He's just that soft hearted. He's got a younghotel out there and the bars are down for any of his friends."Some of us girls are talking about getting a houseboat and leading thesimple. The chances are it will fall through most everything we dope outdoes. That's the trouble with us actresses. We get a wild idea and workit to death for a few minutes and then somebody says, 'I'll buy,' andthe stuff is off. We could have lots of fun on a houseboat if it had acool cellar. I certainly do love to go bathing by moonlight. It's soromantic."There's a certain party of some prominence on Wall Street that wants meto be one of a party on board his yacht, as his wife is going to Europefor the summer, but I don't know about these yachting parties, for therehas been so much scandal about some of them that I am afraid it willlacerate my reputation. You know, above all things, I must be carefulwith that. Especially now that I am going to become a bride. Yep, Wilburand I expect to pull off the wedding bell specialty early in June, or assoon as the season opens at Saratoga."I think a young married couple can have such a nice quiet time inSaratoga if they go there on their bridal trip and the season is opened.There is so many society people and others there that life never drags."I remember I was there on my first wedding tour, but my husband wasn'twith me. What! Didn't you know I had been married. Certainly I have, andI am betraying no confidences when I declare myself. Yes, I have beenmarried, and to Saratoga on my wedding trip my husband couldn'taccompany me because he was with another show. I never had such anextended bridal trip. All one-night stands. I was with a musical comedyat the time, and I met my husband in Racine, Wis. I know that's an awfulplace to meet anybody, even your husband, but this is a sad and truetale. He was the leading juvenile with a one-two-three show, and such ahandsome thing you never saw on the stage."Honest, to hear him spring that sure-fire hokum you would have thoughthe believed it. I know he passed the same line of dope out to me, and Ifell for it. What more could you ask? I was a young and trusting thingthen, having been in the business only one season, so I was not 'wised'up to the proper point to believe no man until he makes good. Heintroduced himself to me after the performance, and as we were layingoff there waiting for the angel to come across with the necessary fundsfor us to continue our successful tour, I had nothing else to do but tolisten to his line of chatter."He handed it over so strong that I took it all in, and one day when hesought my hand I nailed him to the mast and we beat it for the justiceof the peace and were made one."His show closed shortly after that and I had to learn to send himmoney. He got so proud and stuck up that he wouldn't even hunt for ajob, until at last it got so unbearable that I had to get a divorce."He was a gay and festive young thing, and though I left town the day wewere married I still look upon him as my first husband."No, I never have seen him since, but we did a great deal ofcorresponding especially when he needed money."If you could get Clarence--yes, that was his name ain't it ascream?--if you could get Clarence soused he was the boy comic. Honest,I have seen him bring a smile out of a head waiter."He was the real spendthrift. Why, every day he was courting me inRacine he would take me down and let me look at the lake for hours at atime, and often he would tell me he was going to take me boat riding.Shows what a piker I was. If I knew what I do now I would have sprung alaugh and told him if he wanted my fair young heart he would have toshow me more excitement than a watch meeting."My, how I do run on! Here I got to sell a couple more seats for thefestival, for it is coming off a week from this coming Thursday, and Iwant to have all the other girls faded. What, must you go? Say, party,take it from me--break open your bank and count your pennies, for it'sthe chance of a lifetime. Da-da."    She discusses the advisability of chorus girls charging time for    their company like a taxicab. She goes for a sail on the river    and the party meets with several accidents before finally having    a wreck.CHAPTER NINETEEN"Gee, Kid, I can scarce restrain myself," remarked Sabrina, the ShowGirl, as we met her on the street."The big show comes off Thursday afternoon, and me! Why, I'll be theredressed up like a circus. Take it from me, it's a bet you don't want tooverlook. I seen a guy go up to the managers and wave 10,000 in theirfaces for the box office receipts, and all he got was the cold, cruellaugh of scorn."The clubhouse had its official opening last night, and as yet none ofthose that were in attendance have appeared upon the scene. I ain'tsaying a word, but I bet they had an awful time."Them Friars are great people. I been the busy little bee all weektrying to get some tickets, but I guess they are all sold out. All ofthe out-of-town guys are clamoring for gallery seats behind posts. Andanything less than 50 for one of the seats is considered as car fare."Wilbur went to the opening of the new clubhouse last night, and I got a'phone from him this morning saying he was going home and get somesleep."Say, party, was you up to the Friars' Convention last Sunday? Talkabout fun, this sixty laughs in sixty minutes stunt looked like aMethodist watch meeting."Honest, I felt sorry for Miss Piatt of 'The Merry Widow' bunch. She waselected to represent that outfit by the whole company Saturday night andthen none of the girls showed up to vote for her. The funny thing of thewhole works was that Miss Sara Spotted-Weazel from the Bill Show nearlywon at that. Gee, did you hearken to the cadenza she turned loose?Indian comic opera. Fine business. I am glad Josephine Cohan got it,'cause she's a nice girl, though Louise Dresser is all right at that."Beban was the foxy guy; every time anybody didn't show up from anycompany he would claim that he was the delegate and put the thingthrough. Wasn't Al Davis the busy party! Corbett thought the thing allout and Davis did the hard work, and then every Friar for miles aroundput in their little gab and told Davis how it should be done."Did you ever notice that the party inside the taxi knows more aboutrunning it than the chauffeur? Al was wise. He paid no attention totheir words of advice and that's why the thing was a success. Too manychefs spoil the cheese sandwich. Them's my words and they go as theylay. Hank Green got sore 'cause I spoke to him, so I won't do it anymore."Wilbur and I are to be united in wedlock next week and we are going onour wedding tour. Where it will be goodness only knows. It may be onlyto Canarsie or Far Rockaway."Since he met me he has planted a bunch of change, and a gentlemanfriend of mine gave him a few tips on the market, and he's got what heclaims is a tidy sum. He's talking about taking a trip to Europe. Such achance. What license have we in that neck of woods? I told him to take aride over the Williamsburg bridge and that would give him all the Europehe wanted."He wants to go over there and bring back a couple of big vaudevilleacts and make a bunch of money. Rats, I tell him, rats. What does heknow about vaudeville acts? Some of these wops that go across never getit out of their systems. All you hear is, 'When I was in London.'"I remember the time I met Ted Marks in Maxim's. Maxim's is in Paris,you know, my dear. It gives me a sharp, stinging pain. Those burgs ain'tsuch a much. You can get just as good things to drink right here in NewYork, so, I says to him, 'what's the use of making a fool trip likethat?' But he's noodly on the subject and spends half of his spare timereading 'Short Trips in the Old World,' 'Life in the Latin Quarter,''Fifty-seven Ways to Avoid Tipping' and all that kind of junk. A trip toAsbury Park would satisfy me just as well."Alia McSweeney's Judge gave her a new automobile the other day and wehad a match race on the Merrick Road. Honest, the way my car left hertied to the post was a crime. We both stopped drinking three hoursbefore the race commenced, so that our nerves would be in goodcondition.""She may be a good chorus girl, but she certainly is a bum racer. I beather by two dogs, six chickens and a lamp post. I would have got a milkwagon, only Wilbur carelessly blew the horn and scared him up a sidestreet. After the race the loser had to treat the winner to the bigeats. I can't tell you what we had, but I can say this much. If sheloses another race the Judge will have to go over to the corporations.Eat? We had the best there was."Gee, I am sore on this racing thing. You know I went down there acouple of weeks ago and chased the books up a tree. I prance down therethe other day and they had me going some. I had a crowd of inside info,and what do I do but let a wop tout me out of it and play his horse. Ilost just five hundred cold ones by the deal, and I sure does give thisguy a laying out."I says to him, 'What license you got to give a lady a bum steer likethat? Here I go and plant my fifty on the dog you handed me at 6 to 5,and the 10 to 1 shot I was going to play wins! Where's my comeback? Iask you as a lady, where do I get off?' He offered to kick in with thefifty I lost, but I put up such an awful roar that he gave me twohundred more to ease my aching heart."I lose him in the crowd and then take a peek at the entries again andfind the gee-gee I intended betting on didn't even start. Of course Icouldn't find the party that gave me the two fifty, search as I might.Wasn't that rotten luck?"I ran that two fifty up to an even thousand before the last race andthen beat it for home and mother. The bunch went into the fresh air fundalong with the rest. I am now trying to meet some nice gentleman whodoes business in Wall Street and get him to make a few conservativeinvestments for me. Not that I intend to use any of my own money.Certainly not. But it is a good thing to have a bank account to flash,so that the boob will think he will get a comeback if he does lose."A gentleman did put some money up on a margin for me once and then whenhe got trimmed he came to me for a check and I had to go into hystericsbefore I could get rid of him."The conceited yen some of these boobs have in thinking that a fluff hasnothing else to do but sit in some cafe and hold hands until daylight."I am trying to get the Chorus Girls' Union to get together and pass alaw charging so much for our time, just like a taxicab. Don't you thinkthat would be a good idea? Lots of times the supper ain't worth the timeshe wastes on the cluck. They could have a little indicator fastened totheir Merry Widow hat and as they leave the stage door turn down theflag and not read the meter until he had kissed you good-by in the hall,and then collect. In that way the doll would have the price ofbreakfast, and maybe a new gag or something for her wardrobe. It wouldreduce the nightly jam around the stage door by a whole lot."Did you hear about the bunch of us going yachting in Gym Bagley's yachtThe Hornet the other day? He calls it The Hornet because he got stungwhen he bought it. The weather was all to the good the other afternoon,so we hike up to Harlem and collar the ship, six of us, and, afterloading a bunch of bottled ballast on board, we started out. Gosh, thewater was lovely. Gym don't care what becomes of the blooming barge aslong as it doesn't get lost. You can even sink it, if you mark the spot.We all leave our Merry Widow lids in the boathouse, 'cause the boatwouldn't hold them, and sallied forth."Wilbur said he knew how to sail a boat. Come to find out later, it wasa stone boat he had been educated on."Well, we elected him the chauffeur and, after hoisting the sail, thegallant craft with its merry-merry crew swung out into the stream. Yoho, my lads, yo, ho."The wind was blowing one way and we wanted to go the other, so afternearly wrecking a couple of tugboats and a brick scow, we fixed the sailso the wind would push the boat right along. Aye, aye, captain, a fishsou'-sou' by east with the wind in his teeth! The sturdy vessel was justtearing along. Honest, you could see it move--right along, just like aclam, when Alla, who, you all know, is the human goat, in trying toreach for a bottle of beer that didn't belong to her, fell overboard."It served her right and I told the gang to hit her on the nob with anoar when she came-up. We dragged her in, however, and wrapped her up ina bunch of coats and set her on the front stoop of the craft to dry."She got jerry to the fact that there was a bottle of jig juice in thegalley and at once threw a chill. Honest, to see that fluff do a stagechill would have made a eel laugh, ha! ha! in that manner. She shook sohard she nearly threw us all out of the scow, so that we finally had tolisten to her pleadings and pass her the booze."I was for letting her shake so if we wanted mixed drinks al we wouldhave to do was to put the glass in her mitt and say go to it, but someof the gazabos in the mob got a sympathy streak and let her have it. I'da let her had it, all right, all right, the outside of the bottle righton the marcel."The subterfuges these Janes will indulge in to accomplish their endsmakes my goat jump the barrier."Nothing else marred our pleasant little sail up the river except whenwe opened the lunch box we found only one sandwich, and no one would eatit. Everybody wanted to trade their interest in it for a bottle of beer,and there was nearly a riot."It was finally settled by Wilbur, who is always the fair-haired boywhen it comes to emergencies. He took the sandwich and threw itoverboard and each and every member of the famished crew had anothereyedropper full of suds. If it hadn't been for him, we would be outthere yet."We had got up to nearly opposite 155th street by this time and some ofthe less experienced members of the jolly gang were commencing to worrythat they would never see Broadway again and stationed a lookout in thebow to find Albany. Aye, aye, the deck, water sighted on the port beam.On duty, captain. These noodley dames were strong for reversing andreturning to our harbor, which we had not seen for these many years--ah,the brave sailor lad; alas, he had to remain away from home at night--soWilbur started to turn the boat around."I think he must have thought he was driving a street car, for insteadof reversing like any white man would, he pulled off an evolution thatwas a peach."All of the wind ducked out of the sail gag for a minute and the boatspun around, then, all of a sudden, it filled again, and, bingo! thescow slowly lays over on her side an dies. The outfit fell into thewater kerplunk. I think I touched the bottom nine times before I grabbedthe side of the boat. I remember distinctly of passing a fish so oftenthat we got on speaking terms."When I got the briny out of my lamps and took a pike around, there wasthe whole works clinging to the side of the boat looking like a flock ofwet cats."The remarks they made to Wilbur I would not repeat here, for he is tobe my future husband. The water was as cold as a flat in the Winter timeand nothing in sight."One of the dames, I wouldn't be surprised if it was that Alla party,suggested that we lash a man to the rigging and let him look for help.Another was strong for turning the flag upside down as a signal ofdistress. Louie Zweibaum nearly drowned because he had to use both handsto tell her that the rigging was under water."We, all between shivers, turned loose a Rebel yell for help and prettysoon along comes a tugboat bound downtown. That drove up alongside andafter the captain found out that we had money they hoisted us on deckand took the sloop for a tow."Take it from me, I was never so glad to get near a fire in my life. Theskipper of the cheese let us get in the engine room and dry out. Can yousee that wet bunch of fluffs with all the highlight off and theirmarcels around their necks. I'll bet there was a whole lot of surprisessprung when the true complexion began to show up. We got fairly wellfixed up by the time we got down to where we had to go to get the restof our stuff and when we once again touched mother earth and the captainof the boat had touched us we took it on the run for a cafe, and let metell you the market price on hot drinks closed strong in Harlem thatnight."We fixed Gym's boat up and gave it back to him the next day. Nobodycaught cold and everything in the garden's lovely."Now, dearie, I can call you dearie, for I am soon to be a married womanand it will be all right. Now, dearie, don't forget the big FestivalThursday afternoon, for I will count on your being there to help thecrowd."Remember the Friars do more for the actors than they are given creditfor, so it's up to you to help boost. So long. Don't forget to kick inearly and avoid the rush."    Sabrina is married and goes on her wedding trip. Her comments on    London and how her husband suppressed several professional    gamblers on board the steamer. The two expect to spend some time    in England, where we will leave them.CHAPTER TWENTYSabrina was married to Wilbur the day after the Friar Festival and weacted in the capacity of best man and were very much in evidence in thefeast that followed. We imprinted chaste salutes on the lips of theblushing bride until the groom tore us asunder. After the festivitiesSabrina and Wilbur disappeared and for the past ten days their favoritecafes and loafing places have known them not. We were just beginning toget nervous when the postman brought the following letter:    "London.    "Dear Party--I guess maybe when you pipe off this effusion you    will throw a foaming fit and fall in it. Me and Wilbur are now    in the city of fogs and take it from me, it's a bum habitation    for even a dog.    "After you and the rest of the gang did the shoot the chutes    under the table at the wedding breakfast me and his nobs grabbed    our make-up boxes and took it on the lope for the ferry station.    I thought we were going to take a wedding tour to Asbury Park or    some of the other watering places, but what does Wilbur do but    sidestep the ferry proposition and we go prancing up to a dock    where a boat about nine miles big was hitched and before I had    time to give the office to the cop on the beat Wilbur rushes me    up the plank and into the outfit. Honest, it was bigger than any    of the Coney Island boats. I was under the impression for the    nonce that it was the night boat up the Hudson but I didn't see    a steward I knew.    "A guy who had enough gilt on to be a Major-General in the    National Guard came floundering up and Wilbur gave him his real    name and the wop said, 'This way, please, threw us into a young    elevator and we went up a couple of stories and along a hall    until we came to a door which the gee threw open and said, 'This    is your stateroom.'    "Honest, I never saw such a drum. A great big room with a real    bed instead of those shelve things and off of the room a bath,    and we were only to be on the water five days. Can you beat it?    I was the one surprised pup and as soon as I hung my 'Merry    Widow' on the gas jet I asked Wilbur about it.    "He says, 'Kid, we are on the ferry to Europe and we are going    to spend our honeymoon across the pond.' I says, 'not for little    Sabrina; you don't get her out of sight of New York,' and made a    stab for the rail. By the time I got to it we were in the middle    of the creek and nothing in sight but a flock of tugboats and a    bunch of yaps waving their mitts on the dock. Take it from me,    if I hadn't been a bride I would have cut up something    scandalous, but it was too early in the matrimonial game to    start any lumpy work. So all I did was to sit and pout, 'cause I    know I can always make a hit when I flash the pouting number.    "Gee, what could I do? Out there in the middle of the water with    a long, slushy walk back to the dock. So I did the next best    thing and gave the high sign to the steward to kick in with a    few refreshments, which he very graciously did.    "Say, party, I can't tell you how I felt to see little old New    York slip away in the distance. That old town is a great old    burg, and as I was going to kick into some other country that I    wasn't hep to I naturally felt kind of bumly.    "We went busting by the Statue of Liberty and then on out past    the Hook, and, take it from me, if that steward hadn't come    across with the refreshments just at that moment I would have    burst into tears. As it was I could only address Wilbur in a few    terse adjectives, and tell him what I thought of a person that    would pull off such a low down deal on an unsuspecting fluff. I    want to state right now that though I was but a bride I called    him good and proper.    "The next morning we went down to breakfast. Say, they have    about ten meals a day on one of these scows and I've gained    about twenty pounds already. There was a bunch of show people    going over on the same boat and Wilbur and I naturally cottoned    to them. We didn't do a thing all day but sit on the deck and    read, or walk around or sing in the music room. Sure, they got a    real live music room on board, as well as a conservatory, a gym    and an elevator.    "I don't know whether I plucked a quince or not. Wilbur kept    insisting that I go to the table every time they turned in an    alarm, and I was sorta holding off, 'cause I didn't want to    lance the poor boy for all his change on the way over, but he    kept insisting that I eat and acted so peevish when I didn't    that I thought, well, if he wants to spend his money all right,    so I eat so much that I couldn't have crowded any more in me    with a hypo. Come to find out the food was included in the    passage and we had to pay for it whether we ate it or not.    That's why I am wondering if I plucked a quince. Wilbur was    never tight before we were wed, and you can take it from me that    if he starts to hold out or draw down now there is going to be    fine large doings in the Wilbur family from the female    delegation.    "Wilbur was in the smoking room the other evening and got to    talking with what he thought were a couple of boobs, but come to    find out they were wise guys. After sipping up a couple of slow    ones, the guys propose a little poker game. Wilbur and two other    boobs fall for the bunk and they open up. Wilbur, after losing a    little junk, gives the wise guys the office that he's jerry to    the fact that they are playing with newspaper, and lets them    know that if he ain't in on the frame-up he'll belch.    "These two boobs are dirty with the evergreen, and Wilbur's got    the wise guys so leary for fear he will tip his mitt and they    naturally slip him a big one every time they get a chance.    Wilbur gets his money back and everything is even all around,    but the wise guys are the only ones who want to lay down.    "Wilbur hands them a game of cheerful chatter and they don't    dare quit. Foxy Wilbur sits there until 3 a.m., raking in their    money, and incidentally corrals some that belongs to the wealthy    wops. In the meantime I am doing the earnest conversation act    with an old dowager that I met the second day out and she is    telling me about her country home in Devonshire or some other    one of these shire things. She sorta took a fancy to me and    insisted that Wilbur and I should run out there for a week-end.    Which end of the week she didn't say. But I guess if we go    Sunday we are safe. To hear this old dame tell it, she must own    about nine million acres up in the country, and her husband has    all kinds of wild animals--lions, tigers, elephants and all that    truck that are trained to be shot. She called it a shooting    lodge. Probably a branch of the Elks. This old party ceases her    harangue and I beat it to the air-felt and am pounding my ear    when Wilbur kicks in with a souse on.    "I come out of the hay and am getting ready to call him to a    fare-you-well when he flashes his bundle. My anger vanished in a    moment and I just reach out and cop the coin and roll over and    goes to sleep. Wilbur sleeps on the floor until I took    compassion on him and rolled him on the lounge. Talk about your    wifely devotion, what! I count the roll in the morning before I    slip it to the purser for safekeeping and it assayed 1,245,    which is not half bad for a night's work.    "The wise guys come around and offer Wilbur 100 a night to stay    out of the smoking room and he won't do it, but tells them if he    catches them playing another game during the trip he will turn    loose the long Rebel yell. Now the two wise guys are sitting on    deck reading 'The Lives of the Saints' and making faces at    Wilbur every time he goes romping by. Ain't Wilbur the saucy    thing?    "The last night on board we gave a concert for the benefit of    the Seamen's Fund, or something like that, and I claim that it    was a classy affair. I appeared, and without any brag or    ostentation I can truthfully say that I scored a great personal    triumph. It wasn't so much what I did, but the winsome manner in    which I did it. Get that? Wilbur was the manager of the affair    and didn't shake down a cent.    "What do you think of that? He said that a sailor needed all the    money he could get and he would be the first man not to take it    from them. I made my big hit at the concert in reciting 'Lasca.'    One of the mates told me that somebody does 'Lasca' on every    trip, but I was the first one that furnished scenery by letting    down my hair. I wonder if he was kidding me?    "A great many of the ladies on board spent all their time in    playing Bridget whist, and after watching them for a couple of    afternoons they offered to teach me the game with a moderate    limit. I am hep to this poker thing and can look a pat hand in    the face without a quiver of the lip, but I must blushingly    admit that I thought I was in for a good old-fashioned trimming    when I got up against those dames. It cost me about fifty    dollars to learn, and then I had a streak of beginner's luck,    and before the whistle blew for dinner I was several hundred to    the velvet.    "Two of the Janes put up a horrible holler about it being a    friendly game and wanted their money back. I was going to give    it to them, because I didn't want 'em to look any older, but one    of the others took my part and told me to hold onto the gross.    The three that didn't get their's back got out their little    hammers and for a while I had no one to talk to but myself or    Wilbur, and he was trying to dope out a scheme whereby he could    paste threesheets on the ocean and catch the incoming tourists.    I left him trying to compose a one-word wireless that would    explain the whole proposition to Fred Thompson.    "We came in sight of England or Ireland, or some of those    foolish islands, early in the morning, and they didn't look so    much. Barren Island has got 'em faded for smell. There were    nothing but long white chalk cliffs that a good man with a    bucket of whitewash could paint in a week.    "We got into Liverpool and loafed around town for a couple of    hours and saw nothing that would cause any excitement. The    natives look just the same and dress just the same as they do in    America but you have to go some to understand what they say.    "Gee, you should pipe the herdics they use for railroad cars in    this man England's country. Instead of making the grand entrance    from the end you sneak in at the side and sit in a kind of a pew    thing, making faces at some one across the aisle. Wilbur got    sore 'cause he blew himself for a couple of tickets and the    conductor, I mean, the guard, didn't come around to collect them    until we go nearly into London. He wanted to bet an Englishman,    on the other side of the hall, 5--Bly me, I mean a pound, that    he could make the same trip for nothing and hand the guard a    group of chatter that would get him all the way into town.    "When we crawled out of the caboose in London we thought it was    midnight, but on asking a cop--my word, I mean Bobby--he said it    was nothing but a fog. Wilbur told him that if he wanted him to    see much of his blooming city he would have to bring around a    dark lantern.    "We called a cab and started for the Savoy. All true Americans    when they go to London stop at the Savoy. We drove for about an    hour, the horse gumshoeing his way through the dark until we    came to the hotel. Wilbur asked the cab driver how much it was    and he named the sum that if you even suggested it to a New York    cabby he would have you pinched.    "After registering Wilbur called Marcus Mayer up on the    telephone. He grabbed down the receiver and after waiting for    about half an hour some dame said, 'Are you there?' Wilbur's    Nanny took the hurdle and he answered, 'Where did you think I    was? Playing pinochle with the King?' After a sharp struggle he    managed to get Marcus' hangout, but he wasn't in, so Wilbur    started out to hunt the American bar alone. In about fifteen    minutes he came back on the run with a couple of Bobbys about    two jumps behind him. It seems that Wilbur had found the    American bar and walked up to it and asked for a Manhattan    cocktail, because he was getting homesick and the bartender    said, 'Will you have it made with Scotch or Irish, sir?'    "Naturally Wilbur hit him with the first thing that came handy,    which happened to be a heavy beer mug. The bartender was a short    sport, and instead of trimming him with a bung-starter, turns    loose a yell for the law. So Wilbur lopes on, carelessly    knocking over a couple of cops on his way out.    "The two officers that followed him to the room were strong for    sending him to the booby hatch, but I had the presence of mind    to slip them each a piece of change and they exit laughing.    That's all that has happened so far, though we just got in town    last night and I am writing this before breakfast. Oh, no;    there's something else. Last night Wilbur and I started down to    dinner and they shooed him back to put on his evening clothes.    He met some of the American bunch after supper, and it took them    three hours to tell all the things they did to Georgie Cohan    when he was over here. Ted Marks is right here, with his hair in    a braid and the white carnation.    "We will stay here for about a week and then caper over to    Paris. I got a hunch that Wilbur is fixing to leave me in the    outskirts, because I heard him say something about the    foolishness of taking a cheese sandwich to a banquet.    "Will write again soon.    "Platonically Yours,    "_SABRINA_."    "P.S.--Wilbur is in another row downstairs and I got to go and    see what's coming off.    "S."***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SORROWS OF A SHOW GIRL********** This file should be named 10508.txt or 10508.zip *******This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/5/0/10508Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS," WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALL*** END: FULL LICENSE ***The Project Gutenberg EBook of Inez, by Augusta J. EvansThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: Inez       A Tale of the AlamoAuthor: Augusta J. EvansRelease Date: March 26, 2005 [EBook #15470]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK INEZ ***Produced by Juliet Sutherland, S.R. Ellison and the PGOnline Distributed Proofreading Team.INEZA TALE OF THE ALAMOBYAUGUSTA J. EVANS_Author of "Beulah," "St. Elmo," "Infelice," "Macaria," Etc._NEW YORKTHE FEDERAL BOOK COMPANYPUBLISHERS                        TO                THE TEXAN PATRIOTS,                 WHO TRIUMPHANTLY             UNFURLED AND WAVED ALOFT                        THE          "BANNER OF THE LONE STAR!" WHO                WRENCHED ASUNDER  THE IRON BANDS OF DESPOTIC MEXICO! AND WREATHED           THE BROW OF THE "QUEEN STATE"                       WITH         THE GLORIOUS CHAPLET OF "CIVIL AND              RELIGIOUS LIBERTY!" THIS                     WORK IS             RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED BY                    THE AUTHOR.INEZ: A TALE OF THE ALAMO.CHAPTER I.  "But O, th' important budget!  Who can say what are its tidings?"  COWPER."There is the bell for prayers, Florry; are you ready?" saidMary Irving, hastily entering her cousin's room at the largeboarding-school of Madame ----."Yes; I rose earlier than usual this morning, have solved twoproblems, and translated nearly half a page of Telemaque.""I congratulate you on your increased industry and application, thoughyou were always more studious than myself. I wish, dear Florry,you could imbue me with some of your fondness for metaphysics andmathematics," Mary replied, with a low sigh.A momentary flush passed over the face of her companion, and theydescended the stairs in silence. The room in which the pupils wereaccustomed to assemble for devotion was not so spacious as theclass-room, yet sufficiently so to look gloomy enough in the graylight of a drizzling morn. The floor was covered with a faded carpet,in which the indistinct vine seemed struggling to reach the wall,but failed by several feet on either side. As if to conceal thisdeficiency, a wide seat was affixed the entire length of the room, sohigh  "That the feet hung dangling down,  Anxious in vain to find the distant floor."There were no curtains to the windows, and the rain pattered drearilydown the panes.The teacher who officiated as chaplain was seated before a largedesk, on which lay an open Bible. He seemed about twenty-four, hiscountenance noble rather than handsome, if I may make so delicate adistinction. Intelligence of the first order was stamped upon it, yetthe characteristic expression was pride which sat enthroned on hisprominent brow; still, hours of care had left their impress, and theface was very grave, though by no means stern. His eye was fixed onthe door as the pupils came in, one by one, for prayers, and whenFlorence and Mary entered, it sunk upon his book, In a few moments herose, and, standing with one arm folded across his bosom, read in adeep, distinct tone, that beautiful Psalm, "The Lord is my shepherd."He had only reached the fourth verse, when he was interrupted by twogirls of twelve or fourteen, who had been conversing from the momentof their entrance. The tones grew louder and louder, and now the wordswere very audible:"My father did not send me here to come to prayers, and Madame has noright to make us get up before day to hear him read his Bible!"Many who coincided with them tittered, others stared in silence, whileFlorence's lip curled, and Mary looked sorrowingly, pityingly uponthem--hers was the expression with which the angel multitudes ofHeaven regard their erring brethren here. The chaplain turned towardthem, and said, in a grave yet gentle voice, "My little friends, I amafraid you did not kneel beside your bed this morning, and ask God tokeep your hearts from sinful thoughts, and enable you to perform allyour duties in a humble, gentle spirit. In your present temper, were Ito read the entire book instead of one Psalm, I fear you would receiveno benefit."The girls were awed more by the tone than words, and sat silent andabashed. The reading was concluded, and then he offered up a prayerearnest and heartfelt. Instead of leaving the room immediately, thepupils waited as for something, and taking a bundle of letters fromthe desk, their tutor distributed them as the direction indicated."My budget is not so large as usual, and I regret it for your sakes,as I fear some are disappointed. Miss Hamilton, here are two for you;"and he handed them to her without looking up."Two for Florry, and none for me?" asked Mary, while her voiceslightly trembled. He was leaving the room, but turned toward her."I am very sorry, Miss Mary, but hope you will find a comfortingmessage in your cousin's."Gently he spoke, yet his eyes rested on Florence the while, and, witha suppressed sigh, he passed on. "Come to my room, Mary; it is strangethe letters are postmarked the same day." And while she solves themystery, let us glance at her former history.CHAPTER II.  "Calm on the bosom of thy God,    Fair spirit! rest thee now!  Ev'n while with us thy footsteps trod,    His seal was on thy brow."  HEMANS.Florence Hamilton had but attained her fourth year when she was leftthe only solace of her widowed father. Even after the lapse of longyears, faint, yet sweet recollections of her lost parent stole, insaddened hours, over her spirit, and often, in dreams, a face ofangelic beauty hovered around, and smiled upon her.Unfortunately, Florence proved totally unlike her sainted mother, bothin personal appearance and cast of character. Mr. Hamilton was acold, proud man of the world; one who, having lived from his birth inaffluence, regarded with a haughty eye all who, without the advantagesof rank or wealth, strove to attain a position equal to his own.Intelligence, nobility of soul, unsullied character, weighed not anatom against the counterpoise of birth and family. He enjoyed in youthadvantages rare for the unsettled times in which he lived; he tastedall that France and Italy could offer; and returned _blase_ attwenty-seven to his home in one of the Southern States. Attracted bythe brilliant fortune of an orphan heiress, he won and married her;but love, such as her pure, gentle spirit sought, dwelt not in hisstern, selfish heart. All of affection he had to bestow was lavishedon his only sister, who had married during his absence.His angel wife drooped in the sterile soil to which she wastransplanted, and, when Florence was about four years old, sunk into aquiet grave.Perhaps when he stood with his infant daughter beside the newly-raisedmound, and missed the gentle being who had endeavored so strenuouslyto make his home happy, and to win for herself a place in his heart,one tear might have moistened the cold, searching eyes that foryears had known no such softening tendency. "Perhaps," I say; but toconjecture of thee, oh Man! is fruitless indeed.As well as such a nature could, he loved his child, and consideredhimself extremely magnanimous in casting aside all thought of a secondmarriage, and devoting his leisure moments to the formation of hercharacter, and direction of her education.Florence inherited her father's haughty temperament without his sordidselfishness, and what may seem incompatible with the former, a glowingimagination in connection with fine mental powers. To all but Mr.Hamilton she appeared as cold and impenetrable as himself; but theflashing eye and curling lip with which she listened to a tale ofinjustice, or viewed a dishonorable act, indicated a nature trulynoble. Two master passions ruled her heart--love for her parent, andfondness for books. Idolized by the household, it was not strange thatshe soon learned to consider herself the most important member of it.Mr. Hamilton found that it was essential for the proper regulationof his establishment that some lady should preside over its variousdepartments, and accordingly invited the maiden sister of his latewife to make his house her home, and take charge of his numerousdomestics.Of his daughter he said nothing. Aunt Lizzy, as she was called, was anamiable, good woman, but not sufficiently intellectual to superintendFlorry's education. That little individual looked at first withdistrustful eyes on one who, she supposed, might abridge her numerousprivileges; but the affectionate manner of the kind-hearted auntremoved all fear, and she soon spoke and moved with the freedom whichhad characterized her solitude.One day, when Florence was about nine years old, her father enteredthe library, where she sat intently reading, and said,"Florence, come here, I have something to tell you.""Something to tell me! I hope it is pleasant;" and she laid her handon his knee, and looked inquiringly in his face."You remember the cousin Mary, whose father died not long ago? Well,she has lost her mother too, and is coming to live with us." As hespoke, his voice faltered, and his proud curling lip quivered, yethe gave no other evidence of the deepest grief he had known for manyyears."She will be here this evening, and I hope you will try to make hercontented." With these words he was leaving the room, but Florencesaid,"Father, is she to stay with us always, and will she sleep in my room,with me?""She will live with us as long as she likes, and, if you prefer it,can occupy the same room."The day wore on, and evening found her on the steps, looking earnestlydown the avenue for the approach of the little stranger.At length a heavy carriage drove to the door, and Florry leanedforward to catch a glimpse of the inmate's face. A slight form, cladin deep mourning, was placed on the piazza by the coachman.Mr. Hamilton shook her hand kindly, and, after a few words of welcome,said,"Here is your cousin Florence, Mary. I hope you will love each other,and be happy, good little girls." Mary looked almost fearfully ather proud young cousin, but the sight of her own pale, tearful facetouched Florry's heart, and she threw her arms round her neck andkissed her. The embrace was unexpected, and Mary wept bitterly."Florence, why don't you take Mary to her room?""Would you like to go up-stairs, cousin?""Oh yes! if you please, I had much rather." And taking her basket fromher hand, Florry led the way.Mary took off her bonnet, and turned to look again at her cousin.Their eyes met; but, as if overcome by some sudden recollection, sheburied her face in her hands and burst again into tears.Florence stood for some time in silence, at length she said gently,"It is almost tea-time, and father will be angry if he sees you havebeen crying.""Oh! I can't help it, indeed I can't," sobbed the little mourner, "heis so much like my dear, darling mother;" and she stifled a cry ofagony."Is my father like your mother, cousin Mary?""Oh yes! When he spoke to me just now, I almost thought it wasmother."A tear rolled over Florry's cheek, and she slowly replied, "I wish Iknew somebody that looked like my mother." In that hour was forged thechain which bound them through life, and made them one in interest.Years rolled on, and found Mary happy in her adopted home. If heruncle failed to caress her as her loving heart desired, she did notcomplain, for she was treated like her cousin, and found in the stronglove of Florence an antidote for every care. Mary was about sixteen,and Florence a few months younger, at the time our story opens, andhad been placed in New Orleans to acquire French and music, as goodmasters could not be obtained nearer home. We have seen them there,and, hoping the reader will pardon this digression, return to Florry'sletter.CHAPTER III.    "Philosophy can hold an easy triumph over past and future    misfortunes; but those which are present, triumph over her."    ROCHEFOUCAULT.A Striking difference in personal appearance was presented by thecousins, as they stood together. Florence, though somewhat younger,was taller by several inches, and her noble and erect carriage, inconnection with the haughty manner in which her head was thrown back,added in effect to her height. Her hair and eyes were brilliant black,the latter particularly thoughtful in their expression. The foreheadwas not remarkable for height, but was unusually prominent andwhite, and almost overhung the eyes. The mouth was perfect, the lipsdelicately chiseled, and curving beautifully toward the full dimpledchin. The face, though intellectual, and artistically beautiful, wasnot prepossessing. The expression was cold and haughty; and for thisreason she had received the appellations of "Minerva" and "Juno," suchbeing considered by her fellow-pupils as singularly appropriate.Mary, on the contrary, was slight and drooping, and her sweet,earnest countenance, elicited the love of the beholder, even before anintimate acquaintance had brought to view the beautiful traits of hertruly amiable character.And yet these girls, diametrically opposed in disposition, clung toeach other with a strength of affection only to be explained by thatstrongest of all ties, early association.Florence broke the seal of her letter, and Mary walked to the window.It looked out on a narrow street, through which drays rattled noisily,and occasional passengers picked their way along its muddy crossings.Mary stood watching the maneuvers of a little girl, who wasendeavoring to pass dry-shod, when a low groan startled her; andturning quickly, she perceived Florence standing in the center of theroom, the letter crumpled in one hand: her face had grown very pale,and the large eyes gleamed strangely."Oh! Florry, what is the matter? Is your father ill--dead--tell mequick?" and imploringly she clasped her hands.Florence made a powerful effort, and spoke, in her usual tone:"I was foolish to give way to my feelings, even for a moment--myfather is well." She paused, and then added, as if painfully, "But,oh! he is almost penniless!""Penniless!" echoed Mary, as though she could not comprehend hercousin's meaning."Yes, Mary, he has been very unfortunate in his speculations, obligedto sell our plantation and negroes, and now, he says, 'a few paltrythousands only remain;' but, oh! that is not the worst; I wish itwere, he has sold out everything, broken every tie, and will be herethis evening on his way to Texas. He writes that I must be ready toaccompany him to-morrow night."She paused, as if unwilling to add something which must be told, andlooked sadly at her cousin.Mary understood the glance."Florry, there is something in the letter relating to myself, whichyou withhold for fear of giving me pain: the sooner I learn it thebetter.""Mary, here is a letter inclosed for you; but first hear what myfather says," and hurriedly she read as follows: ... "With regard toMary, it cannot be expected that she should wish to accompany us onour rugged path, and bitterly, bitterly do I regret our separation.Her paternal uncle, now in affluence, has often expressed a desire tohave her with him, and, since my misfortunes, has written me, offeringher a home in his family. Every luxury and advantage afforded bywealth can still be hers. Did I not feel that she would be benefitedby this separation, nothing could induce me to part with her, but,under existing circumstances, I can consent to give her up."Florence flung the letter from her as she concluded, and approachingher cousin, clasped her arms fondly about her. Mary had covered herface with her hands, and the tears glistened on her slender fingers."Oh, Florry, you don't know how pained and hurt I am, that uncleshould think I could be so ungrateful as to forget, in the moment ofadversity, his unvaried kindness for six long years. Oh! it is cruelin him to judge me so harshly," and she sobbed aloud."I will not be left, I will go with him, that is if--if--Florry, tellme candidly, do you think he has any other reason for not taking me,except my fancied dislike to leaving this place--tell me?""No, dear Mary; if he thought you preferred going with us, no power onearth could induce him to leave you."Mary placed her hand in her cousin's, and murmured,"Florry, I will go with you; your home shall be my home, and yoursorrows my sorrows."A flash of joy irradiated Florence's pale face as she returned hercousin's warm embrace."With you, Mary, to comfort and assist me, I fear nothing; but youhave not yet read your uncle's letter, perhaps its contents mayinfluence your decision."Mary perused it in silence, and then put it in her cousin's hand,while the tears rolled over her cheeks."Mary, think well ere you reject this kind offer. Remember howearnestly he entreats that you will come and share his love, his home,and his fortune. Many privations will be ours, in the land to which wego, and numberless trials assail the poverty-stricken. All these youcan avoid, by accepting this very affectionate invitation. Think well,Mary, lest in after-years you repent your hasty decision."There came a long pause, and hurriedly Florence paced to and fro. Marylifted her bowed head, and pushing back her clustering hair, calmlyreplied, "My heart swells with gratitude toward my noble, generousuncle. Oh, how fervently I can thank him for his proffered home! yet,separated from you, dear Florry, I could not be happy; my heart wouldache for you, and your warm, trusting love. I fear neither povertynor hardships. Oh, let me go with you, and cheer and assist my dearuncle!""You shall go with us, my pure-hearted cousin. When I thought a momentsince, of parting with you, my future seemed gloomy indeed, but now Iknow that you will be near, I am content."A short silence ensued, broken by a mournful exclamation fromFlorence."Ah! Mary, it is not for myself that I regret this change of fortune,but for my proud, haughty father, who will suffer so keenly. Oh, myheart aches when I think of him!""Florry, we must cheer him by those thousand little attentions, whichwill lead him to forget his pecuniary troubles."Florence shook her head."You do not know my father as I do. He will have no comforters, broodsover difficulties in secret, and shrinks from sympathy as from a'scorching brand.'""Still, I think we can do much to lighten his cares, and I pray God Imay not be mistaken," replied Mary.Florence lifted her head from her palm and gazed vacantly at hercousin, then started from her seat."Mary, we must not sit here idly, when there is so much to do, Madame---- should know we leave to-morrow, and it will take us all day toprepare for our journey.""Do let me go and speak to Madame----; it will be less unpleasant tome?""No, no; I will go myself; they shall not think I feel it so sensibly,and their condolence to-morrow would irritate me beyond measure. Iscorn such petty trials as loss of fortune, and they shall know it.""Who shall know it, Florry?"Her cheek flushed, but without a reply she left the room, anddescended the steps which led to Madame ----'s parlor. Reaching thedoor, she drew herself proudly up, then knocked."Come in," was the response.She did so. In the center of the apartment, with an open book on thetable before him, sat the teacher who officiated at prayers. He roseand bowed coldly in answer to her salutation."Pardon my intrusion, Mr. Stewart. I expected to find Madame here.""She has gone to spend the morning with an invalid sister, andrequested me to take charge of her classes, in addition to my own. IfI can render you any assistance, Miss Hamilton, I am at your service.""Thank you, I am in need of no assistance, and merely wished to say toMadame that I should leave New Orleans to-morrow, having heard from myfather that he will be here in the evening boat.""I will inform her of your intended departure as early as possible.""You will oblige me by doing so," replied Florence, turning to go."Miss Hamilton, may I ask you if your cousin accompanies you?""She does," was the laconic answer, and slowly she retraced her steps,and stood at her own door. The cheeks had become colorless, and thedelicate lips writhed with pain. She paused a moment, then entered."Did you see her, Florry?""No, she is absent, but I left word for her."Her tone was hard, dry, as though she had been striving long for somegoal, which, when nearly attained, her failing strength was scarceable to grasp. It was the echo of a fearful struggle that had raged inher proud bosom. The knell it seemed of expiring exertion, of sinkingresistance. Mary gazed sadly on her cousin, who stood mechanicallysmoothing her glossy black hair. The haughty features seemed chiseledin marble, so cold, stony was the expression."Dear Florry! you look harassed and weary already. Why, why will youovertask your strength, merely to be called a disciple of Zeno? Surelyyou cannot seriously desire so insignificant an honor, if it meritsthat title?""Can, you, then, see no glory in crushing long-cherished hopes--nay,when your heart is yearning toward some 'bright particular' path,to turn without one symptom of regret, and calmly tread one just theopposite! Tell me, can you perceive nothing elevating in this Stoicalcommand?"The cold, vacant look had passed away; her dark eyes gleamed,glittered as with anticipated triumph."Florry, I do not understand you exactly; but I do know that commandof the heart is impossible, from the source whence you draw. It mayseem perfect control now, but it will fail you in the dark hour ofyour need, if many trials should assail. Oh! my cousin, do not beangry if I say 'you have forsaken the fountain of living water, andhewn out for yourself broken cisterns, which hold no water.' Oh!Florry, before you take another step, return to Him, 'who has a balmfor every wound.'"Florence's face softened; an expression of relief began to steal overher countenance; but as Mary ceased speaking, she turned her face,beautiful in its angelic purity, full upon her. A bitter smile curledFlorence's lip, and muttering hoarsely, "A few more hours and thestruggle will be over," she turned to her bureau, and arranged herclothes for packing.The day passed in preparation, and twilight found the cousins watchingintently at the casement. The great clock in the hall chimed outseven, the last stroke died away, and then the sharp clang of thedoor-bell again broke silence. They started to their feet, heard thestreet door open and close--then steps along the stairs, nearer andnearer--then came a knock at the door. Mary opened it; the servanthanded in a card and withdrew. "Mr. J.A. Hamilton." Florence passedout, Mary remained behind."Come, why do you linger?""I thought, Florry, you might wish to see him alone; perhaps he wouldprefer it.""Mary, you have identified yourself with us. To my father we must beas one." She extended her hand, and the next moment they stood in thereception-room.The father and uncle were standing with folded arms, looking down intothe muddy street below. He advanced to meet them, holding out a handto each. Florence pressed her lips to the one she held, and exclaimed,"My dear father, how glad I am to see you!""Glad to see me! You did not receive my letters then?""Yes, I did, but are their contents and pleasure at meeting youincompatible?"He made no reply, and then Mary said, in a low, tremulous tone,"Uncle, you have done me a great injury, and you must make me all thereparation in your power. You said, in your letter to Florry, thatyou did not think I would wish to go with you. Oh, uncle! you do not,cannot believe me so ungrateful, so devoid of love as to wish, underany circumstances, to be separated from you. Now ease my heart, andsay I may share your new home. I should be very miserable away fromyou."An expression of pleasure passed over his face, but again the browdarkened."Mary! Florence is my child--my destiny hers, my misfortunes hers; butI have no right to drag you with me in my fall; to deprive you of themany advantages that will be afforded, by your uncle's wealth, of thesocial position you may one day attain.""Uncle! uncle! am I not your child by adoption? Have you not lovedand cared for me during long years? Oh! what do I care for wealth--forwhat you call a high position in the world? You and Florry are myworld." She threw her arms about his neck, and sobbed, "Take me! oh,take me with you!""If you so earnestly desire it, you shall indeed go with us, my Mary."And, for the first time in her life, he imprinted a kiss on her brow.When he departed, it was with a promise to call for them the nextmorning, that they might make, with their aunt, some necessarypurchases, and remove to a hotel near the river.Everything was packed the ensuing day, when Mary suddenly rememberedthat her books were still in the recitation-room, and would have gonefor them, but Florence said,"I will bring up the books, Mary; you are tired and pale with bendingso long over that trunk." And accordingly she went.Mary threw herself on the couch to rest a moment, and fell intoa reverie of some length, unheeding the flying minutes, when sherecollected that Florence had been absent a long time, and rising,was about to seek her; just then her cousin entered. A change had comeover her countenance--peace, quiet, happiness reigned supreme. Onehour later, and they had gone from Madame ----'s, never to returnagain.CHAPTER IV  "Time the supreme! Time is eternity,   Pregnant with all eternity can give;   With all that makes archangels smile   Who murders time, he crushes in the birth   A power ethereal."   YOUNG.A year had passed away. "How paradoxical is the signification of theterm!" How vast, when we consider that each hour hastens the endof our pilgrimage! How insignificant in comparison with futurity! Asingle drop in the boundless deep of eternity! Oh Time! thou greatestof all anomalies! Friend yet foe, "preserver and yet destroyer!"Whence art thou, great immemorial? When shall thy wondrous mechanismbe dissolved? When shall the "pall of obscurity" descend on thyHerculean net-work? Voices of the past echo through thy desertedtemples, and shriek along thy bulwarks--Never, no never!Season had followed season in rapid succession, and the last raysof an August sun illumined a scene so beautiful, that I long forthe pencil of a Claude Lorraine. It was a far-off town, in a far-offstate, yet who has gazed on thy loveliness, oh, San Antonio, can e'erforget thee! Thine was the sweetness of nature; no munificent hand hadarranged, with artistic skill, a statue here, a fountain there.The river wound like an azure girdle round the town; not confinedby precipitous banks, but gliding along the surface, as it were, andreflecting, in its deep blue waters, the rustling tule which fringedthe margin. An occasional pecan or live-oak flung a majestic shadowathwart its azure bosom, and now and then a clump of willows sighedlow in the evening breeze.Far away to the north stretched a mountain range, blue in thedistance; to the south, the luxuriant valley of the stream. Thestreets were narrow, and wound with a total disregard of the pointsof the compass. Could a stranger have been placed blindfold in oneof them, and then allowed to look about him, the flat roofs and lightappearance of most of the houses would have forced him to declare thathe had entered a tropical town of the far east.Many of the buildings were of musquit pickets, set upright in theground, lashed together with strips of hide, and thatched with thetule before mentioned. There were scarce three plank-floors in thetown; by far the greater number being composed of layers of pebbles,lime, and sand, rolled with a heavy piece of timber till quitecompact; daily sprinkling was found necessary, however, to keep downthe dust, produced by constant friction.The wealthy inhabitants built of sun-dried bricks, overcast with akind of stucco. Yet, unfortunately, the plastering art died with theMontezumas, for the most vivid imagination failed to convert thisrough coating into the "silver sheen" which so dazzled Cortes's littleband. The reader will exclaim, "I can fancy no beauty from so prosy adescription. Thatched roofs and dirt floors, how absurd!"Although a strict analysis might prove detrimental, I assure you the_tout ensemble_ was picturesque indeed.  "Italia! oh Italia! thou who hast   The fatal gift of beauty."Art rivaled here. Thy gorgeous skies have floated hither, and hoverlike a halo round the town. The sun had set; the glowing tints fadedfast, till of the brilliant spectacle naught remained save the softroseate hue which melted insensibly into the deep azure of the zenith.Quiet seemed settling o'er mountain and river, when, with a solemnsweetness, the vesper bells chimed out on the evening air. Even as theMoslem kneels at sunset toward the "Holy City," so punctiliously doesthe devout papist bend for vesper prayers. Will you traverse with methe crooked streets, and stand beneath the belfry whence issued theholy tones?This ancient edifice was constructed in 1692. It fronted the Plaza,and was a long, narrow building, flanked, as it were, by wings lowerthan the main apartment, and surmounted by a dome, in which were fiveor six bells. This dome or belfry was supported by pillars, and in theintervening openings were placed the bells. The roof was flat, and thedark green and gray moss clung along the sides. The interior presenteda singular combination of art and rudeness; the seats were ofunpainted pine, and the cement floor between was worn irregularly bythe knees of devout attendants. The railing of the altar was of carvedmahogany, rich and beautiful. Over this division of the long room hunga silken curtain, concealing three niches, which contained an image ofthe "Virgin," the "Child," and in the center one, a tall gilt cross.Heavy silver candlesticks were placed in front of each niche, anda dozen candles were now burning dimly. A variety of relics, toonumerous to mention, were scattered on the altar, and in addition,several silver goblets, and a massive bowl for holding "holy water." Afew tin sconces, placed against the wall, were the only provision forlighting that dark, gloomy church, and dreary enough it looked in thetwilight hour. About a dozen devotees were present, all kneeling onthe damp, hard floor. The silk curtain which concealed the altar wasdrawn aside, with due solemnity, by two boys habited in red flannelpetticoats, over which hung a loose white slip. The officiating priestwas seen kneeling before the altar, with his lips pressed to thefoot of the cross. He retained his position for several moments, thenrising, conducted the ceremonies in a calm, imposing manner. Whenthese were concluded, and all had departed save the two boys, whostill knelt before the Virgin, he beckoned them to him, and speakinga few words in Spanish, ended by pointing to the door and uttering,emphatically, "Go." Crossing themselves as they passed the images,they disappeared through a side door, and the priest was left alone.CHAPTER V.     *  *  * "He was a man  Who stole the livery of the court of heaven  To serve the devil in; in Virtue's guise,  Devoured the widow's house and orphan's bread;  In holy phrase, transacted villanies  That common sinners durst not meddle with."  POLLOK.In years, he could not have exceeded twenty-five, yet the countenancewas that of one well versed in intrigue. The cast was Italian--thecrisp black hair, swarthy complexion, and never-to-be-mistaken eyes.A large amount of Jesuit determination was expressed in his iris,blended with cunning, malignity, and fierceness. The features wereprominent particularly the nose; the lips finely cut, but thin; theteeth beautiful and regular. In stature he was low, and habited in thedress of his order, a long black coat or gown, buttoned to the throat,and reaching nearly to the feet.Glancing at his watch as the sound of the last step died away,he paced round and round the altar, neglecting now the manygenuflections, bows, and crossings with which he had honored theimages in the presence of his flock. His brows were knit, as if indeep thought, and doubtless he revolved the result of some deep-laidplan, when the door was hurriedly opened, and a man, bowing low beforethe images, approached him. The dress of the stranger declared him aranchero: he wore no jacket but his pantaloons were of buckskin, andhis broad sombrero was tucked beneath his arm."Benedicit, Juan!""Bueno noche, Padre.""What tidings do you bring me?" said Father Mazzolin.The Mexican handed him a letter, and then, as if much fatigued, leanedheavily against the wall, and wiped his brow with a large blue cottonhandkerchief. As the priest turned away and perused his letter, asmile of triumphant joy irradiated his face, and a momentary flushtinged his dark cheek. Again he read it, then thrusting it into hisbosom, addressed the bearer:"May the blessing of the church rest upon you, who have so faithfullyserved your Padre;" and he extended his hand. Warmly it was grasped byJuan, with a look of grateful surprise."Este bueno?" inquired Juan."Si mui bueno. Juan, do you read American writing?""Chiquito," was answered, with a slight shrug."What is the news in the el-grand Ciudad?""They have a strong ox to pull the ropes, now Santa Anna is at thehead. Bravura!" and the ranchero tossed his hat, regardless of theplace.It was, however, no part of Mazzolin's policy to allow him for onemoment to forget the reverence due the marble images that looked socalmly down from their niches, and with a stern glance he pointed tothem, crossing himself as he did so. Juan went down on his knees,and with an "Ave Maria," and a Mexican dollar (which he laid on thealtar), quieted his conscience."Senor Austin is in the Calaboose," he said, after a pause.Mazzolin started, and looked keenly at him, as if striving to read hisinmost thoughts."You must be mistaken. Juan; there is no mention of it in my letter?"he said, in a tone of one fearing to believe good news."Not at all, Padre. We started together--there were fifteen of us--andafter we had come a long way, so far as Saltillo, some of Santa Anna'scavaleros overtook us, and carried Senor Americano back with them, andsaid they had orders to do it, for he was no friend to our nation. Iknow, for I heard for myself.""Do you know the particular reason of his arrest?"Juan shook his head, and replied, "That the officers did not say.""Did you mention to any one your having a letter for me?""No, Padre; I tell no man what does not concern him.""A wise plan, Juan, I would advise you always to follow; and bevery careful that you say nothing to any one about my letter: Iparticularly desire it.""Intiendo," said Juan, turning toward the door. "I go to my rancheto-morrow, but come back before many sunsets, and if you want meagain, Padre, you know where to find me.""The blessing of the Holy Virgin rest upon you, my son, and reward youfor your services in behalf of the church.""Adios!" And they parted.Father Mazzolin drew forth the letter, and read it attentively forthe third time, then held it over one of the twelve candles, anddeliberately burnt it, muttering the while, "Ashes tell no tales."Extinguishing the candles and locking the door of the church, he saidto himself:"All is as I foresaw; a breach is made which can only be closed bythe bodies of hundreds of these cursed heretics; and Santa Anna isbloodthirsty enough to drain the last drop. Alphonso Mazzolin, canstthou not carve thy fortune in the coming storm? Yea, and I will. I amno unworthy follower of Loyola, of Gavier, and of Bobadillo. Patience!a Cardinal's cap shall crown my labors;" and with a chuckling laugh heentered the narrow street which led to his dwelling."There is but one obstacle here," he continued; "that Protestantgirl's work is hard to undo," and his step became quicker. "But forher, I should have been confessor to the whole family, and will beyet, despite her warning efforts, though I had rather deal with anythree men. She is as untiring as myself." He reached his door, andentered.CHAPTER VI.  "And ruder words will soon rush in  To spread the breach that words begin;  And eyes forget the gentle ray  They wore in courtship's smiling day;  And voices lose the tone that shed  A tenderness round all they said."  MOORE.Inez de Garcia was an only child, and in San Antonio considered quitean heiress. Her wealth consisted in broad lands, large flocks, andnumerous herds, and these valuable possessions, combined with herbeautiful face, rendered her the object of considerable attention.Inez was endowed with quick perceptions, and a most indomitable will,which she never surrendered, except to accomplish some latent design;and none who looked into her beautiful eyes could suppose that beautypredominated over intellect. She was subtile, and consciousness of herpowers was seen in the haughty glance and contemptuous smile. Her handhad been promised from infancy to her orphan cousin, Manuel Nevarro,whose possessions were nearly as extensive as her own. Inez lookedwith indifference on her handsome cousin, but never objected tillwithin a few weeks of her seventeenth birthday (the period appointedfor her marriage), when she urged her father to break the engagement.This he positively refused to do, but promising, at Father Mazzolin'ssuggestion, that she should have a few more months of freedom, sheapparently acquiesced. Among the peculiar customs of Mexicans, was asingular method of celebrating St. ----'s day. Instead of repairing totheir church and engaging in some rational service, they mounted theirhalf wild ponies, and rode furiously up and down the streets tilltheir jaded steeds refused to stir another step, when they weregraciously allowed to finish the day on the common. The celebrationof the festival was not confined to the masculine portion of thecommunity; silver-haired Senoras mingled in the cavalcade and many abright-eyed Senorita looked forward to St. ----'s day with feelingsnearly akin to those with which a New York belle regards the mostfashionable ball of the season.On the evening preceding the day of that canonized lady, Manuelentered the room where Inez sat, her needle work on the floor at somedistance, as though flung impatiently from her, her head resting onone hand, while the other held a gentleman's glove. Light as was hisstep, she detected it and thrusting the glove into her bosom, turnedher fine face full upon him."What in the name of wonder brings you here this time of day, Manuel?I thought every one but myself was taking a siesta this warm evening.""I have been trying a new horse, Inez, and came to know at what houryou would ride to-morrow." He stood fanning himself with his broadsombrero as he spoke."Excuse me, Senor, I do not intend to ride at all.""You never refused before, Inez; what is the meaning of this?" and hisSpanish brow darkened ominously."That I do not feel inclined to do so, is sufficient reason.""And why don't you choose to ride, pray? You have done it all yourlife.""I'll be cross-questioned by no one!" replied Inez, springing toher feet, with flashing eyes, and passionately clinching her small,jeweled hand.Manuel was of a fiery temperament, and one of the many who never pauseto weigh the effect of their words or actions. Seizing her arm in nogentle manner, he angrily exclaimed,"A few more weeks, and I'll see whether you indulge every whim, andplay the queen so royally!"Inez disengaged her arm, every feature quivering with scorn."To whom do you speak, Senor Nevarro? You have certainly mistaken mefor one of the miserable peons over whom you claim jurisdiction. Allowme to undeceive you! I am Inez de Garcia, to whom you shall neverdictate, for I solemnly declare, that from this day the link which hasbound us from childhood is at an end. Mine be the hand to sever it.From this hour we meet only as cousins! Go seek a more congenialbride!""Hold, Inez! are you mad?""No, Manuel, but candid; for eight years I have known that I wasdestined to be your wife, but I never loved you, Manuel. I do not, andnever can, otherwise than as a cousin."In a tone of ill-suppressed range, Nevarro retorted:"My uncle's authority shall compel you to fulfil the engagement! Youshall not thus escape me!""As you please, Senor. Yet let me tell you, compulsion will notanswer. The combined efforts of San Antonio will not avail--they maycrush, but cannot conquer me." She bowed low, and left the room.Every feature inflamed with wrath, Nevarro snatched his hat, andhurried down the street. He had not proceeded far, when a hand waslaid upon his arm, and turning, with somewhat pugnacious intentions,encountered Father Mazzolin's piercing black eyes."Bueno tarde, Padre."The black eyes rested on Nevarro with an expression which seemed todemand an explanation of his choler. Manuel moved uneasily; the hotblood glowed in his swarthy cheek, and swelled like cords on thedarkened brow."Did you wish to speak with me, Padre?""Even so, my son. Thou art troubled, come unto one who can give theecomfort."They were standing before the door of the harkell occupied by thepriest: he opened it and drew Manuel in.An hour later they emerged from the house. All trace of anger wasremoved from Nevarro's brow, and Father Mazzolin's countenance worethe impenetrable cast he ever assumed in public. It was his businessexpression, the mask behind which he secretly drew the strings, andlured his dupes into believing him a disinterested and self-denyingpastor, whose only aim in life was to promote the welfare andhappiness of his flock.When Don Garcia sat that night, _a la Turk_, on a buffalo-robe beforehis door, puffing his cigarrita, and keeping time to the violin, whichsent forth its merry tones at a neighboring fandango, Inez drew near,and related the result of her interview with Manuel, concluding bydeclaring her intention to abide by her decision, and consult her ownwishes in the selection of a husband.His astonishment was great. First he tried reasoning, but she refutedevery argument advanced with the adroitness of an Abelard: the smallstock of patience with which "Dame Nature" had endowed the Don gaveway, and at last, stamping with rage, he swore she should comply, orend her life in a gloomy cell of San Jose.Inez laughed contemptuously. She felt the whirlwind she had raisedgathering about her, yet sought not to allay it: she knew it was theprecursor of a fierce struggle, yet quailed not. Like the heroine ofSaragossa, or the martyr of Rouen, she knew not fear; and her restlessnature rather joyed in the strife.A low growl from the dog who shared the robe, announced an intruder,and the next moment the Padre joined them. He was joyfully hailed byDe Garcia as an ally; but a dark look of hatred gleamed from Inez'seyes, as they rested on his form: it vanished instantly, and shewelcomed him with a smile. She was cognizant of his interview withNevarro, for her window overlooked the street in which it took place.She knew, too, his powers of intrigue; that they were enlisted againsther; and a glance sufficed to show the path to be pursued. Longago her penetrating eye had probed the mask of dissimulation whichconcealed, like the "silver veil" of Mokanna, a great deformity: howmuch greater because, alas! a moral one.Father Mazzolin inquired, with apparent interest, the cause ofcontention. The Don gave a detailed account, and wound up by applyingto him for support, in favor of Nevarro. The look of sorrowfulastonishment with which he listened, compelled Inez to fix her largeSpanish eyes on the ground, lest he should perceive the smile whichlurked in their corners, and half played round her lip.He rebuked her gently, and spoke briefly of the evils which wouldresult, if she persisted in her wilful and ungrateful course. Inezlistened with a meekness which surprised both parent and Padre; andwhen the latter rose to go, approached, and, in a low tone, requestedhim to meet her, that day week, in the confessional.Woman's heart is everywhere the same, and in the solitude of her ownapartment, Inez's softer feelings found full vent. She sat with herface in her hands, one long deep; sigh, which struggled up, telling ofthe secret pain that was withering her joys and clouding her future.Suddenly she started up, and passionately exclaimed,"It is hard that _his_ love should be wasted, on one whose heart isas cold and stony as this wall;" and she struck it impatiently.Then drawing forth the glove, which on Manuel's entrance had been sohastily secreted, she pressed it repeatedly to her lips, returned itto its hiding-place, and sought her couch.CHAPTER VII.  "What cause have we to build on length of life:   Temptations seize when fear is laid asleep;   And ill-foreboded is our strongest guard."   YOUNG.St. ----'s dawn was welcomed by joyous peals from the church-bells,and the occasional firing of a few muskets, by way of accompaniment.The sun rose with a brilliance which would have awakened deep tonesin Memnon's statue, and gilded mountain and valley. Beautiful beyonddescription the city looked in his golden light, and  "All nature seemed rejoicing."Half hid by a majestic live-oak which shaded the front, and withina few yards of the river, stood a small white house. It was built ofadoles, and contained only three rooms. Instead of reaching these bya broad flight, one step from the threshold placed you on the ground.The floor was uncovered, and, as usual, of cement. In one corner ofthe front apartment stood a sideboard, covered with glass of variouskinds, and a few handsome pieces of plate. Its _vis-a-vis_ was a rangeof shelves, filled with books; and on the plain deal mantelpiece stooda pair of neat China vases, decked with brilliant prairie flowers.Before the open window was placed the table, arranged for the morningmeal. How pure the cloth looked, how clear the glass; and then thebouquet of fragrant roses which adorned the center, how homelike,fresh, and beautiful it seemed! An air of comfort--American, southerncomfort--pervaded the whole. The breakfast was brought in by amiddle-aged negress, whose tidy appearance, and honest, happy, smilingface presented the best refutation of the gross slanders of ournorthern brethren. I would that her daguerreotype, as she stoodarranging the dishes, could be contrasted with those of the miserable,half-starved seamstresses of Boston and New York, who toil from dawntill dark, with aching head and throbbing heart, over some wearyarticle, for which they receive the mighty recompense of a shilling.When she had arranged every dish with great exactness, a small bellwas rung; and, waiter in hand, she stood ready to attend the family.A bright, young face appeared at the open window."I hope, Aunt Fanny, you have a nice breakfast. You have no idea whatan appetite my walk has given me.""Now, Miss Mary, ain't my cooking always nice?""Indeed, it is. Your coffee would not disgrace a pasha's table; andyour rolls are  'The whitest, the lightest, that ever were seen.'"She disappeared from the window, and entered the room just as Mr.Hamilton came in, followed by Florence."My dear uncle, have you forgotten the old adage of 'early to bed, andearly to rise?'""I am not sure that I ever learned it, Mary;" he dryly replied,seating himself at the table."One would suppose you had taken a draught from the 'Elixir of Life;'"said Florence, glancing affectionately at her beaming face."I have discovered the fountain of perpetual youth, so vainly soughtin South America!""Indeed! Is it located in this vicinity?""Yes; and if you will rise to-morrow with Aurora, when 'she sprinkleswith rosy light the dewy lawn,' I will promise to conduct you to it.""Thank you; but, Mary, what induced you to ramble so early?""I have been nearly two miles for some roots Mrs. Carlton expressed awish for. See, Florry, how I have dyed my hands pulling them up!""Were you alone, Mary?" asked Mr. Hamilton."I was, most of the time. As I came back, Dr. Bryant overtook me.He spent the night at San Jose mission, with a sick Mexican, and wasreturning. But where is Aunt Lizzy?" continued Mary, with an inquiringglance round the room."She went to mass this morning," replied her cousin."Oh, yes! It is St. ----'s day. I heard the bells at daybreak.""It is a savage, heathenish custom they have adopted here, of tearingup and down the streets from morning till night. I wish, by Jove! theywould ride over their canting Padre! I think he would find some othermode of celebrating the festival!""He would lay claim to saintship on the strength of it," replied Mary."You had better keep out of the street to-day, girls," rejoined Mr.Hamilton, pushing his cup away, and rising from the table.At this moment Aunt Lizzy entered; and after the morning salutation,turned toward the door."You are later than usual this morning, aunt. Do sit down and eat yourbreakfast, or it will be so cold you cannot touch it," said Mary."No really devout Catholic tastes food on this holy day," sheanswered, motioning it from her."It must be quite a penance to abstain, after your long walk," saidMr. Hamilton with a smile."Father Mazzolin said, this morning, that all who kept this holyday would add a bright jewel to their crown, and obtain the eternalintercession of the blessed saint;" and she left the room."That falsehood adds another stone to the many that will sink him inthe lake of perdition, if there be one!" muttered Mr. Hamilton, ashe departed for the counting-room. The last few sentences had fallenunheeded on Florence's ear, for she sat looking out the window, herthoughts evidently far away. But every trace of merriment vanishedfrom Mary's face, and instead of her bright smile, a look of painfulanxiety settled there. A long silence ensued; Mary stood by the table,wiping the cups as Aunt Fanny rinsed them, and occasionally glancingat her cousin. At length she said,"Florry, will you walk over to Mrs. Carlton's with me? I promised togo, and the walk will do you good, for indeed your cheeks are palerthan I like to see them.""Certainly, Mary, but do you remember what father said about ourremaining at home, to-day?""There is no danger, Florry, if we only look about us, and I reallymust go.""Well then, let us start at once."In a few moments they set out, equipped in large straw hats, andequally large gloves; in addition, Mary carried in her hand a basket,filled with herbs and flowers."If we walk briskly, we shall get there before any of the riders setforth. Ah! I am mistaken, there they come. Florry, don't go so nearthe street: that horseman in blue, looks as though he were riding onice--see how his horse slides about!"A party of twenty or thirty thundered past, and the girls quickenedtheir pace. A few minutes' walk brought them to Mrs. Carlton's door,which closed after them.That lady was reading, as they entered, but threw aside her book, andadvanced joyously to greet them. She kissed Mary affectionately, andcordially shook Florence's hand."I am glad you came, Mary. I feared you would not, and really I wantyou very much.""What can I do, Mrs. Carlton?""You can take off your hat and gloves, and prepare yourselves to spendthe day with me."They laughingly complied, protesting, however, that they could onlyremain a short time."Mary, my poor blind proselyte died yesterday, and bequeathed herorphan child to me: I feel almost obliged to accept the charge, forher fear lest it should fall into the Padre's hands was painful tobehold, and I promised to protect it if possible. The poor littlefellow is nearly destitute of clothes; I have cut some for him, andknew you would assist me in making them.""With pleasure, dear Mrs. Carlton, and so will Florry; fill my basketwith work, and we will soon have him a suit. Oh! how glad I am that hehas such kind friends as yourself and husband.""The Padre came last night to demand the child, but we refused to givehim up: he said he intended clothing and educating the boy free ofcharge; yet I knew better, for he refused to baptize Madame Berara'sorphan-niece without the customary fee, though he well knew she couldill afford it, and was compelled to sell her last cow to make up therequisite sum. I feel assured he will do all in his power to enticeErasmo from me; but hope, by constant watchfulness, to counteract hisinfluence. Oh! Mary, how much we need a Protestant minister here: onewho could effectually stem the tide of superstition and degradationthat now flows unimpeded through this community. Oh! my dear friend,let us take courage, and go boldly forth in the cause of truth, andstrive to awaken all from the lethargy into which they have fallen--alethargy for which their priests are alone responsible, for theyadministered the deadly drug.""I feel as deeply as yourself, dear Mrs. Carlton, the evil tendencyand deplorable consequences of the institutions by which we aresurrounded, and the little that I can do will be gladly, oh, howgladly! contributed to the work of reformation you have so noblybegun.""You forget, Mary, in your proselyting enthusiasm, that Aunt Lizzybelongs to the despised sect; surely you can not intend, by attacks onher religion, to render her home unpleasant?" said Florence.Mary's eyes filled with tears, as she glanced reproachfully at hercousin, and replied,"Nothing is further from my wishes, Florry, than to make her homeother than happy. Aunt Lizzy has every opportunity of informingherself on this important question. Yet she prefers the easier method,of committing her conscience to the care of the priest; she has chosenher path in life, and determinately closes her eyes to every other.The state of the Mexicans around us is by no means analogous. Theywere allowed no choice: bred from infancy in the Romish faith, theyare totally unacquainted with the tenets of other creeds. Implicitobedience to the Padre is their primary law, the grand rulingprinciple of life, instilled from their birth. To lay before them thetruths of our own 'pure and undefiled religion,' is both a privilegeand duty.""You spoke just now, Miss Florence, of the 'despised sect;' allow me,in all modesty, to say, that to the true and earnest Christianthere is no such class. Believe me, when I say, that though deeplycommiserating their unhappy condition, and resolved to do all inmy power to alleviate it, still I would as cheerfully assist theconscientious Papist, and tender him the hospitalities of my home, asone of my own belief.""You have expressed my feelings exactly, Mrs. Carlton, and there aretimes when I wish myself a missionary, that I might carry light tothis benighted race," exclaimed Mary, enthusiastically."We are very apt, my dear child, to consider ourselves equal toemergencies, and capable of great actions, when a strict examinationwould declare that the minor deeds and petty trials which test thetemper and the strength too often destroy our equanimity, and show ourinability to cope with difficulties. Woman's warfare is with littlethings, yet we are assured by the greatest of all female writers, that'trifles make the sum of human things;' therefore, let us strive moreand more earnestly to obtain perfect control of ourselves; then shallwe be enabled to assist others.""I often think," replied Mary, thoughtfully, "that we makegreat sacrifices with comparative ease, because we feel our owninsufficiency, and rely more on God for assistance; while in lessertroubles we are so confident of success, that we neglect to ask hisblessing, and consequently fail in our unaided attempts.""You are right, Mary, and it should teach us to distrust our powers,and lead us to lean upon 'Him, who is a very precious help in time ofneed.'"A long silence ensued, broken at length by the entrance of Mrs.Carlton's two children, who carried a large basket between them.Hastily they set it down, on seeing Mary, and sprung to her side: thelittle girl clung around her neck, and kissed her repeatedly."Maria, you are too boisterous, my little girl; Miss Mary will haveno cause to doubt your affection. Elliot, why do you not speak to MissFlorence, my son?"Blushing at his oversight, the boy obeyed, and, joined by his sister,stood at his mother's side. Maria whispered something in his ear, buthe only shook his head and replied,"Not now, sister, let us wait."She hesitated a moment, then laid her little hand on Mrs. Carlton'sshoulder."Mother, I know you said it was rude to whisper in company, but I wantto tell you something very much."Mrs. Carlton smiled."I am sure the young ladies will excuse you, my daughter, if it isimportant." She bent her head, and a prolonged whispering followed.A flush rose to the mother's cheek and a tear to her eyes, as sheclasped her to her heart, and said,"I wish you, my children, to speak out, and tell all you know of thisaffair."Elliot was spokesman."We went into the garden as you desired us, mother, and Erasmo and Ipicked the peas, while sister held the basket; presently we heard anoise in the brush fence like something coming through, and sister gotfrightened (here he laughed), and wanted to run to the house, but wetold her it was only a sheep or dog outside; but it turned out to bethe Padre, and he came and helped us to pick. Mother, he told us suchpretty stories; I can't think of the names; they must have been Dutch,they were so long and hard. But I remember one of the tales; he saidthere was once a good man who lived in Asia, and one day he lost hiscrucifix; he looked everywhere for it, but could not find it; and along time afterward, he happened to be walking by the sea-shoreand looked out on the water, and oh, what do you think! He saw hiscrucifix moving on the water, and a great crab paddled out to land andlaid his crucifix down before him, and then paddled right back intothe sea again. Now wasn't that funny. I can't think of the good man'sname, Saint--Somebody--Saint--Saint--""Brother, I reckon it was Saint Crab!""No, no! It was the crab that found the crucifix, and I think he wassmarter than the saint.""Now, Florry, should I repeat this legend to Aunt Lizzy, it would beimpossible to convince her that it proceeded from the Padre's lips.Yet even prelates of Rome scruple not to narrate as miracles talesequally absurd, where their auditory is sufficiently ignorant tocredit them. Pardon my interruption, Elliot, and finish your story,"continued Mary."Mother, the Padre talked to Erasmo in Spanish. I could not understandall he said, but it was about coming to live with him, and going toMexico, to see the sights there. When he came to the rows you left forseed, I told him we must come to the house, and asked him to come in;but he would not, and offered us all some money, and said we must nottell a soul we had seen him, for he happened to see us through thefence, and just came in to speak to us, and you and father mightthink he ought not to come into our garden. But oh, mother, would youbelieve it! he told Erasmo, as he went off, that he must ask you tolet him go to bathe to-morrow; and instead of going to the river, hemust come to the church: he wanted to give him something. He told himin Spanish, but I understood what he said. Now, wasn't that teachinghim to tell a lie? and he a Padre too! Mother, don't you think heought to be ashamed?""Elliot, if you would gladden the hearts of your father and mother,be ever truthful. Remember the story of 'Pedro and Francisco' youread not long ago, and put dishonesty and dissimulation far from you:'honesty is the best policy,' and if you adhere to it through life,it will prove of 'far more worth than gold.' Be sure you keep nothingfrom me, particularly what the Padre may say.""Shall we take the peas out under the hackberry and shell them," saidMaria."Yes, my dear, but first tell me where Erasmo is.""Sitting on the steps, mother. I know he will help us to shell them,for he said it was mere fun, picking peas.""Say nothing to him of the Padre or his conversation, but interest himabout other things."They left the room swinging the basket between them. Mrs. Carlton'seyes filled as she looked after her children. "A mother's care cando a great deal, yet how little did I imagine that temptation wouldassail them at such a time, and in such a garb.""Oh, guard them carefully; for, surrounded by these influences, itwill be difficult to prevent contamination," said Mary, earnestly.Just then a long, loud shout from the street attracted theirattention, and hastening to the door, they perceived a crowd gatheredon the Plaza. In the center was a body of Mexican cavalry, headed bytheir commanding officer, who, hat in hand, was haranguing them. Theladies looked at each other in dismay."To what does this tend?" asked Mary, anxiously."My husband told me several days since that Austin was imprisoned inMexico, and said he feared difficulties would ensue, but knew not thecause of his confinement.""There is Dr. Bryant coming toward us; I dare say he can tell us themeaning of this commotion."That gentleman, bowing low in the saddle, reined his Steed as near thestep as possible."How do you do, Miss Hamilton, and you, my dear sister? I had thepleasure of meeting Miss Mary in her morning rambles; she is a mostremarkable young lady. Assures me she actually loves early rising."His dark eyes were fixed laughingly upon her."Do stop your nonsense, Frank, and tell us the cause of that crowd,"said Mrs. Carlton, laying her hand on his arm."My dear sister, that tall, cadaverous-looking cavalier is thebrother-in-law of Santa Anna, and no less a personage than GeneralCos, sent hither to fortify this and every other susceptible place.""Against whom or what?""It is a long story, ladies. You know that Coahuila has pursued anoppressive policy toward us for some time, and refused to hear reason:Austin remonstrated again and again, and at last went to Mexico,hoping that the authorities would allow us (here he bit his lip, andhis cheek flushed)--it galls my spirit to utter the word--allow usto form a separate State. The Congress there took no notice of hispetition, for, in truth they were too much engaged just then abouttheir own affairs to heed him, and he wrote to several persons inAustin, advising them at all hazards to proceed. Some cowardly wretch,or spy in disguise, secretly despatched one of his letters to theministers; consequently, as Austin was returning, they made himprisoner, and carried him back to Mexico. Santa Anna is at the head ofaffairs. He has subverted the too liberal constitution of 1824, butis opposed by a few brave hearts, who scorn the servitude in storefor them. Santa Anna knows full well that we will not submit to hiscrushing yoke, and therefore sends General Cos to fortify the Alamo.This is the only definite information I have been able to glean fromseveral sources.""Do you think there is probability of a war?""It will most inevitably ensue, for total submission will be exactedby Santa Anna, and the Texans are not a people to comply with any suchconditions.""You think General Cos is here to fortify the Alamo?""Yes; the work commences to-morrow, I hear, and the fort will begarrisoned by Spanish troops.""How many has he with him?" inquired his sister."Only fifty or sixty; this is merely the advanced guard, the main bodywill probably arrive in a few days.""I suppose they are joyously welcomed by the Mexicans here, who haveever regarded with jealous eyes Protestant settlers.""Oh, yes, that shout testified the hearty welcome they received."At this moment Mr. Hamilton joined the group."Have you heard the news?" he inquired."Yes, and sad enough it is," said Mary, with a sigh."It will be a bloody conflict.""I am afraid so," replied Dr. Bryant."Come, girls, I am going home, will you go now?"Mary took her basket, which Mrs. Carlton had filled with work, andthey descended the steps."I declare, Miss Irving, I have a great desire to know what thatbasket contains; it is as inseparably your companion as was the tub ofDiogenes. I often see it round a corner before you are visible, and atthe glimpse of it, invariably sit more erect in saddle, and assume mymost amiable expression."He raised himself, and peeped inquiringly over the edge; Mary swung itplayfully behind her."I never gratify idle curiosity, Dr. Bryant.""Indeed, how very remarkable; but I assure you I know full well theuse to which those same herbs you had this morning are to be applied;you are amalgamating nauseous drugs, and certain pills, to beadministered to my patients. I am grieved to think you would alienatewhat few friends I have here, by raising yourself up as a competitor.Pray, where did you receive your diploma? and are you Thomsonian,Allopathic, Homeopathic, or Hydropathic?"Mary looked at Mrs. Carlton: both smiled."Ah! I see Ellen is associated with you. Do admit me to partnership;I should be a most valuable acquisition, take my word for it. A morehumble-minded, good-hearted, deeply-read, and experienced disciple ofEsculapius never felt pulse, or administered a potion."They laughed outright."Mary, shall we tell Frank what we intend those herbs for?""By no means, he does not deserve to know.""Ah! I see Terence was right after all, in his opinion of woman'snature--'When you request, they refuse; when you forbid, they are sureto do it.'""Come, girls, come! I have business at home;" said Mr. Hamilton,and they set out homeward. They had not proceeded far, when Maryexclaimed, pointing behind her,"Oh, uncle, that woman will be killed! Can nobody help her?""She will certainly be thrown from her horse!"A party of five or six Mexicans were riding with their usual rapiditytoward them. An elderly woman in the rear had evidently lost controlof her fiery horse, which was plunging violently. The other members ofthe company seemed unable to render any assistance, as their own couldscarcely be restrained. The unfortunate Senora was almost paralyzedwith fright; for instead of checking him by the reins, they had fallenover his head, become entangled in his feet, and, now grasping themane, she was shrieking fearfully."Oh, can't we do something for her!" cried Mary, clasping her hands."I do not see how we can assist her," said Mr. Hamilton."At least, let us try;" and they hastened to the spot where theinfuriated animal was struggling."Stand back, girls! you can do nothing."He made several ineffectual attempts to catch the bridle, as theforefeet rose in air, and at last succeeded in getting one end. Hebade the woman let go the mane, and slide off. She did so, but someportion of her dress was caught in the saddle, and she hung suspended.The horse feeling the movement, again plunged, despite Mr. Hamilton'sefforts to hold him down. The scene was distressing indeed, as she wasraised and then, flung down again.Mary saw the danger, and rushing round the enraged horse, fearlesslypushed off the piece which was attached to the pommel of the saddle,and freed the unfortunate matron. The horse, feeling relieved of hisburden, gave a desperate bound, and rushed off down the street.Florence shrieked, and sprung to her father's side. Mary was bendingover the moaning woman, but turned suddenly, and saw her unclestretched at Florence's feet. He was insensible, and a stream ofblood oozed from his lips. They raised his head, and motioned tothe Mexicans, that now gathered round, for water; some was hastilyprocured, and then Mary entreated one of them to go for Dr. Bryant: asshe spoke, the tramp of hoofs caused her to look up, and she perceivedhim urging his horse toward them. He flung the reins to a man whostood near, and bent over the prostrate form."There is some internal injury, I see no outward wound; how did thishappen?"Florence briefly explained the manner in which her father received akick on the chest. Happily, they were near their own home, and, withthe assistance of two men, Dr. Bryant carefully bore him in, and laidhim on a couch near the open window. A restorative was administered,and soon the sufferer opened his eyes. The flow of blood had ceased,but he lay quite exhausted.The physician examined the wounded place, and assured Florence therewas no fracture."I am afraid some blood-vessel is ruptured?" said she, anxiously."It is only a small one, I hope, but cannot tell certainly for severaldays. He must be perfectly quiet; the least excitement might provefatal, by causing a fresh hemorrhage."Nearly a week passed, and one evening Mary followed the physician ashe left the house: he heard her step, and turned. His usually laughingcountenance was grave and anxious; but he strove to seem cheerful."Doctor, I wish to know what you think of my uncle's case; we areafraid it is more serious than you at first pronounced it?""It is better that you should know the worst. I am pained to grieveyou, but candor compels me to say, that a fatal injury has beeninflicted. I hoped for the best, but an examination this eveningconfirmed my fears."Mary sobbed bitterly and long. Dr. Bryant sought not to comfort herby exciting false hopes, but paced up and down the gravel-walk besideher."You do not fear a rapid termination of the disorder?" she said atlast, in a low, trembling tone."He may linger some days, but I do not think it probable that hewill.""Florry, Florry! what is to become of us?" cried the weeping girl, ina voice of agony. "Oh, God! spare him to us!""Do you think your cousin comprehends her father's danger?""She fears the worst, and requested me this evening to ask youropinion. Oh, how can I tell her that he must die!""Do not crush all hope (though I have none); let her believe that hemay recover. She is not of a temperament to bear prolonged agony.The shock will be less painful, rest assured. Believe me, I deeplysympathize with you both." And pressing her hand, he withdrew.CHAPTER VIII.  "See! the dappled gray coursers of the morn  Beat up the light with their bright silver hoofs,  And chase it through the sky!"  MARSTON.Inez left her father's door as the last notes of the matin bell diedaway on the cool, clear morning air. She held in her hand a silkenscarf, which, according to the custom of her country, was thrownlightly across the head, and confined at the chin.Beautiful she looked, with the feverish glow on her cheek, and herlarge Spanish eyes, restless and piercing, flashing out at times thethoughts of her inmost soul. She threw the mantilla round her head,and turned toward the church. The step was firm yet hasty. She seemedendeavoring to escape from herself.The streets were silent and the Plaza deserted, and naught seemedstirring save the swallows that twittered and circled round and roundthe belfry of the church. There was something soothing in the deepstillness that reigned on that balmy morning, and Inez felt itsinfluence. She paused at the entrance of the gray old church, andstretched forth her arms to the rosy east."Peace, peace!" she murmured, in a weary tone, and sunk her head uponher bosom. The door opened behind her, and raising herself proudly,she drew the scarf closer about her, and entered.A basin of holy water was placed near, and hastily she signed thefigure of the cross and proceeded down the aisle to a side doorleading to one of the wings. She pushed it noiselessly ajar and passedin.A solitary tin sconce dimly lighted the small confessional, dark andgloomy as night, at that early hour. A wooden cross suspended from thewall, a stone bench, and table, on which lay a rosary and crucifix,and a small vessel of holy water, formed the entire furniture. Beforethis table sat Father Mazzolin, his face buried in his hands. Herstep, light as it was, startled him; yet without rising, he murmured,"Benedicit.""Bueno dios, Padre."He motioned to her to kneel, and she did so, on the damp floor at hisfeet, drawing the scarf over her face, so as to conceal the features."Bless me, my Father, because I have sinned."He laid his hands on her bowed head, and muttered indistinctly a Latinphrase. "I confess to Almighty God, to blessed Mary, ever Virgin, toblessed Michael the Archangel, to blessed John the Baptist, to theholy apostles Peter and Paul, and to all the saints, that I havesinned exceedingly in thought, word, and deed, through my mostgrievous fault. Therefore I beseech the blessed Mary, ever Virgin, theblessed Michael the Archangel, the blessed John the Baptist, the holyapostles Peter and Paul, and all the saints, to pray to the Lord ourGod for me."Since my last confession, I accuse myself of many sins. I have missedmass, vespers and many holy ordinances of our most holy church. Haveborne hatred, and given most provoking language."I have broken the engagement thou did'st command me to keep; haveangered Manuel, and enraged my father greatly. I neglected fasting onthe day of our most holy Saint ----."I have entered this church, this holy sanctuary, without crossingmyself; and passed the image of the Blessed Virgin without kneeling."She paused, and bent her head lower.'The Padre then said, "My daughter, thy sins are grievous; my heartbleeds over thy manifold transgressions.""Even so, my Father; even so.""Dost thou still bear enmity to Manuel Nevarro, who loves thee truly,and is thy promised husband?""No, my Father; I desire to be speedily reconciled to him whom I haveoffended.""Wilt thou promise to offer no objection, but become his wife?""My Father, I do not wish to be his wife; yet thy will, not mine."A smile of triumph glittered in the Padre's eye at this confession;yet his low tone was unchanged."Inez, I will not force thee to marry Manuel, yet thou shalt never beanother's wife. In infancy thou wast promised, and thy hand can neverbe joined to another. Choose you, my daughter, and choose quickly.""Padre, give me time. May one so guilty as I speak out?""Yes, speak; for I would have thine inmost thoughts.""Father, let me spend a month of quiet and peace among the holysisters at San Jose; there will I determine either to be Manuel'swife, or dedicate the remainder of my life to the service of God andour most Holy Lady.""You have spoken well: even so shall it be; but, Inez, I wouldquestion you further and see you answer me truly, as you desire theintercession of the Blessed Virgin."Inez lifted her head, and fixing her eyes full on his swarthy face,replied with energy:"My Father, even as I desire the intercession of our Blessed Virgin,so will I answer."The head was bent again on her bosom. He had sought to read hercountenance during that brief glance, but there was a something in itsdark depths he could not quite understand."My daughter, hast thou been of late with that Protestant girl, byname Mary Irving?""I have seen her twice since last confession.""Where did you meet her?""Once at Senora Perraras, and once she came for me, to walk with her.""Answer truly. Upon what subjects did you converse?"Inez seemed striving to recall some portion of what had past. At lastshe said, "Indeed, Padre, I cannot remember much she said. It wasmostly of birds, and trees, and flowers, and something, I believe,about this beautiful town, as she called it.""Think again. Did she not speak lightly of the blessed church, andmost holy faith? Did she not strive to turn you to her own curseddoctrines, and, above all, did she not speak of me, your Padre, withscorn?""No, my Father, most truly she did not." Again she raised her eyes tohis face. Piercing was the glance he tent upon her. Yet hers fell notbeneath it: calm and immovable she seemed.He lifted his hand menacingly."I bid you now beware of her, and her friend, the trader's wife.They are infernal heretics, sent hither by the evil one to turn goodCatholics from their duty. I say again, beware of them!" and he struckhis hand heavily on the table beside him. "And now, my daughter, haveyou relieved your conscience of its burden? Remember, one sinwithheld at confession will curse you on your death-bed, and send you,unshriven, to perdition!"A sort of shudder ran through the bowed form of Inez, and in a lowtone, she replied, "I also accuse myself of all the sins that may haveescaped my memory, and by which, as well as those I have confessed, Ihave offended Almighty God, through my most grievous fault.""I enjoin upon you, as penance for the omission of the holy ordinancesof our most holy church, five Credos when you hear the matin bell,twelve Paters when noon comes round, and five Aves at vespers. Theseshall you repeat, kneeling upon the hard floor, with the crucifixbefore you, and your rosary in your hand. In addition, you must repairto a cell of San Jose, and there remain one month. Moreover, you shallsee and speak to none, save the holy sisters. And now, my daughter, Iwould absolve you."Inez bent low, while he spread his hands above her head and pronouncedthe Latin text to that effect, then bade her rise, and dismissed herwith a blessing.The sun was just visible over the eastern hills, as Inez stepped uponthe Plaza. Her face was deadly pale, and the black eyes glitteredstrangely."I have knelt to thee for the last time, Father Mazzolin. Longenough you have crushed me to the earth; one short month of seemingservitude, and I am free. Think you I too cannot see the gatheringtempest? for long I have watched it rise. It may be that happinessis denied me; but yonder gurgling waters shall receive my body ere Ibecome a lasting inmate of your gloomy cell. My plan works well;even my wily Padre thinks me penitent for the past! But dearly have Ibought my safety. I have played false! lied! where is my conscience?Have I one? No, no! 'tis dead. Dead from the hour I listened to thePadre's teachings! If there be a hereafter, and, oh! if there is aGod, what will become of me?" And the girl shuddered convulsively."Yet I have heard him lie. I know that even he heeds not the laws ofhis pretended God! He bade me follow his teachings, and I did, and Ideceived him! Hal he thinks the game all at his fingers' ends. But Iwill neither marry Manuel, nor be a holy sister of Jose. There willcome a time for me. Now I must work, keep him in the dark, spend themonth in seclusion; by that time the troubles here will begin, and whomay tell the issue?"A quick step behind her caused Inez to turn in the midst of hersoliloquy. Dr. Bryant was hastening by, but paused at sight of herface."Ah, Senorita! How do you do this beautiful morning?" He looked ather earnestly, and added, "You are too pale, Inez--much too pale. Yourmidnight vigils do not agree with you; believe me, I speak seriously,you will undermine your health." Her eyes were fixed earnestly on hisnoble face, beaming with benevolence, and a slight flush tinged hercheek, as she replied, "Dr. Bryant, I am not the devout Catholic yousuppose me. The Padre thinks me remiss in many of my duties, and Iam going for a short time to San Jose. You need not look at me sostrangely, I have no idea of becoming a nun, I assure you.""Inez, one of your faith can never be sure of anything; let me entreatyou not to go to the convent. You need recreation, and had much bettermount your pony, and canter a couple of miles every morning; it wouldinsure a more healthful state of both body and mind.""I must go, Dr. Bryant.""Well then, good-by, if you must, yet I fear you will not returnlooking any better.""Adios," and they parted.Inez's eye followed the retreating form till an adjoining cornerintervened. Then pressing her hand on her heart, as if to still someexquisite pain, she murmured in saddened tones--"Oh! I would lay downmy life for your love, yet it is lavished on one who has no heart togive in return. Oh, that I may one day be able to serve you!"At the moment she perceived Manuel Nevarro crossing the Plaza, anddrawing closer the mantilla, she hastened homeward.CHAPTER IX.  "A perfect woman, nobly planned;  To warn, to counsel, to command,  The reason firm, the temperate will,  Prudence, foresight, strength, and skill."  WORDSWORTH.The beautiful ideal of Wordsworth seemed realized in Mrs. Carlton. Shewas by nature impetuous, and even irritable; but the careful trainingof her deeply pious mother early eradicated these seeds of discord andfuture misery. She reared her "in the way she should go," and taughther to "remember her Creator in the days of her youth." Crushingvanity, which soon rose hydra-headed in her path, she implanted in herdaughter's heart a sense of her own unworthiness, and led her to the"fountain of light and strength."Under her judicious care, Ellen's character was molded into perfectbeauty. She became a Christian, in the purest sense of the term. Herswere not the gloomy tenets of the anchorite, which, with a sort ofSpartan stoicism, severs every tie enjoined by his great Creator, bidsadieu to all of joy that earth can give, and becomes a devotee at theshrine of some canonized son of earth, as full of imperfections ashimself. Neither did she hold the lighter and equally dangerous creedof the latitudinarian. Her views were of a happy medium; liberal, yetperfectly orthodox.Ellen married early in life, and many were the trials which rose upto test her fortitude, and even her reliance on almighty God. Of sixbeautiful children that blessed her union, four went down to an earlytomb. Though bowed to the earth by the weight of her affliction, shemurmured not against the hand that chastened her; but as one by onewas snatched from her warm embrace, she poured out the depth of amother's love on the remaining two.One stroke of fortune reduced her, in a day, from affluence tocomparative penury; and leaving his luxurious home, Mr. Carltonresolved to seek his fortune in the Western World. Hither shehad accompanied him, encountering, without a murmur, the numeroushardships, which those who have not endured can never fully realize.They had preceded Mr. Hamilton but a few months, and joyfully welcomedhim as an agreeable acquisition to their little circle.Mrs. Carlton found in Mary a real friend; one who sympathized with,and assisted her in her many benevolent plans for ameliorating thecondition of the destitute Mexicans around them.With Florence, the former had little affinity, and, consequently,little intercourse. Their tastes were directly opposite, and thoughthey often met, there was no interchange of the deep and holierfeelings of the heart.Frank Bryant was the orphan-brother of Mrs. Carlton, and almost asdearly loved by her as her own darling Elliot. A few months beforeSt. ----'s day, he reached San Antonio, on a visit to the sister, fromwhom he had been separated several years. Soon after his arrival, anepidemic made its appearance among the lower order of Mexicans; and asthere was no resident physician at that early time, his serviceswere speedily in requisition. The Padre, who numbered among hismany acquirements a tolerable knowledge of medicine, viewed withindifference the suffering around him; and was only roused from hislethargy by discovering the flattering estimation in which Frank washeld. Fearing so formidable a rival in the affections of his people,he left no means untried to undermine the popularity so deservedlyacquired. But gratitude is a distinguishing trait of Indian character;and though apparently obeying the injunctions of their Padre, tofollow no directions save his own, they reverenced Dr. Bryant as abeing of superior order.It was beside the bed of a dying friend that Inez first met him. Onelong weary night they watched together, and when at last death freedthe sufferer, with mingled emotions of admiration and gratitude shethanked him for the attentions conferred with such disinterestedbenevolence. She could not avoid contrasting the conduct of the coldand calculating Jesuit with the warm-hearted kindness of the noblestranger.In a few days it became evident that she had herself imbibed thedisease, and her terrified father brought the young physician torestore her. With unwearied patience he watched over the beautifulSenorita, whom Mrs. Carlton and Mary most carefully nursed, and wasrewarded by the glow of returning health.The idols of her youth were neglected and forgotten; one image filledInez's heart, and before it she poured out all the passionate love ofher ardent nature; hence her aversion to a union with Manuel Nevarro.Dr. Bryant early perceived her attachment; and knowing full wellthat he could never return it, avoided her society with a delicacypeculiarly his own. When thrown accidentally into her presence, hismanner was frank, kind, and brotherly.Inez did not deceive herself for a moment by supposing that he wouldever return her love. She knew too well the nature of the barrierwhich intervened. To remain unfettered, to see, to love, and one dayto serve him, was her dearest wish; and for its gratification shedared the rage of her father, and the hatred of her Padre. She fanciedhe loved another, and with the characteristic jealousy of her nation,an aversion to that object settled on her heart.Dr. Bryant had nursed the last patient into convalescence: still helingered, and at the close of St. ----'s day, announced his intentionof remaining until the difficulties with Mexico were either amicablyarranged, or war declared. Mary and Florence he often met, for he wasa constant visitor at Mr. Hamilton's. His manner toward them wasvery different; with Mary he ever assumed the light bantering toneof brotherly freedom; with Florence he was always grave and earnest.Their conversation was generally upon literary topics, of which shewas fond. Many were their discussions for and against their favoriteauthors and philosophers. In these arguments Mary seldom took part,though fully qualified to do so. Occasionally her cousin asked heropinion on various topics; at such times she gave them clearly, yetmodestly, and with a gentle dignity peculiar to herself. The earnestattention with which Frank listened to her views, and his happy smile,when they coincided with his own, somewhat puzzled Mary; yet shewelcomed his repartees with the same bright smile, and alloweddistrust and jealousy no room in her heart.CHAPTER X.                "He swore that love of souls  Alone had drawn him to the church; yet strewed  The path that led to hell with tempting flowers,  And in the ear of sinners, as they took  The way of death, he whispered peace."  POLLOK.How wearily pass the hours to the anxious watcher beside the couch ofpain. To her, it seems as though the current of time had forgottento run on and join the mighty past, and that its swift waters weregathering glassily around her. With unmitigated care, Florence hadattended the bedside of her suffering parent; occasionally slumberingon his pillow, but more frequently watching through the long nights,and often stealing to the casement, to look out upon surroundinggloom, and wonder if the light of day would ever fall again on earth.Ah! in the midnight hour, when all nature is hushed when universaldarkness reigns, when the "still small voice" will no longer besilenced, then we are wont to commune with our own hearts. Allbarriers melt away, and the saddened past, the troubled present, andthe shadowy future rise successively before us, and refuse to be putby. In vain we tightly close the aching lids; strange lurid lightsflare around us, and mysterious forms glide to and fro.To the guilty, how fearful must the season of darkness prove, when,unable longer to escape from themselves, they yield to the pangs ofremorse, and toss in unutterable anguish!    "By night, an atheist half believes a God."And thousands, who in the sunny light of day rush madly on to ruin,pause, shudderingly, in the midnight hour, and look yearninglytoward the narrow path where Virtue's lamp, flashing into thedeepest recesses of surrounding gloom, dispels all shadow; and, inimagination, view the Christian peacefully descending the hill oflife, fearlessly crossing the "valley of the shadow of death," andresting at last on that blest shore, where night and darkness areunknown, "swallowed up in endless day."It was very evident that Mr. Hamilton could survive but a few days;and to every entreaty that she would take some rest, Florence butshook her head, and replied, that she would not leave him when he mustdie so soon.One evening Dr. Bryant, having administered a soothing potion, turnedto her and said, "My dear Miss Hamilton, you will seriously injureyour health by such constant watching. Your father needs nothing nowbut quiet. Let me entreat you to go out for a short time; the air willrefresh you, and your aunt will remain with Mr. Hamilton." He drew herreluctantly from her seat as he spoke, and whispered Mary to accompanyher.Drawing her arm round Florence, Mary turned in the direction of theiraccustomed rambles, but her cousin said, "I am too weary to walk far,let us go to our old seat by the river."The stream was only a few yards distant, and they seated themselveson a broad, flat stone, beneath a cluster of pomegranate and figs. Theevening was beautifully clear, the soft light which still lingered inthe west mellowing every object, and the balmy southern breeze, freshfrom "old ocean's bosom," rustling musically amidst the branchesabove. As if to enhance the sweetness of the hour, and win themourners from their sad thoughts, the soothing tones of the vesperbells floated afar on the evening air; distance had softened them, andnow they sounded clear and Eolian-like. The river eddied and curledrapidly along at their feet; and ever and anon, the stillness thatseemed settling around was broken by the plunging fish, that gambledin hundreds amidst its blue waters."How calm and holy this stillness seems! Florry, does it not causeyou to lift your heart in gratitude to the 'almighty Giver' of so manyblessings?""All things are dark to sorrow;" replied Florence, and folding herarms across her bosom, she dropped her head wearily upon them."Oh, Florry, do not give up so! I cannot bear to hear your despairingtone. Still hope; your dear father may be spared to us;" and she puther arms caressingly around her."Hope!" echoed Florence; "I have ceased to hope that he will recover.I know that he cannot; and in a few hours I shall be alone in theworld. Alone, alone!" she repeated the words, as if fully to realizethe misery in store for her. "O God! why hast thou not taken mebefore? Take me now; oh, in mercy, take me with him!"In vain Mary strove to soothe and console her; she remained perfectlystill, her face hid in her arms, and replied not to her anxiousquestionings. A long silence ensued, and Mary wept. A feeling ofdesolation began to creep over her; a second time she was to be thrownon the wide, cold world. She thought of her uncle's generosity andunvaried kindness during the many years she had dwelt under his roof,and scarcely felt that it was not her own. And then there stole upthe image of her lost mother; the wan, but saint-like face, and theheavenly smile with which she pointed upward, and bade her childprepare for the glorious union, in that mansion which Jehovah assignedto those who are faithful on earth.Poor Mary's heart was sad indeed; yet there was no bitterness inher soul, no rebellious feelings toward Almighty God, who had thusafflicted her so sorely. She wiped away her tears, and calming herselfas much as possible, repeated, in a faltering voice, the beautifulhymn commencing "I would not live always." She paused at theconclusion of the second verse; but Florence did not lift her head,and hoping to cheer her, she finished the hymn.Twilight had fallen on the earth, and the blue vault of heaven wasstudded with its myriad lamps. The new moon glittered like a goldenthread--low in the west--and seemed almost to rest upon the bosom ofthe stream, as it curved in the distance to meet the horizon."Come, Florry, you must not stay out so late; I am afraid you willtake cold!"Florence rose mechanically and accompanied her."Oh, Florry, do try and trust in God, and believe that in every trialand affliction he will comfort and assist us."Her cousin sighed heavily, but made no reply.As they reached the gate it was quickly opened, and the Padre metthem: he bowed coldly to Mary, but shook hands with Florence, andpromised to come again the ensuing day. It was so late that Mary couldnot distinguish his features; but just as he turned to go, Aunt Fannythrew open the kitchen door, and the light streamed full on hisface; their eyes met, and she started at the smile of triumph thatirradiated his dark countenance: he bowed, and passed on.Mary hastened down the walk, and entered the sick room, fearing shescarcely knew what. The invalid Was tossing restlessly from side toside, and on the pillow lay a rosary and crucifix. For an instant shestood motionless; then sprang forward, and clasped his burning handin hers. "Uncle! dear uncle! tell me who has been with you! AuntLizzy promised she would not leave you till we came back You have beenexcited: your hands are burning with fever!""I was not alone, Mary; the Padre sat and talked with me;" as thesufferer spoke, he shuddered and closed his eyes."And did he leave these here!" said she, taking up the crucifix androsary."No, no! they are mine!" and he snatched them from her.Mary turned pale, and leaned against the bed for support. Florence,now bending over her father, motioned to her cousin to be silent;without effect, however; for, passing round the bed, she knelt besidehim. "Uncle, was it by your desire that the Padre came here thisevening?"He did not seem to hear her question; she repeated it."Yes; that is, this is not his first visit.""Uncle, why do you evade me? Tell me, I entreat you, if he did notforce himself here in my absence!""Mary, will you drive my father delirious with your interference withhis wishes?""No, Florry, not when I am convinced that such are his wishes. I knowthat in health he is no more a Papist than you or I; yet, now I seehim clinging to that rosary and crucifix, what am I to think? If youcan explain this mystery, do so, Florry.""The day that you were at Mrs. Carlton's, learning to make thatcustard my father likes so well, the Padre came, and kindly sat withhim some time. He came the next night, and the next; and read andprayed with him. I hope you are satisfied now that there is nointrusion." All this was whispered so low as not to reach the ears ofthe invalid."Were you present at any of these interviews, Florry?""No; they always preferred being alone,""Oh! why did you not tell me this before?""I am sure I can't see what you are so excited about! If my fatherchooses to become a Catholic, I should think it would relieve you toknow that he realizes his situation." She turned resolutely away asshe finished speaking, and seated herself beside the bed.Mary left the room almost stunned by the discovery she had made; andscarce knowing what to do, wrapped her shawl about her, and walkedquickly to Mrs. Carlton's. To her she related all she had justlearned, and begged her advice and assistance.Mrs. Carlton was sorely puzzled and much distressed."I fear, Mary, it is too late to remedy the evil.""Oh, do not say so! I cannot bear that he should die in that faith; heis too feeble to oppose anything they offer, and is scarcely consciousof his own actions. In health, they dared not approach him; for theyknew full well that he scorned their creed, and disliked their Padre.Yet now that he is so weak, in both body and mind, they hope toinfluence him. Oh, how could Florence be so blind! Dear Mrs. Carlton,come and reason with him. I know he esteems you very highly, and youropinion might weigh with him.""Indeed, my dear child, I will do all in my power to dissuade himfrom the unfortunate course he has taken, but not to-night; he must bewearied very much already. I will come in the morning."Early the ensuing day she fulfilled her promise, and in Florence'spresence strove to elicit his views and belief. To her surprise herefused to hold any conversation on the subject; declaring that hismind was made up, and that he was determined to die a member of theholy Catholic Church.Before she could frame a reply, they were startled by the sound of astruggle at the door, and the next moment it was flung wide open, andFather Mazzolin, livid with rage, rushed in. Mrs. Carlton rose withgentle dignity, and inquired his business. He heeded not her question,but strode to the bed, and whispered in Mr. Hamilton's ear. Theinvalid, in a voice so feeble that it was scarce audible, requestedthem to leave him with the Padre for an hour, as he wished to conversewith him alone. Mrs. Carlton perfectly well understood that he butrepeated the priest's orders, and perceiving that nothing could now beeffected, left the room accompanied by Florence. But Mary clung to thebed, and refused to go."You have taken advantage of my uncle's weakness to force yourselfwhere your presence is unwelcome, and I will not leave him when he istoo weak to oppose your orders."He strove to force her out, but she clung firmly to the bed; andmuttering an oath between his teeth, he turned to the sufferer, andspoke in an unknown tongue; a feeble response in the same languageseemed to satisfy him, and darting a triumphant glance at the kneelinggirl, he seated himself, and conversed for nearly an hour. Thenoffering up a Latin prayer, departed, promising to come again.Mrs. Carlton had not left the house; she waited anxiously for Mary.And when Florence re-entered the sick room, the former hastened to herfriend."Oh, I did all I could to prevent it!" cried Mary, in despair. "Allis over, I am afraid. I was sitting on the doorstep, preparing somearrowroot, when I saw Aunt Lizzy go out the gate. I thought it strangeat the time of day, but never suspected the truth. Presently I saw hercoming back with the priest, and knew in an instant she had gone forhim. I was determined to prevent his seeing my uncle, if possible, andfastened the front door. Before I could lock my uncle's, he wrenchedopen the window, and sprang in. I tried to put the key in my pocket,and told him he could not go in then; but he made Aunt Lizzy hold oneof my hands, while he forced open my fingers and took the key. Oh!that Dr. Bryant had been here." She showed Mrs. Carlton the marks ofhis grasp on her wrist. "Tell, oh, tell me what I can do to save him!""Alas! nothing, Mary. He is completely under the control of the Padre,and no reasoning will avail him now."With a sad heart Mrs. Carlton took leave, advising Mary "to offer nofurther resistance, as it was now impossible to convince her uncle ofhis error."CHAPTER XI.  "He's gone--his soul hath ta'en its earthless flight,  Whither? I dread to think--but he is gone!"  BYRON.Mr. Hamilton, though perfectly conscious that his end was rapidlyapproaching, had scrupulously avoided the subject in the presence ofthe girls. One morning, after a night of more than ordinary suffering,he lay quite exhausted. Death was at hand, and feeling intuitivelythat the appointed hour had arrived, he requested all to withdraw,save Florence. When they were alone, he laid his hand on her head, andsaid, in a low, feeble tone--"Florence, I am going. I cannot survivethis day, and I wish to give you my last advice. I am afraid your lotwill be a hard one, when I am gone; trials without number are in storefor you. Oh! my proudhearted, beautiful Florence, what will becomeof you now?" He covered his face with his hands a moment, thencontinued--"I do not wish you to return to your native place. My childmust be dependent on no one, yet to leave you here so unprotected,is hard indeed. Dr. Bryant has promised to watch over you, and theCarltons are kind friends. Florence you must depend upon yourself.Thank God, you are strong-minded, and Mary, our kind, good Mary, willbe near, to comfort and assist you. I am growing weaker, but there isone more thing I wish to say."He paused, and for the first time Florence spoke."My father, tell me every wish; fear nothing for me, there is nothingI cannot bear now.""For my sake, Florence, if not for your own, will you promise to beguided by Father Mazzolin?""Do you mean in matters of religion, my father?""I mean in all things: matters of interest, as well as matters offaith. He will assist you much, if you will but follow his advice anddirections."There was a pause, and then Florence said slowly, as if weighing everyword--"Rest assured your wishes shall be my law. I will consult thePadre as you desire."With a look of relief the dying man sank back on his pillow, andclosed his eyes. Florence quickly summoned the physician, and her auntand cousin. A little while after, as Mr. Hamilton's eye fell on theweeping Mary, he extended his hand, and when she bent over him, drewher face down, and imprinted a long kiss on her pale cheek. Even as hedid so, a dark form glided to the bedside. Another moment, the uncleand niece were separated; none knew how, yet the Padre stood between,whispering low in the sufferer's ear. Almost gasping for breath, thelatter intimated his desire to confess for the last time. And theywere left alone.Nearly an hour after, the priest entered the apartment where Florenceand Mary sat. He trembled visibly, yet, in his usual tone, said thathe wished the family to be present at the last rites about to beperformed for the dying Papist. They immediately repaired to the sickroom, and the spectacle there presented made Mary quiver in everylimb. The sufferer had been placed for convenience on a low couch, andwas supported by pillows in an upright position. A dozen candles burntaround him, and a cloud of incense wreathed slowly along the wall.The room had been profusely sprinkled with holy water, and a chalicecontaining the consecrated wafer, sat near. Gasping for breath, Mr.Hamilton clasped a crucifix to his lips, though unable from weaknessto secure it there; for twice it fell from his fingers, and rolled tothe floor.Father Mazzolin, attired in a surplice ornamented with the insignia ofhis order, stood beside the bed, holding in one hand a superbly-boundvolume--in the other, a silver cup containing oil.After a moment's pause he opened the book, and hurriedly read ina low, muttering tone, a Latin service of several pages. At theconclusion he carefully poured out a few drops of the oil, and justtouched the palms of the sufferer's hands and the soles of his feet,bidding him at the same time cross himself. Perceiving that he wasutterly unable to do so, he hastily signed the figure and resumed hisreading. How long he would have gabbled on it is impossible to say,but a gasping sound from the dying man declared that dissolutionwas at hand, and, snatching the chalice, he hastily administered thewafer, which was swallowed with difficulty. For the third time, FatherMazzolin strove to replace the crucifix in his hand and bend it tohis lips. The cold fingers refused to clasp the consecrated wood, andsank, stiffened and powerless, by his side.Mary had gazed mournfully on as this mummery was enacted. A death-bedfor a theater, weeping relatives an audience, and Father Mazzolin anamateur performer. Aunt Lizzy was kneeling beside the Padre, everand anon invoking the Virgin; while Florence sat with her face in herhands, almost as unconscious of what passed as her dying parent Shebent over him now, and in heartrending accents conjured him not toleave her. He struggled in vain to utter words of comfort; they diedaway in whispers, and, with a slight moan, the spirit returned tothe God that gave it. The Padre snatched his hat and hastily leftthe house, while Mary gave vent to an uncontrollable burst of sorrow.Florence seemed suddenly frozen, so rigid was her countenance, as shegazed on the cold form before her. She neither wept nor moaned, butclosed the eyes with a long, long kiss, and drawing a sheet over themarble features, turned, with a slow, unfaltering step, away.CHAPTER XII.  "For now that Hope's last ray is gone,  Sure Lethe's dream would bless:  In grief to think of bliss tha'ts flown,  Adds pangs to wretchedness."  ANONYMOUS.A fortnight had passed, and again it was evening. In the smalldining-room of Florence Hamilton's humble home assembled the nowdiminished family circle. Florence sat sadly apart, leaning her head,with closed eyes, against the window. The tea bell rang; she liftedher head, glanced round the room, and wearily dropped her brow againon its resting-place. Mary approached, and taking her hand, said, in agentle, winning tone, "Come, Florry dear.""Eat your supper, Mary; I do not wish any.""But you have not eaten anything to-day, and need something; do try,for my sake.""I cannot. If you knew how both head and heart ache, you would noturge me."Mary turned away, and ate the usually joyous meal with a heavy heart.Florence had left her seat, and was standing in the door: as hercousin rose from the table she beckoned to her, and passed hurriedlyout. Mary strove to catch her arm but she hastened on, as if tryingto escape from herself. Suddenly she paused by the river side, andclasped her hands convulsively over her head."Mary! Mary! you know not what I suffer.""Florry, sit down, and lean your weary head on my shoulder."She dipped her hand in the water, and dashed the cold, sparkling dropson her cousin's burning brow, speaking the while in a low, soothingtone. Florence rested a few moments in her cousin's arms, then threwherself on a grassy bank, and covered her face; one long, deep groanalone attesting her mental anguish. Mary wept more bitterly thanshe had yet done; still, she was so quiet, none would have known hergrief, save from the tears that fell over her hand and arms. Can itbe, that the spirits of departed friends hover near us while onearth, and draw closer in hours of woe? If so, why is it denied to thesuffering one to hear again the dear accents of the "loved and lost?"Why may not their silver pinions fan the burning brow of sorrowingmortality, and the echo of Heaven's own melody murmur gently, "Peace,peace and joy for evermore?"Florence stood up before her cousin; all trace of emotion had passedaway, and left her calm. The bright moon shone full on her face. Oh!how changed since the morning she stood in Madame ----'s schoolroom.The large dark eyes were sunken; the broad brow marked with lines ofmental anguish; the cheeks colorless, and her long raven hair tossedback, and hanging like a veil below her slender waist. There wasa hollow, wasted look in every feature; the expression was one ofhopeless misery, and a something there was which made the heart ache,yet the haughty glance of other days might still be seen."Mary, look at me!""Well, Florry, I have looked at you, and sad enough it makes me feel.""I am changed Mary, strangely changed, am I not? Answer me truly.""Yes, you look weary and ill; but why do you ask me such a question?You have had cause to look pale.""Ah! you say truly; but, Mary, have you never suspected that a secretgrief was freezing the life-blood in my cheeks?""Florry, what do you mean? I am afraid you are feverish!" and Marylaid her hand anxiously on her cousin's. It was flung contemptuouslyoff."Mary, listen to what I have to say. I am in a strange mood to-night,and you must not contradict me. Where shall I begin? When my motherdied I was four years old, they say, and a very delicate child. Mymother! how strange it sounds. Yet I can at times faintly rememberher beautiful face. Very faintly, as in a dream, I have seen an angelvisitant. My mother, why did you leave your hapless babe? Oh! why? mymother! I was left much to myself, and followed unrestrained myown inclinations. You know my fondness for books; that fondness wasimbibed in girlhood, as I wandered in my own sunny home--my lost home.My father taught me to conceal my emotions--to keep down the risingsob, to force back the glittering tear; and when I smiled over somechildish grief, applauded my stoicism. I became unnatural, cold,haughty, but not unfeeling. I remember well how your pale face andmourning dress touched my heart, and waked my sympathies. From thathour I lavished my love on my father and yourself. Years passed and wewent to New Orleans--" Here Florence paused, and closed her eyes fora moment, but quickly resumed--"You know how I studied. Mary, was itmerely from love of metaphysics and philosophy, think you? No. no!Mr. Stewart's look of surprise and pleasure as, one by one, I masteredvarious intricacies, was the meed for which I toiled. Mary, from thefirst day we met, I loved him, for his was a master spirit I worshipedhim in my inmost soul, and he loved me in return. I know--I feel thathe did. Yet he was even prouder than myself, and would have scorned tospeak of love to one who never smiled in his presence. Oh! often when,he stood beside my desk giving instruction, my heart has sprung tohim. I have longed to hear the words of tenderness that welled up fromhis heart, but scorned to tremble on his lips. No look of love everfell on me. His glance was cold and haughty. Oh, how inconsistentis woman! I yearned for his love; yet, had he tendered it, under myhaughtiness would have dropped my idol--have shivered it at my feet.Weeks passed, and while near him I knew no sorrow; but the morning ofmy life was destined to be short. The cloud that had lowered on thehorizon suddenly darkened around. That never-to-be-forgotten lettercame, and I saw a great gulf open at my feet. An invisible hand placedDudley Stewart on one brink, and I was left upon the other; and anunknown messenger thundered the decree of separation--'Forget the pastand live again in the future!' I started as from a frightful dream.The cold reality forced itself upon me. Mary, a suspicion stole intomy heart, and stung me. I thought for a brief time that Mr. Stewartloved you, and whose hand may register the darkened thoughts thatcrowded bitterly up? The morning we left New Orleans, I went into theschoolroom for our books. Ah! who may know the agony of that hour! Isat down in his chair, and laid my head on his desk, and groaned inmine anguish of spirit. Oh! Mary, that was the blackest, bitteresthour of my life. I had fancied he loved me: I feared I was deceived; Ihated--despised myself for my weakness. Yet I could not reproach him;he had never sought my love."I had just risen from his desk when Mr. Stewart came in. He didnot seem to see me, but took a seat near the door. I was well-nighexhausted, but strove to appear as cold and indifferent as ever. Igathered up my books and turned to go, then he laid down his pen, andcame to me."'I believe you and your cousin leave to-day?'"'Yes. in this evening's boat,' I answered, much as usual."'I wish you a safe and pleasant voyage. My kindest adieux to yourcousin. Good-by, Miss Hamilton.'"He held out his hand. I said 'good-by' as clearly and coldly ashimself. Our hands met but an instant: there was no pressure--nowarmth, and then he opened the door for me to pass. As he did soour eyes met; his glance was calm and cold, but his lips were firmlycompressed. Had he looked sad, mournful, or tender, I should havepassed out and triumphed; but my overtasked strength gave way; a coldshudder crept through my frame, and consciousness forsook me. I neverfainted before or since. When I revived, I raised my head and lookedabout me, I was reclining on a couch; he kneeling beside me, calmly,as he would have stood in class. He held my hand, and pressed itwarmly."'Are you better now, Florence?'"'Oh, yes, thank you,' I said, and rose to my feet."He still held my hand. I withdrew it, and turned to the door. Heplaced himself before it, and said--'Florence, it was well done; youare an admirable dissembler, but I am not deceived. You love me, andhave for long, yet I freely acknowledge your love can never exceed myown. I love you better than my life, though perfectly aware thatwe are now parted forever. I am a poor tutor, dependent on my dailyexertions for subsistence; you the cherished daughter of a wealthy andambitious parent.'"He drew me to him, and imprinted a long kiss on my lips; then put megently back, and left the room."I never saw him again, but did I doubt his love? No, no! I wouldsooner doubt my own existence. We embarked, as you know, in theevening. That night was beautiful--just such a one as this--serene andheavenly. I stole out on deck when others slumbered, and for a longweary hour paced to and fro. There was a wild tumult in my soul whichwould not be stilled, and every restraining effort but fanned theflame that raged within. A never-to-be-forgotten contest was wagedthat night, and my heart was the arena. My guardian angel whisperedlow, 'Forget the past as a feverish dream; it is not well for thee;forget, forget!' But the heaven-born accents were suddenly drownedby the wild shriek of my dark destiny--'Of Lethe's waters thou shallnever taste! I have shattered the goblet at thy feet, and scatteredthe draught to the winds of heaven! Behold the apotheosis of thineidol! At this shrine shalt thou bow evermore--evermore!'"A new impulse was implanted within me; and, impotent to resist, Iwas impelled onward, and onward, till a chasm yawned at my feet. Yeta moment I trembled on the brink, then plunged desperately forward.Mary, listen. I knelt on the damp, glistening deck, and imploredAlmighty God to register my words in heaven. In his awful name andpresence, I solemnly swore to love Dudley Stewart alone--to be hiswife, or go down to the tomb as Florence Hamilton. I rose upcalm--the fierce warring was stilled. Yet it was not inward peace thatsucceeded. My fate was sealed--the last page of destiny transcribed."Time passed on, oblivious of the darkened hours it bore on its broadbosom. Mary, I have watched for one loved form, and listened for thatcalm, proud step. I have loved, and trusted, and believed that weshould meet again. Deluded Florence! a period is put to thy hopes andfears! Mary, he is married! All is over for me. The dull, heavy weightresting upon my heart will soon crush out the life spark, and lay lowmy proud head. Ah! I my cousin, you weep. I wish that I could; buttears have been _too_ often scornfully repulsed; they come not now atmy call. Oh, Mary, I am weary, weary! I long for rest, even the restof the dark, still tomb! I have no hope--no wish. I am passive now.At last nature has broken the bonds so long forced upon her, and thereaction is strong indeed. You ask how I received my information: ah!you need not doubt its authenticity. Aunt Lizzy and his mother wereold friends, and she received a letter the day before my father died,announcing _his_ approaching union with a beautiful cousin! I amdeservedly punished: I worshiped the creature and forgot the God. Ineeded a desperate remedy, and it is administered."As Florence concluded she leaned heavily against a tree, and raisedher eyes to the jeweled vault above. Just then a dense black cloud,which had floated up from the west, passed directly over the moon,obscuring the silvery rays. She pointed to it, and said, in a low,mournful voice--"How typical of my life and heart; shut out from joyand hope in one brief hour, unlike it ever to be brightened again.""Oh! Florry, dear Florry! turn to God for comfort and succor in thishour of need. He will enable you to bear this trial, and go steadilyon in the path of duty.""Mary, I have no incitement to exertion; nothing to anticipate. Myfuture is blank and dreary. I know my lot in life; I have nothing tohope for.""Not so, Florry. Your future life will be an active one. Are we notdependent on our exertions for subsistence? and does not our littleschool open to-morrow? Cheer up, darling all may yet be bright.Bury the painful remembrances of the past; believe me, peace, if notjoyousness, will surely follow the discharge of your duties.""I cannot forget the past. Had he sought my love, I could scorn himfor his baseness; but it is not so, I almost wish it were. Yet I knowand feel that he loves me; and oblivion of the past is as impossiblefor him as, myself. I know not what strange impulse has induced me totell you all this. I did it half unconsciously, hoping for relief byrevealing that which has pressed so heavily on my heart. Mary, neverspeak to me of it again; and, above all, do not mention his name. Ithas passed my lips for the last time, and all shall be locked againwithin my own heart. We will open the school to-morrow; and may Godhelp me, Mary, pray, oh, pray for me! I had no mother to teach me, andprayer is a stranger to my lips."She walked hurriedly to the house, and shut herself within her ownapartment.CHAPTER XIII.  "Freedom calls you! Quick! be ready:     Think of what your sires have been:   Onward! onward! strong and steady,     Drive the tyrant to his den."  PERCIVAL.How intoxicating is the love of power; and how madly the votariesof ambition whirl to the vortex of that moral Corbrechtan, which hasingulfed so many hapless victims. Our own noble Washington standsforth a bright beacon to warn every ruler, civil or military, of thethundering whirlpool. Father of your country! you stand alone onthe pedestal of greatness; and slowly rolling years shall pour theirwaters into the boundless deep of eternity ere another shall be placedbeside you.When Iturbide attempted to free his oppressed countrymen from thecrushing yoke of Spanish thraldom, Liberty was the watchword. Successcrowned his efforts--sovereign power lay before him. He grasped it,and made himself a despot. Ambition hurled him from the throne of theMontezumas, and laid his proud head low. A new star rose on the stormyhorizon of the west; pure and softly fell the rays on the troubledthousands round. The voice of the new-comer said "Peace," and the wildtumult subsided. Ten years passed; Santa Anna culminated. The gentletones of the arch-deceiver were metamorphosed into the tiger's growl,the constitution of 1824 subverted in a day, and he ruled in the roomof the lost Iturbide.* * * * *The Alamo was garrisoned. Dark bodies of Mexican troops moved heavilyto and fro, and cannon bristled from the embrasures. The usually quiettown was metamorphosed into a scene of riot and clamor, and fandangos,at which Bacchus rather than Terpsichore presided, often welcomed thenew-born day. The few Americans[A] in San Antonio viewed with darkenedbrows the insolent cavaliers. The gauntlet was flung down--therewas no retraction, no retreat. They knew that it was so, and girdedthemselves for a desperate conflict.[Footnote [A]: It doubtless appears absurd to confine the title of"Americans" to the few citizens of the United States who emigrated toTexas, when all who inhabit the continent are equally entitled to theappellation. Yet the distinction is Mexican; "Los Americanos" beingthe name applied to all who are not of Spanish descent.]The declaration of independence was enthusiastically hailed by thebrave-hearted Texans, as they sprang with one impulse to support thenew-born banner, that floated so majestically over the sunny prairiesof their western home. Mechanic, statesman, plowboy, poet, pressedforward to the ranks, emulous of priority alone. A small, but intrepidband, they defied the tyrant who had subverted the liberties of hiscountry; defied Santa Anna and his fierce legions, and spurned theiron yoke which the priests of Mexico vainly strove to plant upontheir necks. Liberty, civil and religious, was the watchword, anddesperately they must struggle in the coming strife.Manuel Nevarro had eagerly enlisted in the Mexican ranks, and in afew weeks after General Cos's arrival, donned his uniform. Thusaccoutered, he presented himself, for the first time since theirdisagreement, before Inez, who had but recently returned from SanJose, doubting not that her admiration of his new dress would extendto him who filled it. In truth, his was a fine form and handsome face;yet sordid selfishness, and, in common parlance, "a determination tohave his own way," were indelibly stamped upon his countenance.Inez was busily preparing the evening meal when he entered; and thoughperfectly aware of his presence, gave no indication of it. Hestood aside and watched her movements, as she shaped and turned thetortillas. Presently she began to sing  "He quits his mule, and mounts his horse,     And through the streets directs his course--   Through the streets of Gacatin,     To the Alhambra spurring in,       Wo is me, Alhama.  "And when the hollow drums of war     Beat the loud alarm afar,   That the Moors of town and plain     Might answer to the martial strain,      Wo is me, Alhama.As the mournful cadence died away, she turned, and started withwell-feigned surprise on meeting the piercing glance fixed upon her."Ah, Manuel!" She held out both hands, with a most amicable expressionof countenance. He grasped them, and would have kissed her beautifullips, but she slipped adroitly to one side--"No, no! Manuel. I'll notpermit that till I am Senora Nevarro.""And when will that be, Senorita?""Not till the war is over.""But it has not begun yet; and it will be many moons before we whipthese cursed Americanos.""How many, think you, Manuel?""I can't tell, Inez; therefore we will not wait till the war is over.The Padre is ready any time, and why not marry at once?""Sacra Dios! I'll do no such thing.""And why not, Inez?""Because they might kill you, Manuel, and then what would become ofme?""You would be as well off then as now; there would be no difference,only you would be married. You will mourn, any