g in my hand, I fairly fled down the stairs which led fromour third floor apartment to the street. I had no idea where I wasgoing or what I was going to do. Only one idea possessed me--to putas much space as possible between me and the apartment which held myhusband and his mother.Reaching the street, I started to walk along it briskly. But,trembling as I was from the humiliating scene I had just gone through,I saw that I could not walk indefinitely, and that I must get to someplace at once where I could be alone and think."Taxi, ma'am?"A taxi whose driver evidently had been watching me in the hope of afare rolled up beside me.I dived into it gratefully. At least in its shelter I would be aloneand safe from observation for a few minutes, long enough for me todecide what to do next."Where to, ma'am?"I searched my memory wildly for a moment. Where to, indeed! But thechauffeur waited."Brooklyn Bridge," I said desperately."Very well, ma'am," and in another minute we were speeding swiftlysouthward.As I cowered against the cushions of the taxi, with burning cheeks andcrushed spirit, I realized that my marriage with Dicky was not a yokethat I could wear or not as I pleased. It was still on my shoulders,heavy just now, but a burden that I realized I loved and could notlive without.And I had thought to end it all when I dashed out of the apartment!I knew that I could have done nothing else but walk out after Dickyuttered his humiliating ultimatum. But I also knew Dicky well enoughto realize that when he came to himself he would regret what he haddone and try to find me. I must make it an easy task for him.So I decided my destination quickly. I would go to my old boardingplace, where my mother and I had lived and where I had first metDicky. My kindly old landlady, Mrs. Stewart, was one of my bestfriends. Without telling too broad a falsehood, I could make herbelieve I had come to spend the night with her. The next day, I hoped,would solve its own problems."This is the bridge entrance, ma'am." The chauffeur's voice broke myrevery. I had made my decision just in time.How fortunate it was that I had chosen the Brooklyn Bridgedestination! I had only to walk up the stairs to the elevated trainthat took me within three squares of Mrs. Stewart's home."Bless your heart, child, but I am glad to see you!" was Mrs.Stewart's hearty greeting. Then she glanced at my bag. I hastened toexplain."Mr. Graham's mother is with us, so I haven't any scruples aboutleaving him alone," I said lightly. "It's so far over here I thoughtI would stay the night with you, so that we could have the good longvisit I promised you when I was here last.""That's splendid," she agreed heartily, "and I'll wager you can'tguess who's here."My prophetic soul told me the answer even before I saw the tall figureemerge from an immense easy chair which had effectually concealed him.I was to bid Jack good-by after all.Mrs. Stewart closed the door behind her softly as Jack came over to myside."What is the matter, Margaret?" he said tensely."Nothing at all." I told the falsehood gallantly, but it did notconvince Jack."You can't make me believe that, Margaret," he said gravely. "I knowyou too well. Tell me, have you quarrelled with your husband?"Jack has played the elder brother role to me for so long that thehabit of obedience to him is second nature to me."Yes," I said faintly."Over me?" The question was quick and sharp.I nodded."You showed him my letter? Of course, I wished you to do so.""Yes.""How serious is the quarrel? I see you have a bag with you.""It depends upon my husband's attitude how serious it is," I replied."He made an issue of my not doing something which I felt I mustdo. Then he lost his temper and said things which if they are to berepeated, will keep me away forever!"I saw Jack's fists clench, and into his eyes there flashed a queerlight. I knew what it was. Before he knew I was married he had told meof his long secret love for me. That he was fighting the temptation tolet the breach between Dicky and me widen, I knew as well as if he hadtold me.Another moment, however, and he was master of himself again."Sit down," he commanded tersely, and when I had obeyed he drew achair close to my side."My poor child," he said tenderly, "I know nothing about your husband,so I cannot judge this quarrel. But I am afraid in this marriage gameyou will learn that there must be a lot of giving up on both sides.Now I know you to be absolutely truthful. Tell me, is there anypossibility that the overtures for a reconciliation ought to come fromyou?""He told me that if I went out of the door, I must go out of it forgood," I said hotly, and could have bitten my tongue out for the wordsthe next moment.Jack drew a long breath."Did he think you were going to see me?""I believe he had that idea, yes.""Is he the sort of a man who always says what he means or does hesay outrageous things when he is angry that he does not mean in theleast?""He has a most ungovernable temper, but he gets over the attacksquickly, and I know he doesn't mean all he says.""That settles it." Jack sprang up, and going to a stand in the cornertook his hat and coat and stick."What are you going to do, Jack?" I gasped."I am going to find your husband and send him after you," he saidsternly."Jack, you mustn't," I said wildly."But I must," he returned firmly. "You have quarrelled over me. Icould not cross the water leaving you in an unsettled condition likethis."He came swiftly to my side, and took my hands firmly in his."Margaret, remember this, if I die or live, all I am and all I have isat your service. If I die there will be enough, thank heaven, to makeyou independent of any one. If I live--"He hesitated for a long moment, then stooped closer to me."This may be a caddish thing to do, but it is borne in upon me thatI ought to tell you this before I go. I hope the settling of thisquarrel will be the beginning of a happier life for you. But ifthings should ever get really unbearable in your life, bad enough fordivorce, I mean, remember that the dearest wish of my life would befulfilled if I could call you wife. Good-by, Margaret. God bless andkeep you."I felt the touch of his lips against my hair.Then he released me and went quickly out of the room.It was hard work for me to obey Mrs. Stewart's command to eat thesupper that she soon brought me on a tray. Every nerve was tense inanticipation of the meeting between Dicky and Jack, which I could notavoid, and which I so dreaded. What was happening at my home while Isat here, my hands tied by my own foolish act?I did not realize that Mrs. Stewart's suspense was also intense untilthe door bell rang and she ran to answer it.I stole to the door and noiselessly opened it just enough to be ableto hear the voices in the lower hall. I heard the hall door open andthen a sound of a voice that sent me back to my chair breathless withterrified happiness.Dicky had arrived!He ran up the stairs, two steps at a time, and knocked at the door ofthe room in which I sat."Come in," I said faintly.I felt as if my feet were shod with lead. Much as I loved him, greatas was my joy at seeing him, I could no more have stirred from where Iwas sitting than I could have taken wings and flown to him.There was no need for my moving, however. Dicky has the mostabominable temper of any person I know, but he is as royal in hisrepentance as in his rages.He crossed the room at almost a bound, his eyes shining, his faceaglow, his whole handsome figure vibrant with life and love."Sweetheart! sweetheart!" he murmured, as he folded me in his arms,"will you forgive your bad boy this once more? I have been a jealous,insulting brute, but I swear to you--"I put up my hand and covered his lips. I had heard him say somethinglike this too many times before to have much faith in his oath.Besides, there is something within me that makes me abhor anythingwhich savors of a scene. Dicky was mine again, my old, impulsive,kingly lover. I wanted no promises which I knew would be made only tobe broken.It was a long time before either of us spoke again, and then Dickydrew a deep breath."I have a confession to make about your cousin, Madge," he began,carefully avoiding my eyes, "and I might as well get it over withbefore we go home. Mother's probably asleep, but she might wake up,and then there would be no chance for any talk by ourselves.""Don't tell me anything unless you wish to do so, Dicky," I repliedgently. "I am content to leave things just as they are withoutquestion.""No," Dicky said stubbornly, "it's due you and it's due your cousinthat I tell you this. I don't often make a bally ass of myself, butwhen I do I am about as willing a person to eat dirt about it as youcan find."I never shall get used to Dicky's expressions. The language in whichhe couched his repentance seemed so uncouth to me that I mentallyshivered. Outwardly I made no sign, however."When he came to the apartment," Dicky went on, "I was just about asnearly insane as a man could be. I had no idea where you had gone andI had just had the devil's own time with my mother and Katie over yoursudden departure.""What did your mother say to all this?"I asked the question timorously.Dicky laughed. "Well! of course she didn't go into raptures overthe affair," he said, "but I think she learned a lesson. At least Iendeavored to help her learn one. I read the riot act to her after youleft.""Oh! Dicky!" I protested, "that was hardly fair?""I know it," he admitted shamefacedly. "I am afraid I did rather takeit out on the mater when I found you had really gone. But she deserveda good deal of it. You have done everything in your power to makethings pleasant for her since she came, and she has treated you aboutas shabbily as was possible.""Oh! not that bad, Dicky," I protested again, but I knew in my heartthat what he said was true. His mother had treated me most unfairly.I could not help a little malicious thrill of pleasure that he hadfinally resented it for me."Just that bad, little Miss Forgiveness," Dicky returned, smiling atme tenderly.My heart leaped at the words. When Dicky is in good humor he coins allsorts of tender names for me. I knew that to Dicky our quarrel was asif it had never happened."I'll give you a pointer about mother, Madge," Dicky went on. "Whenyou see her, act as if nothing had happened at all, it's the onlyway to manage her. She can be most charming when she wants to be,but every once in a while she takes one of those silent tantrums, andthere is no living with her until she gets over it."I didn't make any comment on this speech, fearing to say the wrongthing."But I didn't start to tell you about Katie." Dicky switched thesubject determinedly. "I might as well get it off my chest. When yourcousin came in and introduced himself the first thing I did was toattempt to strike him.""Oh, Dicky, Dicky," I moaned, horrified, "what did he do?"Dicky's lips twisted grimly."Just put out his hand and caught my arm, saying with that calm andquiet voice of his:"'I shall not return any blow you may give me, Mr. Graham, so pleasedo not do anything you will regret when you recover yourself!'"I realized his strength of body and the grip he had on my arm andeven my half-crazed brain recognized the power of his spirit. I cameto, apologized, and we had a long talk that made me realize what athundering good fellow he must be."I don't see why you never fell in love with him," Dicky continued."He's a better man than I am," he paraphrased half wistfully."But I love YOU," I whispered.Across Dicky's face there fell a shadow. I realized that thoughtlesslyI had wounded him.XVIINTERRUPTED SIGHT-SEEING"Margaret!" My mother-in-law's tone was almost tragic. "Richard hasgone off with my trunk checks.""Why, of course, he has," I returned, wondering a little at heranxious tone. "I suppose he expects to give them to an expressman andhave the trunks brought up this morning.""Richard never remembered anything in his life," said his mothertartly. "Those trunks ought to be here before I leave for the day.""Oh, I don't think it would be possible for them to arrive here beforewe have to start, even if Dicky gives them to an expressman rightaway, as I am sure he will do."It seemed queer to be defending Dicky to his mother, but I felt acurious little thrill of resentment that she should criticise him.I sometimes may judge Dicky harshly myself, but I don't care to hearcriticism of him from any other lips, even those of his mother."Richard will carry those checks in his pocket until he comes homeagain, if he is lucky enough not to lose them," said his motherdecidedly. "I wish you would telephone him at his studio and remindhim that they must be looked after."Obediently I went to the telephone. I knew Dicky had had plentyof time to get to the studio, as it was but a short walk from ourapartment."Madison Square 3694," I said in answer to Central's request for"number."When the answer came I almost dropped the receiver in my surprise. Itwas not Dicky's voice that came to my ears, but that of a stranger, awoman's voice, rich and musical."Yes?" with a rising inflection, "this is Mr. Graham's studio. He hasnot yet reached here. What message shall I give him, please, when hecomes in?""Please ask him to call up his home." Then I hung up the receiver andturned from the telephone, putting down my agitation with a firm handuntil I could be alone."Dicky has not yet reached the studio," I said to his mother calmly."I think very probably he has gone first to see an expressman aboutyour trunks. If you will pardon me I have a few things to attend tobefore we start on our trip. Is there anything I can do for you?""No, thank you." Mrs. Graham's tone was still the cold, courteous onethat she used in addressing me. "I suppose I can ring for Katie when Iam ready to have my dress fastened?""Oh! by all means," I returned. I thought bitterly of the littleservices I used to perform for my own mother. How gladly I wouldanticipate the wants of Dicky's mother if she would only show meaffection instead of the ill-concealed aversion with which sheregarded me.My mother-in-law went into her room, and I, walking swiftly to mine,closed and locked the door behind me. I threw myself face downward onthe bed, my favorite posture when I wished to think things out.The voice of the woman at the studio haunted me. It was strange, butfamiliar, and I could not remember where I had heard it.What was a woman doing in Dicky's studio at this time in the morning,anyway? I knew that Dicky employed feminine models, but I also knewthat he always made it a point to be at the studio before the modelwas due to arrive."I suppose I am an awful crank," he had laughed once, "but no modelsrummaging among my things for mine."I knew that Dicky employed no secretary, or at least he had told methat he did not I had heard him laughingly promise himself that whenhis income reached 10,000 a year he would hire one.All at once the solution to the mystery dawned upon me. The rich,musical voice belonged to Grace Draper, the beautiful girl whom Dickyhad seen first on a train on our memorable trip to Marvin.Why hadn't Dicky told me that she was at the studio? The questionrankled in the back of my brain.That was not my main concern, however. What swept me with a suddenprimitive emotion, which I know must be jealousy, was the pictureof that beautiful face, that wonderful figure in daily closecompanionship with my husband.Suppose she should fall in love with Dicky! To my mind I did notsee how any woman could help it. Would she have any scruples aboutendeavoring to win Dicky's love from me?My common sense told me that this was the veriest nonsense. But Icould no more help my feelings than I could control the shape of mynose.The ring of the telephone bell put a temporary end to my speculations.I pulled myself together in order to talk calmly to Dicky, for I knewit must be he who was calling."Madge, is this you? Whatever has happened?""Nothing is the matter," I said quickly, "but you have your mother'strunk checks, and she is anxious about them.""By Jove!" Dicky's voice was full of consternation. "I forgoteverything about those trunk checks until this minute. I shouldhave attended to them yesterday, but"--he hesitated, then finishedlamely--"I didn't have time."I felt my face flush as though Dicky could see me. The reason whyhe did not have time to see to his mother's trunks on the day of herarrival, touched a subject any allusion to which would always bring aflush to my face.I was still too shaken with the varying emotions I had experienced theday before to bear well any reference to them, no matter how casual.Fortunately, Dicky was too much taken up with his own remissness tonotice my silence."I'll go out this minute and attend to them," he said. "Try to keepthe mater's mind diverted from them if you can. Better get her away onyour sight-seeing trip as soon as possible."Having thus shifted his responsibilities to my shoulders, Dickyblithely hung up the receiver. I turned to his mother."Well!" she demanded."He is going out now to attend to the trunks," I said."There! I knew he had forgotten them," she exclaimed, with a littlemalicious feminine triumph running through her tones. "When will theybe here?""Not before noon at the earliest," I repeated Dicky's words in asmatter-of-fact way as possible. "Probably not until 2 or 3 o'clock inthe afternoon. We might as well start on our trip. Katie is perfectlycapable of attending to them."Then she said, "How soon will you be ready?""I am afraid it will be half an hour before I can start," I saidapologetically."That will be all right," my mother-in-law returned good humoredly.She was evidently much pleased at the prospect of the trip."It's wonderful! Wonderful!" she said as the full view of New Yorkharbor burst upon our eyes when we came out of the subway and roundedthe Barge office into Battery Park."Wait a moment. I want to fill my soul with it."I felt my heart warm toward her. I have always loved the harbor. Manytreasured hours have I spent watching it from the sea wall or fromthe deck of one of the Staten Island ferries. To me it is like aloved friend. I enjoy hearing its praises, I shrink from hearing itcriticised. Mrs. Graham's hearty admiration made me feel more kindlytoward her than I had yet done.Neither of us spoke again for several minutes. My gaze followed mymother-in-law's as she turned from one marvel of the view to another.At last she turned to me, her face softened. "I am ready to go onnow," she said. "I have always loved the remembrance of this harborsince I first saw it years ago."We walked slowly on toward the Aquarium, both of us watching the shipsas they came into the bay from the North river. The fussy, splutteringlittle tugs, the heavily laden ferries, the lazy fishing boats, thedredges and scows--even the least of them was made beautiful by itssetting of clear winter sun and sparkling water."How few large ocean steamers there seem to be!" commented mymother-in-law, as a large ocean-going vessel cast off its tug andglided past us on its way out to sea. "I suppose it is on account ofthe war," she continued indifferently.At this moment I heard a comment from a passing man that brought backto me the misery of the day before."I guess that's the Saturn," he said to his companion as they walkednear us. "She was due to sail this morning. Got a lot of Frenchreservists on board. Poor devils! Anybody getting into that hell overthere has about one chance in a million to get out again."Forgetful of my mother-in-law's presence, indeed, of everything elsein the world, I turned and gazed at the steamer making its way out tosea. I knew that somewhere on its decks stood Jack, my brother-cousin,the best friend my mother and I had ever known. When he had come backfrom a year's absence to ask me to be his wife he had found that Ihad married Dicky. Then he had announced his intention of joining theFrench engineering corps.What had that man said just now? Not one chance in a million! I feltas if it were my hand that was pushing him across the ocean to almostcertain death.When I could no longer see the Saturn as she churned her way out tosea, I turned around quickly with a sense of guilt at having ignoredmy mother-in-law's presence, and then a voice sounded in my ear."You don't seem delighted to see me. I am surprised at you."Harry Underwood towered above me, his handsome face marred by thelittle, leering smile he generally wears, his bold, laughing eyesstaring down into my horrified ones.I do not believe that ever a woman of a more superstitious timedreaded the evil eye as I do the glance of Harry Underwood.How to answer him or what to do I did not know. He evidently had beendrinking enough to make himself irresponsible.He did not give me time to ponder long, however, "Who is your ladyfriend," he burlesqued. "Introduce me."A man less audacious than Harry Underwood would have been daunted bythe picture my mother-in-law presented as he turned toward her. Herfigure was drawn up to its extreme height, and she was surveying himthrough her lorgnette with an expression that held disgust mingledwith the curiosity an explorer might feel at meeting some strangespecimen of animal in his travels."Mrs. Graham, this is Mr. Underwood," I managed to stammer. "Mr.Underwood, Mrs. Graham, Dicky's mother."My mother-in-law may overawe ordinary people, but Harry Underwoodminded her disdain no more than he would have the contempt of astately Plymouth Rock hen. She had lowered the lorgnette as I spoke,and he grabbed the hand which still held it, shaking it as warmly asif it belonged to some long-lost friend."Well! Well!" he said effusively. "But this is great. Dear old Dicky'smother!" He stopped and fixed a speculating stare upon her. "You meanhis sister," he said reprovingly to me. "Don't tell me you mean hismother. No, no, I can't believe that."He shook his head solemnly. Evidently he was much impressed withhimself. If I had not been so miserable I could have smiled at theidea of Harry Underwood trying on the elder Mrs. Graham the sillyspecious flatteries he addressed to most women. My mother-in-law didnot deign to answer him. Her manner was superb in its haughty reserve,although I could not say much for her courtesy. As he released herhand she let it drop quietly to her side and stood still, gazing athim with a quiet, disdainful look that would have made almost anyother man wince.But it did not bother Harry Underwood in the least. He gave her ashrewd appraising look and then turned to me with an air of dismissalthat was as complete as her ignoring of him."Say!" he demanded, "aren't you a bit curious about what brought medown here? You ought to be. The funniest thing in the world, my beingdown here."His silly repetitions, his slurred enunciation, his slightly unsteadyfigure made me realize with a quick horror that the man was moreintoxicated than I supposed. How to get away from him as quickly aspossible was the problem I faced. I decided to humor him as I wouldany other insane person I dreaded."I am never curious," I responded lightly. "I suppose, of course, thatyou are here to visit the Aquarium, as we are. Good-by.""No you don't--goin' to take you and little lady here on nice ferrytrip," he announced genially. "Sorry, yacht's out of commission thismorning, but ferry will do very well."I have not much reason to like my mother-in-law, but I shall alwaysbe grateful to her for the way she cut the Gordian knot of mydifficulties."Young man, you are impertinent and intoxicated," she said haughtily."Please step aside."And taking me firmly by the arm my mother-in-law walked steadily withme toward the door of the women's rest room. Her manner of conductingme was much the same as the matron of a reformatory would use intaking a charge from one place to another, but I was too relievedto care. The leering face of Harry Underwood was no longer before myeyes, and his befuddled words no longer jarred upon my ears. Thosewere the only things that mattered to me for the moment. In my reliefI felt strong enough to brave the weight of my mother-in-law's anger,which I was very sure was about to descend upon me.XVIIA DANGER AND A PROBLEMSafe in the shelter of the Aquarium rest room my mother-in-law facedme. Her eyes were cold and hard, her tones like ice, as she spoke."Margaret! What is the meaning of this outrageous scene to which youhave just subjected me? Am I to understand that this man is typical ofyour associates and friends? If so, I am indeed sorrier than ever thatmy son was ever inveigled into marrying you."For the moment I had a primitive instinct to scream and to smashthings generally, a sort of Berserk rage. The insult left me deadlycold. Fortunately we were alone in the room, but I lowered my voicealmost to a whisper as I replied to her:"Mrs. Graham," I said. "I never in my life knew there was a man likeMr. Underwood until I married your son. He and his wife, Lillian Gale,are your son's most intimate friends. He has almost forced me to meetthem time and again against my own inclinations. Of course, afterwhat you have just said, there can be no further question of our triptogether. If you will kindly wait here I will telephone your son tocome and get you at once."I started for the door, but a little gasping cry from my mother-in-lawstopped me. She was feebly beating the air with her hands, her eyeswere distended, and her cheeks and lips had the ashen color which Ihad learned to associate with my own little mother's frequent attacks.Filled with remorse, I flew to her side and lowered her gently into anarm chair which stood near. Snatching her handbag I opened it andtook out a little bottle of volatile salts which I knew she carried.I pressed it into her hands, and then took out a tiny bottle of dropswith a familiar label. They were the same that my mother had used foryears. Taking a spoon which I also found in the bag, I measured thedrops, added a bit of water from the faucet in the adjoining room,and gave them to her. As I came toward her I heard her murmuring toherself:"Lillian Gale! Lillian Gale!" she was saying. "How blind I've been."Even in my anxiety for her condition I found time to wonder as to thesignificance of her exclamations. Evidently the name of Lillian Galewas familiar to her. From her tones also I knew that it was not awelcome name. What was there in this past friendship of Dicky andMrs. Underwood to cause his mother so much emotion? I remembered thecomments I had heard at the theatre about my husband's friendship withthis woman.All my old doubts and misgivings which had been smothered by the veryreal admiration I had felt for Lillian Gale's many good qualitiesrevived. What was the secret in the lives of these two? I felt thatfor my own peace of mind I must know.The color was gradually coming back to my mother-in-law's face. Istood by her chair, forgetting her insults, remembering nothing savethat she was old and a sick woman."Is there anything I can get for you?" I asked as I saw the strainedlook in her eyes die out."Nothing, thank you," she said. Then to my surprise she reached up herhand, took mine in hers, and pressed it feebly. I could not understandher quick transition from bitter contempt to friendly warmth.Evidently something in my words had startled her and had changed herviewpoint. But I put speculation aside until some more opportune time.The imperative thing for me was to minister to her needs, mentally andphysically."How do you feel now?" I asked."Much better, thank you," she replied. Then in a tone I had neverheard from her lips before: "Come here, my child."I could hardly credit my own ears. Surely those gentle words, thatsoft tone, could not belong to my husband's mother, who, in the shorttime she had been an inmate of our home, had lost no opportunity toshow her dislike for me, and her resentment that her son had marriedme.But I obeyed her and came to her side. She put up her hand and tookmine, and I saw her proud old face work with emotion."I was unjust to you a few moments ago, Margaret," she said, "and Iwant to beg your pardon."If she had not been old, in feeble health and my husband's mother, Iwould have considered the words scant reparation for the contemptuousphrases with which she had scourged my spirit a few moments before.But I was sane enough to know that the simple "I beg your pardon" fromthe lips of the elder Mrs. Graham was equivalent to a whole torrent ofapologies from any ordinary person. I knew my mother-in-law's type ofmind. To admit she was wrong, to ask for one's forgiveness, was to hera most bitter thing.So I put aside from me every other feeling but consideration of theproud old woman holding my hand, and said gently:"I can assure you that I cherish no resentment. Let us not speak of itagain.""I am afraid we shall have to speak of it, at least of the incidentwhich led me to say the things to you I did," she returned. I saw withamazement that she was trying to conquer an emotion, the reason forwhich I felt certain had something to do with her discovery that theUnderwoods were Dick's friends."I have a duty to you to perform," she went on, "a very painful duty,which involves the reviving of an old controversy with my son. I begthat you will not try to find out anything concerning its nature. Itis far better that you do not."I felt smothered, as if I were being swathed in folds upon foldsof black cloth. What could this mystery be, this secret in the pastfriendship of my husband and Lillian Gale, the woman whom he hadintroduced to me as his best friend, and into whose companionshipand that of her husband, Harry Underwood, he had thrown me as much aspossible.A hot anger rose within me. What right had anyone to deny knowledgeof such a secret, or to discourage me in any attempt to find out itsnature. I resolved to lose no time in probing the unworthy thing toits depths.My mother-in-law's next words crystallized my determination."I think I ought to see Richard at once," she said. "I am sorry togive up our trip. I had quite counted upon seeing some of old New Yorktoday, but I wish to lose no time in seeing him. Besides, I do notthink I am equal to further sightseeing.""It will be of no use for you to go home," I said smoothly, "forRichard will not be there, and he has left the studio by now, I amsure. He has an engagement with an art editor this afternoon. We maynot be able to look at the churches you wished to see, but you oughtto have some luncheon before we go home. I will call a cab and we willgo over to Fraunces's Tavern, one of the most interesting places inNew York. You know Washington said farewell to his officers in thelong room on the second floor."The first part of my sentence was a deliberate falsehood. I had noreason to believe Dicky would not be at his studio all day, but I hadresolved that no one should speak to my husband on the subject of thesecret which his past and that of Lillian Gale shared until I had hada chance to talk to him about it.I do not know when a simple problem has so perplexed me as did thedilemma I faced while sitting opposite my mother-in-law at lunch inFraunces's Tavern.With the obstinacy of a spoiled child the elder Mrs. Graham waspersisting in sitting with her heavy coat on while she ate herluncheon, although our table was next to the big, old fireplace, inwhich a good fire was burning. Indeed, it was the table's location,which she had selected herself, that was the cause of her obstinacy.She had construed an innocent remark of mine into a slur upon herchoice, and had evidently decided to wear her coat to emphasize thefact that in spite of the fire she was none too warm, and there shehad sat all through lunch with her heavy coat on.As I watched the beads of perspiration upon her forehead, and herfurtive dabbing at them with her handkerchief, I realized thatsomething must be done. I saw that she would soon be in a condition toreceive a chill, which might prove fatal.Suddenly her imperious voice broke into my thoughts."Where is the Long Room of which you spoke? On the second floor?""Yes. Would you like to see it?""Very much." She rose from her chair, crossed the dining room intothe hall and ascended the staircase, and I followed her upward, notingagain, with a quick remorsefulness, her slow step, the way she leanedupon the stair rail for support and her quickened breathing as sheneared the top. It was a little thing, after all, I told myselfsharply, to subordinate my individuality and cater to her whims. Iresolved to be more considerate of her in the future. But my nativecaution made me make a reservation. I would yield to her wisheswhenever my self-respect would let me do so. I had a shrewd notionthat a person who would cater to every whim of my husband's motherwould be little better than a slave.She spent so much time over the old letters in Washington'shandwriting, the snuff boxes and keys and coins with which the caseswere filled that I was alarmed lest she should over-tire herself. ButI did not dare to venture the suggestion that she should postpone herinspection until another time.But when I saw her shiver and draw her cloak more closely about her, Iresolved to brave her possible displeasure."I am afraid you are taking cold," I said, going up to her. "Do youthink we had better leave the rest of these things for another visit?"Her face as she turned it toward me frightened me. It was gray anddrawn, and her whole figure was shaking as with the ague."I am afraid I am going to be ill," she said faintly. "I am so cold."I put her in a chair and dashed down the stairs."Please call a taxi for me at once, and bring some brandy or wineupstairs," I said to the attendant. "My mother-in-law is ill."As the taxi hurried us homeward I became more and more alarmed at hercondition. Her very evident suffering now heightened my fears."Are we nearly there?" she said faintly. "I am so cold.""Only a few blocks more." I tried to speak reassuringly. Then Iventured on something which I had wanted to do ever since we left thetavern, but which my mother-in-law's dislike of being aided in any wayhad prevented.I slipped off my coat, and, turning toward her, wrapped it closelyaround her shoulders, and took her in my arms as I would a child. Tomy surprise she huddled closer to me, only protesting faintly:"You must not do that. You will take cold.""Nonsense," I replied. "I never take cold, and we are almost there.""I am so glad," she sighed, and leaned more heavily against me.As I felt her weight in my arms and realized that she was actuallyclinging to me, actually depending upon me for help and comfort, Ifelt my heart warm toward her.I have never worked faster in my life than when I helped mymother-in-law undress before the blazing gas log, put her nightgownand heavy bathrobe around her and immersed her feet in the foot bathof hot mustard water which Katie had brought to me.As I worked over her I came to a decision. I would get her safe andwarm in bed, leave Katie within call, then slip out and telephoneDicky from the neighboring drug store. I did not dare to send for aphysician against my mother-in-law's expressed prohibition. On theother hand, I knew that Dicky would be very angry if I did not sendfor one.The hot footbath and the steaming drink which I had given her when shefirst came in, together with the warmth of the gas log seemed to makemy mother-in-law more comfortable. As I dried her feet and slippedthem into a pair of warm bedroom slippers she smiled down at me."At least I am not cold now," she said."Don't you think you had better come and lie down now?" I asked."Yes, I think it would be better," she asserted, and with Katie and meupon either side, she walked into her room and got into bed.I slipped the bedroom slippers off, put one hot water bag to herfeet and the other to her back, covered her up warmly and lowered theshade.Her eyes closed immediately. I stood watching her breathing for two orthree minutes. It was heavier, I fancied than normal. As I went outof the room I spoke in a low tone to Katie, directing her to watch hertill I returned.As I descended the stairs all the doubts of the morning rushed overme. It was long after 2 o'clock, the hour when Dicky usually returnedto the studio. I had jumped at the conclusion that Dicky was lunchingwith Grace Draper, the beautiful art student who was his model andprotege.It was not so much anger that I felt at Dicky's lunching with anotherwoman as fear. I faced the issue frankly. Grace Draper was much toobeautiful and attractive a girl to be thrown into daily intimatecompanionship with any man. I felt in that moment that I hated her asmuch as I feared her. I hoped that it would not be her voice which Iwould hear over the 'phone. I felt that I could not bear to listen tothose deep, velvety tones of hers.But when I reached the drug store and entered the telephone booth, itwas her voice which answered my call of Dicky's number."Yes, this is Mr. Graham's studio," she said smoothly. "No, Mr. Grahamis not here, he has not been here since 11 o'clock. Pardon me, is thisnot Mrs. Graham to whom I am speaking?""I am Mrs. Graham, yes," I replied, trying to put a little cordialityinto my voice. "You are Miss Draper, are you not?""Yes," she replied. "Mr. Graham wished me to give you a message. Hewas called away to a conference with one of the art editors about 11o'clock. He expected to lunch with him and said he might not be in thestudio until quite late this afternoon.""Have you any idea where he is lunching or where I could reach him?" Iasked sharply."Why! no, Mrs. Graham, I have not. Is there anything wrong?""His mother has been taken ill and I am very much worried about her.If Mr. Graham comes in or telephones will you ask him to come home atonce, 'phoning me first if he will.""Of course I will attend to it. Is there anything else I can do?""Nothing, thank you, you are very kind," I returned, and there wasgenuine warmth in my voice this time.For the discovery that I had been mistaken in my idea of Dicky'sluncheon engagement made me so ashamed of myself that I had no morerancor against my husband's beautiful protege.I laughed bitterly at my own silliness as I turned from the telephone.While I had been tormenting myself for hours at the picture I haddrawn of Dicky and his beautiful model lunching vis-a-vis, Dicky hadbeen keeping a prosaic business engagement with a man, and his modelhad probably lunched frugally and unromantically on a sandwich or twobrought from home.XVIII"CALL ME MOTHER--IF YOU CAN""Will you kindly tell me who is the best physician here?""Why--I--pardon me--" the drug store clerk stammered. "Wait a momentand I'll inquire. I'm new here.""The boss says this chap's the best around here." He held out apenciled card to me. "Dr. Pettit. Madison Square 4258.""Dr. Pettit!" I repeated to myself. "Why! that must be the physicianwho came to the apartment the night of my chafing dish party, when thebaby across the hall was brought to us in a convulsion."A sudden swift remembrance came to me of the tact and firmness withwhich the tall young physician had handled the difficult situation hehad found in our apartment. He was just the man, I decided, to handlemy refractory mother-in-law. So I called him up and he promised tocall as soon as his office hours were over.My feet traveled no faster than my thoughts as I hurried back tomy own apartment and the bedside of my mother-in-law. I dreadedinexpressibly the conflict I foresaw when the autocratic old womanshould find out that I had sent for a physician against her wishes.As I entered the living room Katie rose from her seat at the door ofmy mother-in-law's room."She not move while you gone," she said. "She sleep all time, but I'fraid she awful seeck, she breathe so hard."I went lightly into the bedroom and stood looking down upon theaustere old face against the pillow. It was a flushed old face now,and the eyelids twitched as if there were pain somewhere in the body.Her breathing, too, was more rapid and heavy than when I had left her,or so I fancied.My inability to do anything for her depressed me. By slipping my handunder the blankets I had ascertained that the hot water bags weresufficiently warm. There was nothing more for me to do but to sitquietly and watch her until the physician's arrival.I wanted to bring Dr. Pettit to her bedside before she shouldawaken. Then I would let him deal with her obstinate refusal to see aphysician. But how I wished that Dicky would come home.As if I had rubbed Aladdin's lamp, I heard the hall door slam, and myhusband came rushing into the room."What is the matter with mother?" Dicky demanded, his face and voicefilled with anxiety.I sprang to him and put my hand to his lips, for he had almost shoutedthe words."Hush! She is asleep," I whispered. "Don't waken her if you can helpit.""Why isn't there a doctor here?" he demanded fiercely."Dr. Pettit will be here in a very few moments," I whispered rapidly."Your mother said she would not have a physician, but she appearedso ill I did not dare to wait until your return to the studio. Itelephoned you, and when Miss Draper said she did not know where toget you, I 'phoned to Dr. Pettit on my own authority.""You don't think mother is in any danger, do you, Madge?""Why, I don't think I am a good judge of illness," I answered,evasively, unwilling to hurt Dicky by the fear in my heart. "Thephysician ought to be here any minute now, and then we will know."A sharp, imperative ring of the bell and Katie's entrance punctuatedmy words. Dicky started toward the door as Katie opened it to admitthe tall figure of Dr. Pettit."Ah, Dr. Pettit I believe we have met before," Dicky said easily."When Mrs. Graham spoke of you I did not remember that we had seen youso recently. I am glad that we were able to get you.""Thank you," the physician returned gravely. "Where is the patient?""In this room." Dicky turned toward the bedroom door, and Dr. Pettitat once walked toward it. I mentally contrasted the two men as Ifollowed them to my mother-in-law's room. There was a charming easeof manner about Dicky which the other man did not possess. He was,in fact, almost awkward in his movements, and decidedly stiff in hismanner. But there was an appearance of latent strength in everyline of his figure, a suggestion of power and ability to cope withemergencies. I had noticed it when he took charge of the baby inconvulsions who had been brought to my apartment by its nurse. Imarked it again as Dicky paused at the door of his mother's room."I don't know how you will manage, doctor." He smiled deprecatingly."My mother positively refuses to see a physician, but we know sheneeds one.""You are her nearest relative?" Dr. Pettit queried gravely, almostformally. His question had almost the air of securing a legal rightfor his entrance into the room."Oh, yes.""Very well," and he stepped lightly to the side of the bed and stoodlooking down upon the sick woman.He took out his watch, and I knew he was counting her respirations.Then, with the same impersonal air, he turned to Dicky."It will be necessary to rouse her. Will you awaken her, please? Donot tell her I am here. Simply waken her."Dicky bent over his mother and took her hand."Mother, what was it you wished me to get for you?"The elder Mrs. Graham opened her eyes languidly."I told you quinine," she said impatiently. As she spoke, Dr. Pettitreached past Dicky. His hand held a thermometer."Put this in your mouth, please." His air was as casual as if he hadmade daily visits to her for a fortnight.But the elder Mrs. Graham was not to be so easily routed. She scowledup at him and half rose from her pillow."I do not wish a physician. I forbade having one called. I am not illenough for a physician."Dr. Pettit put out his left hand and gently put her back again uponher pillow. It was done so deftly that I do not think she realizedwhat he had done until she was again lying down."You must not excite yourself," he said, still in the same grave,impersonal tone, "and you are more ill than you think. It isabsolutely necessary that I get your temperature and examine yourlungs at once."As if the words had been a talisman of some sort, her oppositiondropped from her. Into her face came a frightened look."Oh, doctor, you don't think I am going to have pneumonia, do you?"I was amazed at the cry. It was like that of a terrified child. Dr.Pettit smiled down at her."We hope not. We shall do our best to keep it away. But you must helpme. Put this in your mouth, please."My mother-in-law obeyed him docilely. But my heart sank as I watchedthe physician's face.Suddenly she cried out, "Richard! Richard, if I am in danger ofpneumonia, as this doctor thinks, I want a trained nurse here at once,one who has had experience in pneumonia cases. Margaret meanswell, but threatened pneumonia with my heart needs more than goodintentions.""Of course, mother," Dicky acquiesced. "I was just about to suggestone to Dr. Pettit.""But, doctor," Dicky said anxiously when we followed him into theliving room, "where are we to find a nurse?""Fortunately," Dr. Pettit rejoined, "I have just learned thatabsolutely the best nurse I know is free. Her name is Miss KatherineSonnot, and her skill and common sense are only equalled by herexquisite tact. She is just the person to handle the case, and if youwill give me the use of your 'phone I think I can have her here withinan hour.""Of course," assented Dicky, and led the way to the telephone.I did not hear what the physician said at first, but as he closed theconversation a note in his voice arrested my attention."You are sure you are not too tired? Very well. I will see you heretonight. Good-by."Woman-like, I thought I detected a romance. The tenderness in hisvoice could mean but one thing, that he admired, perhaps loved thewoman he had praised so extravagantly.After he went away, promising to return in the evening, I busiedmyself with the services to my mother-in-law he had asked me toperform, and then sat down to wait for Miss Sonnot. Dicky wanderedin and out like a restless ghost until I wanted to shriek from verynervousness.But the first glimpse of the slender girl who came quietly into theroom and announced herself as Miss Sonnot steadied me. She was a "slipof a thing," as my mother would have dubbed her, with great, wistfulbrown eyes that illumined her delicate face. But there was an air ofefficiency about her every movement that made you confident she wouldsucceed in anything she undertook.I have always been such a difficult, reserved sort of woman that Ihave very few friends. I did not understand the impulse that made meresolve to win this girl's friendship if I could.One thing I knew. The grave, sweet face, the steady eyes told me. Onecould lay a loved one's life in those slim, capable hands and restassured that as far as human aid could go it would be safe."Keep her quiet. Above all things, do not let her get excited overanything."Miss Sonnot was giving me my parting instructions as to the care of mysick mother-in-law before taking the sleep which she so sorely needed,on the day that Dr. Pettit declared my mother-in-law had passed thedanger point. Thanks to her ministrations I had been able to sleepdreamlessly for hours. Now refreshed and ready for anything, I hadprepared my room for her, and had accompanied her to it that I mightsee her really resting.She was so tired that her eyes closed even as she gave me theadmonition. I drew the covers closer about her, raised the window atrifle, drew down the shades, and left her.As I closed the door softly behind me, I heard the querulous voice ofthe invalid:"Margaret! Margaret! Where are you?"As I bent over my husband's mother she smiled up at me. Herillness had done more to bridge the chasm, between us than years ofcompanionship could have done. One cannot cherish bitterness towardan old woman helplessly ill and dependent upon one. And I think inher own peculiar way she realized that I was giving her all I had ofstrength and good will."What can I do for you?" I asked, returning her smile."I want something to eat, and after that I want to have a talk withRichard. Where is he?""He is asleep," I answered mechanically. In a moment my thoughts hadflown back to the day my mother-in-law and I had met Harry Underwoodin trip Aquarium, and she had discovered he was Lillian Gale'shusband.What was it Dicky's mother had said that day in the Aquarium restroom?"I have a duty to you to perform," she had declared, "a very painfulduty, which involves the reviving of an old controversy with my son. Ibeg that you will not try to find out anything concerning its nature.It is better far that you do not."She had wished to go home at once and talk to Dicky. I had persuadedher to go first to Fraunces's Tavern for luncheon. There she had beentaken ill, and in the days that had intervened between that time andthe moment I leaned over her bedside she and we around her hadbeen fighting for her life. There had been no opportunity for aconfidential talk between mother and son. And I was determined thatthere should be none yet.In the first place, she was in no condition to discuss any subject,let alone one fraught with so many possibilities of excitement. Inthe second place, I was determined that no one should discuss that oldsecret with my husband before I had a chance to talk to him concerningit."Well, you needn't go to sleep just because Richard is."My mother-in-law's impatient voice brought me back to myself. Iapologized eagerly.I have never seen any one enjoy food as my mother-in-law did thesimple meal I had prepared for her. She ate every crumb, drank thewine, and drained the pot of tea before she spoke."How good that tasted!" she said gratefully as she finished, sinkingback against my shoulder. I had not only propped her up with pillows,but had sat behind her as she ate, that she might have the support ofmy body."I think I can take a long nap now," she went on. "When I awake sendRichard to me."I laid her down gently, arranged her pillows, and drew up the coversover her shoulders. She caught my hand and pressed it."My own daughter could not have been kinder to me than you have been,"she said."I am glad to have pleased you, Mrs. Graham," I returned. I supposemy reply sounded stiff, but I could not forget the day she came to us,and her contemptuous rejection of Dicky's proposal that I should callher "Mother."She frowned slightly. "Forget what I said that day I came," she saidquickly. "Call me Mother, that is, if you can."For a moment I hesitated. The memory of her prejudice against me wouldnot down. Then I had an illuminative look into the narrowness of myown soul. The sight did not please me. With a sudden resolve I bentdown and kissed the cheek of my husband's mother."Of course, Mother," I said quietly.It must have been two hours at least that I sat watching the sickwoman. She left her hand in mine a long time, then, with a drowsysmile, she drew it away, turned over with her face to the wall, andfell into a restful sleep. I listened to her soft, regular breathinguntil the sunlight faded and the room darkened.I must have dozed in my chair, for I did not hear Katie come in orgo to the kitchen. The first thing that aroused me was a voice that Iknew, the high-pitched tones of Lillian Gale Underwood."I tell you, Dicky-bird, it won't do. She's got to know the truth."As Mrs. Underwood's shrill voice struck my ears, I sprang to my feetin dismay.My first thought was of the sick woman over whom I was watching. BothDr. Pettit and the nurse, Miss Sonnot, had warned us that excitementmight be fatal to their patient.And the one thing in the world that might be counted on to excite mymother-in-law was the presence of the woman whose voice I heard inconversation with my husband.I rose noiselessly from my chair and went into the living room,closing the door after me. Then with my finger lifted warningly forsilence I forced a smile of greeting to my lips as Lillian Underwoodsaw me and came swiftly toward me."Dicky's mother is asleep," I said in a low tone. "I am afraid I mustask you to come into the kitchen, for she awakens so easily."Lillian nodded comprehendingly, but Dicky flushed guiltily as theyfollowed me into the kitchen. Katie had left a few minutes before torun an errand for me.Dicky's voice interrupted the words Lillian was about to speak to me.I hardly recognized it, hoarse, choked with feeling as it was."Lillian," he said, "you shall not do this. There is no need for youto bring all those old, horrible memories back. You have buried themand have had a little peace. If Madge is the woman I take her for shewill be generous enough not to ask it, especially when I give her myword of honor that there is nothing in my past or yours which couldconcern her.""You have the usual masculine idea of what might concern a woman,"Lillian retorted tartly.But I answered the appeal I had heard in my husband's voice even morethan in his words."You do not need to tell me anything, Mrs. Underwood," I said gently,and at the words Dicky moved toward me quickly and put his arm aroundme.I flinched at his touch. I could not help it. It was one thing tosummon courage to refuse the confidence for which every tortured nervewas calling--it was another to bear the affectionate touch of the manwhose whole being I had just heard cry out in attempt to protect thisother woman.Dicky did not notice any shrinking, but Mrs. Underwood saw it. Ithink sometimes nothing ever escapes her eyes. She came closer to me,gravely, steadily."You are very brave, Mrs. Graham, very kind, but it won't do. Dicky,keep quiet." She turned to him authoritatively as he started to speak."You know how much use there is of trying to stop me when I make up mymind to anything."She put one hand upon my shoulder."Dear child," she said earnestly, "will you trust me till tomorrow?I had thought that I must tell you right away, but your splendidgenerous attitude makes it possible for me to ask you this. I can seethere is no place here where we can talk undisturbed. Besides, I musttake no chance of your mother-in-law's finding out that I am here.Will you come to my apartment tomorrow morning any time after 10?Harry will be gone by then, and we can have the place to ourselves.""I will be there at 10," I said gravely. I felt that her honesty anddirectness called for an explicit answer, and I gave it to her."Thank you." She smiled a little sadly, and then added: "Don't imagineall sorts of impossible things. It isn't a very pretty story, but I ambeginning to hope that after you have heard it we may become very realfriends."Preposterous as her words seemed in the light of the things I hadheard from the lips of my husband's mother, they gave me a suddenfeeling of comfort.XIXLILLIAN UNDERWOOD'S STORY"Well, I suppose we might as well get it over with."Lillian Underwood and I sat in the big tapestried chairs on eitherside of the glowing fire in her library. She had instructed Betty,her maid, to bring her neither caller nor telephone message, until ourconference should be ended. The two doors leading from the roomwere locked and the heavy velvet curtains drawn over them, making usabsolutely secure from intrusion."I suppose so." The answer was banal enough, but it was physicallyimpossible for me to say anything more. My throat was parched, mytongue thick, and I clenched my hands tightly in my lap to preventtheir trembling.Mrs. Underwood gave me a searching glance, then reached over and laidher warm, firm hand over mine."See here, my child," she said gently, "this will never do. Before Itell you this story there is something you must be sure of. Look atme. No matter what else you may think of me do you believe me to becapable of telling you a falsehood when a make a statement to you uponmy honor?"Her eyes met mine fairly and squarely. Mrs. Underwood has wonderfuleyes, blue-gray, expressive. They shone out from the atrocious mask ofmake-up which she always uses, and I unreservedly accepted the messagethey carried to me."I am sure you would not deceive me," I returned quickly, and meantit."Thank you. Then before I begin my story I am going to assure you ofone thing, upon--my--honor."She spoke slowly, impressively, her eyes never wavering from mine."You have heard rumors about Dicky and me; you will hear things fromme today which will show you that the rumors were justified in part,and yet--I want you to believe me when I tell you that there isnothing in any past association of your husband and myself which wouldmake either of us ashamed to look you straight in the eyes."I believed her! I would challenge anyone in the world to look intothose clear, honest eyes and doubt their owner's truth.There was a long minute when I could not speak. I had not known thefull measure of what I feared until her words lifted the burden frommy soul.Then I had my moment, recognized it, rose to it. I leaned forward andreturned the earnest gaze of the woman opposite to me."Dear Mrs. Underwood," I said. "Why tell me any more? I am perfectlysatisfied with what you have just told me. Be sure that no rumors willtrouble me again."Her clasp of my hand tightened until my rings hurt my flesh. Into herface came a look of triumph."I knew it," she said jubilantly. "I could have banked on you. You'rea big woman, my dear, and I believe we are going to be real friends."She loosened her clasp of my hands, leaned back in her chair andlooked for a long, meditative moment at the fire."You cannot imagine how much easier your attitude makes the telling ofmy story," she began finally."But I just assured you that there was no need for the telling," Iinterrupted."I know. But it is your right to know, and it will be far better ifyou are put in possession of the facts. It is an ugly story. I think Ihad better tell you the worst of it first."I marvelled at the look that swept across her face. Bitter pain andhumiliation were written there so plainly that I looked away. Thenmy eyes fell upon her strong, white, shapely hands which were restingupon the arms of the chair. They were strained, bloodless, where thefingers gripped the tapestried surface.When she spoke, her voice was low, hurried, abashed. "Seven yearsago," she said, "my first husband sued me for divorce, and named Dickyas a co-respondent."I sprang from my seat."Oh, no, no, no," I cried, hardly knowing what I said. "Surely not. Iremember reading the old story when you were married to Mr. Underwood,three years ago--I've always admired your work so much that I've readevery line about you--and surely Dicky's name wasn't mentioned. Iwould have remembered it when I met him, I know.""There, there." She was on her feet beside me and with a gentle yetcompelling hand put me back in my chair. Her voice had the same tonea mother would use to a grieving child. "Dicky's name wasn't mentionedwhen the story was printed the last time, because at the time thedivorce was granted, Mr. Morten withdrew the accusation that he hadmade against him.""Why?" The question left my lips almost without volition. I sensedsomething tragic, full of meaning for me behind the statement she hadmade.She did not answer me for a minute or two."I can only answer that question on your word of honor not to tellDicky what I am going to tell you," she said. "It is something hesuspects, but which I would never confirm."She paused expectantly. "Upon honor, of course," I answered simply.She rose and moved swiftly toward one of the built-in bookcases. I sawthat she put her hand upon one of the sections and pulled upon it. Tomy astonishment it moved toward her, and I saw that behind it was acleverly constructed wall safe. She turned the combination, opened thedoor and took from the safe an inlaid box which, as she came towardme, I saw was made of rare old woods.She sat down again in the big chair and looked at the box musingly,tenderly. I leaned forward expectantly. Again I had the sense oftragedy near me.Drawing the key from her dress she opened the box and took from it aminiature, gazed at it a minute, and then handed it to me."Oh, Mrs. Underwood," I exclaimed. "How exquisite."The miniature was of the most beautiful child I had ever seen, a tinygirl of perhaps two years. She stood poised as if running to meet one,her baby arms outstretched. It was a picture to delight or break amother's heart.I looked up from the miniature to the face of the woman who had handedit to me."Yes," she answered my unspoken query, "my little daughter; my onlychild. She is the price I paid for Dicky's immunity from the scandalwhich the unjust man that I called husband brought upon me."My first impulse was one of horror-stricken sympathy for her. Thencame the reaction. A flaming jealousy enveloped me from head to foot."How she must have loved Dicky to do this for him!" The thought beatupon my brain like a sledge hammer."Don't think that, my dear, for it isn't true." I had not spoken, butwith her almost uncanny ability to divine the thoughts of other peopleshe had fathomed mine. "I was always fond of Dicky, but I never was inlove with him.""Then why did you make such a sacrifice?" I stammered."Why! There was absolutely no other way," she said, opening herwonderful eyes wide in amazement that I had not at once grasped herpoint of view. "Dicky was absolutely innocent of any wrongdoing, butthrough a combination of circumstances of which I shall tell you, myhusband had gathered a show of evidence which would have won him thedivorce if it had been presented.""He bargained with me: I to give up all claim to the baby. He towithdraw Dicky's name, and all other charges except that of desertion.Thus Dicky was saved a scandal which would have followed and hamperedhim all his life, and I was spared the fastening of a shameful verdictupon me. Of course, everybody who read about the case and did not knowme, believed me guilty anyway, but my friends stood by me gallantly,and that part of it is all right. But every time I look at that babyface I am tempted to wish that I had let honor, the righting of Dicky,everything go by the boards, and had taken my chance of having her,even if it were only part of the time."Her voice was rough, uneven as she finished speaking, but that was theonly evidence of the emotion which I knew must have her stretched uponthe rack.Right there I capitulated to Lillian Underwood. Always, through mydislike and distrust of her, there had struggled an admiration whichwould not down, even when I thought I had most cause to fear her.But this revelation of the real bigness of the woman caught myallegiance and fixed it. She had sacrificed the thing which was mostprecious to her to keep her ideal of honor unsullied. I felt that Icould never have made a similar sacrifice, but I mentally saluted herfor her power to do it.I realized, too, the reason for Dicky's deference to Mrs. Underwood,which had often puzzled and sometimes angered me. Once when she hadgiven him a raking over for the temper he displayed toward me in herpresence, he had said:"You know I couldn't get angry at you, no matter what you said; I oweyou too much."I had wondered at the time what it was that my husband "owed" Mrs.Underwood. The riddle was solved for me at last.I am not an impetuous woman, and I do not know how I ever musteredup courage to do it. But the sight of Lillian Underwood's face asshe looked at her baby's picture was too much for me. Without anyconscious volition on my part I found my arms around her, and her facepressed against my shoulder.I expected a storm of grief, for I knew the woman had been holdingherself in with an iron hand. But only a few convulsive movements ofher shoulders betrayed her emotion and when she raised her face tomine her eyes were less tear-bedewed than my own.Something stirred me to quick questioning."Oh, is there a chance of your having her again?""I am always hoping for it," she answered quietly. "When her fathermarried again, several years ago--that was before my marriage toHarry--I hoped against hope that he would give her to me. For heknew--the hound--knew better than anybody else that all his vilecharges were false."Her eyes blazed, her voice was strident, her hands clasped andunclasped. Then, as if a string had been loosened, she sank back inher chair again."But he would not give her to me," she went on dully, "and he couldnot even if he would. For his mother, who has the child, is old anddevoted to her. It would kill her to take Marion away from her.""You saw my pink room?" she demanded abruptly.I nodded. The memory of that rose-colored nest and the look in myhostess's eyes when on my other visit she had said she had preparedthe room for a young girl was yet vivid."I spent weeks preparing it for her when I heard of her father'sremarriage," she said, "When I finally realized that I could not haveher, I lay ill for weeks in it. On my recovery I vowed that no oneelse but she or I should ever sleep there. I have another bedroomwhere I sleep most of the time. But sometimes I go in there and spendthe night, and pretend that I have her little body snuggled up closeto me just as it used to be."The crackling of the logs in the grate was the only sound to be heardfor many minutes.With her elbow resting on the arm of her chair, her chin cupped in herhand, her whole body leaning toward the warmth of the fire, she satgazing into the leaping flames as if she were trying to read in themthe riddle of the future.I patiently waited on her mood. That she would open her heart to mefurther I knew, but I did not wish to disturb her with either word ormovement."I might as well begin at the beginning." There was a note in hervoice that all at once made me see the long years of suffering whichhad been hers. "Only the beginning is so commonplace that it lacksinterest. It is the record of a very mediocre stenographer withaspirations."That she was speaking of herself her tone told me, but I was genuinelysurprised. Mrs. Underwood was the last woman in the world one wouldpicture as holding down a stenographer's position."I can't remember when I didn't have in the back of my brain the ideaof learning to draw," she went on, "but it took years and years ofuphill work and saving to get a chance. I was an orphan, with nobodyto care whether I lived or died, and nothing but my own efforts todepend on. But I stuck to it, working in the daytime and studyingevenings and holidays till at last I began to get a foothold, and thenwhen I had enough to put by to risk it I went to Paris."Her voice was as matter of fact as if she were describing a visit tothe family butcher shop. But I visualized the busy, plucky years withtheir reward of Paris as if I had been a spectator of them."Of course, by the time I got there I was almost old enough to be themother, or, at least, the elder sister of most of the boys and girlsI met, and I had learned life and experience in a good, hard school.Some of the youngsters got the habit of coming to me with all theirtroubles, fancied or real. I made some stanch friends in those days,but never a stancher, truer one than Dicky Graham."Tell me, dear girl, when you were teaching those history classes, didany of your boy pupils fall in love with you?"I answered her with an embarrassed little laugh. Her question calledup memories of shy glances, gifts of flowers and fruit, boyishconfidences--all the things which fall to the lot of any teacher ofboys."Well, then, you will understand me when I tell you that in the studiodays in Paris Dicky imagined himself quite in love with me."There was something in her tone and manner which took all the stingout of her words for me. All the jealousy and real concern which I hadspent on this old attachment of my husband for Mrs. Underwood vanishedas I listened to her. She might have been Dicky's mother, speaking ofhis early and injudicious fondness for green apples."I shall always be proud of the way I managed Dicky that time." Hervoice still held the amused maternal note. "It's so easy for an olderwoman to spoil a boy's life in a case like that if she's despicableenough to do it. But, you see, I was genuinely fond of Dicky, andyet not the least bit in love with him, and I was able, without hisguessing it, to keep the management of the affair in my own hands.So when he woke up, as boys always do, to the absurdity of the idea,there was nothing in his recollections of me to spoil our friendship."Then there came the early days of my struggle to get a foothold inNew York in my line. There were thousands of others like me. Six orseven of the strugglers had been my friends in Paris. We formed a sortof circle, "for offence and defence," Dicky called it; settled downnear each other, and for months we worked and played and starvedtogether. When one of us sold anything we all feasted while it lasted.I tell you, my dear, those were strenuous times but they had a zest oftheir own."I saw more of the picture she was revealing than she thought I did.I could guess that the one who most often sold anything was the womanwho was so calmly telling me the story of those early hardships. Iknew that the dominant member of that little group of stragglers, theone who heartened them all, the one who would unhesitatingly go hungryherself if she thought a comrade needed it, was Lillian Underwood."And then I spoiled my life. I married.""Don't misunderstand me," she hastened to say. "I do not mean that Ibelieve all marriages are failures. I believe tremendously inmarried happiness, but I think I must be one of the women who aretemperamentally unfitted to make any man happy."Her tone was bitter, self-accusing."You cannot make me believe that," I said stoutly. "I would ratherbelieve that you were very unwise in your choice of husbands."She laughed ironically."Well, we will let it go at that! At any rate there is only one wordthat describes my first marriage. It was hell from start to finish."The look on her face told me she was not exaggerating. It was a look,only graven by intense suffering."When the baby came my feeling for Will changed. He had worn me out.The love I had given him I lavished upon the child. Will's mother cameto live with us--she had been drifting around miserably before--andwhile she failed me at the time of the divorce, yet she was a tower ofstrength to me during the baby's infancy. I was very fond of her andI think she sincerely liked me. But Will, her only son, could alwaysmake her believe black was white, as I later found out to my sorrow."With the vanishing of the hectic love I had felt for Will, thingswent more smoothly with me. I worked like a slave to keep up theexpenses of the home and to lay by something for the baby's future. Myhusband was away so much that the boys and girls gradually came backto something like their old term of intimacy. I never gave the matterof propriety a thought. My mother-in-law, a baby and a maid, werecertainly chaperons enough."Afterward I found out that my husband, equipped with his legalknowledge, had set all manner of traps for me, had bribed my maid, anddiabolically managed to twist the most innocent visits of the boys ofthe old crowd to our home to his own evil meanings."Then came the crash. Dicky came in one Sunday afternoon and I saw atonce that he was really ill. You know his carelessness. He had let acold go until he was as near pneumonia as he could well be. A sleetstorm was raging outside, and when Dicky, after shivering before thefire, started to go back to his studio, Will's mother, who liked Dickyimmensely, joined with me in insisting that he must not go out at all,but to bed. Dicky was really too ill to care what we did with him,so we got him into bed, and I took care of him for two or three daysuntil he was well enough to leave."Of course, the greater part of his care fell on me, for Will's motherwas old and not strong. I am not going to tell you the accusationswhich my unspeakable husband made against me, or the affidavits whichthe maid was bribed to sign about Dicky and me. You can guess. Worstof all, Will's mother turned against me, not because of anything shehad observed, but simply because her son told her I was guilty."'I never would have thought it of you, Lillian,' she said to me withthe tears streaming down her wrinkled, old face. 'I never saw anythingout of the way, but of course Will wouldn't lie. And I loved you so.'"Poor old woman. Those last few words of affection made it easier forme to give the baby up to her when the time came. She idolizes Marion.She gives her the best of care, and I do not think she will teach herto hate me as Will would."But there has never been a moment since I kissed Marion and gave herinto the arms of her grandmother that I have not known exactly howshe was treated," she said. "I have made it my business to know, and Ihave paid liberally for the knowledge. You see, about the time of thedivorce Mr. Morten had a legacy left him, so that life has been easyfor him financially. His mother had always kept a maid. Every servantshe has had has been in my employ. There has scarcely been a day sinceI lost my baby that from some unobserved place I have not seen herin her walks. I know every line of her face, every curve of her body,every trick of movement and expression. I shall know how to win herlove when the time comes, never fear."Her voice was dauntless, but her face mirrored the anguish that mustbe her daily companion.One thing about her recital jarred upon me. This paying of servants,this furtive espionage was not in keeping with the high resolve thathad led the mother to "keep her word" to the man who had ruined herlife. And yet--and yet--I dared not judge her. In her place I couldnot imagine what I would have done.One thing I knew. Never again would I doubt Lillian Underwood. Theghost of the past romance between my husband and the woman beforeme was laid for all time, never to trouble me again. Rememberingthe sacrifice she had made for Dicky, considering the gallant fightagainst circumstances she had waged since her girlhood, I feltsuddenly unworthy of the friendship she had so warmly offered me.I turned to her, trying to find words, which should fittingly expressmy sentiments, but she forestalled me with a kaleidoscopic change ofmanner that bewildered me."Enough of horrors," she said, springing up and giving a littleexpressive shake of her shoulders as if she were throwing a weightfrom them. "I'm going to give you some luncheon.""Oh, please!" I put up a protesting hand, but she was across the roomand pressing a bell before I could stop her.I thought I understood. The grave of her past life was closed again.She had opened it because she wished me to know the truth concerningthe old garbled stories about herself and Dicky. Having told meeverything, she had pushed the grisly thing back into its sepulchreagain and had sealed it. She would not refer to it again.One thing puzzled me, something to which she had not referred--why hadshe married Harry Underwood? Why, after the terrible experience ofher first marriage, had she risked linking her life with an unstablecreature like the man who was now her husband?I put all questionings aside, however, and tried to meet her brave,gay mood.XXLITTLE MISS SONNOT'S OPPORTUNITYMy mother-in-law's convalescence was as rapid as the progress ofher sudden illness had been. By the day that I gave my first historylecture before the Lotus Study Club she was well enough to dismiss Dr.Pettit with, one of her sudden imperious speeches, and to make plansthat evening for the welcoming and entertaining of her daughterHarriet and her famous son-in-law Dr. Edwin Braithwaite, who wereexpected next day on their way to Europe, where Doctor was to takecharge of a French hospital at the front.That night I could not sleep. The exciting combination of happeningseffectually robbed me of rest. I tried every device I could think ofto go to sleep, but could not lose myself in even a doze. Finally, indespair, I rose cautiously, not to awaken Dicky, and slipping on mybathrobe and fur-trimmed mules, made my way into the dining-room.Turning on the light, I looked around for something to read until Ishould get sleepy."What is the matter, Mrs. Graham? Are you ill?"Miss Sonnet's soft, voice sounded just behind me. As I turned Ithought again, as I had many times before, how very attractive thelittle nurse was. She had on a dark blue negligee of rough cloth, madevery simply, but which covered her night attire completely, whileher feet, almost as small as a child's, were covered with fur-trimmedslippers of the same color as the negligee. Her abundant hair wasbraided in two plaits and hung down to her waist."You look like a sleepy little girl," I said impulsively."And you like a particularly wakeful one," she returned,mischievously. "I am glad you are not ill. I feared you were when Iheard you snap on the light.""No, you did not waken me. In fact, I have been awake nearly an hour.I was just about to come out and rob the larder of a cracker and a sipof milk in the hope that I might go to sleep again when I heard you.""Splendid!" I ejaculated, while Miss Sonnot looked at me wonderingly."Can your patient hear us out here?""If you could hear her snore you would be sure she could not," MissSonnot smiled. "And I partly closed her door when I left. She is safefor hours.""Then we will have a party," I declared triumphantly, "a regularboarding school party.""Then on to the kitchen!" She raised one of her long braids of hairand waved it like a banner. We giggled like fifteen-year-old schoolgirls as we tiptoed our way into the kitchen, turned on the light andsearched refrigerator, pantry, bread and cake boxes for food."Now for our plunder," I said, as we rapidly inventoried the eatableswe had found. Bread, butter, a can of sardines, eggs, sliced bacon anda dish of stewed tomatoes."I wish we had some oysters or cheese; then we could stir up somethingin the chafing dish," I said mournfully."Do you know, I believe I have a chafing dish recipe we can use in ascrap book which I always carry with me," responded Miss Sonnot. "Itis in my suit case at the foot of my couch. I'll be back in a minute."She noiselessly slipped into the living room and returned almostinstantly with a substantially bound book in her hands. She sat downbeside me at the table and opened the book."I couldn't live without this book," she said extravagantly. "In it Ihave all sorts of treasured clippings and jottings. The things I needmost I have pasted in. The chafing dish recipes are in an envelope. Ijust happened to have them along."She was turning the pages as she spoke. On one page, which she passedby more hurriedly than the others, were a number of Kodak pictures. Icaught a flash of one which made my heart beat more quickly. Surely Ihad a print from the same negative in my trunk.The tiny picture was a photograph of Jack Bickett or I was very muchmistaken.What was it doing in the scrap book of Miss Sonnot?I put an unsteady hand out to prevent her turning the page.It was Jack Bickett's photograph. I schooled my voice to a sort ofcareless surprise:"Why! Isn't this Jack Bickett?"She started perceptibly. "Yes. Do you know him?""He is the nearest relative I have," I returned quickly, "a distantcousin, but brought up as my brother."Her face flushed. Her eyes shone with interest."Oh! then you must be his Margaret?" she cried.As the words left Miss Sonnot's lips she gazed at me with ahalf-frightened little air as if she regretted their utterance."I beg your pardon, Mrs. Graham," she said contritely; "you must thinkI have taken leave of my senses. But I have heard so much about you.""From Mr. Bickett?" My head was whirling. I had never heard Jack speakthe name of "Sonnot." Indeed, I would never have known he had met her,save for the accidental opening of her scrap book to his picture whenshe and I were searching for chafing dish recipes."Oh! No, indeed. I have never seen Mr. Bickett myself."A rosy embarrassed flush stole over her face as she spoke. Her eyeswere starry. Through my bewilderment came a thought which I voiced."That is his loss then. He would think so if he could see you now."She laughed confusedly while the rosy tint of her cheeks deepened."I must explain to you," she said simply. "I have never seenMr. Bickett, but my brother is one of his friends. They used tocorrespond, and I enjoyed his letters as much as Mark did. I think hisis a wonderful personality, don't you?""Naturally," I returned, a trifle dryly. The little nurse wasrevealing more than she dreamed. There was romantic admiration inevery note in her voice. I was not quite sure that I liked it.But I put all selfish considerations down with an iron hand and smiledin most friendly fashion at her."Isn't it wonderful that after hearing so much of each other we shouldmeet in this way?" I said heartily. "If only our brothers were here."Miss Sonnet's face brightened again. "Is Mr. Bickett in this country?" she asked, her voice carefully nonchalant. "I have not heardanything about him for two or three years.""He sailed for France a week ago," I answered slowly. "He intends tojoin the French engineering corps."There was a long moment of silence. Then Miss Sonnot spoke slowly, andthere was a note almost of reverence in her voice."That is just what he would do," and then, impetuously, "how I envyhim!""Envy him?" I repeated incredulously."Yes, indeed." Her voice was militant, her eyes shining, her faceaglow. "How I wish I were a man ever since this war started! I am justwaiting for a good chance to join a hospital unit, but I do not happento know any surgeon who has gone, and of course they all pick theirown nurses. But my chance will come. I am sure of it, and then Iam going to do my part. Why! my great-grandfather was an officer inNapoleon's army. I feel ashamed not to be over there."       *       *       *       *       *I saw very little of Dicky's sister and her husband during the weekthey spent in New York before sailing for France. True, Harriet spentsome portion of every day with her mother, but she ate at our tableonly once, always hurrying back to the hotel to oversee the menu ofher beloved Edwin.Reasoning that in a similar situation I should not care for thepresence of an outsider, I left the mother and daughter alonetogether as much as I could without appearing rude. I think they both,appreciated my action, although, with their customary reserve, theysaid very little to me.Dr. Braithwaite came twice during the week to see us, each timemaking a hurried call. Harriet appeared to wish to impress us with theimportance of these visits from so busy and distinguished a man. Butthe noted surgeon himself was simple and unaffected in his manner.One thing troubled me. I had done nothing, said nothing to furtherMiss Sonnot's desire to go to France as a nurse. She had left us theday after Dicky's sister and brother-in-law arrived, left with theadmiration and good wishes of us all. The big surgeon himself, afterwatching her attention to his mother-in-law upon the day of arrival,made an approving comment."Good nurse, that," he had said. I took the first opportunity torepeat his words to the little nurse, who flushed with pleasure. Iknew that I ought to at least inquire of the big surgeon or his wifeabout the number of nurses he was taking with him, but there seemed nofitting opportunity, and--I did not make one.I did not try to explain to myself the curious disinclination Ifelt to lift a hand toward the sending of Miss Sonnot to the Frenchhospitals. But every time I thought of the night she had told me ofher wish I felt guilty.Jack was already "somewhere in France." If Miss Sonnot entered thehospital service, there was a possibility that they might meet.I sincerely liked and admired Miss Sonnot. My brother-cousin had beenthe only man in my life until Dicky swept me off my feet with histempestuous wooing. My heart ought to have leaped at the prospectof their meeting and its possible result. But I felt unaccountablydepressed at the idea, instead.The last day of the Braithwaites' stay Harriet came unusually early tosee her mother."I can stay only a few minutes this morning, mother," she explained,as she took off her heavy coat. "I know," in answer to the olderwoman's startled protest. "It is awful this last day, too. I'll comeback toward night, but I must get back to Edwin this morning. He isso annoyed. One of his nurses has fallen ill at the last moment andcannot go. He has to secure another good one immediately, that he mayget her passport attended to in time for tomorrow's sailing. And hewill not have one unless he interviews her himself. I left him eatinghis breakfast and getting ready to receive a flock of them sent him bysome physicians he knows. I must hurry back to help him through."Miss Sonnet's opportunity had come! I knew it, knew also that I mustspeak to my sister-in-law at once about her. But she had finishedher flying little visit and was putting on her coat before I finallyforced myself to broach the subject."Mrs. Braithwaite"--to my disgust I found my voice trembling--"Ithink I ought to tell you that Miss Sonnot, the nurse your mother had,wishes very much to enter the hospital service. She could go tomorrow,I am sure. And I remember your husband spoke approvingly of her."My sister-in-law rushed past me to the telephone."The very thing!" She threw the words over her shoulder as she tookdown the receiver. "Thank you so much." Then, as she received herconnection, she spoke rapidly, enthusiastically."Edwin, I have such good news for you. Dicky's wife thinks that littleMiss Sonnot who nursed mother could go tomorrow. She said while shewas here that she wanted to enter the hospital service. Yes. I thoughtyou'd want her. All right. I'll see to it right away and telephoneyou. By the way, Edwin, if she can go, you won't need me thisforenoon, will you? That's good. I can stay with mother, then. Takecare of yourself, dear. Good-by."She hung up the receiver and turned to me."Can you reach her by 'phone right away, and if she can go tell her togo to the Clinton at once and ask for Dr. Braithwaite?"I paid a mental tribute to my sister-in-law's energy as I in my turntook down the telephone receiver. I realized how much wear and tearshe must save her big husband."Miss Sonnot!" I could not help being a bit dramatic in my news. "Canyou sail for France tomorrow? One of Dr. Braithwaite's nurses is ill,and you may have her place, if you wish."There was a long minute of silence, and then the little nurse's voicesounded in my ears. It was filled with awe and incredulity."If I wish!" and then, after a pregnant pause, "Surely, I can go.Where do I learn the details?"I gave her full directions and hung up the receiver with a sigh.She came to see me before she sailed, and after she had left me, Iwent into my bedroom, locked the door, and let the tears come which Ihad been forcing back. I did not know what was the matter with me. Ifelt a little as I did once long before when a cherished doll ofmy childhood had been broken beyond all possibility of mending.Unreasonable as the feeling was, it was as if a curtain had droppedbetween me and any part of my life that lay behind me.XXILIFE'S JOG-TROT AND A QUARRELLife went at a jog-trot with me for a long time after the departurefor France of the Braithwaites and Miss Sonnot.My mother-in-law missed her daughter, Mrs. Braithwaite, sorely. Ibelieve if it had not been for her pride in her brilliant daughterand her famous son-in-law she would have become actually ill withfretting. I found my hands full in devising ways to divert her mindand planning dishes to tempt her delicate appetite.Because of her frailty and consequent inability to do muchsightseeing, or, indeed, to go far from the house, Dicky and I spent avery quiet winter.Our evenings away from home together did not average one a week. AndDicky very rarely went anywhere without me."What a Darby and Joan we are getting to be!" he remarked one night aswe sat one on each side of the library table, reading. His mother, aswas her custom, had gone to bed early in the evening."Yes! Isn't it nice?" I returned, smiling at him."Ripping!" Dicky agreed enthusiastically. Then, reflectively,"Funniest thing about it is the way I cotton to this domestic stunt.If anyone had told me before I met you that I should ever stand forthis husband-reading-to-knitting-wife sort of thing I should havebought him a ticket to Matteawan, pronto."He stopped and frowned heavily at me, in mimic disapproval."Picture all spoiled," he declared, sighing. "You are not knitting.Why, oh, why are you not knitting?""Because I never shall knit," I returned, laughing, "at least not inthe evening while you are reading. That sort of thing never did appealto me. Either the wife who has to knit or sew or darn in the eveningis too inefficient to get all her work done in daylight, or she hastoo much work to do. In the first case, her husband ought to teach herefficiency; in the second place, he ought to help do the sewing or thedarning. Then they could both read.""Listen to the feminist?" carolled Dicky; then with mock severity:"Of course, I am to infer, madam, that my stockings are all properlydarned?""Your inference is eminently correct," demurely. "Your mother darnedthem today."What I had told him was true. His mother had seen me looking over thestockings after they were washed, and had insisted on darning Dicky's.I saw that she longed to do some little personal service for her boy,and willingly handed them over.Dicky threw back his head and laughed heartily. Then his face sobered,and he came round to my side of the table and sat down on the arm ofmy chair."Speaking of mother," he said, rumpling my hair caressingly, "I wantto tell you, sweetheart, that you've made an awful hit with me the wayyou've taken care of her. Nobody knows better than I how trying shecan be, and you've been just as sweet and kind to her as if she werethe most tractable person on earth."He put his arms around me and bent his face to mine."Pretty nice and comfy this being married to each other, isn't it?""Very nice, indeed," I agreed, nestling closer to him.My heart echoed the words. In fact, it seemed almost too good tobe true, this quiet domestic cove into which our marital bark haddrifted. The storms we had weathered seemed far past. Dicky's jealousyof my brother-cousin, Jack Bickett; my unhappiness over LillianUnderwood--those tempestuous days surely were years ago instead ofmonths.Now Jack was "somewhere in France," and I had a queer littlepremonition that somewhere, somehow, his path would cross that ofMiss Sonnot, the little nurse, who had gone with Dr. Braithwaite's,expedition, and who for years had cherished a romantic ideal of mybrother-cousin, although she had never met him.Lillian Underwood was my sworn friend. With characteristic directnessshe had cut the Gordian knot of our misunderstanding by telling me,against Dicky's protests, all about the old secret which her past andthat of my husband shared. After her story, with all that it revealedof her sacrifice and her fidelity to her own high ideals, therenever again would be a doubt of her in my mind. I was proud of herfriendship, although, because of my mother-in-law's prejudice againstthem, Dicky and I could not have the Underwoods at our home.Our meetings, therefore, were few. But I had an odd little feeling ofsafety and security whenever I thought of her. I knew if any terribletrouble ever came to me I should fly to her as if she were my sister.My work at the Lotus Study Club was going along smoothly. At homeKatie was so much more satisfactory than the maids I had seen in otherestablishments that I shut my eyes to many little things about which Iknew my mother-in-law would have been most captious.But my mother-in-law's acerbity was softened by her weakness. We grewquite companionable in the winter days when Dicky's absence at thestudio left us together. Altogether I felt that life had been verygood to me.So the winter rolled away, and almost before we knew it the springdays came stealing in from the South, bringing to me their urgent callof brown earth and sprouting things.I was not the only one who listened to the message of spring. MotherGraham grew restless and used all of her meagre strength in drives tothe parks and walks to a nearby square where the crocuses were justbeginning to wave their brave greeting to the city.The warmer days affected Dicky adversely. He seemed a bit distrait,displayed a trifle of his earlier irritability, and complained a greatdeal about the warmth of the apartment."I tell you I can't stand this any longer," he said one particularlywarm evening in April, as he sank into a chair, flinging his collar inone direction and his necktie in another. "I'd rather be in the cityin August than in these first warm days of spring. What do you sayto moving into the country for the summer? Our month is up here thefirst, anyway, and I am perfectly willing to lose any part of themonth's rent if we only can get away.""But, Dicky," I protested, "unless we board, which I don't thinkany of us would like to do, how are we going to find a house, to saynothing of getting settled in so short a time?"To my surprise, Dicky hesitated a moment before answering. Then,flushing, he uttered the words which brought my little castle ofcontentment grumbling about me and warned me that my marital problemswere not yet all solved."Why, you see, there won't be any bother about a house. Miss Draperhas found a perfectly bully place not far from her sister's home.""Miss Draper has found a house for us!"I echoed Dicky's words in blank astonishment. His bit of news wasso unexpected, amazement was the only feeling that came to me for amoment or two."Well, what's the reason for the awful astonishment?" demanded Dicky,truculently. "You look as if a bomb had exploded in your vicinity."He expressed my feeling exactly. I knew that Miss Draper had become afixture in his studio, acting as his secretary as well as his model,and pursuing her art studies under his direction. But his referencesto her were always so casual and indifferent that for months I had notthought of her at all. And now I found that Dicky had progressed tosuch a degree of intimacy with her that he not only wished to move tothe village which she called home, but had allowed her to select thehouse in which we were to live.I might be foolish, overwrought, but all at once I recognized inDicky's beautiful protege a distinct menace to my marital happiness.I knew I ought to be most guarded in my reply to my husband, but I amafraid the words of my answer were tipped with the venom of my feelingtoward the girl."I admit I am astonished," I replied coldly. "You see, I did not knowit was the custom in your circle for an artist's model to select ahouse for his wife and mother. You must give me time to adjust myselfto such a bizarre state of things."I was so furious myself that I did not realize how much my answerwould irritate Dicky. He sprang to his feet with an oath and turned onme the old, black angry look that I had not seen for months."That's about the meanest slur I ever heard," he shouted. "Justbecause a girl works as a model every other woman thinks she hasthe right to cast a stone at her, and put on ahow-dare-you-brush-your-skirt-against-mine sort of thing. You workedfor a living yourself not so very long ago. I should think you wouldhave a little Christian charity in your heart for any other girl whoworked.""It strikes me that there is a slight difference between the work ofa high school instructor in history, a specialist in her subject, andthe work of an artist's model," I returned icily. "But, laying allthat aside, I should have considered myself guilty of a very gravebreach of good taste if I had ventured to select a house for the wifeof my principal, unasked and unknown to her.""Cut out the heroics, and come down to brass tacks," Dicky snarledvulgarly. "Why don't you be honest and say you're jealous of the poorgirl? I'll bet, if the truth were known, it isn't only the house sheselected you'd balk at. I'll bet you wouldn't want to go to Marvin atall for the summer, regardless that I've spent many a comfortableweek in that section, and like it better than any other summer place Iknow."Through all my anger at Dicky, my disgust at his coarseness, camethe conviction that he had spoken the truth. I was jealous ofGrace Draper, there was no use denying the fact to myself, howeverstrenuously I might try to hide the thing from Dicky. I told myselfthat I hated Marvin because it held this girl, that instead ofspending the summer there I wished I might never see the place again.I was angrier than ever when the knowledge of my own emotion forceditself upon me, angry with myself for being so silly, angry with Dickyfor having brought such provocation upon me! I let my speech lash outblindly, not caring what I said:"You are wrong in one thing--right in another. I am not jealous ofMiss Draper. To tell you the truth, I do not care enough about whatyou do to be jealous of you. But I would not like to live in Marvinfor this season--I never counted in my list of friends a woman whopossesses neither good breeding nor common sense, and I do not proposeto begin with Miss Draper."Dicky stared at me for a moment, his face dark and distorted withpassion. Then, springing to his feet, he picked up his collar and tieand went into his room. Returning with fresh ones, he snatched his hatand stick and rushed to the door. As he slammed it after him I heardanother oath, one this time coupled with a reference to me. I sankback in the big chair weak and trembling."Well, you have made a mess of it!" My mother-in-law's voice, cool andcynical, sounded behind me. I felt like saying something caustic toher, but there was something in her tones that stopped me. It was notcriticism of me she was expressing, rather sympathy. Accustomed as Iwas to every inflection of her voice, I realized this, and accordinglyheld my tongue until she had spoken further."I'll admit you've had enough to make any woman lose her control ofherself," went on Dicky's mother, with the fairness which I had foundher invariably to possess in anything big, no matter how petty andfussy she was over trifles. "But you ought to know Richard better thanto take that way with him. Give Richard his head and he soon tires ofany of the thousand things he proposes doing from time to time. Opposehim, ridicule him, make him angry, and he'll stick to his notion as adog to a bone."She turned and walked into her own room again. I sat miserably huddledin the big chair, by turn angry at my husband and remorseful over myown hastiness."Vot I do about dinner, Missis Graham?" Katie's voice was subdued,sympathetic and respectful. I realized that she had heard every wordof our controversy. The knowledge made my reply curt."Keep it warm as long as you can. I will tell you when to serve it."Katie stalked out, muttering something about the dinner being spoiled,but I paid no heed to her. My thoughts were too busy with conjecturesand forebodings of the future to pay any attention to trifles.The twilight deepened into darkness. I was just nerving myself tosummon Katie and tell her to serve dinner when the door opened andDicky's rapid step crossed the room. He switched on the light, andthen coming over to me, lifted me bodily out of my chair."Was the poor little girl jealous?" he drawled, with his face pressedclose to mine. "Well, she shall never have to be jealous again. Wewon't live in Marvin, naughty old town, full of beautiful models.We'll just go over to Hackensack or some nice respectable place likethat."At first my heart had leaped with victory. Dicky had come back, and hewas not angry. Then as his lips sought mine, and I caught his breath,my victory turned to ashes. The regret or repentance which had drivenmy husband back to my arms had not come from his heart but from thedepths of a whiskey glass.XXIIAN AMAZING DISCOVERYIt was two days after our quarrel over Grace Draper and her selectionof a summer home for us before Dicky again broached the subject ofleaving the city for the summer."By the way," he said, as carelessly as if the subject had never beena bone of contention between us, "that house I was speaking of theother night; the one Miss Draper thought we would like, has beenrented, so we will have to look for something else."I had no idea how he had managed to get rid of taking the house afterhis protege had gone to the trouble of hunting one up, nor did I care.I told myself that as the girl's insolent assurance in selecting ahouse for me had been put down I could afford to be magnanimous. So Ismiled at Dicky and said with an ease which I was far from feeling:"But there must be other places in Marvin that are desirable. That daywe were out there I caught glimpses of streets that must be beautifulin summer."Into Dicky's eyes flashed a look of tender pleasure that warmed me.Taking advantage of his mother's absorption in her fish he threw me akiss. I knew that I had pleased him wonderfully by tacitly agreeing togo to Marvin, and that our quarrel was to him as if it had never been.I wish I had his mercurial temperament. Long after I have forgiven awrong done to me, or an unpleasant experience, the bitter memory of itcomes back to torment me."That's my bully girl!" was all Dicky said in reply, but when thebaked fish had been discussed and we were eating our salad he lookedup, his eyes twinkling."This green stuff reminds me that if I'm going to get my garden sassplanted this year or you want any flower beds, we'll have to get busy.Can you run out to Marvin with me tomorrow morning and look around? Weought to be able to find something we want. Real estate agents are asthick as fleas around that section."We made an early start the next morning, Mother Graham, withcharacteristic energy, spurring up Katie with the breakfast, andsuccessfully routing Dicky from the second nap he was bound to take. Ihad been up since daylight, for it was a perfect spring morning, and Iwas anxious to be afield.As we neared the entrance of the Long Island station I thought of thefirst trip we had taken to Marvin, and the unpleasantness which hadmarred the day, and I plucked Dicky's sleeve timidly."Dicky!" I swallowed hard and stopped short.He adroitly swung me across the street into the safety of the runwayleading down into the station before he spoke."Well, what's on your conscience?" He smiled down at me roguishly."You look as if you were going to confess to a murder at least.""Not that bad," I smiled faintly. "But oh, Dicky, if I promise totry not to say anything irritating today, will you promise not to,either?""Sure as you're born," Dicky returned cheerfully. "Don't want to spoilthe day, eh?""It's such a heavenly day," I sighed. "I feel as if I couldn't standit to have anything mar it."As we sat in the train that bore us to Marvin Dicky outlined some ofhis plans for the summer."There are two or three of the fellows who come down here summers whoI know will be glad to go Dutch on a motor boat," he said. "We cantake the bulliest trips, way out to deserted sand islands, where thesurf is the best ever. We'll take along a tent and spend the nightthere sometime, or we can stretch out in the boat. Then we must see ifwe can get hold of some horses. Do you ride? Think of it! We've beenmarried months, and I don't know yet whether you ride or not!""No, I don't ride, but oh, how I've always wanted to!" I returned withenthusiasm. Then, with a sudden qualm, "But all that will be terriblyexpensive, won't it?""Not so awful," Dicky said, smiling down at me. "But even if it is,I guess we can stand it. I've had some cracking good orders lately.We'll have one whale of a summer."My heart beat high with happiness. Surely, with all these plansfor me, my husband's thoughts could not be much occupied with hisbeautiful model. As he lifted me down to the station platform atMarvin I looked with friendliness at the dingy, battered old railroadstation which I remembered, at the defiant sign near it whichtrumpeted in large type, "Don't judge the town by the station," andthe winding main street of the village, which, when I had visitedMarvin before, Dicky had wished to show me.Upon that other visit our first sight of Grace Draper and Dicky'sinterest in her had spoiled the trip for me. I had insisted upon goingback without seeing some of the things Dicky had planned to showme, and I had disliked the thought of the town ever since. But withDicky's loving plans for my happiness dazzling me, I felt a touch ofthe glamour with which he invested the place in my eyes. I caught athis hand in an unwonted burst of tenderness."Let's walk down that old winding street which you told me about lastwinter," I said. "I've wanted to see it ever since you spoke aboutit.""We'll probably motor down it instead," he grinned. "There's a realestate office just opposite here, and I see the agent's flivver infront of the door, where he stands just inside his office. The spiderand the fly, eh, Madge? Well, Mr. Spider, here are two dear littleflies for you!""Oh, Dicky!" I dragged at his arm in protest. "Don't spoil our firstview of that street by whirling through it in a car. Let's saunterdown it first and then come back to the real estate man.""You have a gleam of human intelligence, sometimes, don't you?" Dickyinquired banteringly. Then he took my arm to help me across the roughplaces in the country road.We had almost reached the door of the office when Dicky caught sightof a plainly dressed woman coming toward us. I heard him catch hisbreath, his grasp on my arm tightened, and with an indescribable agilemovement he fairly bolted into the real estate office, dragging mewith him."I'll explain later," he said in my ear. "Just follow my lead now."As he turned to the rotund little real estate agent, who came forwardto greet us, a look of surprise on his round face, I looked throughthe window at the woman from whose sight he had dodged.Then I felt that I needed an explanation, indeed.For the woman whose eyes my husband so evidently wished to avoid wasMrs. Gorman, Grace Draper's sister.       *       *       *       *       *So I was to live in a house of Grace Draper's choosing, after all!This was the thought that came most forcibly to me when Mr. Brennan,the owner of the house Dicky had impetuously decided to rent, told usthat Miss Draper had looked over the place for an artist friend, andthat she would have taken it only for finding another house nearer herown home.I was so absorbed in my own thoughts that I did not at first noticeDicky's embarrassment when Mr. Brennan asked him if he knew GraceDraper. It was only when the man, who had all the earmarks of agossiping countryman, repeated the question, that I realized Dicky'sconfusion."Did you say you knew her?""Yes, I know her; she works in my studio," remarked Dicky, shortly."Oh!" The exclamation had the effect of a long-drawn whistle. "Thenyou probably were the artist friend she spoke of.""I probably was." Dicky's tone was grim. I knew how near his temperwas to exploding, and the look which I beheld on the face of Mr.Birdsall, the little real estate agent, galvanized me into action."Dear, what do you suppose led Grace to think we would like that otherplace better than this?" I flashed a tender little smile at Dicky. "Ofcourse we would like to be nearer her, but this is not very far fromher home, and it is so much better, isn't it?"Dicky took the cue without a tremor."Why, I suppose she thought you would find this house too big for youto look after," he replied in a matter-of-fact way."That was awful dear and thoughtful of her," I murmured, carefulto keep my voice at just the right pitch of friendliness toward theabsent Grace, "but I don't think this will be too much, for we canshut up the rooms we don't need."I had the satisfaction of seeing the puzzled looks of Mr. Brennanand Mr. Birdsall change into an evident readjustment of their ideasconcerning my husband and Grace Draper. But I did not relax my ironhold upon myself. I knew if I dared let myself down for an instantangry tears would rush to my eyes."When did you say we could move in?" I turned to Mr. Brennan,determined to get away from the subject of Grace Draper as quickly aspossible."Today, if you want it.""No," returned Dicky, "but we will want it soon. When do you think wecan move?" He turned to me.       *       *       *       *       *I spent three busy days at the Brennan place. There was much to bedone both inside and outside the house. After the first day, Katie didnot return with me, as my mother-in-law needed her in the apartment.But I engaged another woman with the one I had for the work in thehouse and put the grinning William in charge of an old man I hadsecured to clean up the grounds and make the garden.I soon found that I had a treasure in Mr. Jones, who was a typical oldYankee farmer, a wizened little man with chin whiskers. He could onlygive me a day or two occasionally, as he was old and confided to methat he was subject to "the rheumatics." But while I was there heploughed and harrowed and planted the garden, cleared the rubbishaway, and made me innumerable flower beds, keeping an iron hand overthe irresponsible William, whose grin gradually faded as he was forcedto do some real work for his day's wages.A riotous and extravagant hour in a seed and bulb store resulted in mygetting all the flower favorites I had loved in my childhood. I alsobought the seeds of all vegetables which Dicky and I liked, and a fewmore, and put them in Mr. Jones's capable hands.If there was a variety of vegetables or flower seeds which lookedattractive in the seedman's catalogue, and which remained unbought, itwas the fault of the salesman, for I conscientiously tried to selectevery one. I planned the location of a few of the beds, and thenconfided to Mr. Jones the rest of the outdoor work, knowing that hecould finish it after my return to the city.Mr. Birdsall, the agent, was very tractable about the kitchen, sendingmen the second day to paint it. So at the end of the third day, when Iturned the key in the lock of the front door, I was conscious that thehouse was as clean as soap and water and hard work could make it, thatthe grounds were in order, and the growing things I loved on their wayto greet me.I fancy it was high time things were accomplished, for in some wayI had caught a severe cold. At least that was the way I diagnosed mycomplaint. My throat seemed swollen, my head ached severely, and eachbone and muscle in my body appeared to have its separate pain. When Ireached the apartment I felt so ill that I undressed and went to bedat once."You must spray your throat immediately," my mother-in-law said in abusinesslike way, "and I suppose we ought to send for that jackanapesof a doctor."Even through my suffering I could not help but smile at mymother-in-law's reference to Dr. Pettit, who had attended her in herillness. She had summarily dismissed him because he had forbiddenher to see to the unpacking of her trunks when she was barelyconvalescent, and we had not seen him since."I'm sure I will not need a physician," I said, trying to speakdistinctly, although it was an effort for me to articulate. "Waituntil Dicky comes, anyway."For distinct in my mind was a mental picture of the look I haddetected in Dr. Pettit's eyes upon the day of his last visit to mymother-in-law. I remembered the way he had clasped my hand in parting.The feeling was indefinable. I scored myself as fanciful and conceitedfor imagining that there had been anything special in his farewellto me or in the little courtesies he had tendered me during mymother-in-law's illness. But I told myself again, as I had afterclosing the door upon his last visit, that it were better all aroundif he did not come again."If you wait for Richard, you'll wait a long time," his motherobserved grimly. "He called up a while ago, and said he had beeninvited to an impromptu studio party that he couldn't get away from,and that he would be home in two or three hours. But I know Richard.If he gets interested in anything like that he won't be home untilmidnight."I do not pretend either to analyze or excuse the feeling of recklessdefiance that seized me upon hearing of Dicky's absence. I reflectedbitterly that I had taken all the burden of seeing to the new home,and was suffering from illness contracted because of that work, whileDicky was frolicking at a studio party, with never a thought of me.I know without being told that Grace Draper was a member of thefrolic. And here I was suffering, yet refusing the services of askilled physician because I fancied there was something in his mannerthe tolerance of which would savor of disloyalty to Dicky!I turned to my mother-in-law to tell her she could summon thephysician, but found that I could hardly speak. My throat felt as if Iwere choking."The spray!" I gasped.Thoroughly alarmed, Mother Graham assisted me in spraying my throatwith a strong antiseptic solution. Then I gave her the number of Dr.Pettit's office, and she called him up. I heard her tell him to makehaste, and then she came back to me. I saw that she was frightenedabout the condition of my throat, but the choking feeling gave me notime to be frightened. I kept the spray going almost constantly untilthe physician came. It was the only way I could breathe.Dr. Pettit must have made a record journey, for the door bellsignalled his arrival only a few moments after Mother Graham'smessage.He gave my throat one swift, shrewd glance, then turned to his smallvalise and drew from it a stick, some absorbent cotton and a bottle ofdark liquid. With swift, sure movements he prepared a swab, and turnedto me."Open your mouth again," he said gently, but peremptorily.I obeyed him, and the antiseptic bathed the swollen tonsils surely andskilfully.As I swayed, almost staggered, in the spasm of coughing and chokingwhich followed, I felt the strong, sure support of his arm touching myshoulders, of his hand grasping mine."Now lie down," he commanded gently, when the paroxysm was over. Hedrew the covers over me himself, lifted my head and shoulders gentlywith one hand, while with the other he raised the pillows to the anglehe wished. Then he turned to my mother-in-law."She has a bad case of tonsilitis, but there is no danger," he saidquietly, utterly ignoring her rudeness at the time of his last visit."I will stay until I have swabbed her throat again. She is to havethese pellets," he handed her a bottle of pink tablets, "once everyfifteen minutes until she has taken four, then every hour untilmidnight. Let her sleep all she can and keep her warm. I would liketwo hot water bags filled, if you please, and a glass of water. Shemust begin taking these tablets as soon as possible."As my mother-in-law left the room to get the things he wished, Dr.Pettit came back to the bedside and stood looking down at me."Where is your husband?" he asked, a note of sternness in his voice.I shook my head. I was just nervous and sick enough to feel thequestion keenly. I could not restrain the foolish tears which rolledslowly down my cheeks.Dr. Pettit took his handkerchief and wiped them away. Then he said inalmost a whisper:"Poor little girl! How I wish I could bear the pain for you!"XXIII"BLUEBEARD'S CLOSET"My recovery from the attack of tonsilitis, thanks to Dr. Pettit'sremedies, was almost as rapid as the seizure had been sudden.My mother-in-law, forgetting her own invalidism, carried out thephysician's directions faithfully. The choking sensation in my throatgradually lessened, until by midnight I was able to go to sleep.I have no idea when Dicky came home from his "impromptu studio party."His mother, whose deftness, efficiency and unexpected tendernesssurprised me, arranged a bed for him on the couch in the living room,and I did not hear him come in at all."My poor little sweetheart!" This was his greeting the next morning."If I had only known you were ill the old blow-out could have goneplump. It was a stupid affair, anyway. Had a rotten time.""It doesn't matter, Dicky," I said wearily, and closed my eyes,pretending to sleep. I knew Dicky was puzzled by my manner, forI could feel him silently watching me for several minutes. Thenevidently satisfied that I was really sleeping he tiptoed out of theroom, and a little later I heard him depart for his studio, firstcautioning his mother to call him if I needed him.I spent a most miserable day after Dicky had left, in spite of mymother-in-law's tender care and Katie's assiduous attentions. Thestudio party, of which I was sure Grace Draper was a member, rankledas did anything connected with this student model of Dicky's. Thememory of the village gossip concerning her friendship for my husbandwhich I had heard in Marvin troubled me, while even Dicky's solicitudefor my illness seemed to my overwrought imagination to be forced,artificial.His exclamation, "My poor little sweetheart!" did not ring true tome. I felt bitterly that there was more sincerity in Dr. Pettit's lowwords of the day before: "Poor little girl, I wish I could bear thispain for you!" than in Dicky's protestations.How genuinely troubled the tall young physician had been! Howresentful of Dicky's absence from my bedside! How tender and strongin my paroxysms of choking! I felt a sudden added bitterness toward myhusband that the memory of my suffering should have blended with it norecollection of his care, only the tender sympathy of a stranger.But in two days I was my usual self again, ready for the arduous tasksof moving and settling.Mother Graham and I spent a hectic day in the furniture and draperyshops, buying things to supplement her furniture and mine, which wehad arranged to have sent to the Brennan house in Marvin. I found thather judgment as to values and fabrics was unerring. But her taste asto colors and designs frequently clashed with mine. Save for the factthat she became fatigued before we had finished our shopping, therewould have been no individual touch of mine in our home. As it was, Iwas not sorry that she found herself too indisposed to go with methe second day, so that I had a chance to put something of my ownindividuality into the new furnishings.Another two days in Marvin with the aid of a workman unpacking andarranging the crated furniture and our purchases, and the new home wasready to step into.We were a gay little party as we went together through the houseinspecting all the rooms. When we came to Dicky's, he barred us out."Now, remember, no stealing of keys and peering into Bluebeard'scloset," said Dicky gayly, as he closed and locked the door of hisroom."You flatter yourself, sir." I swept him a low bow. "I really haven'tthe slightest curiosity about your old room.""Sour grapes," he mocked, and then impressively, "And no matter whatpackages or furniture come here for me they are not to be unwrapped.Just leave them on the porch, or in the library until I come home.""I wouldn't touch one of them with a pair of tongs," I assured him."See that you don't," he returned, hanging the key up, and hastilykissing me. "Now I've got to run for it."He hurried down the stairs and out of the front door. I stood lookingafter him with a smile of tender amusement.The day after Dicky's purchases arrived he rose early."No studio for me today," he announced. "Can you get hold of that manwho helped you clean up here? I want an able-bodied man for severalhours today.""I think so," I returned quietly, and going to the telephone, soonreturned with the assurance that William-of-the-wide-grin wouldshortly be at the house."That's fine," commented Dicky. "And now I want you and mother to getout of the way after breakfast. Go for a walk or a drive or anythinggo you are not around. I want to surprise you this afternoon. I'll betthat room will make your eyes stick out when you see it."I had a wonderful tramp through the woods, enjoying it so much that itwas after four o'clock when I finally returned home. Dicky greeted meexuberantly."Come along now," he commanded, rushing me upstairs. "Come, mother!"The elder Mrs. Graham appeared at the door of her room, curiosityand disapproval struggling with each other in her face. But curiositytriumphed. With a protesting snort she followed us to the door of thelocked room. Dicky unlocked the door with a flourish and stood asidefor us to enter.I gasped as I caught my first sight of the transformed room. Dicky hadnot exaggerated--it was wonderful.The paper had been taken from the walls, and they and the ceiling hadbeen painted a soft gray with just a touch of blue in its tint. Thewoodwork was ivory-tinted throughout, while the floor was painted adeeper shade of the gray that covered the walls.Almost covering the floor was a gorgeous Chinese rug with wonderfulsplashes of blue through it. I knew it must be an imitation of onecosting a fortune, but I realized that Dicky must have paid a prettypenny even for the counterfeit, for the coloring and design werecleverly done.The blue of the rug was reproduced in every detail of the room. The,window, draperies, of thin, Oriental fabric, had bands of Chineseembroidered silk cunningly sewed on them. These bands carried out inthe azure groundwork and the golden threads the motif of the rug. Thecushions, which were everywhere in evidence, were made of the sameembroidered silk which banded the window draperies, while blue stripsof the same material were thrown carelessly over a teakwood table and,a chest of drawers.A chaise lounge of bamboo piled with cushions stood underneath thewindows, which commanded a view of the rolling woodland and meadowsI had found so beautiful. Three chairs of the same material completedthe furnishings of the room, save for a wonderful Chinese screenreaching almost from the ceiling to the floor, which hid a single ironbed, painted white, of the type used in hospitals, a small bureau,also painted white, and a shaving mirror."Don't want any junk about my sleeping quarters," Dicky explained, asI looked behind the screen."Well, what do you think of it?" he demanded at last, in a hurt tone,as I finished my inspection of the walls, which were almost coveredwith the originals of Dicky's best magazine illustrations, framed innarrow, black strips of wood."It is truly wonderful, Dicky," I returned, trying to make my voiceenthusiastic.I could have raved over the room, for I did think it exquisitelybeautiful, had not my woman's intuition detected that another handthan Dicky's had helped in its preparation.Only a woman's cunning fingers could have fashioned the curtains andthe cushions I saw in profusion about the room. I knew her identitybefore Dicky, after pointing out in detail every article of which hewas so proud, said hesitatingly:"I wish, Madge, you would telephone Miss Draper and ask her to runover tomorrow and see the room. You see, I was so anxious to surpriseyou that I did not want to have you do any of the work, and she kindlydid all of this needlework for me. I know she is very curious to seehow her work looks.""Of course, I will telephone Miss Draper if you wish it, Dicky, butdon't you think you ought to do it yourself? She is your employee, notmine, and I never have seen her but twice in my life."I flatter myself that my voice was as calm as if I had not theslightest emotional interest in the topic I was discussing. But inreality I was furiously angry. And I felt that I had reason to be."Now, that's a nice, catty thing to say!" Dicky exploded wrathfully."Hope you feel better, now you've got it off your chest. And you canjust trot right along and telephone her yourself. Gee! you haven'tbeen a martyr for months, have you?"When Dicky takes that cutting, ironical tone, it fairly maddens me. Icould not trust myself to speak, so I turned quickly and went out ofthe room which had become suddenly hateful to me, and found refuge inmy own.My exit was not so swift, however, but that I overheard words of mymother-in-law's, which were to remain in my mind."Richard," she exclaimed angrily, "you ought to be ashamed ofyourself. You act like a silly fool over this model of yours. Whatbusiness did you have asking her to do this needlework for you in thefirst place? You ought to have known Margaret would not like it."I did not hear Dicky's reply, for I had reached my own room, and,closing and locking the door, I sat down by the window until I shouldbe able to control my words and actions.For one thing I had determined. I would not have a repetition ofthe scenes which Dicky's temper and my own sensitiveness had made ofalmost daily occurrence in the earlier months of our marriage. I couldnot bring myself to treat Grace Draper with the friendliness whichDicky appeared to wish from me, but at least I could keep fromunseemly squabbling about her.But my heart was heavy with misgiving concerning this friendship ofDicky's for his beautiful model, as I opened my door and went down thehall to Dicky's room. My mother-in-law's voice interrupted me."Come in here a minute," she said abruptly, as she trailed her flowingnegligee past me into the living room.As I followed her in, wondering, she closed the door behind her. Isaw with amazement that her face was pale, her lips quivering withemotion."Child," she said, laying her hand with unwonted gentleness on myshoulder. "I want you to know that I entirely disapprove of thisinvitation which Richard has asked you to extend. Of course, you mustuse your own judgment in the matter, and it may be wise for you todo as he asks. But I want to be sure that you are not influenced byanything I may have said in the past about not opposing Richard in hiswhims."He is going too far in this thing," she went on. "I cannot counselyou. Each woman has to solve these problems for herself. But it mayhelp you to know that I went through all this before you were born."She turned swiftly and went up to her room again.Dicky's father! She must mean her life with him! In a sudden, swift,pitying gleam of comprehension, I saw why my mother-in-law wasso crabbed and disagreeable. Life had embittered her. I wonderedmiserably if my life with her son would leave similar marks upon myown soul.XXIVA SUMMER OF HAPPINESS THAT ENDS IN FEARI do not believe I shall ever know greater happiness than was minein the weeks following Grace Draper's first visit to our Marvin home.Many times I looked back to that night when I had lain sobbing on mybed, fighting the demon of jealousy and gasped in amazement at my ownfolly.That evening had ended in Dicky's arms on our moonlight veranda, andever since he had been the royal lover of the honeymoon days, whichhad preceded our first quarrel. I wondered vaguely sometimes if hehad guessed the wild grief and jealousy which had consumed me on thatnight, but if he had any inkling of it he made no sign.Grace Draper had gone out of our lives temporarily.If I had needed reassurance as to Dicky's real feeling for her, themanner in which he told me the news of her going would have given itto me."Blast the luck," he growled one evening, after reading a manuscriptwhich he had been commissioned to illustrate. "Here's something I'llneed Draper for, and she's 200 miles away. I ought to have knownbetter than to let her go."The tone and words were exactly what he would have used if the girlhad been a man or boy in his employ. Even in my surprise at his news,I recognized this, and my heart leaped exultantly. I was careful,however, to keep my voice nonchalant."Why, has Miss Draper gone away?" I asked."Oh, that's so, I didn't tell you," he returned carelessly, lookingup from the manuscript. "Yes, she went away two days ago. She has agrandmother, or aunt, or old party of some kind, down in Pennsylvania,who is sick and has sent for her. Guess the old girl has scads of cointucked away somewhere, and Draper thinks she'd better be around whenthe aged relative passes in her checks. Bet a cooky she won't die atthat, but if she's going to, I wish she'd hurry up about it. I needDraper badly, and she won't be back until the old girl either croaksor gets better."Under other circumstances, the callousness of this speech, thecoarseness of some of the expressions, the calling of Miss Draper byher surname, would have grated upon me. But I was too rejoiced both atthe girl's departure and the matter of fact way in which Dicky took itto be captious about the language in which he couched the news of hergoing."Grace Draper is gone, is gone." The words set themselves to a littletune, which lilted in my brain. I felt as if the only obstacle to myenjoyment of our summer in the country had been removed.How I did revel in the long, beautiful summer days! Dicky appearedto have a great deal of leisure, in contrast to the days crowded withwork, which had been his earlier in the spring."Each year I work like the devil in the spring so as to have thesummer, June especially, comparatively free," he exclaimed one daywhen I commented on the fact that he had been to his studio but twiceduring the week.I had dreamed in my girlhood of vacations like the one I was enjoying,but the dream had never been fulfilled before. Dicky had fixed up atennis court on the, grassy stretch of lawn at the left of the house,and we played every day. Two horses from the livery were broughtaround two mornings each week, and, after a few trials, I was able totake comparatively long rides with Dicky through the exquisite countrysurrounding Marvin.Our motor boat trips were frequent also, although Dicky found that itwas more convenient to rent one when he wished it than to enter intoany ownership arrangement with any one else.Automobile trips, in which his mother joined us, long rambles throughthe woods and meadows which we took alone, little dinners at thenumberless shore resorts, all these made a whirl of enjoyment for meunlike anything I had ever known.I was careful to cater to my mother-in-law's wishes in every way Icould. Either because of my attentions or of the beautiful summerdays, she was much softened in manner, so that there was nounpleasantness anywhere."This is the bulliest vacation I ever spent," Dicky said one evening,after a long tramp through the woods. It was one of the frequentchilly evenings of a Long Island summer, when a fire is mostacceptable. Katie had built a glorious fire of dry wood in the livingroom fireplace, and after dinner we stretched out lazily beforeit, Mother Graham and I in arm chairs, Dicky on a rug with cushionsbestowed comfortably around him."I am naturally very glad to hear that," I said, demurely, and Dickylaughed aloud."That's right, take all the credit to yourself," he said, teasingly.Then as he saw a shadow on my face, for I never have learned to takehis banter lightly, he added in a tone meant for my ear alone:"But you are the real reason why it's so bully, old top."The very next day, Dicky and I went for a long walk.We had nearly reached the harbor, when I saw Dicky start suddenly,gaze fixedly at some one across the road, and then lift his hat in aformal, unsmiling greeting. My eyes followed his, and met the cool,half-quizzical ones of Grace Draper. She was accompanied by a tall,very good-looking youth, who was bending toward her so assiduouslythat he did not see us at all."Why! I didn't know Miss Draper had returned," I said, wondering whyDicky had kept the knowledge from me."I didn't know it myself," Dicky answered, frowning. "Queer, shewouldn't call me up. Wonder who that jackanapes with her is, anyway."Dicky was moody all the rest of the trip. I know that he has the mosteasily wounded feelings of any one in the world, and naturally heresented the fact that the beautiful model, whom he had befriended andwho was his secretary and studio assistant, had returned from her tripwithout letting him know she was at home.If I only could be sure that pique at an employee's failure to reportto him was at the bottom of his sulkiness! But the memory of thegood-looking youth who hung over the girl so assiduously was before myeyes. I feared that the reason for Dicky's moody displeasure was thepresence of the unknown admirer of his beautiful model.Of course, all pleasure in the day's outing was gone for me also,and we were a silent pair as we wandered in and out through the sandybeaches. Dicky conscientiously, but perfunctorily, pointed out tome all the things which he thought I would find interesting, and inwhich, under any other circumstances, I should have revelled.In my resolution to be as chummy with Dicky as possible, I determinedto put down my own feelings toward Grace Draper. But it was an effortfor me to say what I wished to Dicky. We had chatted about manythings, and were nearly home, when I said timidly:"Dicky, now that Miss Draper is back, don't you think you and I oughtto call on her and her sister, and have them over to dinner?"Dicky frowned impatiently:"For heaven's sake, don't monkey with that old cat, Mrs. Gorman. Sheis making trouble enough as it is."He bit his lip the next instant, as if he wished the words unsaid,and, for a wonder, I was wise enough not to question him as tothe meaning of the little speech. But into my heart crept my ownparticular little suspicious devil--always too ready to come, is thissmall familiar demon of mine--and once there he stayed, continuallywhispering ugly doubts and queries concerning the "trouble" that Mrs.Gorman was making over her sister's intimate studio association withmy husband.My constant brooding affected my spirits. I found myself growingirritable. The next day after Dicky and I had seen Miss Draper and herattendant cavalier on the road to Marvin harbor, Dicky made a casualreference at the table to the fact that she had returned to the studioand her work as his secretary and model."She said she called up the studio when she got in, and againyesterday morning, but I was not in," he said. I realized that thegirl had cleverly soothed his resentment at her failure to notify himthat she had returned from her trip.Whether it was the result of my own irritability or not I do not know,but Dicky seemed to grow more indifferent and absent-minded each day.He was not irritable with me, he simply had the air of a man absorbedin some pursuit and indifferent to everything else.Grace Draper's attitude toward me puzzled me also. She preservedalways the cool but courteous manner one would use to the most casualacquaintance, yet she did not hesitate to avail herself of everypossible opportunity to come to the house. Then, two or three timesduring the latter part of the summer, I found that she had managed tojoin outings of ours. Whether this state of affairs was due to Dicky'swishes or her own subtle planning I could not determine.I struggled hard with myself to treat the girl with friendliness, butfound it impossible. My manner toward her held as much reserve as wascompatible with formal courtesy. Of course, this did not please Dicky.Dicky was also developing an unusual sense of punctuality. I alwayshad thought him quite irresponsible concerning the keeping of hisappointments, and he never had any set time for arriving at hisstudio. But he suddenly announced one morning that he must catch the8:21 train every morning without fail."The next one gets in too late," he said, "and I have a tremendousamount of work on hand."The explanation was plausible enough, but there was something about itthat did not ring true. However, the solution of his sudden solicitudefor punctuality did not come to me until Mrs. Hoch, one of myneighbors, called with her daughter, Celie, and enlightened me."We just heard something we thought you ought to know," Celie beganprimly, "so Ma and I hurried right over, so as to put you on yourguard.""Yes," sighed Mrs. Hoch, rocking vigorously as she spoke, "everybodyknows I'm no gossip. I believe if you can't say nothing good aboutnobody, you should keep your mouth shut, but I says to Celie as soonas I heard this, 'Celie,' says I, 'it's our duty to tell that poorthing what we know.'"I started to speak, to stop whatever revelation she wished to make,but I might as well have attempted to stem a torrent with a leafbridge."We've heard things for a long time," Mrs. Hoch went on, "but wedidn't want to say nothin', 'specially as you seemed such friends, herrunnin' here and all. But we noticed she hain't been comin' lately,and then our Willie, he hears things a lot over at the station, andhe says it's common talk over there that your husband and that Drapergirl are planning to elope. They take the same train every morningtogether, come home on the same one at night, and they are as friendlyas anything.""Mrs. Hoch," I snapped out, "if I had known what you were going tosay, I would not have allowed you to speak. Your words are an insultto my husband and myself. You will please to remember never to sayanything like this to me again."Mrs. Hoch rose to her feet, her face an unbecoming brick red. Herdaughter's black eyes snapped with anger."Come, Celie," the elder woman said, "I don't stay nowhere to beinsulted, when all I've tried to do is give a little friendly warningto a neighbor."Mother and daughter hurried down the path, chattering to each other,like two angry squirrels."Horrid, stuck-up thing," I heard Celie say spitefully, as they wentthrough the fence. "I hope Grace Draper does take him away fromher. She's got a nerve, I must say, talkin' to us like that. I don'tbelieve she cares anything about her husband, anyway."She might have changed her mind had she seen me fly to my room as soonas she was safely out of sight, lock the door, and bury my face in thepillows, that neither my mother-in-law nor Katie should hear the sobsI could not repress."Dicky! Dicky! Dicky!" I moaned. "Have I really lost you?"Of course I knew better than to believe the statement of theelopement. I had seen and heard enough of village life to realize howthe slightest circumstance was magnified by the community loafers.That Dicky and the girl took the same train, going and coming fromthe city, was a fact borne out by my own observations. I had remarkedDicky's regularity in catching the 8:21 in the mornings, something soopposed to his usual unpunctual habits, and wondered why. Now I hadthe solution.I told myself, dully, that I was not surprised; that I had reallyknown all along something like this was coming. My thoughts wentback to the night, a few weeks before, when I had suffered a similarparoxysm of grief over Dicky's evident interest in the girl. Then allmy doubts and fears had been swept away in Dicky's arms on themoonlit veranda. I caught my breath as I realized in all its miserablecertainty the impossibility of any such tender scene now. Dicky and Iseemed as far apart emotionally as the poles.But the determination I had reached that other night, before Dicky'svoice and caresses dispelled my doubts, I made my own again. There wasnothing for me to do but to wait quietly, with dignity, until I wasabsolutely certain that Dicky no longer loved me. Then I would goout of his life without scenes or recriminations. I would not lift afinger to hold him.By the time I had gained control of myself once more, Dicky came home."Letter for you," he said, "from the office of your old principal."He tossed it into my lap, eyeing it and me curiously. I knew that hisdesire to know what was in it had made him remember to give it to me.His mother, who had opened her door at his step, came forward eagerly.I opened the letter, to find an offer of my old school position. Myprincipal wrote that the woman who was appointed to the position hadbeen suddenly taken ill and could not possibly fill it. He asked meto write him my decision at once, as it was within a few days of theopening of the school.Mechanically, I read it aloud. My brain was whirling. I wondered if,perhaps, this was the way out for me. If Dicky really did not love meany longer, I ought to accept this position, even if by taking it Ibroke my agreement with the Lotus Study Club.I did not like the thought of leaving the women who had thus honoredme, but, on the other hand, if Dicky and I were to come to the partingof the ways, I could not refuse this rare chance to get back into thework I had left for his sake.I decided to be guided by his attitude. If he were opposed to mycourse, I would know that my actions had ceased to be resentful tohim, and I would accept the position. But if he showed willingness atthe proposition--I did not have long to wait. As I lifted my eyes to his face, when Ihad finished reading the letter I saw the old familiar black frown onhis face. I never had thought that my heart would leap with joy atthe sight of Dicky's frown, but it did. Before either of us could sayanything, his mother spoke:"Isn't it splendid? You are a most fortunate woman, Margaret, to beable to step back into a position like that. If it had come earlier,when my health was so poor, you could not have taken it. Now you canaccept it, for I am perfectly able to run the house. You, of course,will write your acceptance at once."She paused. I knew she expected me to reply. But I closed my lipsfirmly. Dicky should be the one to decide this. He did it withthoroughness."I thought we settled all this rot last spring," he said. "Mother, Idon't want to be disrespectful, but this is my business and Madge's,not yours. You will refuse, of course, Madge."He turned to me in the old imperious manner. Months before I shouldhave resented it. Now I revelled in it. Dicky cared enough about me,whether from pride or love, to resent my going back to my work."If you wish it, Dicky," I said quietly. He turned a grateful look atme. Then his mother's voice sounded imperiously in our ears."I think you have said quite enough, Richard," she said, with icydignity. "Will you kindly telegraph Elizabeth that I shall startfor home tomorrow? I certainly shall not stay in a house where I amflouted as I have been this morning."XXVPLAYING THE GAMEThe big house seemed very lonely to me after my mother-in-law's abruptdeparture. I had not dreamed that I could possibly miss the olderwoman's companionship, especially after her hateful behaviorconcerning my refusal of the school position.But when she had left, in dignified dudgeon, for a visit with herdaughter, Elizabeth, I realized that I had come to like her, todepend upon her companionship more than I had thought possible. If thecountry had not been so beautiful I would have proposed going back tothe city. But the tall hedges inclosing the old place were so freshand green, the rolling woodland view from my chamber window sorestful, my beds of dahlias, cosmos, marigolds and nasturtiums sobrilliant that I could not bring myself to leave it.If I had not had the vague uneasiness concerning Dicky I could havebeen perfectly happy in spite of the loneliness. But my uneasinessconcerning Dicky's friendship with Grace Draper was deepening to realalarm and anger. I had nothing more tangible than the neighborhoodgossip, which I had so thoroughly repulsed when it was offered meby Mrs. Hoch and her daughter. But Dicky was becoming more and moredistrait, and when he would allow nothing to keep him from takingthe morning train on which Miss Draper traveled to the studio, Iremembered that when we had first come to Marvin he had taken anyforenoon train he happened to choose.The second morning after his mother's departure, Dicky almost missedkissing me good-by in his mad haste to catch his train. He rushed outof the door after a most perfunctory peck at my cheek, and I saw himalmost running down the little lane bordered with wild flowers thatled "across lots" to the railroad station."I cannot bear this any longer," I muttered to myself, clenching myhands, as I saw the Hochs, mother and daughter, watching him fromtheir screened porch, and imagined their satirical comments on hiseagerness to make the train.I sat listlessly on the veranda for an hour. Then the ringing of thetelephone roused me. As I took down the receiver I heard the droningof the long distance operator: "Is this Marvin, 971?" and at myaffirmative answer the husky voice of Lillian Underwood."Hello, my dear." Her voice had the comforting warmth which it hadheld for me ever since the memorable day when by her library fire wehad resurrected the secret which her past life and Dicky's shared.We had buried it again, smoothed out all our misunderstandings in theprocess and been sworn friends ever since."Oh, Mrs. Underwood!" My voice was almost a peal of joy. "I am so gladto hear your voice.""Are you very busy? Is there anything you cannot leave for the day?"She was direct as usual."Only the dog and cat and Katie," I answered."Good. Then what train can you get into town, and where can I meetyou? I want you to lunch with me. I have something important to talkover with you."I hastily consulted my watch. "If I hurry I can catch the 10:21. Wherecan I see you? The train reaches the Pennsylvania at 11 o'clock.""I'll be in the woman's waiting room at the Pennsylvania, not the LongIsland; the main waiting room. Look for me there. Good-by."As soon as I caught sight of Lillian I knew that something was thematter, or she would not look at me in that way. Impulsively I laid myhand on hers."Tell me, Mrs. Underwood, is anything the matter?"She imprisoned my hand in both of hers and patted it."Nothing that cannot be helped, my dear," she said determinedly. "NowI am going to forbid asking another question until we have had ourluncheon. I decline to discuss the affairs of the nation or my own onan empty stomach, and my breakfast this morning consisted of the juiceof two lemons and a small cup of coffee.""Why?" I asked mechanically, although I knew the answer."The awful penalty of trying to keep one's figure," she returnedlightly. "But I certainly am going to break training this noon. I amsimply starved."Her tone and words were reassuring, although I still felt there wassomething behind her light manner which intimately concerned me. But Ihad learned to count on her downright honesty, and her words, "Nothingthat cannot be helped, my dear," steadied me, gave me hope that nomatter what trouble she had to tell me, she had also a panacea for it.We discussed our luncheon leisurely. Under the influence of thebracing air, the beautiful view, the delicious viands, I graduallyforgot my worries, or at least pushed them back into a corner of mybrain.As we lingered over the ices, Lillian leaned over the table to me."Will you do me a favor?" she asked abruptly."Try me," I smiled back at her."Ask me to your home for a week's stay. I have an idea you need myfine Italian hand at work about now."I looked at her wonderingly, then I began to tremble."Don't look like that," she commanded sharply. "Nothing dreadful isthe matter, but that Dicky bird of yours needs his wings clipped abit, and I think I am the person to apply the shears."So there was something wrong with Dicky after all!"Of course, it's that Draper cat," said Lillian Underwood, and theindignation in her voice was a salve to my wounded pride."Then you know," I faltered."Of course, I know, you poor child; know, too, how distressed youhave been, although Dicky doesn't dream that I gathered that from hisingenuous plea for the lady."My brain whirled. Dicky making an ingenuous plea to Lillian Underwoodfor his protege, Grace Draper! I could not understand it."If Dicky has spoken of my feeling toward Miss Draper, even to you," Ibegan stormily, feeling every instinct outraged."Don't, dear child." Mrs. Underwood reached her firm, cool hand acrossthe table, and put it over my hot, trembling fingers. "You can't fightthis thing by getting angry, or by jumping at conclusions. Now, listento me."There was a peremptory note in her voice that I was glad to obey. Iresolved not to interrupt her again."Don't misunderstand me," she went on, "and please don't be angry whenI say you are about as able to cope with the situation as a new bornbaby would be. That's the reason why I want you to let me come downand be a big sister to you. Will you?""Of course. You know I will," I returned. "But won't Dicky resent--""Dicky won't dream what I'm doing," she retorted tartly, "and when hedoes wake up I'll take care of him."Always the note of domination of Dicky! Always the calm assumption,which I knew was justified, that no matter what she did he would not,remain angry at her! It spoke much for the real liking I felt forLillian Underwood that the old resentment I felt for this condition ofthings was gone forever. I knew that she was my friend even more thanDicky's, and her history had revealed to me to what lengths she wouldgo in loyalty to a friend."You see," she went on, "If the Draper woman were the ordinary type ofmodel there would be no problem at all. Dicky has always been a sortof Sir Galahad of the studios and he had been too proud to engagein even a slight flirtation with any girl in his employ. He is verysincerely in love with you, too, and that safeguards him from anyinfluence that is not quite out of the ordinary."But I tell you this Draper girl is a person to be reckoned with.She is hard as nails, beautiful as the devil, and I believe her to beperfectly unscrupulous. She is as interested in Dicky as she can bein any one outside herself, and I think she would like to smash thingsgenerally just to gratify her own egotism.""You mean--" I forced the words through stiff lips."I mean she is trying her best to make Dicky fall in love with her,but she isn't going to succeed.""But I am afraid she has succeeded!" The wail broke from me almostwithout my own volition."Why?" The monosyllable was sharp with anxiety.I knew better than to keep my part of the story from her. I told herof Dicky's growing coldness to me, his anxiety to get the train uponwhich Miss Draper traveled, the neighborhood gossip, his determinationnot to have me meet her sister. I also laid bare the coldness withwhich I had treated the girl, and my determination never to say a wordwhich would lead Dicky to believe I was jealous of her.When I had finished Lillian leaned back in her chair and laughedlightly."Is that all?" she demanded. "I thought you had something reallyserious to tell me. If you'll do exactly as I tell you we'll beat thisgame hands down.""I'll do just as you say," I responded, although it humiliated me tobe put in the position of trying to beat any game, the stake of whichwas my husband's affections."Well, then, that is settled," she said, rising. "Now, for the firstgun of the campaign. Call Dicky up, tell him you just lunched with me,and you are ready to go home any time he is.""Oh, I can't do that," I said. "I couldn't bear to feel that he mightprefer to take the train with her."Lillian came to my side, gripped my shoulder hard, and looked into myeyes grimly."See here," she said, "are you going to be a baby or a woman in thisthing?"I swallowed hard. I knew she was right."I'll do whatever you wish," I responded meekly.So I called Dicky on the telephone, and after explaining my unexpectedpresence in town, arranged to meet him at the station and go home withhim."Sounds as if we were going to dine with Friend Husband," saidLillian, as I hung up the receiver."Yes, we are going home by trolley from Jamaica. It ought to be abeautiful trip. Dicky must have been thinking of such a trip before,for he told me there was a train to Jamaica at five minutes of fourwhich connects with the trolley, and he usually gets mixed on theschedule of the trains from Marvin.""What's that?" Lillian stopped short, then turned the subject. "Howwould you like to go down to the station on top of a bus?" she asked,"or would you prefer a taxi?""The bus by all means," I returned."I see we are kindred souls," she said. "I dote on a bus ride myself."We were within a few blocks of the railroad station when she said:"I hope I am mistaken, but I think Miss Draper will be a member ofyour trolley trip home, and I want you to be prepared to act as if itwere the thing you most desired.""If you are right, I will not go," I said, a cold fury at my heart. "Iwill take the next train home.""You will do no such thing." Lillian's voice was imperative. "Youpromised you would let me be your big sister in this thing, and you'vegot to let me run it my way!""See here, my dear," her tones were caressing now. "You must use theweapons of a woman of the world in this situation, not those of anunsophisticated girl. The primitive woman from the East Side wouldwaltz in and destroy the beauty of any lady she found philandering,however innocently, with her spouse. The proud, sensitive,inexperienced woman would have done just what you have contemplated,go home alone and ignore the wanderers. But, my dear, you must doneither of those things. You cannot afford to play in Draper's handlike that.""Tell me what I must do," I said wearily."In a minute. First let me put you right on one question. Dicky is notin love with this girl yet. If he were, he would not wish any meetingbetween you and her. He is interested and attracted, of course, asany impressionable man with an eye for beauty would be if thrown inconstant companionship with her. And, forgive me, but I am sure youhave taken the wrong tack about it."You must dissemble, act a part, meet her feminine wiles with sharperweapons. Now you have been cold to her, avoided seeing her whenpossible, and while not quarreling with Dicky about her, yetevidencing your disapproval of her in many little ways.""It is quite true," I answered miserably."Then turn over a new leaf right now. You may be sure at this minutethat Dicky is worrying more over your attitude toward this trip thanhe is over Miss Draper's dimples. He expects you to have a grouch.Give him a surprise. Greet the lady smilingly, express your pleasureat having her companionship on your trip, but manage to registerdelicately your surprise at her being one of the party. No, betterleave that part to me. You do the pleasant greeting, I'll put over thecatty stuff. But on your honor, until I see you again, will you putdown your feelings and cultivate Grace Draper, letting your attitudechange slowly, so Dicky will suspect nothing?""I'll try," I said faintly."You'll do it," she returned bluntly. "I want her to be almost amember of the family by the time I get there."       *       *       *       *       *The trip by trolley with my husband and Grace Draper through thebeautiful country lying between Jamaica and Hempstead will alwaysremain in my memory as a turning point in my ideas of matrimony andits problems.Lillian Underwood's talk with me had destroyed all my previousconceptions of dignified wifely behavior in the face of a problem likemine.So all during the journey home through the fragrant September air, Ipaid as much attention to my role of calm friendliness as any actresswould to a first night appearance. Remembering Lillian's advice tomake the transition gradual from the frigid courtesy of my formermeetings with Grace Draper to the friendly warmth we had plannedfor our campaign, I adopted the manner one would use to a casual butinteresting acquaintance.I kept the conversational ball rolling on almost every topic under thesun. But I found that the burden of the talk fell on my shoulders. Thegirl was plainly uneasy and puzzled at my manner. Dicky's thoughtsI could not fathom, I caught his eyes fixed on me once or twice withadmiration and a touch of bewilderment in them, but he said verylittle.It was a wonderful night; warm, with the languor of September,fragrant with the heavy odors of ripening fruit and the late autumnblossoms. There was no moon, but the long summer twilight had notyielded entirely to the darkness and the stars were especially bright.A night for lovers, for vows given and returned, it was this, if evera night was. What a wonderful journey this would have been for me ifonly this other woman was not on the other side of my husband! Thenwith savage resentment I realized that she might also be thinking whatpossibilities the evening would have held for her if I had not been athird on the little journey.Whatever Dicky was thinking I dared not guess. Whatever it was, I wassure that his thoughts were not dangerously charged with emotionas were mine and Grace Draper's. I was fiercely glad of hisirresponsibility for the first time."Come on, girls. Here's Crest Haven. I've got a brilliant idea. We'llget one of these open flivvers they have at the station and motor toMarvin luxuriously. Beats waiting for the train all hollow."I opened my lips to protest against the extravagance, then closed themwithout speaking, flushing hotly at the danger I had escaped. Nothingwould have so embarrassed Dicky and delighted Miss Draper as anydisplay of financial prudence on my part."Oh, Mr. Graham, how wonderful!" Miss Draper gave the impression offinding her voice mislaid somewhere about her, and deciding suddenlyto use it. "This is just the night for a motor ride."Her voice matched the night, cooing, languorous, seductive. I knewif she had voiced her real thoughts she would have willed that Ibe dropped anywhere by the roadside, so that she might have theenchanting solitude of the ride with Dicky.A daring thought flashed into my brain as we stepped into the taxi.Why not pretend to play into her hand? It would prove to both Dickyand her that I was indifferent to their close friendship. And I wassecretly anxious to see what way Dicky would reply to my proposition."Dear," I said with emotion, I fancy just the right note of conjugaltenderness in my voice. "Won't you drop me at the house first beforeyou take Miss Draper home? I'm afraid I am getting a headache. I'vehad a rather strenuous day with Lillian, you know, and I really amvery tired. You will excuse me, I am sure, Miss Draper. I'll try neverto quit like this again. But my headaches are not to be trifled with.""I am so sorry." Her voice was conventional, but I caught the undernote of joy. "Of course I will excuse you.""Are you sure the ride over there wouldn't do your head good, Madge?""Oh, no, Dicky, I feel that I must get home quickly. But that does notneed to affect your plans. Katie is at home. I do not need you in theleast. Go right along and enjoy your ride. I only wish I felt likedoing it, too."I fairly held my breath the rest of the ride. Dicky had not replied tomy suggestion. What would he do when we reached the house?The taxi sped along over the smooth roads, turned up the drivewayat the side of the house and halted before the steps of the veranda.Dicky sprang out, gave his hand to me, and then turned to the driver."Take this lady to Marvin," he said. "She will tell you the street.How much do I owe you?""One dollar and a half."I knew the charge was excessive, but I also knew enough to hold mytongue about it. Dicky paid the man and spoke to the girl inside."Good night, Miss Draper. You see you will have to enjoy the ride forboth of us.""Oh, Dicky!" I protested, but with a fierce little thrill of triumphat my heart. "This is a shame. Honestly, I do not need you. Go on overwith Miss Draper.""Of course he will do no such thing." The girl spoke with finality. Icould imagine the storm of jealous rage that was swaying her. "Thereis nothing else for Mr. Graham to do but to stay with you." Her toneadded, "You have compelled him to do so against his will."She leaned from the cab. Her face looked ethereally beautiful in thefaint light. I knew she meant to make Dicky regret that he could notaccompany her."Good night," she said sweetly. "I am so sorry you do not feel well. Isincerely hope you will be better in the morning."But as the taxi rolled away, my heart beating a triumphantaccompaniment to the roll of its wheels, I knew she was wishing meevery malevolent thing possible.I was glad she could not guess the bitter taste in my cup of victory.Long after Dicky was asleep, I lay on my porch bed looking out at thestars and debating over and over the question:"Did Dicky refuse to accompany Grace Draper to her home because ofconsideration for me, or because he was afraid to trust himself alonewith her?"XXVIA VOICE THAT CARRIED FAR"Ah! Mrs. Graham, this is an unexpected pleasure."Dr. Pettit's eyes looked down into my own with an expression thatemphasized the words he had just uttered. His outstretched handclasped mine warmly, his impressive greeting embarrassed me a bit, andI turned instinctively toward Dicky to see if he had noticed the youngphysician's extraordinarily cordial greeting.But this I had no opportunity to discover, for as I turned, a taxidrew up to the curb where the Underwoods--who had come down to spendthe promised week with us--Dicky and I were waiting for the littleCrest Haven Beach trolley and Dicky sprang to meet Grace Draper andthe Durkees--Alfred Durkee and his mother, who completed our party forthe motor boat trip."I am very glad to see you, Dr. Pettit," I murmured conventionally,then hurriedly: "Pardon me a moment, I must greet these guests. I willbe back."When I turned again to him after welcoming Grace Draper with forcedfriendliness, and the Durkees with the real warmth of liking I feltfor them, I found him talking to Lillian.Dr. Pettit, it appeared, was waiting for the same car we wished totake, and no one looking at our friendly chatting group would haveknown that he did not belong to the party.It was when we were all seated comfortably in the trolley, bowlingmerrily along over the grass-strewn track, that Lillian voiced asuggestion which had sprung into my own mind, but to which I did notquite know how to give utterance."Look here," she said brusquely, "I'm not the hostess of this party,but I'm practically one of the family, so I feel free to issue aninvitation if I wish. Dr. Pettit, what's the matter with you joiningour party for the day? Dicky here has been howling for another man tohelp lug the grub all morning. Unless you are set on a solitary daythat man 'might as well be you'"--she punctuated the parody with amocking little moue.I had a sneaking little notion that Dicky would have been glad of theopportunity to box Lillian's ears for her suggestion. I do not thinkhe enjoyed the idea of adding Dr. Pettit to the party, but, of course,in view of what she had said there was nothing for him to do but topretend a cordial acquiescence in her suggestion."That's the very thing," he said, with a heartiness which only I, andpossibly Lillian, could dream was assumed. "Lil, you do occasionallyhave a gleam of human intelligence, don't you?"I do hope that you have no plan that will interfere with coming withus," he said to the physician. "We have a big boat chartered down hereat the beach, and we're going to loaf along out to one of the 'desertislands' and camp for the day.""That sounds like a most interesting program," said the youngphysician. His voice held a note of hesitation, and he looked swiftly,inquiringly, at me and back again. It was so carelessly done that I donot think any one noticed it, but I realized that he was waiting forme to join my voice to the invitation."Well, Dr. Pettit," Dicky came up at this juncture, "out for the day?"His tone was cordial enough, but I, who knew every inflection ofDicky's voice, realized that he did not relish the appearance of Dr.Pettit upon the scene."Yes, I'm going down to the shore for a dip," the young physicianreturned. And then without the stiff dignity which I had seen in hisprofessional manner, he acknowledged the introductions which I gavehim to Grace Draper and the Durkees."I trust you will think it interesting enough to make it worthyour while to join us," I said demurely, lifting my eyes to his andcatching a swift flash of something which might be either relief ortriumph in his steely gray ones."Indeed, I shall be very glad to accompany you," he said, smiling.Our boat, a large, comfortable one, built on lines of usefulness,rather than beauty, slipped over the dancing blue waters of the baylike an enchanted thing. A neat striped awning was stretched over therear of the boat beneath which we lounged at ease.The boat sped on as lazily as our idle conversation, and finally wecame in sight of a gleaming beach of sand, with seaweed so luxuriantlytangled that it looked like small clumps of bushes, with the calm,still water of the bay on one side, and the lazily rolling surf on theother."Behold our desert island!" Dicky exclaimed dramatically, springing tohis feet.Jim ran the boat skilfully up on the beach and grounded her. HarryUnderwood stepped forward to assist me ashore, but Dr. Pettit, withunobtrusive quickness, was before him.As I laid my hand in that of the young physician, Harry Underwood gavea hoarse stage laugh. "I told you so," he croaked maliciously; "I knewI had a rival on my hands."As Harry Underwood uttered his jibing little speech, Dicky raised hishead and looked fixedly at me. It was an amazed, questioning look, onethat had in it something of the bewilderment of a child. In anotherinstant he had turned away to answer a question of Grace Draper's.I felt my heart beating madly. Was Dicky really taking notice of theattentions which Harry Underwood and Dr. Pettit were bestowing uponme? I had not time to ponder long, however, for Lillian Underwoodseized my arm almost as soon as we stepped on shore and walked me awayuntil we were out of earshot of the others."Did you see Dicky's face," she demanded breathlessly, "when Harry andthat lovely doctor of yours were doing the rival gallant act? It wasperfectly lovely to see his lordship so puzzled. That doctor friend ofyours was certainly sent by Providence just at this time. Just keep upa judicious little flirtation with him and I'll wager that beforethe week's out Dicky will have forgotten such a girl as Grace Draperexists."If it had not been for the memory of Lillian's advice ringing inmy ears, I think I should have much astonished Dr. Pettit and HarryUnderwood when they started into the surf with me.The whole situation was most annoying to me. And, besides, it wasso unutterably silly! I might have been any foolish school girl ofseventeen, with a couple of immature youths vying for my smiles, forany reserve or dignity there was in the situation.My fingers itched to astonish each of the smirking men with a soundbox on the ear. But my fiercest anger was against Dicky. If he hadbeen properly attentive to me, Mr. Underwood and Dr. Pettit would havehad no opportunity, indeed would not have dared, to pay me the idioticcompliments, or to offer the silly attentions they had given me.But Dicky and Grace Draper were romping in the surf, like twochildren, splashing water over each other, and running hand in handtoward the place far out on the sand--for it was low tide--where theycould swim.They might have been alone on the beach for anything their appearanceshowed to the contrary. And yet as I gazed I saw Dicky look past thegirl in my direction, with a quick, furtive, watching glance.As they went farther into the surf, he sent another glance over hisshoulder toward me.As I caught it, guessing that in all his apparent interest in GraceDraper he was yet watching me and my behavior, something seemed tosnap in my brain.I would give him something to watch!With a swift movement I slipped a little bit away from the two men bymy side, and, filling my hands with water, splashed it full into theface of Harry Underwood."Dare you to play blind man's buff," I said gayly, sending anotherhandful into Dr. Pettit's face, and then slipping adroitly to one sideI laughed with, I fancy, as much mischief as any hoyden of sixteencould have put into her voice, at the picture the men made trying toget the salt water out of their eyes.I had no compunctions on the score of their discomfort, for I feltthat I had a score to settle with each of them. The way in which eachtook my rudeness, however, was characteristic of the men.Harry Underwood's face grew black for a minute, then it cleared and helaughed boisterously."You little devil," he said, "I'll pay you for that. Ever get kissedunder water? Well, that's what will happen to you before this day isover."Dr. Pettit's face did not change, but into his gray eyes came alittle steely glint. He said nothing, only smiled at me. But there wassomething about both smile and eyes that made me more uncomfortablethan Harry Underwood's bizarre threat.I was so unskilled in this game of banter and flirtation that I was ata loss what to say. Recklessly I grasped at the first thing which cameinto my mind."You'll have to catch me first," I said, daringly, and turning, ranswiftly out toward the open sea. I am only a fair swimmer, but the seawas unusually calm, so that I went much farther than I otherwise wouldhave dared.When I found the water getting too deep for walking I startedswimming. As I swam I looked over my shoulder. The two men werefollowing me, both swimming easily. Dr. Pettit was in the lead, butHarry Underwood, with powerful strokes, was not far behind him. Iconcluded that Dr. Pettit had been the swifter runner, but that theother man was the better swimmer.As I saw them coming toward me, I realized that I had given them achallenge which each in his own way would probably take up. I wasdismayed. I felt that I could not bear the touch of either man's hand.In another moment my punishment had come.Dr. Pettit overtook me, stretched out his hand, just touched me witha caressing, protecting little gesture, and said in a low tone, "Don'tbe afraid, little girl: If you will accord me the privilege, I willsee that your friend does not get a chance of fulfilling his threat."I knew that he intended his words for my ear alone, but he had notcounted on Harry Underwood's quick ear. That gentleman swam lazilytoward us, saying as he passed us, with a malicious little grin:"Better go slow upon that protecting-heroine-from-villain stunt. I seeFriend Husband is getting a bit restless."He forged on into the surf, with long, powerful strokes that yet hadthe curious appearance of indolence which invests every action of his.Startled at his words, I looked toward the place where I had last seenDicky romping in the waves with Grace Draper.The girl was swimming by herself. Dicky, with rapid strokes, wascoming toward us."For the love of heaven, Madge!" he said, angrily, as he came up tous. "Haven't you any more sense than to come away out here? This seais calm, but it is treacherous, and you are farther out than you haveever gone before. Come back with me this minute."The sight of Grace Draper swimming by herself gave me an inspiration.The game which Lillian had advised me to play was certainlysucceeding. I would keep it up."Have you taken leave of your senses?" I demanded, assuming anindignation I did not feel. "Dr. Pettit was saying nothing to me thatcould possibly interest you." I felt a little twinge of conscience atthe fib, but I had too much at stake to hesitate over a quibble. "Asfor casting sheep's eyes, as you so elegantly express it, you've beendoing so much of it yourself that I suppose it is natural for you toaccuse other people of it.""Now what do you mean by that?" Dicky demanded, staring at me withsuch an innocent air that I could have laughed if I had not beenthoroughly angry at his silly attempt to misunderstand me."Don't be silly, Dicky," I said, pettishly; "I can swim perfectlywell out here and even if anything should happen, Dr. Pettit and Mr.Underwood are surely good swimmers enough to take care of me." I couldnot resist putting that last little barbed arrow into my quiver, forDicky, while a good swimmer, even I could see, was not as skillful aseither Mr. Underwood or Dr. Pettit.Dicky waited a long moment before answering, then he spoke tensely,sternly:"Madge, answer me, are you coming back with me now, or are you not?"The tone in which he put the question was one which I could not brook,even at the risk of seriously offending Dicky. An angry refusal wasupon my lips when Harry Underwood's voice saved me the necessity of areply."There, there, Dicky-bird, keep your bathing suit on," he admonished,roughly; "of course, she'll go back, we'll all go back, a regulartriumphal procession with beautiful heroine escorted by watchfulhusband, treacherous villain and faithful friend." He grinned at Dr.Pettit, and we all swam back to shallower water, Dr. Pettit and Mr.Underwood gradually edging off some distance away from Dicky and me.I could not help smiling at the ludicrous aspect we must havepresented. Dicky must have been watching me narrowly, for he suddenlygrowled:"To the devil with Grace Draper!" Dicky cried, and his voice waslouder, carried farther than he realized. "I'm not bothering abouther. She's getting on my nerves anyway; but you happen to be my wife,and what you do is my concern, don't you forget that, my lady."XXVII"HOW NEARLY I LOST YOU!"Dicky and I had been so engrossed in our quarrel that we had notnoticed our proximity to Grace Draper. Whether she had purposelyapproached us or not, I could not tell. At any rate, when, afterDicky's outburst of jealous anger against Dr. Pettit and my retortconcerning his model, he had cried out loudly, "To the devil withGrace Draper! I'm not bothering about her. She's getting on my nervesanyway," I heard a choking little gasp from behind me, and, turningswiftly, saw the girl standing quite near to us.Except when excited, Grace Draper never has any color, but the usualclear pallor of her face had changed to a grayish whiteness. I hadreason enough to hate the girl, I had schemed with Lillian to saveDicky from her influence, but in that moment, as I gazed at her, Ifelt nothing but deep pity for her.For all the poise and pretence of the girl was stripped from her. Shewas a ghastly, pitiable sight, as she stood there, her big eyes fixedon Dicky, her breath coming unevenly in shuddering gasps.Then she glanced at me and her eyes held mine for a moment,fascinated; then, with a little shrug of her shoulders, she turnedaway, and I knew that the danger of Dicky's realizing her agitationwas passed."What are you looking at so earnestly?" Dicky demanded.Without waiting for an answer, he turned swiftly, following my gaze,and catching sight of the retreating back of Grace Draper."Good Lord!" he gasped in consternation. "Do you suppose she heardwhat I said?""Oh, I'm sure she didn't," I replied mendaciously.Dicky looked at me curiously. Whether he believed me or not I do notknow. At any rate, he did not press the question.Neither did he again refer to Dr. Pettit, to my sincere relief.We made a merry picnic of our impromptu luncheon, and after it,when we were dried by the sun, we spent a comfortable lazy two hourslounging on the beach.If I had not seen Grace Draper's blanched face and the terrible lookin her eyes when she had heard Dicky's exclamation of indifferencetoward her, I would not have dreamed that her heart held any otheremotion except that of happy enjoyment of the day. She laughed andchatted as if she had not a care in the world, directing much of herconversation to me. It crossed my mind that for some reason of herown she was trying to make it appear to every one that we were onespecially friendly terms.It was after one of Dicky's periodical trips to Jim's fire, whichHarry Underwood did not allow him to forget, and his report that thedinner would be shortly forthcoming, that Grace Draper rose and saidcarelessly: "Suppose we all have another dip before dinner; therewon't be time before we leave for a swim afterward, and the water istoo fine to miss going in once more. What do you say, Mrs. Graham?Will you race me?"I saw Lillian's quick little gesture of dissuasion, and through methere crept an indefinable shrinking from going with the girl, but themen were already chasing each other through the shallow water, and Idid not wish to humiliate my guest by refusing to go with her."It can hardly be called a race," I answered quietly, "for you swim somuch better than I, but I will do my best."I followed her into the water with every appearance of enjoyment, andexerted every ounce of my strength to try to keep up with her rushthrough the waves.I knew she was not exerting her full strength, for she is amagnificent swimmer, but I found that I had all I could do to keeppace with her. She seemed to be bent on showing off her skill to me,or else she was, trying to test my nerves by teasing me.I knew that she was able to swim under the water when she chose, butthat did not accustom me to the frequent sudden disappearances whichshe made, or to her equally sudden reappearances above the surface ofthe water.She would dash on ahead of me a few yards, then her head woulddisappear beneath the waves. The next thing I knew she would bob upalmost at my side. There was a fascination about this skill of herswhich gripped me. I was so engrossed in watching her that I did notrealize how far out we had gone until at one of her quick turns, I,following her, caught a glimpse of the beach.To my overwrought imagination it seemed miles away. I suddenly felt anoverwhelming terror of the cloudless sky, the rolling waves, even ofthe girl who had brought me out so far.I looked wildly around for her, but could not see her anywhere.Evidently she was indulging in one of her underwater tricks. I turnedblindly toward the shore. As I did so I felt a sudden jerk, a quickclutch at my foot, a clutch that dragged me down relentlessly.I remembered gasping, struggling, fighting for life, with an awfulsensation of being sunk in a gulf of blackness. I fancied I heardLillian Underwood's voice in a piercing scream. Then I knew nothingmore.The next thing I remember was a voice. "There, she's coming out of it.Let me have that brandy," and then I felt a spoon inserted between myteeth and something fiery trickled gently drop by drop in my throat.The voice was that of Dr. Pettit.With a gasp as the pungent liquid almost strangled me, I opened myeyes to find that the physician's arm was supporting my shoulder andhis hand holding the spoon to my lips."Oh, thank God, thank God," some one groaned brokenly on the otherside of me, and I turned my eyes to meet Dicky's face bent close tomine and working with emotion."She is all right now," the physician said, reassuringly. "She willsuffer far more from the shock than from any real damage by herimmersion. Get her into the tent." He turned to Mrs. Underwood andsaid: "Rub her down hard, and if there are any extra wraps in theparty put them around her. Give her a stiff little dose of this." Hehanded Lillian the brandy flask. "Then bring her out into the sunshineagain. She'll be all right in a little while."Dicky picked me up in his arms as the physician spoke, as if I hadbeen a child, and strode with me toward the improvised tent Dr. Pettithad indicated."Sweetheart, sweetheart, suppose I had lost you," he said brokenly,and then, manlike, reproachfully even in the intensity of his emotion:"What possessed you to go out so far? If it hadn't been for GraceDraper being on hand when you went down, you would never have comeback. Harry and I were too far away when Lil screamed to be of anyuse. But by the time we got there Miss Draper had you by the hair andwas towing you in."My brain was too dazed to comprehend much of what Dicky was saying,but one remark smote on my brain like a sledge hammer.Grace Draper had saved my life! Why, if I had any memory left at all,Grace Draper had--Lillian came forward swiftly and placed a restraining finger on mylips."You mustn't talk yet," she admonished; then to Dicky, "Run away now,Dicky-bird, and give Mrs. Durkee and me a chance to take care of her."Little Mrs. Durkee's sweet, anxious face was close to Lillian's. "Yes,Dicky," she echoed, "hurry out now."Dicky waited long enough to kiss me, a long, lingering, tender kissthat did more to revive me than the brandy, and then went obedientlyaway while Mrs. Durkee and Lillian ministered to me as only tender andefficient women can.When I was nearly dressed again, Lillian turned to Mrs. Durkee: "Wouldyou mind getting a cup of coffee for this girl?" she asked. "I knowJim and Katie have some in preparation out there.""Of course," Mrs. Durkee returned, and fluttered away.She had no sooner gone than Lillian gathered me in her arms witha protecting, maternal gesture, as if I had been her own daughterrestored to her."Quick," she demanded fiercely, "tell me just what happened out therewhen you went under. Did you get a cramp or what?"I waited a moment before answering. The suspicion that had come to mybrain was so horrible that I did not wish to utter it even to Lillian."I think it must have been the undertow," I said feebly. "I feltsomething like a clutch at my feet dragging me down."Lillian's face hardened. Into her eyes came a revengeful gleam."Undertow!" she ejaculated, "you poor baby! Your undertow was thatDraper devil's calculating hand!"I stared at Lillian, horrified."But Lillian," I protested, faintly, "how is it that they all say shesaved my life? If she really tried to drown me why didn't she let mego?""Got cold feet," returned Lillian, laconically. "You see she isn'tnaturally evil enough deliberately to plan to kill you. I give hercredit for that with all her devilishness, but something happenedtoday between her and Dicky. I don't know what it was that drove hernearly frantic. I saw her look at you two or three times in a way thatchilled my blood. I didn't like the idea of your going out there withher, but I didn't see any way of stopping you."Now, there's one thing I want you to promise me," she went on,hurriedly. "Although I know you well enough to know it's something youwould do anyway without a promise. I don't want you to hint to anyone,even Dicky, what you know of the Draper's attempt to put you out ofcommission. It's the chance I've been looking for, the winning card Ineeded so badly. I won't need to stay a week with you, my dear, as Ithought when I first planned my little campaign to get Dicky out ofthe Draper's clutches. I can go home tonight if I wish to, with mymission accomplished.""Why, what do you mean?" I asked."Just this," retorted Lillian, "that I'm going to spring the nicestlittle case of polite blackmail on Grace Draper before the day is overthat you ever saw."I shall need you when I do it, so be prepared, although you won'tneed to say anything."But here comes Mrs. Durkee with the coffee. Do you think, after youdrink it, you'll feel strong enough to have me tackle Grace Draper?"I shivered inwardly, but bent my head in assent. Lillian had provedtoo good a friend of mine for me to go against her wishes in anything.After I had drunk the steaming coffee, with Mrs. Durkee looking on insmiling approval, Lillian made another request of the cheery littlewoman."Would you mind asking Miss Draper to come here a moment?" she saidquietly. "Mrs. Graham wants to thank her, and then do hunt up thathusband of mine and tell him to rig up some sort of couch for Mrs.Graham, so she can lie down while we have our dinner. We can all taketurns feeding her."As Mrs. Durkee hurried out, eager to help in any way possible, Lillianturned to me grimly."That will keep her out of the way while we have our seance with theDraper. Now brace up, my dear; just nod or shake your head when I giveyou the cue."It seemed hours, although in reality it was only a moment or twobefore Grace Draper parted the improvised sail curtains and stoodbefore us. I think she knew something of what we wished, for her faceheld the grayish whiteness that had been there when she heard Dicky'simpatient words concerning her. But her head was held high, her eyeswere unflinching as she faced us."Miss Draper," Lillian began, her voice low and controlled, but deadlyin its icy grimness, "we won't detain you but a moment, for we aregoing to get right down to brass tacks."I know exactly what happened out there in the surf a little whileago. I was watching from the shore, and saw enough to make mesuspicious, and what I have learned from Mrs. Graham has confirmed mysuspicions." She glanced toward me."You felt a hand clutch your foot and then drag you down, did you not,Madge?"I nodded weakly, conscious only of the terrible burning eyes of MissDraper fixed upon me."It is a lie," Miss Draper began, fiercely, but Lillian held up herhand in a gesture that appeared to cow the girl."Don't trouble either to deny or affirm it," she said icily. "There isbut one thing I wish to hear from your lips; it is the answer to thisquestion: Will you take the offer Mr. Underwood made you, to get youthat theatrical engagement, and, having done this, will you keep outof Dicky Graham's way for every day of your life hereafter? I don'tmind telling you that if you do this I shall keep my mouth closedabout this thing; if you do not, I shall call the rest of the partyhere now and tell them what I know.""Mr. Graham will not believe you," the girl said through stiff lips.Her attitude was like the final turning of an animal at bay."Don't fool yourself," Lillian retorted caustically. "I am Mr.Graham's oldest friend. He would believe me almost more quickly thanhe would his wife, for he might think that his wife was prejudicedagainst you."I am not a patient woman, Miss Draper. Don't try me too far. Takethis offer, or take the consequences."The girl stood with bent head for a long minute, as Lillian flaredout her ultimatum, then she lifted it and looked steadily into Mrs.Underwood's eyes."Remember, I admit nothing," she said defiantly, "but, of course, Iaccept your offer. There is nothing else for me to do in the face ofthe very ingenious story which you two have concocted between you."She turned and walked steadily out of the tent.Her words, the blaze in her eyes, the very motion of her body, wasmagnificently insolent."She's a wonder!" Lillian admitted, drawing a deep breath, as the girlvanished. "I didn't think she had bravado enough to bluff it out likethat.""And now my dear," Lillian spoke briskly, "just lean your head againstmy shoulder, shut your eyes, and try to rest for a little; I know thatsand with a rain coat covering doesn't make the most comfortable couchin the world, but I think I can hold you so that you may be able totake a tiny nap."What Dicky surmised concerning the events of the afternoon, I do notknow. He must have known that the girl was madly in love with him.Something had happened to put an end to the infatuation into which hehad been slipping so rapidly.Had he become tired of the girl's open pursuit of him? Had he guessedto what lengths her desperation had driven her? Had the shock of mynarrow escape from drowning startled him into a fresh realization ofhis love for me?I felt too weak even to guess the solution of the riddle. All I wantedto do was to nestle close to Dicky's side, to be taken care of andpetted like a baby.The ride home through the sunset was a quiet one. To me it was one ofthe happiest hours of my life.Dicky, fussing over me as if I were a fragile piece of china, sat inthe most sheltered corner of the boat, and held me securely againsthim, protecting me with his arm from any sudden lurch or jolt the boatmight give.Seemingly by a tacit agreement, the others of the party left us toourselves. They talked in subdued tones, apparently unwilling to spoilthe wonderful beauty of the twilight ride home with much conversation.When the boat landed, Harry Underwood, at Dicky's suggestion,telephoned for taxis to meet the little trolley, upon which wejourneyed from the beach to Crest Haven. One of these bore the Durkeesand Grace Draper to their homes; the other was to carry Harry andLillian, with Dicky and me, to the old Brennan house.Dr. Pettit, who was to take a train back to the city, came up to usafter we were seated in the taxi:"I would advise that you go directly to bed, Mrs. Graham," he said,with his most professional air. "You have had an unusual shock, andrest is the one imperative thing."I felt that common courtesy demanded that I extend an invitation tothe physician to call at our home when next he came to Marvin, butfear of Dicky's possible displeasure tied my tongue. I could not doanything to jeopardize the happiness so newly restored to me.To my great surprise, however, Dicky impulsively extended his hand andsmiled upon the young physician:"Thanks ever so much, old man," he said cordially, "for the way youpulled the little lady through this afternoon. Don't forget to come tosee us when next you're in Marvin."I was tucked safely into Dicky's bed, which he insisted on my sharing,saying that he could take care of me better there than in my own room,when he gave me the explanation of his cordiality."I'm not particularly stuck on that doctor chap," he said, tuckingthe coverlet about me with awkward tenderness, "but I'm so thankfultonight I just can't be sour on anybody.""Sweetheart, sweetheart!" He put his cheek to mine. "To think hownearly I lost you!" And my heart echoed the exclamation could notspeak aloud:"Ah! Dicky, to think how nearly I lost YOU."XXVIIIA DARK NIGHT AND A TROUBLED DAWN"How many more trains are there tonight?"Lillian Underwood's voice was sharp with anxiety. My voice reflectedworry, as I answered her query."Two, one at 12:30, and the last, until morning, 2 o'clock.""Well, I suppose we might as well lie down and get some sleep. Theyprobably will be out on the last train.""You don't suppose," I began, then stopped."That they've slipped off the water wagon?" Lillian returned grimly."That's just what I'm afraid of. We will know in a little while,anyway. Harry will begin to telephone me, and keep it up until he getstoo lazy to remember the number. Come on, let's get off these clothesand get into comfortable negligees. We probably shall have a longnight of worry before us."I obeyed her suggestion, but I was wild with an anxiety which Lilliandid not suspect. My question, which she had finished for me, had notmeant what she had thought at all. In fact, until she spoke of it,that possibility had not occurred to me.It was a far different fear that was gripping me. I was afraid thatGrace Draper had failed to keep the bargain she had made with Lillianto keep out of Dicky's way, in return for Lillian's silence concerningthe Draper girl's mad attempt to drown me during our "desert islandpicnic."Whether or not my narrow escape from death had brought Dicky to arealization of what we meant to each other, I could not tell. At anyrate, he never had been more my royal lover than in the five dayssince my accident. Indeed, since that day he had made but one trip tothe city beside this with Harry Underwood, the return from which wewere so anxiously awaiting. When the men left in the morning they hadtold us not to plan dinner at home, but to be ready to accompany themto a nearby resort for a "shore dinner," as they were coming out onthe 5 o'clock train. No wonder that at 10:30 Lillian and I were bothanxious and irritated.Dicky's behavior toward me, since death so nearly gripped me,certainly had given me no reason to doubt that his infatuationfor Grace Draper was at an end. But no one except myself knew howapparently strong her hold had been on Dicky through the weeks of thelate summer, nor how ruthless her own mad passion for him was. Had shereconsidered her bargain? Was she making one last attempt to regainher hold upon Dicky?The telephone suddenly rang out its insistent summons. I ran to it,but Lillian brushed past me and took the receiver from my tremblinghand.I sank down on the stairs and clutched the stair rail tightly withboth hands to keep from falling."Yes, yes, this is Lil, Harry. What's the matter?"Seriously?"Where are you?"Yes, we were coming, anyway. Yes, we'll bring Miss Draper's sister.Don't bother to meet us. We'll take a taxi straight from the station."Staggering with terror, I caught her hand, and prevented her puttingthe receiver back on its hook."Is Dicky dead?" I demanded."No, no, child," she said soothingly."I don't believe it," I cried, maddened at my own fear. "Call him tothe 'phone. Let me hear his voice myself, then I'll believe you."She took the receiver out of my grip, put it back upon the hook,and grasped my hands firmly, holding them as she would those of ahysterical child."See here, Madge," she said sternly, "Dicky is very much alive, but heis hurt slightly and needs you. We have barely time to get Mrs. Gormanand that train. Hurry and get ready."       *       *       *       *       *Dicky's eager eyes looked up from his white face into mine. His voice,weak, but thrilling with the old love note, repeated my name over andover, as if he could not say it enough.I sank on my knees beside the bed in which Dicky lay. I realized in ahazy sort of fashion that the room must be Harry Underwood's own bedchamber, but I spent no time in conjecture. All my being was fused inthe one joyous certainty that Dicky was alive and in my arms, andthat I had been assured he would get well. I laid my face againsthis cheek, shifted my arms so that no weight should rest against hisbandaged left shoulder, which, at my first glimpse of it, had causedme to shudder involuntarily."If you only knew how awful I felt about this," Dicky murmured,contritely, and, as I raised my eyes to look at him, his owncontracted as with pain."It's a fine mess I've brought you into by my carelessness thissummer, but I swear I didn't dream--"I laid my hand on his lips."Don't, sweetheart," I pleaded. "It is enough for me to know that youare safe in my arms. Nothing else in the world matters. Just rest andget well for me."He kissed the hand against his lips, then reached up the unbandagedarm, and with gentle fingers pulled mine away."But there is one thing I must talk about," he said solemnly,"something you must do for me, Madge, for I cannot get up from hereto see to it. It's a hard thing to ask you to do, but you are so braveand true, I know you will understand. Tell me, is that poor girl goingto die?""I--I don't know, Dicky," I faltered, salving my conscience withthe thought that he must not be excited with the knowledge of GraceDraper's true condition."Poor girl," he sighed. "I never dreamed she looked at things in thelight she did, but I feel guilty anyhow, responsible. She must havethe best of care, Madge, best physicians, best nurses, everything. Imust meet all expenses, even to the ones which will be necessary ifshe should die."He brought out the last words fearfully. Little drops of moisturestood on his forehead. I saw that the shock of the girl's terrible acthad unnerved him.Nerving myself to be as practical and matter-of-fact as possible, Iwiped the moisture from his brow with my handkerchief and patted hischeek soothingly."I will attend to everything," I promised, "just as if you were ableto see to it. But you must do something for me in return; you mustpromise not to talk any more and try and go to sleep.""My own precious girl," he sighed, happily, and then drowsily--"Kiss me!"I pressed my lips to his. His eyes closed, and with his hand clingingtightly to mine, he slept.How long I knelt there I do not know. No one came near the room, butthrough the closed door I could hear the hushed hurry and movementwhich marks a desperate fight between life and death.I felt numbed, bewildered. I tried to visualize what was happeningoutside the room, but I could not. I felt as if Dicky and I had comethrough some terrible shipwreck together and had been cast up on thisfriendly piece of shore.I knew that later I would have to face my own soul in a rigidinquisition as to how far I had been to blame for this tragedy. I hadbeen married less than a year, and yet my husband was involved in ahorrible complication like this.But my brain was too exhausted to follow that line of thought. I wascontent to rest quietly on my knees by the side of Dicky's bed, withhis hand in mine and my eyes fixed on his white face with the longlashes shadowing it.At first I was perfectly comfortable, then after a while littletingling pains began to run through my back and limbs.I dared not change my position for fear of disturbing Dicky, so Iset my teeth and endured the discomfort. The sharpness of the paingradually wore away as the minutes went by, and was succeeded by adistressing feeling of numbness extending all over my body.Just as I was beginning to feel that the numbness must soon extend tomy brain, the door opened and some one came quietly in.My back was to the door, and so careful were the footsteps crossingthe room that I could not tell who the newcomer was until I felt afirm hand gently unclasping my nervous fingers from Dicky's. Then Ilooked up into the solicitous face of Dr. Pettit."How is it that you have been left alone here so long?" he inquiredindignantly, yet keeping his voice to the professional low pitch of asick room. He put his strong, firm hands under my elbows, raised me tomy feet and supported me to a chair, for my feet were like pieces ofwood. I could hardly lift them."How long have you been kneeling there?" he demanded. "You would havefainted away if you had stayed there much longer.""I do not know," I replied faintly, "but it doesn't matter. Tell me,is my husband all right, and how badly is he hurt?""He is not hurt seriously at all," the physician replied. "The bulletwent through the fleshy part of his left arm. It was a clean wound,and he will be around again in no time."He walked to Dicky's bed, bent over him, listened to his breathing,straightened, and came back to me."He is doing splendidly," he said, "but you are not. You are on thepoint of collapse from what you have undergone tonight. You must liedown at once. If there is no one else to take care of you, I must doit."I felt as if I could not bear to answer him, even to raise my eyesto meet his. I do not know how long the intense silence would havecontinued. Just as I felt that I could not bear the situation anylonger, Lillian Underwood came into the room, bringing with her, asshe always does, an atmosphere of cheerful sanity."What is the matter?" she asked. Her tone was low and guarded, but init there was a note of alarm, and the same anxiety shown from her eyesas she came swiftly toward me."Mrs. Graham is in danger of a nervous collapse if she does not haverest and quiet soon," Dr. Pettit returned gravely. "Will you see thatshe is put to bed at once? Mr. Graham will do very well for a whilealone, although when you have made Mrs. Graham comfortable, I wish youwould come back and sit with him."Lillian put her strong arms around me and led me through the door intothe outer hall."But who is with Miss Draper?" I protested faintly, as we started downthe stairs toward the first floor."Her sister and one of the best trained nurses in the city," Lillianresponded. "Besides, Dr. Pettit will go immediately back to her room.""But Dicky, there is no one with Dicky," I said, struggling feebly inan attempt to go back up the stairs again."Don't be childish, Madge." The words, the tone, were impatient,the first I had ever heard from Lillian toward me. But I mentallyacknowledged their justice and braced myself to be more sensible, asshe guided me to her room, and helped me into bed.I found her sitting by my bedside when I opened my eyes. Through thelowered curtains I caught a ray of sunlight, and knew that it wasbroad day."Dicky?" I asked wildly, staring up from my pillows.Lillian put me back again with a firm hand."Lie still," she said gently. "Dicky is fine, and when you have eatenthe breakfast Betty has prepared and which Katie is bringing you, youmay go upstairs and take care of him all day.""But it is daylight," I protested. "I must have slept all night. Andyou? Have you slept at all?""Don't bother about me," she returned lightly. "I shall have a goodlong nap as soon as you are ready to take care of Dicky.""But I meant to sleep only two or three hours. I don't see how I evercould have slept straight through the night."I really felt near to tears with chagrin that I should have left Dickyto the care of any one else while I soundly slept the night through.Lillian looked at me keenly, then smiled."Can't you guess?" she asked significantly."You mean you put something in the mulled wine to make me sleep?""Of course. You have been through enough for any one woman. Dicky wasin no danger, and I had no desire to have you ill on my hands."I flushed a bit resentfully. I was not quite sure that I liked herhigh-handed way of disposing of me as if I were a child. Then as Ifelt her keen eyes upon me I knew that she was reading my thoughts,and I felt mightily ashamed of my childish petulance."You must forgive my arbitrary way of doing things," she resumed, abit formally.I put out my hand pleadingly. "Don't, Lillian," I said earnestly."I'll be good, and I do thank you. You know that, don't you?"Her face cleared. "Of course, goosie," she answered. "But I must helpyou dress. Your breakfast will be here in a moment."I sprang out of bed before she could prevent me, and gave her aregular "bear hug.""Help me dress!" I exclaimed indignantly. "Indeed, you will do nosuch thing. I feel as strong as ever, and I am going to put you to bedbefore I go to Dicky. But tell me, how is--"She spared me from speaking the name I so dreaded."Miss Draper is no worse. Indeed, Dr. Pettit thinks she has ralliedslightly this morning. She is resting easily now, has been since about3 o'clock, when Dr. Pettit went home."I was hurrying into my clothes as she talked. "Have you found out yethow it happened?" I asked."I know what Harry does," she answered. "He says that yesterday thegirl appeared as calm, even cheerful, as ever, went with him to themanager's office, performed her dancing stunt as cleverly as she didthe other night, and in response to the very good offer the managermade her, asked for a day to consider it. As she was leaving theoffice, she asked Harry if Dicky were in his studio, saying she hadleft there something she prized highly and would like to get it.Something in the way she said it made Harry suspicious. Of course,I had told him confidentially of her attempt to drown you, so heremarked nonchalantly that he was also going to the studio. He saidshe seemed nonplussed for a moment, then coolly accepted his escort."They went to the studio, and Harry stuck close to Dicky, neverpermitting the Draper girl to be alone with him for a minute. After afew moments she bade them a commonplace goodby and left, but she musthave stayed near by and cleverly shadowed them when they left."At any rate, she appeared at the door of our house shortly afterHarry and Dicky had entered--Harry wanted to get some thingsbefore coming out to Marvin again--and asked Betty to see Dicky.Unfortunately, Harry was in his rooms and did not hear the request,so that Dicky went into the little sitting room off the hall with her,and Betty says the girl herself closed the door. What was said no oneknows but Dicky and the girl."Harry heard a shot, rushed downstairs, and found Dicky, with theblood flowing from his arm, struggling with the girl in an attemptto keep her from firing another shot. Harry took the revolver away,unloaded and pocketed it, and could have prevented any further tragedyonly for Dicky's growing faint from loss of blood."Harry turned his attention to Dicky, and the girl picked up astiletto, which Harry uses for a paper cutter--you know he has thehouse filled with all sorts of curios from all over the world--anddrove it into her left breast. She aimed for her heart, of course, andshe almost turned the trick. I imagine she has a pretty good chance ofpulling through if infection doesn't develop. The stiletto hadn't beenused for some time, and there were several small rust spots on it. Buthere comes your breakfast."Her voice had been absolutely emotionless as she told me the story. Asshe busied herself with setting out attractively on a small table thedelicious breakfast Katie had brought, I had a queer idea that if itwere not for the publicity that would inevitably follow, Lillian wouldnot very much regret the ultimate success of Grace Draper's attempt atself-destruction.XXIX"BUT YOU WILL NEVER KNOW--"I do not believe that ever in my life can I again have an experienceso horrible as that which followed the development of infection in thedagger wound which Grace Draper had inflicted upon herself after herunsuccessful attempt to shoot Dicky.Against the combined protest of Dicky and Lillian, I shared the careof the girl with the trained nurse whom Lillian's forethought hadprovided and Dicky's money had paid for.The reason for my presence at her bedside was a curious one.At the close of the third day following the girl's attempt at murderand self-destruction, Lillian came to the door of the room where I wasreading to Dicky, who was now almost recovered, and called me out intothe hall."Madge," she said abruptly, "that poor girl in there has been callingfor you for an hour. We tried every way we could think of to quiether, but nothing else would do. She must see you. I imagine she hasmade up her mind she's going to die and wants to ask your forgivenessor something of that sort.""I will go to her at once," I said quietly. As I moved toward the doormy knees trembled so I could hardly walk.Lillian came up to me quickly and put her strong arm around me.We went down the hall to a wonderful room of ivory and gold, which Iknew must be Lillian's guest room. In a big ivory-tinted bed the girllay, a pitiful wreck of the dashing, insolent figure she had been.Her face was as white as the pillows upon which she lay, while herhands looked utterly bloodless as they rested listlessly upon thecoverlet. Only her eyes held anything of her old spirit. They lookedunusually brilliant. I wondered uneasily if their appearance was theresult of their contrast to her deathly white face or whether thefever which the doctor dreaded had set in.She looked at me steadily for a long minute, then spoke huskily--I wassurprised at the strength of her voice."Of course I have no right to ask anything of you, Mrs. Graham," shesaid, "but death, you know, always has privileges, and I am going todie."I saw the nurse glance swiftly, sharply, at her, and then go quietlyout of the room."She's hurrying to get the doctor," the girl said, with the uncannyintuition of the very sick, "but he can't do me any good. I'm going todie and I know it. And I want you to promise to stay with me until theend comes. I shall probably be unconscious, and not know whether youare here or not, but I know you. You're the kind that if you give apromise you won't break it, and I have a sort of feeling that I'd liketo go out holding your hand. Will you promise me that?"Her eyes looked fiercely, compelling, into mine. I stepped forward andlaid my hand on hers, lying so weak on the bed."Of course I promise," I said pitifully.There was a quick, savage gleam in her eyes which I could not fathom,a gleam that vanished as quickly as it came. I told myself that thelook I had surprised in her eyes was one of ferocious triumph, andthat as my hand touched hers she had instinctively started to draw herhand away from mine, and then yielded it to my grasp."All right," she said indifferently, closing her eyes. "Remember now,don't go away.""Dicky! Dicky! what have I done that you are so changed? How canyou be so cold to me when you remember all that we have been to eachother? Don't be so cruel to me. Kiss me just once, just once, as youused to do."Over and over again the plaintive words pierced the air of the roomwhere Grace Draper lay, while Dr. Pettit and the nurse battled for herlife.The theme of all her delirious cries and mutterings was Dicky. Shelived over again all the homely little humorous incidents of theirlong studio association. She went with him upon the little outingswhich they had taken together, and of which I learned for the firsttime from her fever-crazed lips."Isn't this delicious salad, Dicky?" she would cry. "What amagnificent view of the ocean you can get from here? Wouldn't Belascoenvy that moonlight effect?"Then more tender memories would obsess her. To me, crouching in mycorner, bound by my promise to stay in the room, it seemed a mostcruel irony of fate that I should be compelled to listen to thisunfolding of my husband's faithlessness to me within so short a timeof our tender reconciliation.I do not think Dr. Pettit knew I was in the room when he first enteredit, anxious because of his imperative summons by the nurse. Lillian'sguest room had the alcove characteristic of the old-fashioned New Yorkhouses, and she and I were seated in that.The physician bent over the bed, carefully studying the patient.Through his professional mask I thought I saw a touch of bewilderment.He studied the girl's pulse and temperature, listened to herbreathing, then turned to the nurse sharply."How long has she been delirious?""Since just after I called you," the girl replied."Did you notice anything unusual about her before that? You saidsomething over the telephone about her talking queerly."The nurse looked quickly over to the alcove where Lillian and Isat. Dr. Pettit's eyes followed her glance. With a quick mutteredexclamation he strode swiftly to where we sat and towered angrilyabove us."What does this mean?" he asked imperatively. "Why are you herelistening to this stuff? It is abominable.""I agree with you, Dr. Pettit. It is abominable, but she madeMadge promise to stay," Lillian said quietly. She made an almostimperceptible gesture of her head toward the bed, and her voice wasfull of meaning. He started, looked her steadily in the eyes, thennodded slightly as if asserting some unspoken thought of hers."Dicky darling," the voice from the bed rose pleadingly, "don't youremember how you promised me to take me away from all this, how weplanned to go far, far away, where no one would ever find us again?"Dr. Pettit turned almost savagely on me."Promise or no promise," he said, "I will not allow this any longer.You must go out of this room and stay out."I stood up and faced him unflinchingly."I cannot, Dr. Pettit," I answered firmly. "I must keep my promise.""Then I will get your release from that promise at once," he said andstrode toward the bed.I watched him with terrified fascination. Had he gone suddenly mad?What did he mean to do?As Dr. Pettit turned from Lillian and me, and strode toward the bedwhere the sick girl lay, apparently raving in delirium, I called outto him in horror."Oh, don't disturb that delirious, dying girl!"I made an impetuous step forward to try to stop him when Lilliancaught my arm and whirled me into a recess of the alcove."You unsuspecting little idiot," she said, giving me a tender littleshake that robbed the words of their harshness, "can't you see thatthat girl is shamming?"For a moment I could not comprehend what she meant; then the fulltruth burst upon me. If what Lillian said were true, if the girl waspretending delirium that she might utter words concerning Dicky'sinfatuation for her which would torture me, then it was more thanprobable, almost certain, in fact, that there was no word of truth inher pretended delirious mutterings.Dicky was not faithless to me, as I had feared during the torturedmoments in which I had listened to, the girl's ravings.The joy of the sudden revelation almost unnerved me. I believe I wouldhave swooned and fallen had not Lillian caught me."Listen," she said in my ear, pinching my arm almost cruelly to arouseme, "listen to what Dr. Pettit is saying, and you'll see that I amright."My eyes followed hers to the bed where Dr. Pettit stood gazingdown upon the seemingly unconscious girl and speaking in measured,merciless fashion."This won't do, my girl," he was saying, and his tone and mannerof address seemed in some subtle fashion to strip all semblance ofdignity from the girl and leave her simply a "case" of the doctor's,of a type only too familiar to him."It _won't_ do," he repeated. "You are simply shamming this delirium,and you are lessening your chances for life every minute you persistin it. I'm sorry to be hard on you, but I'm going to give you anultimatum right now. Either you will release Mrs. Graham from herpromise at once and quit this nonsense, or I shall call an officer,report the truth of this occurrence, and you will be arrested not onlyupon a charge of attempted suicide, but of attempted murder."Of course, you will then be removed to the jail hospital, where I amafraid you may not enjoy the skilful care you are getting now. And,if you live, the after effects of these charges will be exceedinglyunpleasant for you."My heart almost stopped beating as I listened to the physician'srelentless words.Suppose Dr. Pettit was mistaken and the girl should be reallydelirious, after all. But just as I had reached the point of torturingdoubt hardly to be borne, the girl stopped her delirious muttering,opened her eyes and looted steadily up at the physician."You devil," she said, at last, with quiet malignity. "You've calledthe turn. I throw up my hands.""I thought so." This was the physician's only response. He stoodquietly waiting while the girl gazed steadily, unwinkingly at him."Tell me," she said at last, coolly, "am I going to die?""I do not know," the physician returned, as coolly. "You have a slighttemperature, and I am afraid infection has developed. But I can tellyou that your performance of the last hour or two has not helped yourchances any. You must be perfectly quiet and obedient, conserve everybit of strength if you wish to live.""How about that very chivalric threat you made just now," the girlretorted, sneeringly. "If I live, are you going to have me arrestedfor this thing?""Not if you behave yourself and promise to make no more trouble," thephysician replied gravely.There was another long silence. The girl lay with eyes closed. Thephysician stood watching her keenly. Presently she opened her eyesagain."Call Mrs. Graham over here," she said peremptorily."What are you going to say to her?" the physician shot back."That's my business and hers," Miss Draper returned, with a flash ofher old spirit. "If you want a release from that promise you'd betterlet her come over here, otherwise I'll hold her to it."Disregarding Lillian's clutch upon my arm I moved swiftly to the sideof the bed and looked down into the sick girl's eyes, brilliant withfever."Did you wish to speak to me?" I asked gently."Yes," she said abruptly, "I release you from your promise, and youare free to believe or not what I have said during my--delirium."She emphasized the last word with a little mocking smile. The samesmile was on her lips as she added, slowly, sneeringly:"But you will never know, will you, Madgie dear, just how much of whatI said was false and how much true?"Her eyes held mine a moment longer, and the malignance in theirfeverish brightness frightened me. Then she closed them wearily.As I turned away from her bedside I realized that she had prophesiedonly too truthfully. There would be times in my life when I wouldbelieve Dicky only. But I was also afraid there would be others whenher words would come back to me with intensified power to sear andscar.XXXTHE WEEKS THAT FOLLOWEDGrace Draper did not die. Thanks to the assiduous care of Dr. Pettitand the two trained nurses Dicky had provided she gradually struggledup from the "valley of the shadow of death" in which she had lain toconvalescence.As soon as she was able to travel she went to the home of the relativein the country whom she had visited in the summer. One of the nurseswent with her to see that she was settled comfortably, and uponreturning reported that she was getting strong fast, and in a month ortwo more would be her usual self again.Neither Dicky nor I had seen her before she left. Indeed, Dickyappeared to have taken an uncontrollable aversion to the girl sinceher attempt to kill him and herself and disliked hearing even her namementioned. As for me, I had a positive dread of ever looking into thegirl's beautiful false face again.It was Lillian who made all the necessary arrangements both for thegirl's stay in her own home and her transfer to the country.But between the time of my mother-in-law's arrival at our house inMarvin and the departure of Grace Draper from Lillian's home lay aninterval of a fortnight in which what we all considered the miraculoushappened. My mother-in-law grew to like Lillian Underwood.For the first three or four days after the ultimatum which I had givenher that she should respect our guests if she stayed in our house shewas like a sulky child. She kept to her room, affecting fatigue, anddemanding her meals be carried up to her by Katie.Of course Lillian and Harry wanted to go away at once, but Dicky andI overruled them. I was resolved to see the thing through. I feltthat if my mother-in-law did not yield her prejudices at this time shenever would, and that I would simply have to go through the same thingagain later.Lillian saw the force of my reasoning and agreed to stay, althoughI knew that the sensitive delicacy of feeling which she concealedbeneath her rough and ready mask made her uncomfortable in a housewhich held such a disapproving element as my mother-in-law.Then, one day the little god of chance took a hand. Harry and Dickyhad gone to the city. It was Katie's afternoon off, and she and Jim,who had become a regular caller at our kitchen door, had gone awaytogether.Mother Graham was still sulking in her room, and Lillian was busy inDicky's improvised studio with some drawings and jingles which were arush order.The day was a wonderful autumn one, and I felt the need of a walk."I think I will run down to the village," I said to Lillian. "This isthe day the candy kitchen makes up the fresh toasted marshmallows. Ithink we could use some, don't you?""Lovely," agreed Lillian enthusiastically."I don't think Mother Graham will come out of her room while I'mgone," I went on. "Just keep an eye out for her if she should needyou.""She'd probably bite me if I offered her any assistance," returnedLillian, laughing, "but I'll look out for her."But when I came back with the marshmallows, after a longer walk thanI had intended, I found Lillian sitting by my mother-in-law's bedside,watching her as she slept. When she saw me she put her finger to herlips and stole softly out into the hall."She had a slight heart attack while you were gone, and I wasfortunate enough to know just what to do for her. It was not seriousat all. She is perfectly all right now and"--she hesitated and smileda bit--"I do not think she dislikes me any more.""Oh, I'm so glad!" I exclaimed, ecstatically hugging her. "Everythingwill come out all right now."During the rest of the Underwoods' stay it seemed as if my wordshad come true. The ice once broken, my mother-in-law's heart thawedperceptibly toward Lillian.By the time the day came when Harry and Lillian left us to go backto their apartment the elder Mrs. Graham had so far gotten overher prejudices as to bid Lillian a reluctant farewell and express asincere wish that she might soon see her again.Toward Harry Underwood my mother-in-law's demeanor remained rigid.She treated him with formal, icy politeness which irritated Dicky, butappeared greatly to amuse Mr. Underwood. He took delight in paying herthe most elaborate attentions, laying fresh nosegays of flowers ather plate at each meal. If he had been a lover besieging a beautifulgirl's heart he could not have been more attentive, while he wasabsolutely impervious to all the chilling rebuffs she gave him.I think that the touch of malice which is always a part of this man'shumor was gratified by the frigid annoyance which the elder Mrs.Graham exhibited toward his attentions. At any rate, he kept them upuntil the very hour of his departure.It was when he happened to be alone with me on the veranda a fewmoments before the coming of the taxi which was to bear them to theirhomeward train that he gave me the real explanation of his conduct."Tell me, loveliest lady," he said, with the touch of exaggerationwhich his manner always holds toward me, "tell me, haven't I squaredup part of your account with the old girl this last week?""Why, what do you mean?" I stammered."Don't pretend such innocence," he retorted. "If you want me to tellyou in so many words, I beg leave to inform you that I've been doingmy little best to annoy your august mother-in-law to pay her off forher general cussedness toward you, and, incidentally, me.""But she hasn't been cross to me," I protested."Not the last three or four days perhaps, but I'll bet you've hadquite a dose since she came to live at your house, and you'll haveanother if she ever finds out my wicked designs upon you." He smiledmockingly and took a step nearer to me. "Don't forget you owe me akiss," he said, with teasing maliciousness, referring to the time whenhe had threatened to "kiss me under water." "Don't you think you hadbetter give in to me now?"Dicky's step in the hall prevented my rebuking him as I wished. Itold myself that, of course, his persistent reference to that kiss wassimply one of mockery and I also admitted to myself that as much as Iloved Lillian I was glad that her husband was to be no longer a guestin our house.XXXIA MYSTERIOUS STRANGER"Well, my dear, what are you mooning over that you didn't see me comein? I beg your pardon, Madge, what is the matter? Tell me."Lillian Underwood stood before me a week after her visit to us.Lillian, whose entrance into the small reception room of the Sydenham,at which we had an appointment, I had not even seen. She stood lookingdown at me with an anxious, alarmed expression in her eyes."There is nothing the matter," I returned, evasively."Don't tell me a tarradiddle, my dear," Lillian countered smoothly."You're as white as a sheet, and I can see your hands trembling thisminute. Something has happened to upset you. But, of course, if you'drather not tell me--"There was a subtle hint of withdrawal in her tone. I was afraid that Ihad offended her. After all, why not tell her of the stranger who hadso startled me?"Look over by the door, Lillian," I said, in a low voice, "notsuddenly as if I had just spoken to you about it, but carelessly. Tellme if there is a man still standing there staring at us."Lillian whistled softly beneath her breath, a little trick she haswhen surprised."Oh-h-h!" she breathed, and turning, she looked swiftly at the place Ihad indicated."I see a disappearing back which looks as though it might belong toa 'masher.' I just caught sight of him as he turned--well set-up manabout middle age, hair sprinkled with gray, rather stunning looking.""Yes, that is the man," I returned, faintly, "but, Lillian, I'm surehe isn't an ordinary 'masher.' He had the strangest, saddest, mostmysterious look in his eyes. It was almost as if he knew me or thoughthe did, and I have the most uncanny feeling about him, as if he weresome one I had known long ago. I can't describe to you the effect hehad upon me.""Nonsense," Lillian said, brusquely, "the man is just an ordinarycommon lady-killer of the type that infests these hotels, and ought tobe horsewhipped at sight. You're getting fanciful, and I don't wonderat it. You've had a terrible summer, with all that trouble the Drapercaused you, and I imagine you haven't been having any too easy a timewith dear mamma-in-law, I'm mighty glad you're going to get awaywith Dicky by yourself. A week in the mountains ought to set youup wonderfully, and you certainly need it when you start weavingmysterious tragedies about the commoner garden variety of 'masher.'"Lillian's rough common sense steadied me, as it always does. I feltashamed of my momentary emotion."I fancy you're right, Lillian," I said nonchalantly. "Let's forgetabout it and have some lunch. Where shall we go?""There's a bully little tea room down the street here." she said."It's very English, with the tea cozies and all that sort of frills,and some of their luncheon dishes are delicious. Shall we try it?""By all means," I returned, and we went out of the hotel together.Although I looked around furtively and fearfully as we left the hotelentrance, I could see no trace of the man who had so startled me.Scoring myself for being so foolish as to imagine that the man mightstill be keeping track of me, I put all thought of his actions awayfrom me and kept up with Lillian's brisk pace, chatting with her gaylyover our past experience in buying hats and the execrable creationsturned out by milliners generally.The tea room proved all that Lillian had promised. Fortunately, wewere early enough to escape the noon hour rush and secure a good tablenear a window looking out upon the street."I like to look out upon the people passing, don't you?" Lillian said,as she seated herself."Yes, I do," I assented, and then we turned our attention to the menucards."I'm fearfully hungry," Lillian announced. "I've been digging allmorning. Oh! it's chicken pie here today." Her voice held all the gleeof a gormandizing child. "I don't think these individual chicken piesthey serve here can be beaten in New York," she went on. "You know theusual mess--potatoes and onions, and a little bit of chicken mixedup with a sauce they insult with the name gravy. These are the realarticle--just the chicken meat with a delicious gravy covering it,baked in the most flaky crust you can imagine. What do you say tothose, with some baked potatoes, new lima beans, sliced tomatoes andan ice for dessert?""I don't think it can be improved upon," I said, gayly, and then Iclutched Lillian's arm. "Look quickly," I whispered, "the other sideof the street!"Lillian's eyes followed mine to the opposite side of the street,where, walking slowly along, was the man I had seen in the hotel. Hedid not once look toward the tea room, but as he came opposite to ithe turned from the pavement and crossed the street leisurely towardus."Oh! I believe he is coming in," I gasped, and my knees began totremble beneath me."Suppose he is," Lillian snapped back. Her tone held a contemptuousimpatience that braced me as nothing else could. "The man has a rightto come in here if he wishes. It may be a mere coincidence, or he mayhave followed you. You're rather fetching in that little sport rig,my dear, as your mirror probably told you this morning. Unless heobtrudes himself there is nothing you can do or say, and if he shouldattempt to get fresh--well, I pity him, that's all."Lillian's threatening air was so comical that I lost my nervousnessand laughed outright at her belligerency. The laugh was not a loudone, but it evidently was audible to the man entering the door, forhe turned and cast a quick, sharp look upon me before moving on to atable farther down the room. The waitress indicated a chair, which,if he had taken it, would have kept his back toward us. He refused itwith a slight shake of the head, and passing around to the other sideof the table, sat down in a chair which commanded a full view of us.Lillian's foot beat a quick tattoo beneath the table. "The insolentold goat," she murmured, vindictively. "He'd better look out. I'd hateto forget I'm a perfect lady, but I'm afraid I may have to break looseif that chap stays around here.""Oh, don't say anything to him, Lillian," I pleaded, terriblydistressed and upset at the very thought of a possible scene. "Let'shurry through our luncheon and get out.""We'll do nothing of the kind," Lillian said. "Don't think about theman at all, just go ahead and enjoy your luncheon as if he werenot here at all. I'll attend to his case good and plenty if he getsfunny."In spite of Lillian Underwood's kindly admonition I could not enjoythe delicious lunch we had ordered. The presence of a mysterious manat the table opposite ours robbed the meal of its flavor and me of myself-possession.I could not be sure, of course, that the man had purposely followed mefrom the little reception room of the Sydenham, where I had waited forLillian. There I had first seen him staring frankly at me with sucha sad, mysterious, tragic look in his eyes that I had been mostbewildered and upset by it. But his appearance at the tea room withina few minutes of our entering it, and his choice of a chair whichfaced our table indicated rather strongly that he had purposelyfollowed me.Whether or not Lillian's flashing eyes and the withering look she gavehim deterred him from gazing at me as steadily as he had at the hotelI had no means of knowing. At any rate, he did not once stare openlyat me. I should have known it if he had, for his position was suchthat unless I kept my eyes steadily fixed upon my plate, I could nothelp but see him. He was unobtrusive, but I received the impressionthat he was keeping track of every movement in the furtive glances hecast at us from time to time.Although he had ordered after us, his meal kept pace with our own. Infact, he called for his check, paid it and left the restaurant beforewe did. As he passed out of the door I drew a breath of relief andfell to my neglected lunch."I hope I've seen the last of him," I said vindictively.Lillian did not answer. I looked up surprised to see her chin cuppedin her hands, in the attitude which was characteristic of her when shewas studying some problem, her eyes following the man as he made hisway slowly down the street, swinging his stick with a pre-occupiedair. She continued to stare after him until he was out of sight, thenwith a start, she came back to herself."You were right, Madge, and I was wrong," she said reflectively, stillas if she were studying her problem; "that man is no 'masher.'"I looked up startled. "What makes you think so?" I asked breathlessly."I don't know," she returned, "but he either thinks he knows you,or you remind him of some dead daughter, or sister--or sweetheart,or--oh, there might be any one of a dozen reasons why he would wantto stare at you. I think he's harmless, though. He probably won'tever try to speak to you--just take it out in following you around andlooking at you.""Oh," I gasped, "do you think he's going to keep this up?""Looks like it," Lillian returned, "but simply ignore him. He has allthe ear-marks of a gentleman. I don't think he will annoy you. Nowforget him and enjoy your ice, and then we'll go and get that hat."Under Lillian's guidance the selection of the hat proved an easy task.Lillian bade me good-by at the door of the hat shop."You don't need me any longer, do you?" she asked, "now that this hatquestion is settled?""No, no, Lillian," I returned, "and I am awfully grateful to you forgiving me so much of your time.""'Til Wednesday, then," Lillian said, "good-by."I had quite a long list in my purse of small purchases to be made. Atlast even the smallest item on my list was attended to, and, weariedas only shopping can tire a woman, I went over to the railroadstation. In my hurry of departure in the morning I had forgotten mymileage ticket, so that I had to go to the ticket office to purchase aticket to Marvin.I had forgotten all about the man who had annoyed me in the receptionroom of the Sydenham, and the little English tea room, so, when Iturned from buying my ticket to find him standing near enough to me tohave heard the name of Marvin, I was startled and terrified.He did not once glance toward me, however, but strolled away quickly,as if in finding out the name of my home town he had learned all hewished.I was thoroughly upset as I hurried to my train, and all through myhour's journey home to Marvin the thought of the man troubled me. Whatwas the secret of his persistent espionage? The coincidences of theday had been too numerous for me to doubt that the man was followingme around with the intention of learning my identity.When the train stopped at Marvin I was aghast to see the mysteriousstranger alight from it hurriedly and go into the waiting room of thestation. I thought I saw his scheme. From the window of the station hecould see me as I alighted, and either ascertain my identity from thestation agent or from the driver of whatever taxi I took.I had only felt terror of the man before, but now I was thoroughlyindignant. "The thing had gone far enough," I told myself grimly.Instead of getting off the train I passed to the next car, resolvingto stop at the next village, Crest Haven, and take a taxi home fromthere.The ruse succeeded. As the train sped on toward Crest Haven I hada quiet little smile at the way I had foiled the curiosity of themysterious stranger.I debated for some time whether or not I ought to tell Dicky ofthe incident. I had so much experience of his intensely jealoustemperament that I feared he might magnify and distort the incident.Finally I temporized by resolving to say nothing to Dicky unless theman's tracking of me reached the point of attempting to speak tome. But the consciousness of keeping a secret from Dicky made mepre-occupied during our dinner.Dicky reached home an hour after I did, and all through the dinnerhour I noticed him casting curious glances at me from time to time."What's the matter?" he asked, as after dinner he and I went out tothe screened porch to drink our coffee."Why, nothing," I responded guiltily. "Why do you ask?""You act as if you thought you had the responsibility of the great waron your shoulders," Dicky returned."I haven't a care in the world," I assured him gayly, andarousing myself from my depression I spent the next hour in gay,inconsequential chatter in an attempt to prove to Dicky that I meantwhat I said.In the kitchen I heard the voices of Jim and Katie. They were raisedearnestly as if discussing something about which they disagreed.Presently Katie appeared on the veranda."Plees, Missis Graham, can you joost coom to kitchen, joost one littlemeenit.""Certainly, Katie," I replied, rising, while Dicky mumbled ahalf-laughing, half-serious protest."I'll be back in a minute, Dicky," I promised, lightly.It was full five before I returned, for Jim had something to tell me,which confirmed my impression that the mysterious stranger's spyingupon me was something to be reckoned with."I didn't think I ought to worry you with this, Mrs. Graham, but Katiethinks you ought to know it, and what she says goes, you know." Hecast a fatuous smile at the girl, who giggled joyously. "To-night,down at Crest Haven, I overheard one of the taxi drivers tellinganother about a guy that had come down there and described a womanwhom he said must have gotten off at Crest Haven and taken a taxi backto Marvin. The description fitted you all right, and the driver gavehim your name and address. He said he got a five spot for doing it."My face was white, my hands cold, as I listened to Jim, but Icontrolled myself, and said, quietly:"Thank you, Jim, very much for telling me, but I do not think itamounts to anything."XXXII"THE DEAREST FRIEND I EVER HAD"Dinner with Dicky in a public dining room is almost always a delightto me. He has the rare art of knowing how to order a perfect dinner,and when he is in a good humor he is most entertaining. He knows bysight or by personal acquaintance almost every celebrity of thecity, and his comments on them have an uncommon fascination for mebecause of the monotony of my life before I met Dicky.But the very expression of my mother-in-law's back as I followed herthrough the glittering grill room of the Sydenham told me that ourchances for having a pleasant evening were slender indeed."Well, mother, what do you want to eat?" Dicky began genially, when anobsequious waiter had seated us and put the menu cards before us."Please do not consider me in the least," my mother-in-law said withher most Christian-martyr-like expression. "Whatever you and Margaretwish will do very well for me."Dicky turned from his mother with a little impatient shrug."What about you, Madge?" he asked."Chicken a la Maryland in a chafing dish and a combination salad withthat anchovy and sherry dressing you make so deliciously," I repliedpromptly. "The rest of the dinner I'll leave to you."My mother-in-law glared at me."It strikes me there isn't much left to leave to him after an order ofthat kind," she said, tartly."You haven't eaten many of Dicky's dinners then," I said audaciously,with a little moue at him. "He orders the most perfect dinners of anyone I know.""Of course, with your wide experience, you ought to be a criticaljudge of his ability," my mother-in-law snapped back.Her tone was even more insulting than her words. It tipped withcruel venom her allusion to the quiet, almost cloistered life of mygirlhood.I drew a long breath as I saw my mother-in-law adjust her lorgnetteand proceed to gaze through it with critical hauteur at the otherdiners. I hoped that her curiosity and interest in the things going onaround her would make her forget her imaginary grievances, but my hopewas destined to be short lived.It was while we were discussing our oysters, the very first offered ofthe season, that she spoke to me, suddenly, abruptly:"Margaret, do you know that man at the second table back of us? Hehasn't taken his eyes from you for the last ten minutes."My heart almost stopped beating, for my intuition told me at once theidentity of the gazer. It must be the man whose uncanny, mournful lookhad so distressed me when I was waiting for Lillian Underwood in thelittle reception room at the Sydenham the preceding Monday, the manwho had followed us to the little tea room, who had even taken thesame train to Marvin with me.I felt as if I could not lift my eyes to look at the man mymother-in-law indicated, and yet I knew I must glance casually athim if I were to avert the displeased suspicion which I already sawcreeping into her eyes.When my eyes met his he gave not the slightest sign that he knew I waslooking at him, simply continued his steady gaze, which had somethingof wistful mournfulness in it. I averted my eyes as quickly aspossible, and tried to look absolutely unconcerned."I am sure he cannot be looking at me," I said, lightly. "I do notknow him at all."I hoped that my mother-in-law would not notice my evasion, but she wastoo quick for me."You may not know him, but have you ever seen him before?" she asked,shrewdly."Really, mother," Dicky interposed, his face darkening, "you're goinga little too far with that catechism. Madge says she doesn't know theman, that settles it. By the way, Madge, is he annoying you? If he is,I can settle him in about two seconds.""Oh, no," I said nervously, "I don't think the man's really looking atme at all; he's simply gazing out into space, thinking, and happensto be facing this way. It would be supremely ridiculous to call him toaccount for it."My mother-in-law snorted, but made no further comment, evidentlysilenced by Dicky's reproof.I may have imagined it, but it seemed to me that Dicky looked at mea little curiously when I protested my belief that the man was simplyabsorbed in thought and not looking at me at all.When we were dallying with the curiously moulded ices which Dicky hadordered for dessert, I saw his eyes light up as he caught sight ofsome one he evidently knew."Pardon me just a minute, will you?" he said, turning to his motherand me, apologetically, "I see Bob Simonds over there with a bunch offellows. Haven't seen him in a coon's age. He's been over across thepond in the big mixup. Didn't know he was back. I don't want any moreof this ice, anyway, and when the waiter comes, order cheese, coffeeand a cordial for us all."He was gone in another instant, making his way with the swift,debonair grace which is always a part of Dicky, to the group of men ata table not far from ours, who welcomed him joyously.My mother-in-law's eyes followed mine, and I knew that for once, atleast, we were of one mind, and that mind was full of pride in the manso dear to, us both. He was easily the most distinguished figure atthe table full of men who greeted him so joyously. I knew that hismother noted with me how cordial was the welcome each man gave Dicky,how they all seemed to defer to him and hang upon his words.Then across my vision came a picture most terrifying to me. It wasas if my mother-in-law and I were spectators of a series of motionpicture films. Toward the table, where Dicky stood surrounded by hisfriends, there sauntered the mysterious stranger, who had attracted mymother-in-law's attention by his scrutiny of me.But he was no stranger to the men surrounding Dicky. Most of themgreeted him warmly. Of course, I was too far away to hear what wassaid, but I saw the pantomime in which he requested an introduction toDicky of one of his friends!Then I saw the stranger meet Dicky and engage him in earnestconversation. I did not dare to look at my mother-in-law. I knew shewas gazing in open-mouthed wonder at her son, but I hoped she did notknow the queer mixture of terror and interest with which I watched thepicture at the other table.For it was no surprise to me when, a few minutes later, Dicky cameback toward our table. With him, talking earnestly, as if he had beena childhood friend, walked the mysterious stranger. I told myself thatI had known it would be so from the first.From the moment I had first seen this man's haunting eyes gazing at mein the reception room of the Sydenham I had felt that a meeting withhim was inevitable. How or where he would touch my life I did notknow, but that he was destined to wield some influence, sinister orfavorable, over me, I was sure, and I trembled with vague terror as Isaw him drawing near."Mother, may I present Mr. Gordon? My wife, Mr. Gordon."Dicky's manner was nervous, preoccupied, as he spoke. His mother'sface showed very plainly her resentment at being obliged to meet theman upon whose steady staring at me she had so acidly commented a fewminutes before.For my own part, I was so upset that I felt actually ill, as the eyesof the persistent stranger met mine. How had this man, who had soterrified me by his persistent pursuit and scrutiny, managed to obtainan introduction to Dicky?Dicky made a place for the man near me, and signalled the waiter."I know you have dined," he said, courteously, "but you'll at leasthave coffee and a cordial with us, will you not?""Thank you," Mr. Gordon said, in a deep, rich voice, "I have not yethad coffee. If you will be so kind, I should like a little apricotbrandy instead of a cordial."Dicky gave the necessary order to the waiter, and we all sat back inour chairs.I, for one, felt as though I were a spectator at a play, waiting forthe curtain to run up upon some thrilling episode. For the few minuteswhile we waited for our coffee, Dicky had to carry the burden of theconversation. His mother, with her lips pressed together in a tight,thin line, evidently had resolved to take no part in any conversationwith the stranger. I was really too terrified to say anything, and,besides the briefest of assents to Dicky's observations, the strangersaid nothing.There was something about the man's whole personality that bothattracted and repelled me. With one breath I felt that I had a curioussense of liking and admiration for him, and was proud of the interestin me, which he had taken no pains to conceal. The next moment a realterror and dislike of him swept over me.I waited with beating heart for him to finish his coffee. It seemedto me that I could hardly wait for him to speak. For I had a psychicpresentiment that before he left the table he would make known to usthe reason for his rude pursuit of me.His first words confirmed my impression:"I am afraid, Mrs. Graham," he said, courteously, turning to me, ashe finished his coffee, "that I have startled and alarmed you by myendeavor to ascertain your identity."I did not answer him. I did not wish to tell him that I had beenfrightened; neither could I truthfully deny his assertion. And Iwished that I had not evaded my mother-in-law's query concerning him.He did not appear to heed my silence however, but went on rapidly:"It is a very simple matter, after all," he said. "You see, youresemble so closely a very dear friend of my youth, in fact, thedearest I ever had, that when I caught sight of you the other dayin the reception room of the Sydenham, it seemed as if her very selfstood before me."There was a vibrant, haunting note in his voice that told me, betterthan words, that, whoever this woman of his youth might have been, hermemory was something far more to him than of a mere friend."I could not rest until I found out your identity, and secured anintroduction to you," he went on. "You will not be offended if I askyou one or two rather personal questions, will you?""Indeed, no," I returned mechanically.Mr. Gordon hesitated. His suave self-possession seemed to havedeserted him. He swallowed hard twice, and then asked, nervously:"May I ask your name before you were married, Mrs. Graham?""Margaret Spencer," I returned steadily.There was a cry of astonishment from Dicky. Mr. Gordon had reeled inhis chair as if he were about to faint, then, with closed eyes andwhite lips, he sat motionless, gripping the table as if for support."Do not be alarmed--I am all right--only a momentary faintness, Iassure you."Mr. Gordon opened his eyes and smiled at us wanly.I knew that Dicky was as much relieved as I at our guest's returnto self-command. That he was resentful as well as mystified at thesingular behavior of Mr. Gordon I also gleaned from his darkened face,and a little steely glint in his eyes."I hope that you will forgive me," Mr. Gordon went on, and his richvoice was so filled with regret and humility that I felt my heartsoften toward him."I trust you have not gained the impression that my momentaryfaintness had anything to do with your name," he said. "My attack atthat time was merely a coincidence. I am subject to these spells offaintness. I hope this one did not alarm you."He looked at me directly, as if expecting an answer."I am not easily alarmed," I returned, trying hard to keep out of myvoice anything save the indifferent courtesy which one would bestowupon a stranger, for the atmosphere of mystery seemed deepening aboutthis stranger and me. I did not believe he had spoken the truth,when he said that my utterance of my maiden name, in response to hisquestion, had nothing to do with his faintness. I was as certain as Iwas of anything that it was the utterance of that name, the revelationof my identity thus made to him, that caused his emotion. I satthrilled, tense, in anticipation of revelations to follow.Mr. Gordon's voice was quiet, but a poignant little thrill ran throughit, which I caught as he spoke again."Was not your mother's name Margaret Bickett and your father's,Charles Spencer?" he asked."You are quite correct." I forced the words through lips stiffened byexcitement.I saw Dicky look at me curiously, almost impatiently, but I had noeyes, no ears, save for the mysterious stranger who was quizzing meabout my parents.One of Mr. Gordon's hands was beneath the table; as he was sittingnext to his I saw what no one else did--that the long, slender,sensitive fingers pressed themselves deeply, quiveringly, into thepalm at my affirmation of his question. But except for that momentarygrip there was no evidence of excitement in his demeanor as he turnedto me."I thought so," he said quietly. "I have found the daughter ofthe dearest friends I ever had. Your resemblance to your mother ismarvelous. I remember that you looked much like her when you were atiny girl.""You were at our home in my childhood, then?" I asked, wondering ifthis might be the explanation of my uncanny notion that I had sometimein my life seen this man bending over his demitasse as he had done afew minutes before."Oh, yes," he said, "your mother, as I have told you, was the dearestfriend I ever had. And your father was my other self--then--"His emphasis upon the word "then" gave me a quick stab of pain, forit recalled the odium with which every one who had known my childhoodseemed to regard the memory of my father.I, myself, had no memories of my father. My mother had never spokenof him to me but once, when she had told me the terrible story of hisfaithlessness.When I was four years old he had run away from us both with mymother's dearest friend, and neither she, nor any of his friends, hadever heard of him afterward. I had always felt a sort of hatred of myunknown father, who had deserted me and so cruelly treated my mother,and the knowledge that this man was an intimate of his turned mefaint.But if Mr. Gordon's inflection meant anything it meant that even if hehad been my father's "other self," my mother's desertion had arousedin him the same contempt for my father that all the rest of our littleworld had felt. I felt my indefinable feeling of repulsion againstthe man melt into warm approval of him. He had loved the mother I hadidolized, had resented her wrongs, and I felt my heart go out to him."I cannot tell you what this finding of your wife means to me,"said Mr. Gordon, turning to Dicky. The inflection of his voice, themovement of his hand, spelled a subtle appeal to the younger man."I have been a wanderer for years," the deep, rich voice went on. "Ihave no family ties"--he hesitated for a moment, with a curious littleair of indecision--"no wife, no child. I am a very lonely man. I wonderif it would be asking too much to let me come to see you once in awhile and renew the memories of my youth in this dear child?"He turned to me with the most fascinating little air of deferentialadmiration I had ever seen.But I looked in vain for any answer to his appeal in Dicky's eyes. Myhusband still retained the air of formal, puzzled courtesy with whichhe had brought Mr. Gordon to our table and introduced him to us. Icould see that the mysterious stranger's appeal to be made an intimateof our home did not meet with Dicky's approval.I could not understand the impulse that made me turn toward thestranger and say, earnestly: "I shall be so glad to have you come tosee us, Mr. Gordon. I want you to tell me about my mother's youth."XXXIII"MOTHER" GRAHAM HAS SOMETHING TO SAYIt may have been the preparation we were making for an autumn vacationin the Catskills, or it may have been that Dicky was becoming morethe master of himself, that he did not voice to me the very realuneasiness with which I knew he viewed Robert Gordon's attitude towardme. But whatever may have been the cause, the fact is that duringthe preparations for our trip and during the vacation itself in thegorgeous autumn-clad mountains Dicky did not refer to Robert Gordon.It was my mother-in-law who brought his name up the day of our return.She had moved from the hotel where we had left her in the city tothe house at Marvin, and when we arrived there her greeting of me wasalmost icy. As soon as we had taken off our wraps, she explained herdeparture from the hotel without any questioning from us."I never have been so insulted and annoyed in my life," she beganabruptly, "and it is all your fault, Richard. If you never had broughtthe unspeakable person over he would not have had the chance to annoyme. And as for you, Margaret, I cannot begin to tell you what I thinkof your conduct in leading your husband to believe you had never seenthe man before--""For heaven's sake, mother!" Dicky exploded, his slender patienceevidently worn to its last thread by his mother's incoherence, "whaton earth are you talking about?""Don't pretend ignorance," she snapped. "You introduced the man tome yourself the night before you went on your trip. You cannot haveforgotten his name so soon.""Robert Gordon!" Dicky exclaimed in amazement."Yes, Robert Gordon!" his mother returned grimly. "And let me tellyou, Richard Graham, that if you do not settle that man he will makeyou the laughing stock and the scandal of everybody. The way he talksof Margaret is disgusting."Dicky's face became suddenly stern and set."He didn't exhibit his lack of good taste the first time he came overto my table in the dining room," my mother-in-law went on. "But thesecond time he sat down with me he began to talk of Margaret in themost fulsome, extravagant manner. From that time his sole topic ofconversation was Margaret, the wonderful woman she had grown into, thewonderful attraction she has for him. You would have thought him aman who had discovered his lost sweetheart after years of wandering.Imagine the lack of decency and good taste the man must have to saysuch things to me, the mother of Margaret's husband!""Is that all you have to say, mother?" he asked.She looked at him in amazement."Are you lost to all decency that you do not resent such extravagantpraise and admiration of your wife from the lips of another man?" shedemanded, and then in the same breath went on rapidly:"Richard, you are perfectly hopeless! The man may have been in lovewith Margaret's mother, I do not doubt that he was, but have you neverheard of such men falling in love with the daughters of the women theyonce loved hopelessly?""Don't make the poor man out a potential Mormon, mother!" Dicky jibed."Jeer at your old mother if you wish, Richard," his mother went onicily, "but let me tell you that Mr. Gordon is madly in love withMargaret and if you do not look out you will have a scandal on yourhands.""You are going a bit too far in your excitement, mother," Dicky saidsternly. "You may not realize it, but you are insinuating that theremight be a possible chance of Madge's returning the man's admiration.""I am not insinuating anything," his mother returned, white-lippedwith anger, "but I certainly think Margaret owes both you and me anexplanation of the untruth she told us at the supper table the nightyou introduced Mr. Gordon to us."I sprang to my feet with my cheeks afire."Mother Graham, I have listened to you with respect as long as I can,"I exclaimed. "Whatever else you have to say to my husband about me youcan say in my absence. If he at any time wishes an explanation of anyaction of mine he has only to ask me for it."White with rage I dashed out of the room, up the stairs and into myown room, locking the door behind me. In a few minutes Dicky's stepcame swiftly up the stairs; his knock sounded on my door."Madge, let me in," he commanded, but the note of tenderness in hisvoice was the influence that hurried my fingers in the turning of thekey.As I opened the door he strode in past me, closed and locked the dooragain, and, turning, caught me in his arms."Don't you dare to cry!" he stormed, kissing my reddened eyelids."Aren't you ever going to get used to mother's childish outbursts?You know she doesn't mean what she says in those tantrums of hers.She simply works herself up to a point where she's absolutelyirresponsible, and she has to explode or burst. You wouldn't like tosee a perfectly good mother-in-law strewn in fragment all over theroom, simply because she had restrained her temper, would you?" headded, with the quick transition from hot anger to whimsical goodnature that I always find so bewildering in him.I struggled for composure. My mother-in-law's words had been tooscathing, her insult too direct for me to look upon it as lightly asDicky could, but the knowledge that he had come directly after me, andthat he had no part in the resentment his mother showed, made it easyfor me to control myself."I ought to remember that your mother is an old woman, and an invalid,and not allow myself to get angry at some of the unjust things shesays," I returned, swallowing hard. "So we'll just forget all about itand pretend it never happened.""You darling!" Dicky exclaimed, drawing me closer, and for a moment ortwo I rested in his arms, gathering courage for the confession I meantto make to him."Dicky, dear," I murmured at last, "there is something I want to tellyou about this miserable business, something I ought to have told youbefore, but I kept putting it off."Dicky held me from him and looked at me quizzically, "'Confession isgood for the soul,'" he quoted, "so unburden your dreadful secret."He drew me to an easy chair and sat down, holding me in his arms as ifI were a little child. "Now for it," he said, smiling tenderly at me."It isn't so very terrible," I smiled at him reassured by histenderness. "It is only that without telling you a deliberate untruth,that I gave both you and your mother the impression I had never seenMr. Gordon before that night at the Sydenham.""Is that all?" mocked Dicky. "Why, I knew that the moment you spokeas you did that night! You're as transparent as a child, my dear, andbesides, your elderly friend let the cat out of the bag when he saidhe feared he had annoyed you by trying to find out your identity. Iknew you must have seen him somewhere.""You don't know all," I persisted, and then without reservation I toldhim frankly the whole story of Mr. Gordon's spying upon me. I omittednothing.When I had finished, Dicky's face had lost its quizzical look. He wasfrowning, not angrily, but as if puzzled."Don't think I blame you one bit," he said slowly; "but it looks to meas if mother's dope might be right, as if the old guy is smitten withyou after all.""I cannot hope to make your understand, Dicky," I began, "how confusedmy emotions are concerning Mr. Gordon. I think perhaps I can tell youbest by referring to something about which we have never talked butonce--the story I told you before we were married of the tragedy in mymother's life.""I believe you told me that neither your mother nor you had ever heardanything of your father since he left." Dicky's voice was casual, butthere was a note in it that puzzled me."That is true," I answered, and then stopped, for the conviction hadsuddenly come to me that while I had never seen nor heard from myfather since he left us--indeed, I had no recollection of him--yetI was not sure whether or not my mother had ever received anycommunication from him. I had heard her say that she had no ideawhether he was living or dead, and I had received my impression fromthat. But even as I answered Dicky's question there came to my mindthe memory of an injunction my mother had once laid upon me,an injunction which concerned a locked and sealed box among herbelongings.I felt that I could not speak of it even to Dicky, so put all thoughtof it aside until I should be alone."I do not think I can make you understand," I began, "how torn betweentwo emotions I have always been when I think of my father. Of course,the predominant feeling toward him has always been hatred for theawful suffering he caused my mother. I never heard anything to fosterthis feeling, however, from my mother. She rarely spoke of him, butwhen she did it was always to tell me of the adoration he had felt forme as a baby, of the care and money he had lavished on me. But whilewith one part of me I longed to hear her tell me of those early days,yet the hatred I felt for him always surged so upon me as to make merefuse to listen to any mention of him."But since she went away from me the desire to know something ofmy father has become almost an obsession with me. My hatred of histreachery to my mother is still as strong as ever, but in my mother'slast illness she told me that she forgave him, and asked me if ever hecame into my life to forget the past and to remember only that hewas my father. I am afraid I never could do that, but yet I long soearnestly to know something of him."So now you see, Dicky," I concluded, "why Mr. Gordon has such afascination for me. He knew my father and my mother--from his ownwords I gather that he was the nearest person to them. He is the onlylink connecting me with my babyhood, for Jack Bickett, my nearestrelative, was but a young boy himself when my father left, andremembered little about it. I don't want to displease you, Dicky, butI would so like to see Mr. Gordon occasionally."Dicky held me close and kissed me."Why, certainly, sweetheart," he exclaimed. "Whenever you wish I'llarrange a little dinner down-town for Mr. Gordon. What do you thinkabout inviting the Underwoods, too? They could entertain me whileyou're talking over your family history.""That would be very nice," I agreed, but I had an inward dread oftalking to Robert Gordon with the malicious eyes of Harry Underwoodupon me. Indeed, I felt intuitively that if ever Mr. Gordon were toreveal the history of his friendship for my mother to me, it would bewhen no other ears, not even Dicky's, were listening.Dicky kissed me again and then he rose and went out of the roomquickly, closing the door behind him. I waited until I heard hisfootsteps descending the stairs before turning the key in the lock.Then I went directly to a little old trunk which I had kept in my ownroom ever since my mother's death, and, kneeling before it unlocked itwith reverent fingers.XXXIVA MESSAGE FROM THE PASTIt was my mother's own girlhood trunk, one in which she had kepther treasures and mementoes all her life. The chief delight of mychildhood had been sitting by her side when she took out the differentthings from it and showed them to me.Dear, thoughtful, little mother of mine! Almost the last thing she didbefore her strength failed her utterly was to repack the little trunk,wrapping and labeling each thing it contained, and putting intoit only the things she knew I would not use, but wished to keep asmemories of her and of my own childhood."I do not wish you to have to look over these things while your griefis still fresh for me," she had said, with the divine thoughtfulnessthat mothers keep until the last breath they draw. "There is nothingin it that you will have to look at for years if you do not wish todo so--that is, except one package that I am going to tell you aboutnow."She stopped to catch the breath which was so pitifully short in thosetorturing days before her death, and over her face swept the look ofagony which always accompanied any mention by her of my father."In the top tray of this trunk," she said, "you will find the inlaidlock box that was your grandmother's and that you have alwaysadmired so much. I do not wish to lay any request or command upon youconcerning it--you must be the only judge of your own affairs after Ileave you--but I would advise you not to open that box unless you arein desperate straits, or until the time has come when you feel thatyou no longer harbor the resentment you now feel toward your father."The last words had come faintly through stiffened white lips, for herlabor at packing and the emotional strain of talking to me concerningthe future had brought on one of the dreaded heart attacks whichwere so terribly frequent in the last weeks of her life. We had neverspoken of the matter afterward, for she did not leave her bed againuntil the end.At one time she had motioned me to bring from her desk theold-fashioned key ring on which she kept her keys. She had held uptwo, a tiny key and a larger one, and whispered hoarsely: "These keysare the keys to the lock box and the little trunk--you know wherethe others belong." Then she had closed her eyes, as if the effort ofspeaking had exhausted her, as indeed it had.In the wild grief which followed my mother's death there was nothought of my unknown father except the bitterness I had always felttoward him. I knew that the terrible sorrow he had caused my motherhad helped to shorten her life, and my heart was hot with angeragainst him.I had never opened the trunk since her death. The exciting, almosttragic experiences of my life with Dicky had swept all the old daysinto the background. I could not analyze the change that had come overme. As I lifted the lid of the trunk and took from the top tray theinlaid box which my mother's hands had last touched, my grief for herwas mingled with a strange new longing to find out anything I couldconcerning the father I had never known."For my daughter Margaret's eyes alone."The superscription on the envelope which I held in my hand stared upat me with all the sentience of a living thing. The letters were inthe crabbed, trembling, old-fashioned handwriting of my mother--thelast words that she had ever written. It was as if she had come backfrom the dead to talk to me.With the memory of my mother's advice, I hesitated for a long timebefore breaking the seal. With the letters pressed close against mytear-wet cheeks I sat for a long time, busy with memories of my motherand debating whether or not I had the right to open the letter.I certainly was not in desperate straits, and I could notconscientiously say that I no longer harbored any resentmenttoward^the father of whom I had no recollection. I felt that never inmy life could I fully pardon the man who had made my mother suffer soterribly. But the longing to know something of my father, which I hadfelt since the coming into my life of Robert Gordon, had become almostan obsession, with me."Little mother," I whispered, "forgive me if I am doing wrong, but Imust know what is in this letter to me."With trembling fingers I broke the seal and drew out the closelywritten pages which the envelope contained."Mother's Only Comfort," the letter began, and at the sight of thedear familiar words, which I had so often heard from my mother'slips--it was the name she had given me when a tiny girl, and which sheused until the day of her death--tears again blinded my eyes.  "When you read this I shall have left you forever. It is my prayer  that when the time comes for you to read it, it will be because you  have forgiven your father, not because you are in desperate need. How  I wish I could have seen you safe in the shelter of a good man's love  before I had to go away from you forever!""Safe in the shelter of a good man's love," I repeated the wordsthoughtfully. Had my mother been given her wish when she could nolonger witness its fulfilment? I was angry and humiliated at myselfthat I could not give a swift, unqualified assent to my own question.A "good man" Dicky certainly was, and I was in the "shelter of hislove" at present. But "safe" with Dicky I was afraid I could neverbe. Mingled always with my love for him, my trust in him, was atiny undercurrent of uncertainty as to the stability of my husband'saffection for me.As I turned to my mother's letter again, there was a tiny pang at myheart at the thought that by my marriage with Dicky I had thwarted thedearest wish of my little mother's heart.For between the lines I could read the unspoken thought that had beenin her mind since I was a very young girl. "Safe in the shelter of agood man's love" meant to my mother only one thing. If she had writtenthe words "safe in the shelter of Jack Bickett's love," I could nothave grasped her meaning more clearly.But my mother's wish must forever remain ungranted. Jack was"somewhere in France," and for me, safe or not safe, stable orunstable, Dicky was "my man," the only man I had ever loved, the onlyman I could ever love. "For better or worse," the dear old ministerhad said who performed our wedding ceremony, and my heart reaffirmedthe words as I bent my eyes again to the closely written pages I heldin my hands.  "Because you have always been so bitter, Margaret, against your  father, and because it has always caused me great anguish to speak of  him, I have allowed you to rest under the impression that I had never  heard anything concerning him since his disappearance, and that I do  not know whether he be living or dead. The last statement is true, for  years ago I definitely refused to receive any communication from him,  but I must tell you that I believe him to be living, and that I know  that living or dead he has provided money for your use if you should  ever wish to claim it.  "The address he last sent me, and that of the firm of lawyers who  has the management of the property intended for you, are sealed in  envelopes in this box. In it also are all the things necessary to  establish your identity, my marriage certificate, your birth record,  pictures of your father and of me, and of the three of us taken when  you were two years old, before the shadow of the awful tragedy that  came later had begun to fall."I sprang from my chair, dropping the pages of the letter unheeded inthe shock of the revelation they brought me. My father had planned forme; had provided for me; had tried to communicate with my mother! Hemust have been repentant; he was not all the heartless brute I hadthought him. As though a cloud had been lifted, from my life and aweary weight had rolled from my heart, I turned again to mother'sletter.  "Remember, it is my last wish, Margaret, that if your father be  living, sometime you may be reconciled, to him. I have been weak and  bitter enough during all these years to be meanly comforted by your  stanch championship of me, and your detestation of the wrong your  father did me. But death brings clearer vision, my child, and I cannot  wish that your father's last years,--if, indeed, he be living--should  be desolated by not knowing you. I want you to know that there were  many things which, while they did not extenuate your father, yet might  in some measure explain his action.  "I was much to blame--I can see it now, for not being able to hold  his love. You are so much like me, my darling, that I tremble for your  happiness if you should happen to marry the wrong kind of man. I have  wondered often if the story of my tragedy, terrible as it is for me to  think of it, might not help you. And yet--it might do more harm than  good. At any rate, I have written it all out, and put it with the  other things in the box. I feel a curious sort of fatalism concerning  this letter. It is borne in upon me that if you ever need to read it  you will read it. It will help you to understand your father better.  It may help you to understand your husband; although, God grant,  knowledge like mine may never come to you.  "Of one thing I am certain, you will never have anything to do with  the woman who abused my friendship and took your father from me. I  cannot carry my forgiveness far enough, even in the presence of death,  to bid you go to him if she be still a part of his life.  "I can write no more, my darling. I want you to know that you have  been the dearest child a mother could have, and that you have never  given me moment's uneasiness in my life. God bless and keep you.  "MOTHER."I did not weep when I had finished the letter. There was that in itsclosing words that dried my tears. I put the pages reverently inthe envelope, laid it in the old box, closed and locked the lid, andreplaced it in the trunk. For my mother's bitter mention of the womanwho had stolen my father from her had brought back the old, wildhatred I had felt for so many years."Whatever Robert Gordon can tell me of you, mother darling, I willgladly hear," I whispered, as I locked her old trunk, "but I neverwant to hear him talk of the woman who so cruelly ruined your life."XXXVTHE WORD OF JACK"O, pray do not let me disturb you."Mother Graham drew back from the open door of the living room witha little affected start of surprise at seeing me sitting before thefire. Her words were courteous, but her manner brought the temperatureof the room down perceptibly.She had managed to keep out of my way in clever fashion since thescene of the day before, when she had attacked me concerning theinterest taken in me by Robert Gordon."You are not disturbing me in the least," I said, pleasantly, "I wassimply watching the fire. Jim certainly has outdone himself in thematter of logs this time.""Yes, he has," she admitted, grudgingly, as she came forward slowlyand took the chair I proffered her. "I only hope he doesn't set thehouse afire with such a blaze. I must tell Richard to speak to himabout it."Always the pin prick, the absolute ignoring of me as the mistress ofthe house. I could not tell whether she had deliberately done it, orwhether long usage to dominance in a household had made her speak asshe did unconsciously.I made no reply, and, for a long time, we sat staring at the fireuntil Dicky's entrance came as a welcome interruption.I went sedately to the door to meet him, although I was so glad tosee him that a dance step would more appropriately have expressed myfeelings, and returned his warm kiss and greeting. He kept my hand inhis as he came down to the fire, not even releasing it when he kissedhis mother, who still maintained the rigid dignity with which shesurrounded herself when displeased."Well," Dicky said, manfully ignoring any hint of unpleasantness,"this is what I call comfortable, coming home to a fire and a welcomelike this on a dreary day."There was a note of forced jollity in his voice that made me look upquickly into his eyes. As they looked into mine, I caught a glimpse ofsomething half-hidden, half-revealed, something fiercely sombre, whichfrightened me."What had happened," I asked myself, with a little clutch at my heart,"to make Dicky look at me in this way?" I had a longing to take himaway where we could be alone.I was glad when my mother-in-law rose stiffly from her chair."If you are too much occupied, Margaret," she remarked, icily, "I willgo and tell Katie that Richard is here, and that she may serve dinnerimmediately."She swept out of the room majestically, and as the door closed afterher Dicky caught me in his arms and clasped me so closely that I wasfrightened."Tell me you love me," he said tensely, "better than anybody in theworld or out of it." His eyes were glowing with some emotion I couldnot understand. I felt my vague uneasiness of his first entrancedeepen into real foreboding of something unknown and terrible comingto me."Why, of course, you know that, sweetheart," I replied. "There is noone for me but just you! But what is the matter? Something must be thematter.""Where did you get that idea?" he evaded. "I just wanted to be sure,that's all. Wait here for me--I'll dash up and get some of the dustoff in a jiffy before dinner."I spent an anxious interval before, he came down, for, despite hisdenials, I felt that something out of the ordinary must have happenedto cause his queer, passionate outburst.When he returned to, the living room, it was with no trace of anyemotion, and throughout the dinner, while not so given to conversationas usual, he showed no indication that he was at all disturbed.But I was very glad when the dinner was over, and we returned to theliving-room fire. And when, after a few minutes, my mother-in-lawyawned sleepily and went to her room, I drew a deep breath of relief.Dicky drew my chair close to his, and we sat for a long time lookingat the leaping flames, only occasionally speaking.It was at the end of a long silence that Dicky turned toward me, witheyes so troubled that all my fears leaped up anew. I sprang to myfeet."What is it, Dicky?" I entreated, wildly. "Oh! I know somethingterrible is the matter!"He rose from his chair, and clasped my hands tightly."I suppose I'd better tell you quickly, dear," he replied. "Yourcousin, Jack Bickett, is reported killed.""Killed!" I repeated faintly. "Jack Bickett killed! Oh, no, no,Dicky; no, no, no!"I heard my own voice rise to a sort of shriek, felt Dicky release myhands and seize my shoulders, and then everything went black beforeme, and I knew nothing more.When I came to myself, I was lying on the couch before the fire, withmy face and the front of my gown dripping with water, the strong smellof hartshorn in the room, and Dicky with stern, white face, and Katiein tears, hovering over me.Dicky was trying to force a spoon between my teeth when I opened myeyes. He promptly dropped it, and the brandy it contained trickleddown my neck. I raised my hand to wipe it away, and Dicky uttered alow, "Thank God!""Oh, she no dead, she alive again!" Katie cried out, and threw herselfon her knees by my side, sobbing."Get up, Katie, and stop that howling!" Dicky spoke sternly. "Do youwant to get my mother down here? Go upstairs at once and prepare Mrs.Graham's bed for her. I will carry her up directly. Are you all rightnow, Madge?"His tone was anxious, but there was a note of constraint in it, whichI understood even through the returning anguish at Dicky's terriblenews, which was possessing me with returning consciousness.He believed that my feeling for my brother-cousin, Jack Bickett, was adeeper one than that which I had always professed, a sisterly love forthe only near relative I had in the world. This was the reason for hissudden, passionate embrace of me when he entered the house, his demandthat I tell him I loved him better than anybody in the world or out ofit.He had been jealous of Jack living, he would still be jealous of himdead! But as the realization again swept over me that Jack, steadfast,manly Jack, the only near relative I had, was no longer in the sameworld with me, that never again would I see his kind eyes, hear hisdeep, earnest voice, all thoughts of anything else but my loss fledfrom me, and I gave a little moan.I felt Dicky's arm which was around my shoulders shrink awayinstinctively, then tighten again. He turned my face against hisshoulder, and, gathering me in his arms, lifted me from the couch."Oh, Dicky, I am sure I can walk," I protested faintly.He stopped and looked at me fixedly."Don't you want my arms around you?" he asked, and there was that inhis voice which made me answer hastily:"Of course I do, but I am afraid I am too heavy.""Let me be the judge of that," he returned sternly, and forthwithcarried me up the stairs, down the hall, and laid me on the bed in myown room."Now you must get that wet gown off," he said practically. "Katieemptied nearly a gallon of water over you in her fright."He smiled constrainedly, and I made a brave effort to return thesmile, but I could not accomplish it. Indeed, I was glad to be able tokeep back the tears, which I knew instinctively would hurt him.He undressed me as tenderly as a woman could have done, and, wrappinga warm bathrobe over my nightdress, for I was shivering as if froma chill, tucked me in between the blankets of my bed. Then he drew achair to the bedside and sat down."Are you sure you are all right now?" he asked. "Your color is comingback.""Perfectly sure," I returned, "and I am so sorry to have made you somuch trouble.""Don't say that," he returned, a trifle sharply. "It is someaningless. Try to sleep a little, can't you?""Not yet, Dicky," I returned. "I am feeling much better, however. Ofcourse, the shock was terrible at first, for, as you know, Jack wasthe only brother I ever knew. But I am all right now and I want you totell me how you learned the news.""Mrs. Stewart telephoned to me," he said. "It seems your cousin gaveher as the 'next of kin,' to be notified in case of his death, andshe received the notice this morning. There was nothing but the usualofficial notification."I caught my breath, stifling the moan that rose to my lips. Somewherein France lay buried the tenderest heart, the manliest man God everput into the world. And I had sent him to his death. Despite thecomforting assurance Jack had written me, just before his departurefor France, that his discovery of my marriage, with the consequentblasting of the hope he had cherished for years, had not been thecause of his sailing, I knew he would never have left me if I had notbeen married.I think Dicky must have read my thoughts in my face, for, after amoment, he said gently, yet with a tenseness which told me he wasputting a rigid control over his voice:"You must not blame yourself so harshly. Your cousin would probablyhave gone to the war even if--circumstances had been different."There was that in Dicky's voice and eyes which told me that he, too,was suffering. I gathered my strength together, made a supreme effortto put the sorrow and remorse I felt behind me until I could be alone.I knew that I must strive at once to eradicate the false impressionmy husband had gained as a result of my reception of the news of mybrother-cousin's death.So I forced my lips to words which, while not utterly false, yet didnot at all reveal the truth of what I was feeling."I know that, Dicky," I returned, and I tried to hold my voice to aconversational tone. "He went with his dearest friend, a Frenchman,you know. I had nothing to do with his going. It isn't that whichmakes me feel as I do. It is because his death brings back my mother'sso plainly. He was always so good to her, and she loved him so much."Dicky bent his face so quickly to mine that I could not catch hisexpression. He kissed me tenderly, and, kneeling down by the side ofthe bed, gathered my head up against his shoulder."Cry it all out, if you want to, sweetheart," he said, and I fanciedthe tension was gone from his voice. "It will do you good."So, "cry it out" I did, against the blessed shelter of my husband'sshoulder. And the tears seemed to wash away all the shock of thenews I had, heard, all the bitter, morbid remorse I had felt, allthe secret wonder as to whether I might have loved and married mybrother-cousin if Dicky had not come into my life. There was left onlya sane, sisterly sorrow for a loved brother's death, and a tremendoussurge of love for my husband, and gratitude for his tenderness."Try to sleep if you can," he said.I tried to obey his injunction, but I could not. I could see the handsof my little bedroom clock, and after the longest quarter of an hour Ihad ever known I turned restlessly on my pillow."It's no use, Dicky," I said, "I cannot go to sleep. I would rathertalk. Tell me, did Mrs. Stewart's voice sound as if she were muchupset? She is an old woman, you know, and she was very fond of Jack."Dicky hesitated, and a curious, intent expression came into his eyes."Yes, I think she was pretty well broken up," he answered, "but thething about which she seemed most anxious was that you should not loseany time in attending to the property your cousin left. I believe hewrote you concerning his disposition of it before he sailed."I looked up, startled. Dicky's words brought something to my mindthat I had completely forgotten. I was the heiress to all that Jackpossessed, not great wealth, it is true, but enough to insure me amodest competence for the rest of my life."Do you object to my taking this money, Dicky?" I asked, and my voicewas tense with emotion."Object!" the words came from Dicky's mouth explosively, then hejumped to his feet and paced up and down the room rapidly for a momentor two, his jaw set, his eyes stern. When he stopped by the bed he hadevidently recovered his hold on himself, but his words came quickly,jerkily, almost as if he were afraid to trust himself to speak."You are in no condition to discuss this tonight," he said, droppinghis hand on my hair, "we will speak of it again tomorrow, when youhave somewhat recovered. Now you must try to go to sleep. I shall haveto call a physician if you don't."I lay awake for hours, debating the problem which had come to me. Isaw clearly that Dicky did not wish me to take this bequest of Jack's.Indeed, I knew that he expected me to refuse it, and that he would bebitterly disappointed if I did not do so.My heart was hot with rebellion. It seemed like a profanation ofJack's last wish, like hurling a gift into the face of the dead, to doas Dicky wished.And yet--Dicky was my husband. I had sworn to love and honor him. Iknew that he felt sincerely, however wrongly, that my acceptance ofJack's gift would be a direct slap at him. I felt as if my heart werebeing torn in two, with my desire to do justice both to the livingand the dead. It was not until nearly daylight that the solution of myproblem came to me. Then I fell asleep, exhausted, and did not awakenuntil Dicky came into the room, dressed for the journey which he tookdaily to the city."I wouldn't disturb you, sweetheart," he said, "only it's time forme to go in to the studio, and I did not want to leave you withoutknowing how you are.""Oh, have I slept so late?" I returned, contritely, springing up inbed.Dicky put me back with a firm hand."Lie still," he commanded, gently. "Katie will bring you up somebreakfast shortly, and there is no need of your getting up for hours."He bent down to kiss me good-by. There was a restraint in bothhis voice and his caress that told me he was still thinking of theconversation of the night before. I put my arms about his neck anddrew his face down to mine."Sweetheart," I whispered, "I want to tell you what I've decided aboutJack's property.""Not now," Dicky interrupted hurriedly."Yes, now," I returned decidedly. "I am going to accept it"--I grippedhis hands firmly as I felt them drawing away from mine, "but I am notgoing to use any of it for myself. I will see that it all goes to theorphaned kiddies of the soldiers with whom Jack fought."Dicky started, looked at me a bit wildly, then stooped, and, gatheringme to him convulsively, pressed a long, tender kiss upon my lips."My own girl!" he murmured. "I shall not forget that you have donethis for me!"XXXVI"AND YET--""What's the big idea?"Dicky looked up from the breakfast table with a mildly astonished airas I came hurriedly into the room dressed for the street, wearing myhat, and carrying my coat over my arm."I'm going into town with you," I returned quietly."Shopping, I suppose." The words sounded idle enough, but I, who knewDicky so well, recognized the note of watchfulness in the query."I shall probably go into some of the shops before I return," I saidcarelessly, "but the real reason of my going into the city is Mrs.Stewart. I should have gone to see her yesterday."Dicky frowned involuntarily, but his face cleared again in an instant.It was the second day after he had brought me the terrible news thatJack Bickett, my brother-cousin, was reported killed "somewhere inFrance." I knew that Dicky, in his heart, did not wish me to go to seeMrs. Stewart, but I also knew that he was ashamed to give voice to hisreluctance.When Dicky spoke at last, it was with just the right shade of cordialacquiescence in his voice."Of course you must go to see her," he said, "but are you sure you'refeeling fit enough? It will try your nerves, I imagine."Far better than Dicky could guess I knew what the day's ordeal wouldbe. Mrs. Stewart had been very fond of my brother-cousin. With mymother, she had hoped that he and I would some day care for eachother. With her queer partisan ideas of loyalty, when Dicky had beenso cruelly unjust to me about Jack, she had wished me to divorce Dickyand marry Jack, even though Jack himself had never whispered such asolution of my life's problem. That she believed me to be responsiblefor his going to the war I knew. I dreaded inexpressibly the idea offacing her.But when, after a rather silent trip to the city with Dicky, I stoodagain in Mrs. Stewart's little upstairs sitting-room, I found only avery sorrowful old woman, not a reproachful one."I thought you'd come today," she said, and her voice was tired,dispirited. I felt a sudden compunction seize me that my visits to herhad been so few since Jack's going."I couldn't have kept away," I said, and then my old friend dropped myhand, which she had been holding, and, sinking into a chair, put herwrinkled old hands up to her face. I saw the slow tears tricklingthrough her fingers, and I knelt by her side and drew her head againstmy shoulder, comforting her as she once had comforted me.Mrs. Stewart was never one to give way to emotion, and it was but afew moments before she drew herself erect, wiped her eyes, and saidquietly:"I'll show you the cablegram."She went to her desk, and drew out the message, clipped, abbreviatedin the puzzling fashion of cablegrams:  "Regret inform you, Bickett killed, action French front. Details  later."  (Signed) "CAILLARD.""Caillard? Caillard?" Where had I heard that name? Then I suddenlyremembered. Paul Caillard was the friend with whom Jack had goneacross the ocean to the Great War. I examined the paper carefully."I thought Dicky said you received the usual official notification," Iremarked."That's what I told him," she replied. "That's it.""But this isn't an official message," I persisted."Why isn't it?"I explained the difference haltingly, and spoke of the wonderfulsystem of identification in the French army, with every man taggedwith a metal identification check."You will probably receive the official notification in a few days," Icommented.A queer, startled expression flashed into her face. She opened hermouth, as if to speak, and then, looking at me sharply, closedit again. Reaching out her hand for the cablegram, she folded itmechanically, as if thinking of something far away, then going to herdesk, put it away, and stood as if thinking deeply for two or threeminutes, which seemed an hour to me.At last I saw her body straighten. She gave a little shake of hershoulders, as if rousing herself, and, turning from the desk, cametoward me. I saw that she held in her hand a bundle of letters."I understand that you and Jack made some fool agreement that he wasnot to write to you, and that you were not even to read his lettersto me. I'm not expressing my opinion about it, but now that he's gone,I'm going to turn these letters over to you. I'm not blind, you know.Most of them were all really written to you, even if I did receivethem. Poor lad! It seems such a pity he should be struck down just asa little happiness seemed coming his way."She put the letters in my hands, and, turning swiftly, went out ofthe room. I knew her well enough to realize that she would not returnuntil I had read the messages from Jack. But what in the world did shemean by her last words?I drew a big, easy chair to the fireside, and began to read themissives. Some were short, some were long, but all were filled witha quiet courage and cheerfulness that I knew had illuminated not onlyJack's letters to his old friend, but his life and the lives of otherswherever he had been. Every one of them had some reference to me--aninquiry after my health, an injunction to Mrs. Stewart to be sure tokeep track of my happiness, a little kodak print or other souvenirmarked "For Margaret if I do not come back."I felt guilty, remorseful, that I had seen so little of Mrs. Stewartsince his departure. My own affairs, especially my long, terriblesummer's experience with Grace Draper, had shut everything else frommy mind.One letter in particular made my eyes brim with sudden tears. Thefirst of it had been cheery, with entertaining little accounts of thefew poor bits of humor which the soldiers in the trenches extractedfrom their terrible every day round. Along toward the end a suddenimpulse seemed to have swept the writer's pen into a more sombrechannel."I have been thinking much, dear old friend," he wrote, "of thefutility of human desires. Life in the trenches is rather conducive tothat form of mediation, as you may imagine. You know, none better,how I loved Margaret, how I wanted to make her my wife--I often wonderwhether if I had not delayed so long, 'fearing my fate too much,'I might not have won her. But thoughts, like that are worse thanuseless."Instead, there has come to me a clearer understanding of Margaret, abetter insight into the golden heart of her. If she had never metthe other man, or some one like him, I believe I could have made herhappy, kept her contented. But I realize fully that having met himthere could never be any other man for her but him. Her love for himis like a flame, transforming her. I could never have called forthsuch passion from her. I see clearly now how foolish it was in me tohave hoped it. There was nothing in the humdrum, commonplace brotherlyaffection which she thought I gave her to arouse the romance which Iknow slumbers under that calm, cold exterior of hers."Sometimes I query, too, whether my love for Margaret had thatflame-like quality which characterizes her love for her husband.Margaret has always been so much a part of my life that my love forher began I could not tell when, and grew and strengthened with theyears. There never has been any other woman but Margaret in my life.Even if I should ever come out of this living hell, which I doubt, Ido not believe there ever will be another."And yet--""I have just been summoned for duty. Good-by, dear friend, until thenext time. Lovingly yours, Jack Bickett."I laid the letter aside with a queer little startled feeling at myheart.Those two little words, "and yet," at the end of Jack's letter gave memuch food for thought. Was it possible that before his death Jack hadrealized that his love for me was not the consuming passion he hadthought it, but partook more of the fraternal affection that I had hadfor him?I hoped for Jack's sake that this was so."And yet--"I ran through the rest of the letters rapidly. One, the third from thelast, arrested my attention sharply."Such a pleasant thing happened to me today," Jack wrote, "one of theunexpected gleams of sunlight that are so much brighter because of thegeneral gloom against which they are reflected."I was given a week's furlough last Saturday and went up to Paris withmy friend, Paul Caillard. He had a friend in a hospital on the waythere, headed by Dr. Braithwaite, the celebrated surgeon of Detroit."I caught my breath. As well as if I had already read the words, I knewwhat was coming."At an unexpected turn in the corridor I almost knocked over alittle nurse who was hurrying toward the office. She looked up atme startled, out of the prettiest brown eyes I ever saw, and thenstopped, staring at me as if I had been a ghost. I stared back,frankly, for her face was familiar to me, although for the moment Icould not tell where I had seen her before."Then, half-shyly, she spoke, and her voice matched her eyes."'You are Mr. Bickett, are you not, Mrs. Graham's cousin?'"For a moment I did not realize that 'Mrs. Graham' was Margaret. Butthat gave me no clue to the identity of the girl. Then all at once itcame to me."'I know you now,' I said. 'You are Mark Earle's little sister,Katherine.'"So they had met at last, Jack Bickett, my brother-cousin, andKatherine Sonnot, the little nurse who had taken care of mymother-in-law, and whom I had learned to love as a dear friend.Was I glad or sorry, I wondered, as I picked up Jack's letter againthat I had crushed any feeling I might have had in the matter, andhad spoken the word to Dr. Braithwaite that resulted in Katharine'sjoining the eminent surgeon's staff of nurses? It seemed a pity tohave these two meet only to be torn apart so soon by death."I cannot begin to tell you how delighted I was when we recognizedeach other. You can imagine over here that to one American the meetingwith another American, especially if both have the same friends, isan event. Luckily, Miss Sonnot was just about to have an afternoon offwhen we met, and if she had an engagement--which she denied--she waskind enough to break it for me. I need not tell you that I spent themost delightful afternoon I have had since coming over here."You can be sure that I at once exerted all the influence I hadthrough my friend, Caillard, and his friend in the hospital to secureas much free time for Miss Sonnot as possible for the time I was to beon furlough. It is like getting home after being away so long to talkto this brave, sensible, beautiful young girl--for she deserves all ofthe adjectives."In the two letters which were the last ones numbered by Mrs. Stewart,Jack spoke again and again of the little nurse. Almost the last lineof his last letter, written after he returned to the front, spoke ofher."Little Miss Sonnot and I correspond," he wrote, "and you can haveno idea how much good her letters do me. They are like fresh, sweetbreezes glowing through the miasma of life in the trenches."I folded the letters, put them back into their envelopes, and arrangedthem as Mrs. Stewart had given them to me. When she came back into theroom she found me still holding them and staring into the fire."Did you read them all?" she asked."Yes," I replied."Don't you think those last ones sounded as if he were really gettinginterested in that little nurse?" she demanded.There was a peculiar intonation in her voice which told me that inher own queer little way she was trying to punish me for my failureto come to see her oftener with inquiries about Jack. She evidentlythought that my vanity would be piqued at the thought of Jack becominginterested in any other woman after his life-long devotion to me.But I flatter myself that my voice was absolutely non-committal as Ianswered her."Yes, I do," I agreed, "and what a tragedy it seems that he should besnatched away from the prospect of happiness."The words were sincere. I was sure.And yet--XXXVIIA CHANGE IN LILLIAN UNDERWOOD"Well, children, have you made any plans for Dicky's birthday yet?"I nearly fell off my chair in astonishment at the friendliness in mymother-in-law's tones. She had been sulky ever since we had come homefrom our autumn outing in the Catskills, a sulkiness caused by herresentment of what she chose to consider the indiscreet interesttaken in me by Robert Gordon, the mysterious millionaire whom I haddiscovered to be an old friend of my parents. I shrewdly suspected,however, that her continued resentment was more because Dicky choseto take my part in the matter against her, than because of any realfeeling toward Mr. Gordon.Nearly a year's experience, however, had taught me how best to managemy mother-in-law. When she indulged herself in one of her frequent"tantrums" I adopted a carefully courteous, scrupulously formalattitude toward her, and dismissed her from my mind. Thus I savedmyself much worry and irritation, and deprived her of the pleasureof a quarrel, something which I knew she would be glad to bring onsometimes for the sheer pleasure of combat.Her question was so sudden, her cordiality so surprising, that I couldframe no answer. Instead I looked helplessly at Dicky. To tellthe truth, I rather distrusted this sudden amiability. From pastexperiences, I knew that when Mother Graham made a sudden change fromsulkiness to cheerfulness, she had some scheme under way.Dicky's answer was prompt."That's entirely up to Madge, mother," he said, and smiled at me.Although his mother tried hard she could not keep the acerbity out ofher tones as she turned to me. She always resented any deference ofDicky to my opinion."Well, as Richard has no opinion of his own, what are your plans,Margaret?""Why, I have made none so far," I stammered, wishing with all my heartthat I had made some definite plan for Dicky's birthday. I could seefrom my mother-in-law's manner that she had some cherished scheme inmind, and my prophetic soul told me that it would be something which Iwould not particularly like."Good," she returned. "Then I shall not be interfering with any planof yours. I have already written to Elizabeth asking them to come outhere for a week's visit. This is an awful shack, of course, but itis the country, and the children will enjoy the woods and brooks andfields, even if it is cold."Dicky turned to her abruptly, his brow stormy, his eyes flashing."Mother, do you mean to say that you have already written to Elizabethwithout first consulting Madge as to whether it would be convenient?"I trod heavily on his toes under the table in the vain hope that Iwould be able to stop him from saying the words which I knew wouldinflame his mother's temper. Failing in that, I hastened to throw asentence or two of my own into the breach in the desire to preventfurther hostilities."Dicky, stop talking nonsense!" I said sharply. "I am sure MotherGraham," turning to my mother-in-law who sat regarding her son withthe most traditional of "stony stares," "we shall be delighted to haveyour daughter and her family. You must tell me how many there areso we can arrange for beds and plenty of bedding. This is a ratherdraughty house, you know.""I am better aware of that than you are," she returned, ungraciouslymaking no response to my proffer of hospitality. Then she turned herattention to Dicky."Richard," she said sternly, "I have never been compelled to consultanybody yet, before inviting guests to my home, whether it be apermanent or a temporary one. I am too old to begin. I do not noticethat you or Margaret take the trouble to consult me before invitingyour friends here."Dicky opened his mouth to reply, but I effectually stopped him, by aswift kick, which I think found a mark, for he jumped perceptiblyand flashed me a wrathful look. I knew that he was thinking of thestrenuous objection his mother had made to our entertaining theUnderwoods, and to the proposed visit of Robert Gordon to our home.But I knew also that it was no time to rake up old scores. I foresawtrouble enough in this proposed visit of my relatives-in-law whom Ihad never seen, without having things complicated by a row betweenDicky and his mother.There was trouble, too, in all the housecleaning, the re-arrangementof our rooms and in the laying in of a stock of provisions to meetthe requirements of the menu for each meal that Mother Graham insistedupon deciding in advance to please her daughter and the children. Andthen, the day they were to arrive, she received a special deliveryletter calmly announcing that they were not coming. But myannoyance was forgotten in Mother Graham's very apparent and utterdisappointment.When I broke the news to Dicky he suggested that we have a partyanyway, and Mother Graham sweetly acquiesced in our plans to invitethe Underwoods.Lillian's voice over the telephone, however, made me forget all mycontentment, and filled me with misgiving. It was tense, totallyunlike her usual bluff, hearty tones, and with an undercurrent in itthat spelled tragedy."What is the trouble, Lillian?" I asked, as soon as I had heard hergreeting; "I know something is the matter by your voice.""Yes, there is," she replied, "but nothing of which I can speakover the 'phone. Tell me, are you going to have any strangers theretomorrow?"How like Lillian the bluff, honest speech was! Almost any other womanwould have hypocritically assured me that nothing was the matter. Butnot Lillian Underwood!"Nobody but the Durkees," I assured her. "They have already promisedto be here. But, Lillian, you surely must get here as soon as you can.I shall be so worried until I see you. If you don't get here earlytomorrow morning I shall come in after you.""You couldn't keep me away, you blessed child, if you are going tohave no strangers there," Lillian returned. "I don't mind the Durkees.But I need you, my dear, very much. Now I must tell you something,don't be shocked or surprised when you see me, for I shall be somewhatchanged in appearance. Run along to Dicky now. I'll be with you sometime tomorrow forenoon. Good-by."I almost forgot to hang up the telephone receiver in my bewilderment.What trouble could have come to Lillian that she needed me? She wasthe last person in the world to need any one, I thought--she, whosesterling good sense and unfailing good-nature had helped me somany times. And what change in her appearance did she mean when shecautioned me against being shocked and surprised at seeing her?My anxiety concerning Lillian stayed with me all through the evening.I awoke in the night from troubled dreams of her to equally troubledthoughts concerning her. And my concern was complicated by a messagewhich Dicky received the next forenoon.We had barely finished breakfast when the telephone rang and Dickyanswered."Hello," I heard him say. "Yes, this is Graham. Oh! Mr. Gordon! how doyou do?"My heart skipped a beat."Why! that's awfully kind of you," Dicky was saying, "but we couldn'tpossibly accept, because we have guests coming ourselves. We expect tohave a regular old-fashioned country dinner here at home. But, whydo you not come out to us? Oh, no, you wouldn't disturb any plans atall--they've been thoroughly upset already. We had planned to havemy sister and her family, six in all, spend this holiday with us, butyesterday we found they could not come. So we're inviting what friendswe can find who are not otherwise engaged to help us eat up theturkey. You will be more than welcome if you will join us. All right,then. Do you know about trains? Yes, any taxi driver can tell youwhere we are. Good-by."I did not dare to look at my mother-in-law as Dicky came toward usafter answering Robert Gordon's telephone message.I think Dicky was a trifle afraid, also, of his mother's verdict, forhis attitude was elaborately apologetic as he explained his invitationto me."Your friend, Gordon, has just gotten in from one of those mysteriousvoyages of his to parts unknown," he said. "He was delayed in reachingthe city, only got in last night, too late to telephone us. Seemshe had some cherished scheme of having us his guests at a blowout.Wouldn't mind going if we hadn't asked these people here, for they sayhis little dinners are something to dream about, they're so unique. Ofcourse, there was nothing else for me to do but to invite him out. Ithought you wouldn't mind."In Dicky's tone there was a doubtful inflection which I readcorrectly. He knew of my interest in the elderly man of mystery whohad known my parents so well, and I was sure that he thought I wouldbe overjoyed because he had extended the invitation.I was glad that I could honestly disabuse his mind of this idea, for Ihad a curious little feeling that Dicky disliked more than he appearedto do the attentions paid to me by Mr. Gordon.It was less than an hour before the taxi bearing the first of ourguests swung into the driveway and Lillian and Harry Underwood steppedout.Lillian's head and face were so swathed in veils that I did notrealize what the change in her appearance of which she had warned mewas until I was alone with her in my room, which I intended giving upto her and her husband while they stayed. Then, as she took off herhat and veils, I almost cried out in astonishment--for at my first,unaccustomed glance, instead of the rouged and powdered face, and dyedhair, which to me had been the only unpleasant things about LillianUnderwood, the face of an old woman looked at me, and the hair aboveit was gray!There were the remnants of great youthful beauty in Lillian's face.Nay, more, there were wonderful possibilities when the present crisisin her life, whatever it might be, should have passed. But the effectof the change in her was staggering."Awful, isn't it?" she said, coming up to me. "No, don't lie to me,"as she saw a confused, merciful denial rise to my lips. "There aremirrors everywhere, you know. There's one comfort, I can't possiblyever look any worse than I do now, and when my hair gets over theeffect of its long years of dyeing, and my present emotional crisisbecomes less tense I probably shall not be such a fright. But oh, mydear, how glad I am to be with you. I need you so much just now."She put her head on my shoulder as a homesick child might have done,and I felt her draw two or three long, shuddering breaths, the drysobs which take the place of tears in the rare moments when LillianUnderwood gives way to emotion. I stroked her hair with tender,pitiful fingers, noticing as I did so what ravages her foolishtreatment of her hair had made in tresses that must once have beenbeautiful. Originally of the blonde tint she had tried to preserve,her locks were now an ugly mixture of dull drab and gray. As I stoodlooking down at the head pillowed against my shoulder I realized whatthis transformation in Lillian must mean to Harry Underwood.He it was who had always insisted that she follow the example of thegay Bohemian crowd of which he was a leader, and disguise her fleetingyouth, with dye and rouge. It was to please him, or, as she onceexpressed it to me, "to play the game fairly with Harry" that sheoutraged her own instincts, her sense of what was decent and becoming,and constantly made up her face into a mask like that of a woman ofthe half-world. No one could deny that it disguised her real age, buther best friends, including Dicky and myself, had always felt that thereal mature beauty of the woman was being hidden."Of course, this is terribly rough on Harry," Lillian said at last,raising her head from my shoulder, and speaking in as ordinary andunruffled a tone as if she had not just gone through what in any otherwoman would have been a hysterical burst of tears."It really isn't fair to him, and under any other conditions in theworld I would not do it. He's pretty well cut up about it, so much sothat he cannot always control his annoyance when he is speaking aboutit. But I know you will overlook any little outbreaks of his, won'tyou? He wanted to come down here with me, you know he's always anxiousto see you, or I would have run away by myself."Her tone was anxious, wistful, and my heart ached for her. I couldguess that when Harry Underwood could not "control his annoyance" hecould be very horrid indeed. But I winced at her casual remark thather husband was always anxious to see me. Harry Underwood held inrestraint by his very real admiration for his brilliant wife had beenannoying enough to me. I did not care to think what he might be whenenraged at her as I knew he must be now.Nothing of my feeling, however, must I betray to the friend who hadcome to me for help and comfort. I drew closer the arms that had notyet released her."Dear girl," I said softly, "don't worry any more about your husbandor anything else. Just consider that you've come home to your sister.I'm going to keep you awhile now I've got you, and we'll straighteneverything out. Don't even bother to tell me anything about it untilyou are fully rested. I can see you've been under some great strain.""No one can ever realize how great," she returned. "You see--"What revelation she meant to make to me I did not then learn, for justat that moment a knock sounded on the door, and in answer to my "comein," Katie appeared and announced the arrival of the Durkees andRichard Gordon.XXXVIII"NO--NURSE--JUST--LILLIAN""Tell me, Madge," Dicky's tone was tense, and I recognized the note ofjealous anger which generally preceded his scenes, "are you going tohave that old goat take you out to dinner? Because if you are--"He broke off abruptly, as if he thought an unspoken threat would bemore terrifying than one put into words. I knew to what he referred.As hostess, I, of course, should be escorted in to dinner by thestranger in our almost family party, Robert Gordon, who was also theoldest man present. Ordinarily, Dicky would have realized that hisdemand to have me change this conventional arrangement was a mostill-bred and inconsiderate thing. But Dicky sane and Dicky jealous,however, were two different men.Always before this day Dicky had regarded with tolerant amusement thestrange interest shown in me by the elderly man of mystery who hadknown my mother. But the magnificent chrysanthemums which Mr. Gordonhad brought me, dozens of them, costing much more money than theordinary conventional floral gift to one's hostess ought to cost, hadroused his always smouldering jealousy to an unreasoning pitch.Fear of hurting Robert Gordon's feelings was the one considerationthat held me back from defying Dicky's mandate. Experience had taughtme the best course to pursue with Dicky."If, as I suppose, you are referring to Mr. Gordon, it may interestyou to know that I have not the faintest intention of going in todinner with him," I retorted coolly. "Lillian wants to talk with himabout South America, and I shall have your friend, Mr. Underwood, asmy escort.""Gee, how happy you'll be," sneered Dicky, but I could see that he wasrelieved at my information. "You're so fond of dear old Harry, aren'tyou?""To tell you the truth, I have to fight all the time against becomingtoo fond of him," I returned mockingly. "He can be dangerouslyfascinating, you know."Dicky laughed in a way that showed me his brainstorm over RobertGordon had been checked. But there was a startled look in his eyeswhich changed to a more speculative scrutiny before he moved away."Oh, old Harry's all right," he said. "He's my pal, and he never meansanything, anyway." But I noticed that he said it as if he were tryingto convince himself of the truth of his assertion.When I told Harry Underwood that he was to take me in to dinner, andwe were leading the way into the dining room, his brilliant black eyeslooked down into mine mockingly, and he said:"You see it is Fate. No matter how you struggle against it you cannotescape me.""Do I look as if I were struggling?" I laughed back, and saw a suddenexpression of bewilderment in his eyes, followed instantly by a flashof triumph.Everything that was cattishly feminine in me leaped to life at thatlook in the eyes of the man whom I detested, whom I had even feared.I could read plainly enough in his eyes that he thought the assiduousflatteries he had always paid me were commencing to have their result,that I was beginning to recognize the dangerous fascination he wasreputed to have for women of every station. I had a swift, savagedesire to avenge the women he must have made suffer, to hurt him asbefore dinner he had wounded Lillian.So instead of turning an impassive face to Mr. Underwood's remark, Ilistened with just the hint of an elusive mischievous smile twistingmy lips."No, you don't look very uncomfortable. You look"--he caught hisbreath as if with some emotion too strong for utterance, and then saida trifle huskily:"Will you let me tell you how you look to me?"I had to exercise all my self-control to keep from laughing inhis face. He was such a poseur, his simulation of emotion wasso melodramatic that I wondered if he really imagined I would beimpressed by it.A spirit of mischievous daring stirred in me."Don't tell me just now," I said softly. "Wait till after dinner.""Afraid?" he challenged."Perhaps," I countered.He gave my hand lying upon his arm a swift, furtive pressure andreleased it so quickly that there was no possibility of his beingobserved. I had no time to rebuke him, had I been so disposed, for wehad almost reached our places at the table.I do not remember much of the dinner over which Mother Graham, Katieand I had worked so assiduously. That everything went off smoothly, aswe had planned, that from the Casaba melons which were served first tothe walnuts of the last course, everything was delicious in flavor andperfect in service I was gratefully but dimly aware.For I felt as if I were on the brink of a volcano. Not because ofHarry Underwood's elaborate show of attention to me to which I waspretending to respond, much to the disgust of my mother-in-law, but onaccount of the queer behavior of Robert Gordon.Lillian, who was making a pitifully brave attempt to bring to theoccasion all the airy brightness with which she was wont to make anygathering favored by her presence a success, secured only the briefestresponses from him, although he had taken her out to dinner. Sometimeshe made no answer at all to her remarks, evidently not hearing them.He watched me almost constantly, and so noticeable was his action thatI saw every one at the table was aware of it. It was a gaze to set anyone's brain throbbing with wild conjectures, so mournful, so elusiveit was. The fantastic thought crossed my mind that this mysteriouselderly friend of my dead mother's looked like a long famished man,coming suddenly in sight of food.By the time the dinner was over I was intensely nervous. Katieserved us our coffee in the living room, and when I took mine my handtrembled so that the tiny cup rattled against the saucer. I rose frommy chair and walked to the fireplace, set the cup upon the mantel andstood looking into the blazing logs Jim had heaped against the oldchimney. My guests could not see my face, and I hoped to be able topull myself together."Ready to have me tell you how you look to me, now?" said HarryUnderwood's voice, softly, insidiously in my ear.I started and moved a little away from him, which brought me nearerto the fire. The next moment I was wildly beating at little tongues offlame running up the flimsy fabric of my dress.I heard hoarse shouts, shrill screams, felt rough hands seize me, andwrap me in heavy, stifling cloth, which seemed to press the flamessearingly down into my flesh, and then for a little I knew no more.It seemed only a moment that I lost consciousness. When I came back tomyself I was lying on the couch with Lillian Underwood's deft, tenderfingers working over me. From somewhere back of me Dicky's voicesounded in a hoarse, gasping way that terrified me."For God's sake, Lil, is she--"Lillian's voice, firm, reassuring, answered:"No, Dicky, no, she's pretty badly burned, I fear, but I am sure shewill be all right. Now, dear boy, get your mother to her room and makeher lie down. Mrs. Durkee and I can take care of Madge better with youall out of the way. Did you get a doctor, Alfred?""Coming as soon as he can get here," Alfred Durkee replied."Good," Lillian returned. "Now everybody except Mrs. Durkee get outof here. Katie, bring a blanket, some sheets, and one of Mrs. Graham'sold nightdresses from her room. I shall have to cut the gown."Even through the terrible scorching heat which seemed to envelop mybody I realized that Lillian, as always, was dominating the situation.I could hear the snip of her scissors as she cut away the pieces ofburned cloth, and the low-toned directions to Mrs. Durkee, which toldme that Lillian already had secured our first aid kit and was givingme the treatment necessary to alleviate my pain until the physicianshould arrive.I am sorry to confess it, but I am a coward where physical pain isconcerned. I am not one of those women who can bear the torturingpangs of any illness or accident without an outcry. And, struggle as Imight, I could not repress the moan which rose to my lips."I know, child." Lillian's tender hands held my writhing ones, herpitying eyes looked into mine; but she turned from me the next momentin amazement, for Robert Gordon, the mysterious man who had loved mymother, appeared, as if from nowhere, at her side, twisting his handstogether and muttering words which I could not believe to be real,so strange and disjointed were they. I felt that they must be onlyfantasies of my confused brain."Mr. Gordon, this will never do," Lillian said sternly. "I thought Ihad sent every one out of the room except Mrs. Durkee.""I know--I am going right away again. But I had to come this time. Isshe going to die?""Not if I can get a chance to attend to her without everybodybothering me. I am very sure she is not seriously injured. Now, youmust go away."Mr. Gordon fled at once. And Lillian, and Mrs. Durkee worked soswiftly and skillfully that when the physician, a kindly, elderlypractitioner from Crest Haven arrived, my pain had been assuaged.By his direction I was carried to my own room. I must have faintedbefore they moved me, for the next thing I remember was the sound ofthe doctor's voice."There is nothing to be alarmed over," the physician was saying to ashadowy some one at the head of my bed, a some one who was breathingheavily, and the trembling of whose body I could feel against the bed."Of course, the shock has been severe, and the pain of moving her wastoo much for her. But she is coming round nicely. You may speak to hernow."The shadowy some one moved forward a little, resolved itself to myclearing sight as my husband. He knelt beside the bed and put his lipsto my uninjured hand."Sweetheart! Sweetheart!" he murmured, "my own girl! Is the pain verybad?""Not now," I answered faintly, trying to smile, but only succeedingin twisting my mouth into a grimace of pain. The flames had mercifullyspared my hair and most of my face, but there was one burn uponone side of my throat, extending up into my cheek, which made ituncomfortable for me to move the muscles of my face."Don't try to talk," Dicky replied. "Just lie still and let us takecare of you. Lil will stay, I know, until we can get a nurse here,won't you, Lil?"As a frightened child might do, I turned my eyes to Lillian,beseechingly."No--nurse--just--Lillian," I faltered.Lillian stooped over me reassuringly."No one shall touch you but me," she said decisively, and then turningto the physician, said demurely:"Do you think I can be trusted with the case, doctor?""Most assuredly," the physician returned heartily. "Indeed, if you canstay it is most fortunate for Mrs. Graham. Good trained nurses are ata premium just now, and great care will be necessary in this case toprevent disfigurement!"A quick, stifled exclamation of dismay came from Dicky."Is there any danger of her face being scarred?" he asked worriedly."Not while I'm on the job," Lillian returned decisively, and there wasno idle boasting in her statement, simply quiet certainty.But there was another note in her voice, or so it seemed to myfeverish imagination, a note of scorn for Dicky, that he should bethinking of my possible disfigurement when my very life had been inquestion but a moment before.A sick terror crept over me. Did my husband love me only for what poorclaims to pulchritude I possessed? Suppose the physician should bemistaken, and I be hideously scarred, after all, as I had seen firevictims scarred, would I see the love light die in his eyes, would Inever again witness the admiring glances Dicky was wont to flash at mewhen I wore something especially becoming?I had often wondered since my marriage whether Dicky's love for me wasthe real lasting devotion which could stand adversity. I knew that nomatter how old or gray or maimed or disfigured Dicky might become hewould be still my royal lover. I should never see the changes in him.But if I should suddenly turn an ugly scarred face to Dicky would heshrink from me?An epigram from one of the sanest and cleverest of our modernhumorists flashed into my mind. Dicky and I had read it together onlya few weeks before."Heaven help you, madam, if your husband does not love you because ofyour foibles instead of in spite of them."Did all women have this experience I wondered, and then as Lillian'sface bent over me I caught my breath in an understanding wave of pityfor her.This was what she was undergoing, this experience of seeing herhusband turn away his eyes from her, as if the very sight of her waspainful to him.Dicky would never do that, I knew. He had not the capacity for crueltywhich Harry Underwood possessed. But I was sure it would tortureme more to know that he was disguising his aversion than to see himopenly express it.XXXIXHARRY CALLS TO SAY GOOD-BYLillian Underwood kept her promise to Dicky that I should suffer noscar as the result of the burns I received when my dress caught fireon the night of my dinner.Never patient had a more faithful nurse than Lillian. She had a cotplaced in my room where she slept at night, and she rarely left myside.I found my invalidism very pleasant in spite of the pain andinconvenience of my burns. Everyone was devoted to my comfort. EvenMother Graham's acerbity was softened by the suffering I underwentin the first day or two following the accident, although I soondiscovered that she was actually jealous because Lillian and not shewas nursing me."It is the first time in my life that I have ever found my judgment innursing set aside as of no value," she said querulously to me one daywhen she was sitting with me while Lillian attended to the preparationof some special dish for me in the kitchen."Oh, Mother Graham," I protested, "please don't look at it that way.You know how careful you have to be about your heart. We couldn't letyou undertake the task of nursing me, it would have been too much foryou.""Well, if your own mother were alive I don't believe any one couldhave kept her from taking care of you," she returned stubbornly.There was a wistful note in her voice that touched and enlightenedme. Beneath all the crustiness of my mother-in-law's disposition theremust lie a very real regard--I tremulously wondered if I might notcall it love--for me.My heart warmed toward the lonely, crabbed old woman as it had neverdone before. I put out my uninjured hand, clasped hers, and drew hertoward me."Mother dear," I said softly, "please believe me, it would be nodifferent if my own little mother were here. She, of course, wouldwant to take care of me, but her frailness would have made itimpossible. And I want you to know that I appreciate all yourkindness."She bent to kiss me."I'm a cantankerous old woman, sometimes," she said quaveringly, "butI am fond of you, Margaret."She released me so abruptly and went out of the room so quickly thatI had no opportunity to answer her. But I lay back on my pillows,warm with happiness, filled with gratitude that in spite of the manycontroversies in which my husband's mother and I had been involved,and the verbal indignities which she had sometimes heaped upon me,we had managed to salvage so much real affection as a basis for ourfuture relations with each other.The reference to my own little mother, which I had made, brought backto me the homesickness, the longing for her which comes over me often,especially when I am not feeling well. When Lillian returned she foundme weeping quietly."Here, this will never do!" she said kindly, but firmly. "I'm notgoing to ask you what you were crying about, for I haven't time tolisten. I must fix you up to see two visitors. But"--she forestalledthe question I was about to ask--"before you see one of them I musttell you that Harry and I have about come to the parting of the ways.""The parting of the ways!" I gasped. "Harry and you?"Lillian Underwood nodded as calmly as if she had simply announceda decision to alter a gown or a hat, instead of referring to aseparation from her husband."It will have to come to that, I am afraid," she said, and lookingmore closely at her I saw that her calmness was only assumed, thathumiliation and sadness had her in their grip."I have always feared that when the time came for me to be 'my honestself' instead of a 'made-up daisy'"--she smiled wearily as she quotedthe childish rhyme--"Harry would not be big enough to take it well.Of course I could and would stand all his unpleasantness concerning myaltered appearance, but the root of his actions goes deeper than that,I am afraid. He dislikes children, and I fear that he will object tomy having my little girl with me. And if he does--"Her tone spelled finality but I had no time to bestow upon theprobable fate of Harry Underwood. With a glad little cry, I drewLillian down to my bedside and kissed her."Oh! Lillian!" I exclaimed, "are you really going to have your babygirl after all?"She nodded, and I held her close with a little prayer of thanksgivingthat fate had finally relented and had given to this woman the desireof her heart, so long kept from her.I saw now, and wondered why I had not realized before the reason forLillian's sudden abandonment of the rouge and powder and dyed hairwhich she had used so long. Once she had said to me, "When my babycomes home, she shall have a mother with a clean face and pepper andsalt hair, but until that time, I shall play the game with Harry."And so for Harry's sake, for the man who was not worthy to tie hershoes, she had continued to crucify her real instincts in an effortto hide the worst feminine crime in her husband's calendar--advancingage."When will she come to you?" I asked, and then with a suddenremembrance of the only conditions under which Lillian's littledaughter could be restored to her, I added, "then her father is--""Not dead, but dying," Lillian returned gravely, "but oh, my dear, hesent for me two weeks ago and acknowledged the terrible wrong he didme. I am vindicated at last, Madge--at last."Her voice broke, and as she laid her cheek against my hand, I felt thehappy tears which she must have kept back all through the excitementof my accident. How like her to put by her own greatest experiences asof no consequence when weighed against another's trouble!I kissed her happily. "Do you feel that you can tell me about it?" Iasked."You and Dicky are the two people I want most to know," she returned."Will confessed everything to me, and better still, to his mother.I would have been glad to have spared the poor old woman, for sheidolizes her son, but you remember I told you that although she lovedme, he had made her believe the vile things he said of me. It wasnecessary that she should know the truth, if after Will's death I wasto have any peace in my child's companionship."Marion loves her grandmother dearly, and the old woman fairlyidolizes the child, although her feebleness has compelled her to leavemost of the care of the child to hired nurses. There is where I amgoing to have my chance with my little girl. I never shall separateher from her grandmother while the old woman lives, but from themoment she comes to me, no hireling's hand shall care for her--sheshall be mine, all mine."Her voice was a paean of triumphant love. My heart thrilled insympathy with hers, but underneath it all I was conscious of astrong desire to have Harry Underwood reconciled to this new plan ofLillian's. The calmness with which she had spoken of their parting hadnot deceived me. I knew that Lillian's pride, already dragged in thedust by her first unhappy marital experience, would suffer greatlyif she had to acknowledge that her second venture had also failed.I tried to think of some manner in which I could remedy matters.Unconsciously Lillian played directly into my hands."But here I am bothering you with all of my troubles," she said, "whenall the time gallant cavaliers wait without, anxious to pay theirdevoirs."Her voice was as gay, as unconcerned, as if she had not just beensounding the depths of terrible memories. I paid a silent tribute toher powers of self-discipline before answering curiously."Gallant cavaliers?" I repeated. "Who are they?""Well, Harry is at the door, and Mr. Gordon at the gate," she returnedmerrily. "In other words, Harry is downstairs, waiting patientlyfor me to give him permission to see you, while Mr. Gordon took upquarters at a country inn near here the day after your accidentand has called or telephoned almost hourly since. He begged me thismorning to let him know when you would be able to see him. If Harry'scall does not tire you, I think I would better 'phone him to comeover.""Lillian!" I spoke imperatively, as a sudden recollection flashedthrough my mind. "Was I delirious, or did I hear Mr. Gordon exclaimsomething very foolish the night of my accident?"She looked at me searchingly."He said, 'My darling, have I found you only to lose you again?'" sheanswered."What did he mean?" I gasped."That he must tell you himself, Madge," she said gravely. "For me toguess his meaning would be futile. Shall I telephone him to come over,and will you see Harry for a moment or two now?""Yes! to both questions," I answered."Well, lady fair, they haven't made you take the count yet, have they?By Jove, you're prettier than ever."Ushered by Lillian, Harry Underwood came into my room with all hisusual breeziness, and stood looking down at me as I lay proppedagainst the pillows Lillian had piled around me. It was the first timeI had seen him since the night of our dinner, when with the wild ideaof punishing Dicky for his foolishness regarding elderly Mr. Gordon Ihad carried on a rather intense flirtation with Harry Underwood.I had been heartily sorry for and ashamed of the experiment beforethe dinner was half over, and many times since the accident whichinterrupted the evening I had wondered, half-whimsically, whether mydress catching fire was not a "judgment on me." I had deeply dreadedseeing Mr. Underwood again, but as I looked into his eyes I sawnothing but friendly cheeriness and pity.Lillian drew a chair for him to my bedside, and for a few moments hechatted of everything and nothing in the entertaining manner he knowsso well how to use."You may have just three minutes more, Harry," Lillian said atlast. "Stay here while I go down to telephone. Then you will have tovamoose. Mr. Gordon is coming over, and I can't have her too tired."Her husband gave a low whistle, and I saw a quick look ofunderstanding pass between him and Lillian. I did not have time towonder about it, however, for Lillian went out of the room, and themoment she closed the door he said tensely:"Tell me you forgive me. If I had not teased you that night you wouldnot have moved toward the fire, and your dress would not have caught.Why! you might have been killed or horribly disfigured. I've beensuffering the tortures of Hades ever since. But you will forgive me,won't you? I'll do any penance you name."Through all the extravagance of his speech there ran a deeper notethan I had believed Harry Underwood to be capable of sounding. As hiseyes met mine and I saw that there was something as near suffering inthem as the man's self-centred careless nature was capable of feelingI saw my opportunity."Yes, I'll forgive you--everything--if you'll promise me one thing,which will make me very happy."He bit his lip savagely--I think he guessed my meaning--but he did nothesitate."Name it," he said shortly."Don't hurt Lillian any more about the change in her appearance orobject to her having her child with her," I pleaded.He thought a long minute, then with a quick gesture he caught myuninjured hand in his, carried it to his lips, and kissed it, thenlaid it gently back upon the bed again."Done," he said gruffly. "It won't bother me much for awhile anyway.Your friend Gordon, wants me to go with him on a long trip to SouthAmerica. I'm the original white-haired boy with him just now for somereason or other, and it's just the chance I have wanted to look up thetheatrical situation down there. Perhaps I can persuade the old boyto loosen up on some of his bank roll and play angel. But anyway I'mgoing to be gone quite a stretch, and when I come back I'll try to bea reformed character. But remember, wherever I am 'me art is true toPoll.'"He bowed mockingly with his old manner, and walked toward the door,meeting Lillian as she came in."So long, Lil," he said carelessly. "I'm going for a long walk. Seeyou later."She looked at him searchingly. "All right," she answered laconically,and then came over to me."Mr. Gordon will be here in a half-hour," she said. "Please try torest a little before he comes."She lowered the shades, and my pillows, kissed me gently, and left theroom. But I could neither rest nor sleep. The wildest conjectures wentthrough my brain. Who was Robert Gordon, and why was he so strangelyinterested in me?XLMADGE FACES THE PAST AND HEARS A DOOR SOFTLY CLOSEIt seemed a very long time to me, as I tossed on my pillows, beset bythe problem that even the name Robert Gordon always presents to me,before Lillian came back to my room. But when she entered she saidthat Mr. Gordon would soon arrive and that I must be prepared to seehim, so she bathed my hands and face and gave me an egg-nog beforepropping me up against my pillows to receive my visitor."Of course you will stay with me, Lillian, while he is here," I said.She smiled enigmatically. "Part of the time," she said.But when Mr. Gordon came, bringing with him an immense sheaf of roses,she left the room almost at once, giving as an excuse her wish toarrange the flowers.My visitor's eyes were burning with a light that almost frightened meas he sat down by my bedside and took my hand in his."My dear child," he said, and though the words were such as anyelderly man might address to a young woman, yet there was an intensityin them that made me uncomfortable. "Are you sure everything is allright with you?""Very sure," I replied, smiling. "If Mrs. Underwood would permit me todo so, I am certain I could get up now.""You must not think of trying it," he returned sharply, and with anote in his voice, almost like authority, which puzzled me."Thank God for Mrs. Underwood!" he went on. "She is a woman in athousand. I am indebted to her for life."I shrank back among my pillows, and wished that Lillian would returnto the room. I began to wonder if Mr. Gordon's brain was not slightlyturned. Surely, the fact that he had once known and loved my motherwas no excuse for the extravagant attitude he was taking.He saw the movement, and into his eyes flashed a look so mournful, sofilled with longing that I was thrilled to the heart. The next momenthe threw himself upon his knees by the side of my bed, and cried outtensely:"Oh, my darling child, don't shrink from me. You will kill me. Don'tyou see? Can't you guess? I am your father!"My father! Robert Gordon my father!I looked at the elderly man kneeling beside my bed, and my brainwhirled with the unreality of it all. The "man of mystery," the"Quester" of Broadway, the elderly soldier of fortune, about whosereputed wealth and constant searching of faces wherever he was theidle gossip of the city's Bohemia had whirled--to think that this manwas the father I had never known, the father, alas! whom I had hopednever to know.Everything was clear to me now--the reason for his staring at me whenhe first caught sight of me in the Sydenham Hotel, his trailing of mymovements until he had found out my name and home, the introductionhe obtained to Dicky, and through him to me, his emotion at hearingmy mother's name, his embarrassing attentions to me ever since--theexplanation for all of which had puzzled me had come in the chokingwords of the man whose head was bowed against my bed, and whose wholeframe was shaking with suppressed sobs.I felt myself trembling in the grip of a mighty surge of longing togather that bowed gray head into my arms and lavish the love he longedfor upon my father. My heart sang a little hymn of joy. I, who hadbeen kinless, with no one of my own blood, had found a father!And then, with my hand outstretched, almost touching my father's head,the revulsion came.True, this man was my father, but he was also the man who had made mymother's life one long tragedy. All my life I had schooled myself tohate the man who had deserted my mother and me when I was four yearsold, who had added to the desertion the insult of taking with him thewoman who had been my mother's most intimate friend. My love for mymother had been the absorbing emotion of my life, until she had leftme, and because of that love I had loathed the very thought of the manwho had caused her to suffer so terribly.My father lifted his head and looked at me, and there was that in hiseyes which made me shudder. It was the look of a prisoner in the dock,waiting to receive a sentence."Of course, I know you must hate the very sight of me, Margaret," hesaid brokenly. "I had not meant to tell you so soon. But I have to goaway almost at once to South America, and it is very uncertain when Ishall return. I could not bear to go without your knowing how I haveloved and longed for you."Never so great a sinner as I, my child," the weary old voice wenton, "but, oh, if you could know my bitter repentance, my years ofloneliness."His voice tore at my heart strings, but I steeled myself against him.One thing I must know."Where is the person with whom--" I could not finish the words."I do not know." The words rang true. I was sure he was not lying tome. "I have not seen or heard of her in over twenty years."Then the association had not lasted. I had a sudden clairvoyantglimpse into my father's soul. My mother had been the real love ofhis life. His infatuation for the other woman had been but a temporarymadness. What long drawn out, agonized repentance must have been hisfor twenty years with wife, child and home lost to him!I leaned back and closed my eyes for a minute, overwhelmed with theproblem which confronted me. And then--call it hallucination or whatyou will--I heard my mother's voice, as clearly as I ever heard it inlife, repeating the words I had read weeks before in the letter shehad left for me at her death."Remember it is my last wish, Margaret, that if your father be livingsometime you may be reconciled to him."I opened my eyes with a little cry of thanksgiving. It was as if mymother had stretched out her hand from heaven to sanction the onething I most longed to do."Father!" I gasped. "Oh, my father, I have wanted you so."He uttered a little cry of joy, and then my father's arms were aroundme, my face was close to his, and for the first time since I was ababy of four years I knew my father's kisses.A smothered sound, almost like a groan, startled me, and then the doorslammed shut."What was that?" I asked. "Is there any one there?"My father raised his head. "No, there is no one there," he said. "See,the wind is rising. It must have been that which slammed the door. Ithink I would better shut the window."He moved over to the window, which Lillian had kept partly ajar forair, and closed it. Then he returned to my bedside."There is one thing I must ask you to do, my child," he saidhesitatingly, "and that is to keep secret the fact that instead ofbeing Robert Gordon, I am in reality Charles Robert Gordon Spencer,and your father. Of course your husband must know and Mrs. Underwood,as her husband is going with me to South America. But I should advisevery strongly against the knowledge coming into the possession of anyone else."I cannot explain to you now, why I dropped part of my name, or why Iexact this promise," he went on, "but it is imperative that I do askit, and that you heed the request. You will respect my wishes in thismatter, will you not, my daughter?"It was all very stilted, almost melodramatic, but my father was somuch in earnest that I readily gave the promise he asked. With a lookof relief he took a package from his pocket and handed it to me."Keep this carefully," he said. "It contains all the data which youwill need in case of my death. Rumor says that I am a very rich man.As usual rumor is wrong, but I have enough so that you will alwaysbe comfortable. And for fear that something might happen to you inmy absence I have placed to your account in the Knickerbocker moneyenough for any emergency, also for any extra spending money you maywish. The bank book is among these papers. I trust that you will useit. I shall like to feel that you are using it. And now good-by. Ishall not see you again."He kissed me, lingeringly, tenderly, and went out of the room. I laylooking at the package he had given me, wondering if it were all adream.XLIWHY DID DICKY GO?"Margaret, I have the queerest message from Richard. I cannot make itout."My mother-in-law rustled into my room, her voice querulous, her faceexpressing the utmost bewilderment."What is it, mother?" I asked nervously. It was late afternoon of theday in which Robert Gordon had revealed his identity as my father, andmy nerves were still tense from the shock of the discovery."Why, Richard has left the city. He telephoned me just now that hehad an unexpected offer at an unusual sum to do some work in SanFrancisco, I think, he said, and that he would be gone some months. Ifhe accepted the offer he would have no time to come home. He said hewould write to both of us tonight. What do you suppose it means?""I--do--not--know," I returned slowly and truthfully, but there was aterrible frightened feeling at my heart. Dicky gone for months withoutcoming to bid me good-by! My world seemed to whirl around me. But Imust do or say nothing to alarm my mother-in-law. Her weak heart madeit imperative that she be shielded from worry of any kind.I rallied every atom of self-control I possessed. "There is nothingto worry about, mother," I said carelessly. "Dicky has often spokenrecently about this offer to go to San Francisco. It was alwaystentative before, but he knew that when it did come he would have togo at a minute's notice. You know he always keeps a bag packed at thestudio for just such emergencies."The last part of my little speech was true. Dicky did keep a bagpacked for the emergency summons he once in a while received from hisclients. But I had never heard of the trip to San Francisco. But Imust reassure my mother-in-law in some way."Well, I think it's mighty queer," she grumbled, going out of theroom."You adorable little fibber!" Lillian said tenderly, rising, andcoming over to me. Her voice was gay, but I who knew its everyintonation, caught an undertone of worry."Lillian!" I exclaimed sharply. "What is it? Do you know anything?""Hush, child," she said firmly. "I know nothing. You will hear allabout it tomorrow morning when you receive Dicky's letters. Until thenyou must be quiet and brave."It was like her not to adjure me to keep from worrying. She never didthe usual futile things. But all through my wakeful night, whenever Iturned over or uttered the slightest sound, she was at my side in aninstant.Never until death stops my memory will I forget that next morning withits letters from Dicky.There was one for my mother-in-law, none for me, but I saw an envelopein Lillian's hand, which I was sure was from my husband, even before Ihad seen the shocked pallor which spread over her face as she read it."Oh, Lillian, what is it?" I whispered in terror."Wait," she commanded. "Do not let your mother-in-law guess anythingis amiss."But when Mother Graham's demand to know what Dicky had written to mehad been appeased by Lillian's offhand remark that country mails werenever reliable, and that my letter would probably arrive later, theelder woman went to her own room to puzzle anew over her son's letter,which simply said over again what he had told her over the telephone.When she had gone Lillian locked the door softly behind her, thencoming over to me, sank down by my bedside and slipped her arm aroundme."You must be brave, Madge," she said quietly. "Read this through andtell me if you have any idea what it means."I took the letter she held out to me, and read it through."Dear Lil," the letter began. "You have never failed me yet, so I knowyou'll look after things for me now."I am going away. I shall never see Madge again, nor do I ever expectto hear from her. Will you look out for her until she is free from me?She can sue me for desertion, you know, and get her divorce. I willput in no defence."Most of her funds are banked in her name, anyway. But for fear shewill not want to use that money I am going to send a check to you eachmonth for her which you are to use as you see fit, with or without herknowledge. I am enclosing the key of the studio. The rent is paid along ways ahead, and I will send you the money for future paymentsand its care. Please have it kept ready for me to walk in at any time.Mother always goes to Elizabeth's for the holidays, anyway. Keep herfrom guessing as long as you can. I'll write to her after she gets toElizabeth's."I guess that's all. If Madge doesn't understand why I am doing this Ican't help it. But it's the only thing to do. Yours always. DICKY."The room seemed to whirl around me as I read. Dicky gone forever,arranging for me to get a divorce! I clung blindly to Lillian as Imoaned: "Oh, what does it mean?""Think, Madge, Madge, have you and Dicky had any quarrel lately?""Nothing that could be called a quarrel, no," I returned, "and, noteven the shadow of a disagreement since my accident.""Then," Lillian said musingly, "either Dicky has gone suddenly mad--"She stopped and looked at me searchingly. "Or what, Lillian," Ipleaded. "Tell me. I am strong enough to stand the truth, but notsuspense.""I believe you are," she said, "and you will have to help me find outthe truth. Now remember this may have no bearing on the thing at all,but Harry saw Grace Draper talking to Dicky the other day. He saidDicky didn't act particularly well pleased at the meeting, but thatthe girl was, as Harry put it, 'fit to put your eyes out,' she lookedso stunning. But it doesn't seem possible that if Dicky had gone awaywith her he would write that sort of a note to me and leave no wordfor you.""Fit to put your eyes out!" The phrase stung me. With a quickmovement, I grasped the hand mirror that lay on the stand by my bed,and looked critically at the image reflected there. Wan, hollow-eyed,with one side of my face and neck still flaming from my burns, I had aquick perception of the way in which my husband, beauty-lover that heis, must have contrasted my appearance with that of Grace Draper.Lillian took the mirror forcibly from me, and laid it out of my reach."This sort of thing won't do," she said firmly. "It only makes mattersworse. Now just be as brave as you possibly can. Remember, I am righthere every minute."I could only cling to her. There seemed in all the world no refuge forme but Lillian's arms.The weeks immediately following Dicky's departure are almost a blankmemory to me. I seemed stunned, incapable of action, even of thinkingclearly.If it had not been for Lillian, I do not know what I should have done.She cared for me with infinite tenderness and understanding, shestood between me and the imperative curiosity and bewilderment ofmy mother-in-law, and she made all the arrangements necessary for mytaking up my life as a thing apart from my husband.It seemed almost like an interposition of Providence that two daysafter Dicky's bombshell, his mother received a letter from herdaughter Elizabeth asking her to go to Florida for the rest of thewinter. One of the children had been ordered south by the familyphysician, and Dicky's sister was to accompany her little daughter,while the other children remained at home under the care of theirfather and his mother. Mother Graham dearly loves to travel, andI knew from Lillian's reports and the few glimpses I had of mymother-in-law that she was delighted with the prospect before her.How Lillian managed to quiet the elder woman's natural worry aboutDicky, her half-formed suspicion that something was wrong, and herconviction that without her to look after me I should not be able toget through the winter, I never knew.I do not remember seeing my mother-in-law but once or twice in theinterval between the receipt of Dicky's letter and her departure. Thememory of her good-by to me, however, is very distinct.She came into the room, cloaked and hatted, ready for the taxi whichwas to take her to the station. Katie was to go into New York withher, and see her safely on the train. Her face was pale, and I noticedlistlessly that her eyelids were reddened as if she had been weeping.She bent and kissed me tenderly, and then she put her arms around me,and held me tightly."I don't know what it is all about, dear child," she said. "I hope allis as it seems outwardly. But remember, Margaret, I am your friend,whatever happens, and if it will help you any, you may remember thatI, too, have had to walk this same sharp paved way."Then she went away. I remembered that she had said something of thekind once before, giving me to understand that Dicky's father hadcaused her much unhappiness. Did she believe too, I wondered, thatDicky was with Grace Draper, that his brief infatuation for the girlhad returned when he had seen her again?For days after that, I drifted--there is no other word for it--throughthe hours of each day. When it was absolutely necessary for Lillian toknow some detail, which I alone could give her, she would come tome, rouse me, and holding me to the subject by the sheer force of herwill, obtain the information she wished, and then leave me to myself,or rather to Katie again. Katie was my devoted slave. She waited onme hand and foot, and made a most admirable nurse when Lillian wascompelled to be absent.When I thought about the matter at all, I realized that Lillian waspreparing to have me share her apartment in the city when I shouldbe strong enough to leave my home. Harry Underwood had gone with myfather to South America for a trip which would take many months, soI made no protest. I knew also, because of questions she had made meanswer, that she had arranged with the Lotus Study Club to have an oldteaching comrade of mine, a man who had experience in club lectures,take my place until I should be well enough to go back to the work.In so far as I could feel anything, the knowledge that I was stillto have my club work gratified me. The twenty dollars a week which itpaid me, while not large, would preserve my independence until I couldgain courage to go back to my teaching.For one feeling obsessed me, was strong enough to penetrate thelethargy of mind and body into which Dicky's letter had thrown me. Ispoke of it to Lillian one day."Do--not--use--any--of--Dicky's--money," I said slowly and painfully."My--own--bank--book--in--desk."She took it out, and I also gave her the bank book and papers myfather had given me the day before he left for South America."Keep--them--for--me," I whispered, and then at her tendercomprehending smile, I had a sudden revelation."Then--you--know--" Astonishment made my voice stronger."That Robert Gordon is your father?" she returned briskly. "Bless you,child, I've suspected it ever since I first heard of his emotion onhearing the names of your parents. But nobody else knows, I didn'tthink it necessary to tell your mother-in-law or Katie, unless, ofcourse, you want me to do so."Her smile was so cheery, so infectious, that I could not help butsmile back at her. There was still something on my mind, however."This house must be closed," I told her. "Try to find positions forKatie and Jim.""I'll attend to everything," she promised, and I did not realize thather words meant directly opposite to the interpretation I put uponthem, until after myself and all my personal belongings had been movedto Lillian's apartment in the city, and I had thrown off the terriblephysical weakness and mental lethargy which had been mine."I had to do as I thought best about the house in Marvin, Madge," shesaid firmly. "I thoroughly respect your feeling about using any ofDicky's money for your own expenses, but you are not living inthe Marvin house. It is simply Dicky's home, which as his friend,commissioned to see after his affairs, I am going to keep in readinessfor his return, unless I receive other instructions from him. Jimand Katie will stay there as caretakers until this horrible mistake,whatever it may be, is cleared up. Thus your home will be alwayswaiting for you.""Never my home again, I fear, Lillian," I said sadly.There is no magic of healing like that held in the hands of a littlechild. It was providential for me that, a short time after Lilliantook me to the apartment which had been home to her for years, hersmall daughter, Marion, was restored to her.The child's father died suddenly, after all, and to Lillian fell thetask of caring for and comforting the old mother of the man who haddone his best to spoil Lillian's life. She brought the aged andfeeble sufferer to the apartment, established her in the bedroom whichLillian had always kept for herself, and engaged a nurse to carefor her. When I recalled Lillian's story, remembered that her firsthusband's mother without a jot of evidence to go upon had believed herson's vile accusations against Lillian, my friend's forgiveness seemedalmost divine to me. I am afraid I never could have equaled it. When Isaid as much to Lillian, she looked at me uncomprehendingly."Why, Madge!" she said. "There was nothing else to do. Marion'sgrandmother is devoted to her. To separate them now would kill theold woman. Besides her income is so limited that she cannot have theproper care unless I do take her in.""I thought you said Mr. Morten had a legacy about the time of hissecond marriage.""He did, but most of it has been dissipated, I imagine, and what thereis left is in the possession of his wife, a woman with no more redblood than a codfish. She would let his mother starve before shewould exert herself to help her, or part with any money. No, thereis nothing else to do, Madge. I'll just have to work a little harder,that's all, and that's good for me, best reducing system there is, youknow."The sheer, indomitable courage of her, taking up burdens in her middleage which should never be hers, and assuming them with a smile andjest upon her lips! I felt suddenly ashamed of the weakness with whichI had met my own problems."Lillian!" I said abruptly, "you make me ashamed of myself. I'm goingto stop grieving--as much as I can--" I qualified, "and get to work.Tell me, how can I best help you? I'm going back to my club work nextweek--I am sure I shall be strong enough by then, but I shall havesuch loads of time outside."My friend came over to me impetuously, and kissed me warmly."You blessed child!" she said. "I am so glad if anything has rousedyou. And I'm going to accept your words in the spirit in which I amsure they were uttered. If you can share Marion with me for awhile, itwill help me more than anything else. I have so many orders piledup, I don't know where to begin first. Her grandmother is too ill toattend to her, and I don't want to leave her with any hired attendant,she has had too many of those already.""Don't say another word," I interrupted. "There's nothing on earth I'drather do just now than take care of Marion."Thus began a long succession of peaceful days, spent with Lillian'ssmall daughter. She was a bewitching little creature of nine years,but so tiny that she appeared more like a child of six. I had taughtmany children, but never had been associated with a child at home.I grew sincerely attached to the little creature, and she, in turn,appeared very fond of me. Lillian told her to call me "Aunt Madge,"and the sound of the title was grateful to me."Auntie Madge, Auntie Madge," the sweet childish voice rang thechanges on the name so often that I grew to associate my name with thelove I felt for the child. This made it all the harder for me to bearwhen the child's hand all unwittingly brought me the hardest blow Fatehad yet dealt me.It was her chief delight to answer the postman's ring, and bring methe mail each day. On this particular afternoon I had been especiallybusy, and thus less miserable than usual. I heard the postman's ring,and then the voice of Marion."Auntie Madge, it's a letter for you this time."I began to tremble, for some unaccountable reason. It was as thoughthe shadow of the letter the child was bringing had already begun tofall on me. As she ran to me, and held out the letter, I saw that itwas postmarked San Francisco! But the handwriting was not Dicky's.I opened it, and from it fell a single sheet of notepaper inscribed:"She laughs best who laughs last. Grace Draper."I looked at the thing until it seemed to me that the characters werealive and writhed upon the paper. I shudderingly put the paper awayfrom me, and leaned back in my chair and shut my eyes. Then Marion'slittle arms were around my neck, her warm, moist kisses upon my cheek,her frightened voice in my ears."Oh! Auntie Madge," she said. "What was in the naughty letter thathurt you so? Nasty old thing! I'm going to tear it up.""No, no, Marion," I answered. "I must let your mother see it first.Call her, dear, won't you, please?"When Lillian came, I mutely showed her the note. She studied itcarefully, frowning as she did so."Pleasant creature!" she commented at last. "But I shouldn't put toomuch dependence on this, Madge. She may be with him, of course. Butyou ought to know that truth is a mere detail with Grace Draper. Shewould just as soon have sent this to you if she had not seen him forweeks, and knew no more of his address than you.""But this is postmarked San Francisco," I said faintly.Lillian laughed shortly. "My dear little innocent!" she said, "itwould be the easiest thing in the world for her to send this envelopeenclosed in one to some friend in San Francisco, who would re-directit for her.""I never thought of that," I said, flushing. "But, oh! Lillian, if hedid not go away with her, what possible explanation is there of hisleaving like this?""Yes, I know, dear," she returned. "It's a mystery, and one in thesolving of which I seem perfectly helpless. I do wish someone woulddrop from the sky to help us."XLIIDAYS THAT CREEP SLOWLY BYIt was not from the sky, however, but from across the ocean thatthe help Lillian had longed for in solving the mystery of Dicky'sabandonment of me, finally came. It was less than a week after thereceipt of Grace Draper's message, that Lillian and I, sitting inher wonderful white and scarlet living room, one evening after littleMarion had gone to bed, heard Betty ushering in callers."Betty must know them or she wouldn't bring them in unannounced,"Lillian murmured, as she rose to her feet, and then the next momentthere was framed in the doorway the tall figure of Dr. Pettit. Andwith him, wonder of wonders! the slight form, the beautiful, wistful,tired face of Katharine Sonnot, whose ambition to go to France as anurse I had been able to further."My dear, what has happened to you?" Katherine exclaimed solicitously."I received no answer to my letter saying I was coming home, so when Ireached New York, I went to Dr. Pettit. He thought you were at Marvin,but when he telephoned out there, Katie said you had had a terribleaccident, and that you had left Marvin. I was not quite sure, forshe was half crying over the telephone, but I thought she said 'forkeeps.'"She stopped and looked at me with a hint of fright in her manner. Iknew she wanted to ask about Dicky's absence, and did not dare to doso."Everything you heard is true, Katherine," I returned, a trifleunsteadily, as her arms went around me warmly. I was more than atrifle upset by her coming, for associated with her were memories ofmy brother-cousin, Jack Bickett, who had gone to the great war whenhe had learned that I was married, and of whose death "somewhere inFrance," I had heard through Mrs. Stewart."Where is your husband?" Dr. Pettit demanded, and there was that inhis voice which told me that he was putting an iron hand upon his ownemotions.Now the stock answer which Lillian and I returned to all inquiries ofthis sort was "In San Francisco upon a big commission." It was uponmy lips, but some influence stronger than my will made me change it tothe truth."I do not know," I said faintly. "He left the city very abruptlyseveral weeks ago, sending word in a letter to Mrs. Underwood that hewould never see me again. It is a terrible mystery."Dr. Pettit muttered something that I knew was a bitter anathemaagainst Dicky, and then folded his arms tightly across his chest, asif he would keep in any further comment. But I had no time to payany attention to him, for Katherine Sonnot was uttering words thatbewildered and terrified me."Oh! how terrible!" she said. "Jack will be so grieved. He had sohoped to find you happy together when he came home."Was the girl's brain turned, I wondered, because of grief for mybrother-cousin's death? I had known before I secured the chance forher to go to France that she was romantically interested in the manwho had been her brother's comrade, although she had never seenhim. And from Jack's letters to Mrs. Stewart, I had learned of theirmeeting in the French hospital, and of the acquaintance which promisedto ripen--which evidently had ripened--into love.I looked at her searchingly, and then I spoke, hardly able to get thewords out for the wild trembling of my whole body."Jack grieved?" I said. "Why! Jack is dead! We had the notice of hisdeath weeks ago from his friend, Paul Caillard."I saw them all look at me as if frightened. Dr. Pettit reached mefirst and put something under my nostrils which vitalized my wanderingsenses. I straightened myself and cried out peremptorily."What is it, oh! what is it?"I saw Katherine look at Dr. Pettit, as if for permission, and theyoung physician's lips form the words, "Tell her.""No, dear. Jack isn't dead," she said softly. "He was missing for sometime, and was brought into our hospital terribly wounded, but he isvery much alive now, and will be here in New York in two weeks."I felt the pungent revivifier in Dr. Pettit's hand steal under mynostrils again, but I pushed it aside and sat up."I am not at all faint," I said abruptly, and then to KatherineSonnot. "Please say that over again, slowly."She repeated her words slowly. "I should have waited to come over withhim," she added, "for he is still quite weak, but Dr. Braithwaitehad to send some one over to attend to business for the hospital. Heselected me, and so I had to come on earlier."So it was true, then, this miracle of miracles, this return of thedead to life! Jack, the brother-cousin on whom I had depended all mylife, was still in the same world with me! Some of the terrible burdenI had been bearing since Dicky's disappearance slipped away from me.If anyone in the world could solve the mystery of Dicky's actions, itwould be Jack Bickett.Dr. Pettit's voice broke into my reverie. I saw that Lillian andKatherine Sonnot were deep in conversation. The young physician and Iwere far enough away from them so that there was no possibility ofhis low tones being heard. He bent over my chair, and his eyes wereburning with a light that terrified me."Tell me," he commanded, "do you want your husband back again. Takeyour time in answering. I must know."There was something in his voice that compelled obedience. I leanedback in my chair and shut my eyes, while I looked at the question hehad put me fairly and squarely.The question seemed to echo in my ears. I was surprised at myself thatI did not at once reply with a passionate affirmative. Surely I hadsuffered enough to welcome Dicky's return at any time.Ah! there was the root of the whole thing. I had suffered, how I hadsuffered at Dicky's hands! As my memory ran back through our stormymarried life, I wondered whether it were wise--even though it shouldbe proved to me that Dicky had not gone away with Grace Draper--totake up life with my husband again.And then, woman-like, all the bitter recollections were shut out byother memories which came thronging into my brain, memories of Dicky'sroyal tenderness when he was not in a bad humor, of his voice, hissmile, his lips, his arms around me, I knew, although my reasondreaded the knowledge, that unless my husband came back to me, Ishould never know happiness again.I opened my eyes and looked steadily at the young physician."Yes, God help me. I do!" I said.Dr. Pettit winced as if I had struck him. Then he said gravely:"Thank you for your honesty, and believe that if there be any way inwhich I can serve you, I shall not hesitate to take it.""I am sure of that," I replied earnestly, and the next moment, withouta farewell glance, a touch of my hand, he went over to Katherine, and,in a voice very different in volume than the suppressed tones of hisconversation to me, I heard him apologize to her for having to go awayat once, heard her laughing reply that after the French hospitals shedid not fear the New York streets, and then the door had closed afterthe young physician, whose too-evident interest in me had alwaysdisturbed me.I hastened to join Lillian and Katherine. I did not want to be leftalone. Thinking was too painful."Just think!" Katherine said as I joined them, "I find that I'm livingonly a block away. I'm at my old rooming place--luckily they hada vacant room. Of course, I shall be fearfully busy with Dr.Braithwaite's work, but being so near, I can spend every spare minutewith you--that is, if you want me," she added shyly."Want you, child!" I returned, and I think the emphasis in my voicereassured her, for she flushed with pleasure, and the next minute withembarrassment as I said pointedly:"I imagine you have some unusually interesting and pleasant things totell me, especially about my cousin."But, after all, it was left for Jack himself to tell me the"interesting things." Katherine became almost at once so absorbed inthe work for Dr. Braithwaite that she had very little time to spendwith us. There was another reason for her absence, of which she spokehalf apologetically one night, about a week after her arrival."There's a girl in the room next mine who keeps me awake by hermoaning," she said. "I don't get half enough sleep, and the result isthat when I get in from my work I'm so dead tired I tumble into bed,instead of coming over here as I'm longing to do. The housekeeper saysshe's a student of some kind, and that she's really ill enough to needa physician, although she goes to her school or work each morning.I've only caught glimpses of her, but she strikes me as being rathera stunning-looking creature. I wish she'd moan in the daytime, though.Some night I'm going in there and give her a sleeping powder. Jokingaside, I'm rather anxious about her. Whatever is the matter with her,physical or mental, it's a real trouble, and I wish I could help her."The real Katherine Sonnot spoke in the last sentence. Like manynurses, she had a superficial lightness of manner, behind which sheoften concealed the wonderful sympathy with and understanding forsuffering which was hers. I knew that if the poor unknown suffererneeded aid or friendship, she would receive both from Katherine.It was shortly after this talk that I noticed the extraordinaryintimacy which seemed to have sprung up between Katherine and Lillian.I seemed to be quite set aside, almost forgotten, when Katherine cameto the apartment. And there was such an air of mystery about theirconversation! If they were talking together, and I came withinhearing, they either abruptly stopped speaking, or shifted thesubject.I was just childish and weak enough from my illness to be a triflechagrined at being so left out, and I am afraid my chagrin amountedalmost to sulkiness sometimes. Lillian and Katherine, however,appeared to notice nothing, and their mysterious conferences increasedin number as the days went on.There came a day at last when my morbidness had increased to such anextent that I felt there was nothing more in the world for me, andthat there was no one to care what became of me. I was huddled inone of Lillian's big chairs before the fireplace in the living room,drearily watching the flames, through eyes almost too dim with tearsto see them. I could hear the murmur of voices in the hall, whereKatherine and Lillian had been standing ever since Katherine'sarrival, a few minutes before. Then the voices grew louder, there wasa rush of feet to the door, a "Hush!" from Lillian, and then, pale,emaciated, showing the effects of the terrible ordeal through which hehad gone, my brother-cousin, Jack Bickett, who, until Katherine camehome, I had thought was dead, stood before me."Oh! Jack, Jack. Thank God! Thank God!"As I saw my brother-cousin, Jack Bickett, whom I had so long mournedas dead, coming toward me in Lillian Underwood's living room, Istumbled to my feet, and, with no thought of spectators, or ofanything save the fact that the best friend I had ever known had comeback to me, I rushed into his arms, and clung to him wildly, sobbingout all the heartache and terror that had been mine since Dicky hadleft me in so cruel and mysterious a manner.I felt as a little child might that had been lost and suddenly caughtsight of its father or mother. The awful burden that had been minelifted at the very sight of Jack's pale face smiling down at me. Iknew that someway, somehow, Jack would straighten everything out forme."There, there, Margaret." Jack's well-remembered tones, huskier,weaker by far than when I had last heard them, soothed me, calmed me."Everything's going to come out all right. I'll see to it all. Sitdown, and let me hear all about it."There was an indefinable air of embarrassment about him which I couldnot understand at first. Then I saw beyond him the lovely flushedface of Katharine Sonnot, and in her eyes there was a faintly troubledlook.I read it all in a flash. Jack was embarrassed because I had soimpetuously embraced him before Katherine. I withdrew myself from hisembrace abruptly, and drew a chair for him near my own."Are you sure you are fully recovered?" I asked, and I saw Jack lookwonderingly at the touch of formality in my tone."No, I cannot say that," he returned gravely, "but I am so much betteroff than so many of the other poor chaps who survived, that I have noright to complain. Mine was a body wound, and while I shall feel itseffects on my general health for years, perhaps all my life, yet I amnot crippled."His tone was full of thankfulness, and all my pettiness vanished atthe sudden, swift vision of what he must have endured. The next momenthe had turned my thoughts into a new channel."Margaret," he said gravely, "I am terribly distressed to hear fromKatherine that your husband has gone away in such a strange manner."So she had already told him! The little pang of unworthy jealousy cameback, but I banished it."Now, there must be no more time lost," he went on. "You have had noman to look after things for you, but remember now, your old brother,Jack, is on the job. First, I must know everything that occurred onthat last day. Did you notice anything extraordinary in his demeanoron that last morning you saw him?"This was the old Jack, going directly to the root of the matter,wasting no time on his own affairs or feelings, when he saw a dutybefore him. I felt the old sway of his personality upon me, andanswered his questions as meekly as a child might have done."He was just the same as he had been every morning since my accident,"I returned."H-m." Jack thought a long minute, then began again."Tell me everything that happened that day, every visitor you had;don't omit the most trifling thing," he commanded.He listened attentively as I recalled Harry Underwood's visit, andRobert Gordon's. At my revelation that Robert Gordon had said he wasmy father, his calm, judicial manner broke into excitement."Your father!" he exclaimed, and then, after a pause; "I always knewhe would come back some day. But go on. What happened when he told youhe was your father?"I went on with the story of my struggle with my own rancor against myfather, of my conviction that I had heard my mother's voice urging myreconciliation with him, of my father's first embrace and kisses, evenof the queer smothered sound like a groan and the slamming of a doorwhich I had heard. Then I told him of my father's gift of money to me,which I had not yet touched, but I noticed that toward the last of mynarrative Jack seemed preoccupied."Did your husband come home to Marvin at all that day?" he asked."No, he never came back from the city after he had once gone in, untilevening.""But are you sure that this day he did not return to Marvin?" hepersisted. "How do you know?""Because no one saw him," I returned, "and he could hardly have comeback without someone in the house seeing him."He said no more, as Lillian and Katherine came up just then, and theconversation became general.To my great surprise, I did not see him again after that first visit.Katherine explained to me that he had been called out of town onurgent business, but the explanation seemed to me to savor of themysterious excitement that seemed to possess everybody around me.Finally one morning, Lillian came to me, her face shining."I want you to prepare to be very brave, Madge," she said. "There issome one coming whom I fear it will tax all your strength to meet.""Dicky!" I faltered, beginning to tremble."No, child, not yet," she said, her voice filled with pity, "butsomeone who has done you a great wrong, Grace Draper."XLIII"TAKE ME HOME""Grace Draper coming to see me!"My echo of Lillian's words was but a trembling stammer. The prospectof facing the girl the thread of whose sinister personality had somarred the fabric of my marital happiness terrified me. Her messageto me, posted in San Francisco, where Dicky was, flaunted its insolenttriumph again before my eyes:"She laughs best who laughs last."That she had intended me to believe she was with Dicky, I knew,whether her boast were true or not. But how was it that she was comingto see me? Lillian put a reassuring hand upon my shoulder as she sawmy face."Pull yourself together, Madge," she admonished me sharply. "Let memake this clear to you. Grace Draper is not in San Francisco now.Whether she has been, or what she knows about Dicky she has refused sofar to say. She has finally consented to see you, however.""But, how?" I murmured, bewildered."Do you remember the girl of whom Katherine spoke when she first came,the girl who moaned at night in the room next hers?""Oh, yes! And she was--?""Grace Draper. I do not know what made me think of the Draper whenKatherine spoke of the girl, but I did, although I said nothing aboutit at the time. A little later, however, when the girl became reallyill and Katherine was caring for her as a mother or a sister wouldhave done, I told our little friend of my suspicion. Of course,Katherine watched her mysterious patient very carefully after that,and when she became ill enough to require a physician's services,Katharine managed it so that Dr. Pettit was called, and he recognizedthe girl at once."Ever since then, Katherine has been working on the substitute forhonor and conscience which the Draper carries around with her--butshe was hard as nails for a long time. She is terribly grateful toKatherine, however, as fond of her as she can be of anyone, and shehas finally consented to come here. Don't anger her if you can helpit."When, a little later, Grace Draper and I faced each other, it was pityinstead of anger that stirred my heart. The girl was inexpressiblywan, her beauty only a worn shadow of its former glory. But there wasthe old flash of defiant hatred in her eyes as she looked at me."Please don't flatter yourself that I have come here for your sake,"she said, with her old smooth insolence. "But this girl here"--sheindicated Katherine--"took care of me before she knew who I was. Shejust about saved my life and reason, too, when there was nobody elseto care a whit whether I lived or died. Even my sister's gone back onme. So when I saw how much it meant to her to find out the truth aboutyour precious husband, I promised her I'd come and tell you the littleI knew."She drew a long breath, and went on."In the first place, I didn't go to San Francisco with Dicky Graham,although I'm glad if my little trick made you think so for awhile. Ididn't go anywhere with him except into a cafe for a few minutes, theday he left New York. It was just after he got back from Marvin, andhe was pouring drinks into himself so fast that he was pretty hazyabout what had happened, but I made a pretty shrewd guess as to histrouble."She turned to me, and I saw with amazement that contempt for me waswritten on her face."You!" she snarled, "with your innocent face, and your high and mightyairs, you must have been up to something pretty disgraceful, tohave your husband feel the way he did that day he started for SanFrancisco! He had to go out to Marvin unexpectedly that morning,almost as soon as he had arrived in the city. What or who he foundthere, you know best.""Stop!" said Lillian authoritatively, and for a long minute the twowomen faced each other, Grace Draper defiant, Lillian, with all thecompelling, almost hypnotic power that is hers when she chooses toexercise it.The accusation which the girl had hurled at me stunned me aseffectually as an actual missile from her hand would have done. Whatdid she mean? And then, before my dazed brain could work itself backthrough the mazes of memory, there came the whir of a taxi in thestreet, an imperative ring of the bell, a tramp of masculine footstepsin the hall, and then--my husband's arms were around me, his lipsmurmuring disjointed, incoherent sentences against my cheek."Madge! Madge! little sweetheart!--no right to askforgiveness--deserve to lose you forever for my doubt of you--beenthrough a thousand hells since I left--"Over Dicky's shoulder I saw Jack's dear face smiling tenderly,triumphantly, at me, realized that he must have started after Dickyas soon as he had heard my story of my husband's inexplicabledeparture--and the light for which I had been groping suddenlyilluminated Grace Draper's words."So you saw my father embrace me that day!" I exclaimed, and at thewords the face of the girl who had caused me so much suffering grewwhiter, if possible, and she sank into a chair, as if unable to stand."Yes." A wave of shamed color swept my husband's face, his words werelow and hurried. "But you must believe this one thing,--I had madeup my mind to come back and beg your forgiveness, indeed, I was justready to start for New York, when your cousin found me and brought methe true explanation of things."I--I--couldn't stand it any longer without you, Madge. I must havebeen mad to go away like that. You won't shut me out altogether, willyou, sweetheart?"I had thought that if Dicky ever came back me I should make him suffera little of what he had compelled me to endure. But, as I lookedfrom the white, drawn face of the girl, who I was sure still countedDicky's love as a stake for which no wager was too high, to theanxious faces of the dear friends who had helped to bring him back tome, I could do nothing but yield myself rapturously to the clasp of myhusband's arms."I couldn't have stood it much longer without you, Dicky," Iwhispered, and then, forgetting everything else in the world butour happiness, my husband's lips met mine in a long kiss ofreconciliation.A half choked little cry startled me, and I saw Grace Draper getto her feet unsteadily and start for the door, with her handsoutstretched gropingly before her, almost as if she were blind.Katherine Sonnot hurried to her, and then Jack spoke to me for thefirst time since he had brought Dicky into the room."Good-by, Margaret, until I see you again," he said hurriedly."Good-by, Dicky, I must go to Katherine.""Good-by, old chap," Dicky returned heartily, and in his tone I readthe blessed knowledge that my cherished dream had come true, that myhusband and my brother-cousin were friends at last. And from the lookupon Jack's face as his eyes met Katharine's, I knew that he, too, hadfound happiness.I saw the trio go out of the room, the girl who had wronged me, andthe friends who had helped me. Then my eyes turned to the truest, mostloyal friend of all, Lillian, who stood near us, frankly weeping withjoy. I put out my hand to her, and drew her also into Dicky's embrace.How long a cry it had been since the days when I was wildly jealous ofher old friendship with Dicky!"Will you come away with me for a new honeymoon, sweetheart?" Dickyasked, tenderly, after awhile, when Lillian had softly slipped awayand left us alone together.Into my brain there flashed a sudden picture of the homely living roomin the Brennan house at Marvin, with the leaping fire, which Iknew Jim would have for us whenever we came, with Katie's impetuouswelcome. I turned to Dicky with a passionate little plea."Oh! Dicky," I said earnestly, "take me home."End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Revelations of a Wife, by Adele Garrison*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REVELATIONS OF A WIFE ******** This file should be named 12084.txt or 12084.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/2/0/8/12084/Produced by Leah Moser and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALLThe Project Gutenberg EBook of The Inner Shrine, by Basil KingThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Inner ShrineAuthor: Basil KingRelease Date: December 20, 2004 [EBook #14393]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE INNER SHRINE ***Produced by Rick Niles, Carol David and the PG Online DistributedProofreading TeamTHEINNERSHRINEA NOVELOF TODAYILLUSTRATEDHARPER & BROTHERSNEW YORK AND LONDONM.C.M.I.XCopyright, 1908, 1909, by HARPER & BROTHERS._All rights reserved._Published May, 1909.[Transcriber's note: The name of the author, Basil King, does not appearin the text.]_ILLUSTRATIONS_SHE STOOD WATCHING THE RISE AND DIP OFTHE STEAMER'S BOW (See page 61)                           _Frontispiece_THE BANKER TOOK A LONGER TIME THAN WASNECESSARY TO SCAN THE POOR LITTLE LIST                    _Facing p_. 46PRESENTLY ALL FOUR WERE ON THEIR WAYBACK TO THE DRAWING-ROOM                                     "        78DIANE PROPPED THE CABLEGRAM IN A CONSPICUOUSPLACE                                                        "       152"I'VE NO ONE TO SPEAK A WORD FOR ME BUTYOU"                                                         "       202IT WAS WHAT MRS. WAPPINGER CALLED AN"OFF-DAY"                                                    "       252MRS. BAYFORD WAS PURRING TO HER GUESTS                       "       260HAVING MADE A COPY OF THIS LETTER, SHECALLED SIMMONS AND FULTON AND GAVETHEM THEIR INSTRUCTIONS                                      "       264"SINCE THE INNER SHRINE IS UNLOCKED--ATLAST--I'LL GO IN"                                            "       354_THE INNER SHRINE__THE INNER SHRINE_IThough she had counted the strokes of every hour since midnight, Mrs.Eveleth had no thought of going to bed. When she was not sitting boltupright, indifferent to comfort, in one of the stiff-backed, gildedchairs, she was limping, with the aid of her cane, up and down the longsuite of salons, listening for the sound of wheels. She knew that Georgeand Diane would be surprised to find her waiting up for them, and thatthey might even be annoyed; but in her state of dread it was impossibleto yield to small considerations.She could hardly tell how this presentiment of disaster had taken holdupon her, for the beginning of it must have come as imperceptibly as thefirst flicker of dusk across the radiance of an afternoon. Looking back,she could almost make herself believe that she had seen its shadow overher early satisfaction in her son's marriage to Diane. Certainly she hadfelt it there before their honeymoon was over. The four years that hadpassed since then had been spent--or, at least, she would have said sonow--in waiting for the peril to present itself.And yet, had she been called on to explain why she saw it stalkingthrough the darkness of this particular June night, she would have foundit difficult to give coherent statement to her fear. Everything abouther was pursuing its normally restless round, with scarcely a hint ofthe exceptional. If life in Paris was working up again to that feverishclimax in which the season dies, it was only what she had witnessedevery year since the last days of the Second Empire. If Diane's gayetywas that of excitement rather than of youth, if George's depression wasthat of jaded effort rather than of satiated pleasure, it was no morethan she had seen in them at other times. She acknowledged that she hadfew facts to go upon--that she had indeed little more than the terrifiedprescience which warns the animal of a storm.There were moments of her vigil when she tried to reassure herself withthe very tenuity of her reasons for alarm. It was a comfort to think howlittle there was that she could state with the definiteness ofknowledge. In all that met the eye George's relation to Diane was notless happy than in the first days of their life together. If, on Diane'spart, the spontaneity of wedded love had gradually become the adroitnessof domestic tact, there was nothing to affirm it but Mrs. Eveleth's ownpower of divination. If George submitted with a blinder obedience thanever to each new extravagance of Diane's Parisian caprice, there wasnothing to show that he lived beyond his means but Mrs. Eveleth'smaternal apprehension. His income was undoubtedly large, and, for allshe knew, it justified the sumptuous style Diane and he kept up. Wherethe purchasing power of money began and ended was something she hadnever known. Disorder was so frequent in her own affairs that whenGeorge grew up she had been glad to resign them to his keeping, takingwhat he told her was her income. As for Diane, her fortune was so smallas to be a negligible quantity in such housekeeping as they maintained--apoverty of _dot_ which had been the chief reason why her noble kinsfolkhad consented to her marriage with an American. Looking round thesplendid house, Mrs. Eveleth was aware that her husband could neverhave lived in it, still less have built it; while she wondered more thanever how George, who led the life of a Parisian man of fashion, couldhave found the means of doing both.Not that her anxiety centred on material things; they were too remotefrom the general activities of her thought for that. She distilled herfear out of the living atmosphere around her. She was no novice in thisbrilliant, dissolute society, or in the meanings hidden behind itsapparently trivial concerns. Hints that would have had slightsignificance for one less expert she found luminous with suggestion; andshe read by signs as faint as those in which the redskin detects thepassage of his foe across the grass. The odd smile with which Diane wentout! The dull silence in which George came home! The manufacturedconversation! The forced gayety! The startling pause! The effort tobegin again, and keep the tone to one of common intercourse! The longdefile of guests! The strangers who came, grew intimate, anddisappeared! The glances that followed Diane when she crossed a room!The shrug, the whisper, the suggestive grimace, at the mention of hername! All these were as an alphabet in which Mrs. Eveleth, grown skilfulby long years of observation, read what had become not less familiarthan her mother-tongue.The fact that her misgivings were not new made it the more difficult tounderstand why they had focussed themselves to-night into this greatfear. There had been nothing unusual about the day, except that she hadseen little of Diane, while George had remained shut up in his room,writing letters and arranging or destroying papers. There had beennothing out of the common in either of them--not even the frown of careon George's forehead, or the excited light in Diane's eyes--as theydrove away in the evening, to dine at the Spanish Embassy. They hadkissed her tenderly, but it was not till after they had gone that itseemed to her as if they had been taking a farewell. Then, too, otherlittle tokens suddenly became ominous; while something within herselfseemed to say, "The hour is at hand!"The hour is at hand! Standing in the middle of one of the gorgeousrooms, she repeated the words softly, marking as she did so theirincongruity to herself and her surroundings. The note of fatality jarredon the harmony of this well-ordered life. It was preposterous, that she,who had always been hedged round and sheltered by pomp and circumstance,should now in her middle age be menaced with calamity. She draggedherself over to one of the long mirrors and gazed at her reflectionpityingly.The twitter of birds startled her with the knowledge that it was dawn.From the Embassy George and Diane were to go on to two or three greathouses, but surely they should be home by this time! The reflectionmeant the renewal of her fear. Where was her son? Was he really with hiswife, or had the moment come when he must take the law into his ownhands, after their French manner, to avenge himself or her? She knewnothing about duelling, but she had the Anglo-Saxon mother's dread ofit. She had always hoped that, notwithstanding the social code underwhich he lived, George would keep clear of any such brutalsenselessness; but lately she had begun to fear that the conventions ofthe world would prove the stronger, and that the time when they would doso was not far away.Pulling back the curtains from one of the windows, she opened it andstepped out on a balcony, where the long strip of the Quai d'Orsaystretched below her, in gray and silent emptiness. On the swift,leaden-colored current of the Seine, spanned here and there by ghostlybridges, mysterious barges plied weirdly through the twilight. Up on theleft the Arc de Triomphe began to emerge dimly out of night, while downon the right the line of the Louvre lay, black and sinister, beneath thetowers and spires that faintly detached themselves against the growingsaffron of the morning. High above all else, the domes of the SacredHeart were white with the rays of the unrisen sun, like those of theCity which came down from God.It was so different from the cheerful Paris of broad daylight that shewas drawing back with a shudder, when over the Pont de la Concorde shediscerned the approach of a motor-brougham.Closing the window, she hurried to the stairway. It was still nightwithin the house, and the one electric light left burning drew forthdull gleams from the wrought-metal arabesques of the splendidly sweepingbalustrades. When, on the ringing of the bell, the door opened and shewent down, she had the strange sensation of entering on a new era in herlife.Though she recalled that impression in after years, for the moment shesaw nothing but Diane, all in vivid red, in the act of letting thevoluminous black cloak fall from her shoulders into the sleepy footman'shands."Bonjour, petite mere!" Diane called, with a nervous laugh, as Mrs.Eveleth paused on the lower steps of the stairs."Where is George?"She could not keep the tone of anxiety out of her voice, but Dianeanswered, with ready briskness:"George? I don't know. Hasn't he come home?""You must know he hasn't come home. Weren't you together?""We were together till--let me see!--whose house was it?--till after thecotillon at Madame de Vaudreuil's. He left me there and went to theJockey Club with Monsieur de Melcourt, while I drove on to theRochefoucaulds'."She turned away toward the dining-room, but it was impossible not tocatch the tremor in her voice over the last words. In her ready Englishthere was a slight foreign intonation, as well as that trace of an Irishaccent which quickly yields to emotion. Standing at the table in thedining-room where refreshments had been laid, she poured out a glass ofwine, and Mrs. Eveleth could see from the threshold that she drank itthirstily, as one who before everything else needs a stimulant to keepher up. At the entrance of her mother-in-law she was on her guard again,and sank languidly into the nearest chair.  "Oh, I'm so hungry!" sheyawned, pulling off her gloves, and pretending to nibble at a sandwich."Do sit down," she went on, as Mrs. Eveleth remained standing. "I shouldthink you'd be hungry, too.""Aren't you surprised to see me sitting up, Diane?""I wasn't, but I can be, if that's my cue," Diane laughed.At the nonchalance of the reply Mrs. Eveleth was, for a second, halfdeceived. Was it possible that she had only conjured up a wakingnightmare, and that there was nothing to be afraid of, after all?Possessing the French quality of frankness to an unusual degree, it wasdifficult for Diane to act a part at any time. With all her Parisianfinesse her nature was as direct as lightning, while her glance had thatfulness of candor which can never be assumed. Looking at her now, withher elbows on the table, and the sandwich daintily poised between thethumb and forefinger of her right hand, it was hard to connect her withtragic possibilities. There were pearls around her neck and diamonds inher hair; but to the wholesomeness of her personality jewels were nomore than dew on the freshness of a summer morning."I thought you'd be surprised to find me sitting up," Mrs. Eveleth beganagain; "but the truth is, I couldn't go to bed while--""I'm glad you didn't," Diane broke in, with an evident intention to keepthe conversation in her own hands. "I'm not in the least sleepy. I couldsit here and talk till morning--though I suppose it's morning now.Really the time to live is between midnight and six o'clock. One has awhole set of emotions then that never come into play during the othereighteen hours of the day. They say it's the minute when the soul comesnearest to parting with the body, so I suppose that's the reason we cansee things, during the wee sma' hours, by the light of the invisiblespheres.""I should be quite content with the light of this world--""Oh, I shouldn't," Diane broke in, with renewed eagerness to talkagainst time. "It's like being content with words, and having no need ofmusic. It's like being satisfied with photographs, and never wantingreal pictures.""Diane," Mrs. Eveleth interrupted, "I insist that you let me speak.""Speak, petite mere? What are you doing but speaking now? I'm scarcelysaying a word. I'm too tired to talk. If you'd spent the last eight orten hours trying to get yourself down to the conversational level ofyour partners, you'd know what I've been through. We women must be madeof steel to stand it. If you had only seen me this evening--""Listen to me, Diane; don't joke. This is no time for that.""Joke! I never felt less like joking in my life, and--"She broke off with a little hysterical gasp, so that Mrs. Eveleth gotanother chance."I know you don't feel like joking, and still less do I. There'ssomething wrong.""Is there? What?" Diane made an effort to recover herself. "I hope itisn't indiscreet to ask, because I need the bracing effect of a littlescandal.""Isn't it for you to tell me? You're concealing something of which--""Oh, petite mere, is that quite honest? First, you say there's somethingwrong; and then, when I'm all agog to hear it, you saddle me with thesecret. That's what you call in English a sell, isn't it? A sell! What afunny little word! I often wonder who invents the slang. Parrots pass italong, of course, but it must take some cleverness to start it. Andisn't it curious," she went on, breathlessly, "how a new bit of slangalways fills a vacant place in the language? The minute you hear it youknow it's what you've always wanted. I suppose the reason we're obligedto use the current phrase is because it expresses the current need. Whenthe hour passes, the need passes with it, and something new must becoined to meet the new situation. I should think a most interesting bookmight be written on the Psychology of Slang, and if I wasn't so busywith other things--""Diane, I entreat you to answer me. Where is George?""Why, I must have forgotten to tell you that he went to the Jockey Clubwith Monsieur de Melcourt--""You did tell me so; but that isn't all. Has he gone anywhere else?""How should I know, petite mere? Where should he go but come home?""Has he gone to fight a duel?"The question surprised Diane into partially dropping her mask. For aninstant she was puzzled for an answer."Men who fight duels," she said, at last, "don't generally tell theirwives beforehand.""But did George tell you?"Again Diane hesitated before speaking."What a queer question!" was all she could find to say."It's a question I have a right to ask.""But have I a right to answer?""If you don't answer, you leave me to infer that he has.""Of course I can't keep you from inferring, but isn't that what theycall meeting trouble half-way?""I must meet trouble as it comes to me.""But not before it comes. That's my point.""It has come. It's here. I'm sure of it. He's gone to fight. You knowit. You've sent him. Oh, Diane, if he comes to harm his blood will be onyour head."Diane shrugged her shoulders, and took another sandwich."I don't see that. In the first place, it's quite unlikely there'll beany blood at all--or more than a very little. One of the things I admirein men--our men, especially--is the maximum of courage with which theyavenge their honor, coupled with the minimum of damage they work indoing it. It must require a great deal of skill. I know I should neverhave the nerve for it. I should kill my man every time he didn't killme. But they hardly ever do.""How can you say that? Wasn't Monsieur de Cretteville killed? AndMonsieur Lalanne?""That makes two cases. I implied that it happens sometimes--generally byinadvertence. But it isn't likely to do so in this instance--at leastnot to George. He's an excellent shot--and I believe it was to bepistols.""Then it's true! Oh, my God, I know I shall lose him!"Mrs. Eveleth flung her cane to the floor and dropped into a seat,leaning on the table and covering her face with her hands. For a minuteshe moaned harshly, but when she looked up her eyes were tearless."And this is my reward," she cried, "for the kindness I've shown you!After all, you are nothing but a wanton."Diane kept her self-control, but she grew pale."That's odd," was all she permitted herself to say, delicately flickingthe crumbs from her fingertips; "because it was to prove the contrarythat George called Monsieur de Bienville out.""Bienville! You've stooped to _him?_""Did I say so?" Diane asked, with a sudden significant lifting of thehead."There's no need to say so. There must have been something--""There was something--something Monsieur de Bienville invented.""Wasn't it a pity for him to go to the trouble of invention--?""When he could have found so much that was true," Diane finished, withdangerous quietness. "That's what you were going to say, isn't it?""You have no right to ascribe words to me that I haven't uttered. Inever said so.""No; that's true; I prefer to say it for you. It's safer, in that itleaves me nothing to resent.""Oh, what shall I do! What shall I do!" Mrs. Eveleth moaned, wringingher hands. "My boy is gone from me. He will never come back. I've alwaysbeen sure that if he ever did this, it would be the end. It's my faultfor having brought him up among your foolish, hot-headed people. He willhave thrown his life away--and for nothing!""No; not that," Diane corrected; "not even if the worst comes to theworst.""What do you mean? If the worst comes to the worst, he will havesacrificed himself--""For my honor; and George himself would be the first to tell you thatit's worth dying for."Diane rose as she spoke, Mrs. Eveleth following her example. For a briefinstant they stood as if measuring each other's strength, till theystarted with a simultaneous shock at the sharp call of the telephonefrom an adjoining room. With a smothered cry Diane sprang to answer it,while Mrs. Eveleth, helpless with dread, remained standing, as thoughfrozen to the spot."Oui--oui--oui," came Diane's voice, speaking eagerly. "Oui, c'est bienMadame George Eveleth. Oui, oui. Non. Je comprends. C'est Monsieur deMelcourt. Oui--oui--Dites-le-moi tout de suite--j'insiste--Oui--oui.Ah-h-h!"The last, prolonged, choking exclamation came as the cry of one whosinks, smitten to the heart. Mrs. Eveleth was able to move at last. Whenshe reached the other room, Diane was crouched in a little heap on thefloor."He's dead? He's dead?" the mother cried, in frenzied questioning.But Diane, with glazed eyes and parted lips, could only nod her head inaffirmation.IIDuring the days immediately following George Eveleth's death the twowomen who loved him found themselves separated by the very quality oftheir grief. While Diane's heart was clamorous with remorse, themother's was poignantly calm. It was generally remarked, in theFranco-American circles where the tragedy was talked of, that Mrs. Evelethdisplayed unexpected strength of character. It was a matter of commonknowledge that she shrank from none of the terrible details it wasnecessary to supervise, and that she was capable of giving her attentionto her son's practical affairs.It was not till a fortnight had passed that the two women came face toface alone. The few occasions on which they had met hitherto had beenthose of solemn public mourning, when the great questions between themnecessarily remained untouched. The desire to keep apart was common toboth, for neither was sufficiently mistress of herself to be ready for ameeting.The first move came from Diane. During her long, speechless days ofself-upbraiding certain thoughts had been slowly forming themselves intoresolutions; but it was on impulse rather than reflection that, at last,she summoned up strength to knock at Mrs. Eveleth's door.She entered timidly, expecting to find some manifestation of griefsimilar to her own. She was surprised, therefore, to see hermother-in-law sitting at her desk, with a number of businesslikepapers before her. She held a pencil between her fingers, and wasevidently in the act of adding up long rows of figures."Oh, come in," she said, briefly, as Diane appeared. "Excuse me aminute. Sit down."Diane seated herself by an open window looking out on the garden. It wasa hot morning toward the end of June, and from the neighboring streetscame the dull rumble of Paris. Beyond the garden, through an opening,she could see a procession of carriages--probably a wedding on its wayto Sainte-Clotilde. It was her first realizing glimpse of the outsideworld since that gray morning when she had driven home alone, and thevery fact that it could be pursuing its round indifferent to hercalamity impelled her to turn her gaze away.It was then that she had time to note the changes wrought in Mrs.Eveleth; and it was like finding winter where she expected no more thanthe first genial touch of autumn. The softnesses of lingering youth haddisappeared, stricken out by the hard, straight lines of gravity. Neverhaving known her mother-in-law as other than a woman of fashion, Dianewas awed by this dignified, sorrowing matron, who carried the sword ofmotherhood in her heart.It was a long time before Mrs. Eveleth laid her pencil down and raisedher head. For a few minutes neither had the power of words, but it wasDiane who spoke at last."I can understand," she faltered, "that you don't want to see me; butI've come to tell you that I'm going away.""You're going away? Where?"The words were spoken gently and as if in some absence of mind. As amatter of fact, Mrs. Eveleth was scarcely thinking of Diane's words--shewas so intent on the poor little, tear-worn face before her. She hadalways known that Diane's attractions were those of coloring andvivacity, and now that she had lost these she was like an extinguishedlamp."I haven't made up my mind yet," Diane replied, "but I want you to knowthat you'll be freed from my presence.""What makes you think I want to be--freed?""You must know that I killed George. You said that night that his bloodwould be on my head--and it is.""If I said that, I spoke under the stress of terror and excitement--""You needn't try to take back the words; they were quite true.""True in what sense?""In almost every sense; certainly in every sense that's vital. If ithadn't been for me, George would be here now.""It's never wise to speculate on what might have happened if it hadn'tbeen for us. There's no end to the useless torture we can inflict onourselves in that way.""I don't think there ought to be an end to it.""Have you anything in particular to reproach yourself with?""I've everything.""That means, then, that there's no one incident--or person--I didn'tknow but--" She hesitated, and Diane took up the sentence."You didn't know but what I had given George specific reason for hisact. I may as well tell you that I never did--at least not in the sensein which you mean it. George always knew that I loved him, and that Iwas true to him. He trusted me, and was justified in doing so. It wasn'tthat. It was the whole thing--the whole life. There was nothing worthyin it from the beginning to the end. I played with fire, and whileGeorge knew it was only playing, it was fire all the same.""But you say you were never--burnt.""If I wasn't, others were. I led men on till they thought--till theythought--I don't know how to say it--""Till they thought you should have led them further?""Precisely; and Bienville was one of them. It wasn't entirely his fault.I allowed him to think--to think--oh, all sorts of things!--and thenwhen I was tired of him, I turned him into ridicule. I took advantage ofhis folly to make him the laughing-stock of Paris; and to avenge himselfhe lied. He said I had been his--No; I can't tell you.""I understand. You needn't tell me. You needn't tell me any more.""There isn't much more to tell that I can put into words. It wasalways--just like that--just as it was with Bienville. He wasn't theonly one. I made coquetry a game--but a game in which I cheated. I wasnever fair to any of them. It's only the fact that the others were morehonorable than Bienville that's kept what has happened now from havinghappened long ago. It might have come at any time. I thought it a finething to be able to trifle with passion. I didn't know I was onlytrifling with death. Oh, if I had been a good woman, George would havebeen with us still!""You mustn't blame yourself," the mother-in-law said, speaking with somedifficulty, "for more than your own share of our troubles. I want totalk to you quite frankly, and tell you things you've never known. Thebeginning of the sorrows that have come to us dates very far back--backto a time before you were born.""Oh?"Diane's brown eyes, swimming in tears, opened wide in a sort of mournfulcuriosity."I admit," Mrs. Eveleth continued, "that in the first hours of our--ourbereavement I had some such thoughts about you as you've just expressed.It seemed to me that if you had lived differently, George might havebeen spared to us. It took reflection to show me that if you _had_ liveddifferently, George himself wouldn't have been satisfied. The life youled was the one he cared for--the one I taught him to care for. Theorigin of the wrong has to be traced back to me.""To you?" Diane uttered the words in increasing wonder. It was strangethat a first role in the drama could be played by any one but herself."I've always thought it a little odd," Mrs. Eveleth observed, after abrief pause, "that you've never been interested to hear about ourfamily.""I didn't know there was anything to tell," Diane answered, innocently."I suppose there isn't, from your European point of view; but, as weAmericans see things, there's a good deal that's significant. Foreignerscare so little about who or what we are, so long as we have money."Diane raised her hand in a gesture of deprecation, intimating that suchwas not her attitude of mind."And I've never wanted to bore you with what, after all, wasn'tnecessary for you to hear. I shouldn't do so now if it had not becomeimportant. There's a great deal to settle and arrange.""I can understand that there must be business affairs," Diane murmured,for the sake of saying something."Exactly; and in order to make them clear to you, I must take you alittle further back into our history than you've ever gone before. Iwant you to see how much more responsible I am than you for ourcalamity. You were born into this life of Paris, while I came into it ofmy own accord. You did nothing but yield naturally to the influencesaround you, while I accepted them after having been fully warned. If youknew a little more of our American ideals I should find it easier toexplain.""I should like to hear about them," Diane said, sympathetically. The newinterest was beginning to take her out of herself."My husband and I," Mrs. Eveleth went on again, "belong to that New Yorkelement which dates back to the time when the city was New Amsterdam,and the State, the New Netherlands. To you that means nothing, but inAmerica it tells much. I was Naomi de Ruyter; my husband, on hismother's side, was a Van Tromp.""Really?" Diane murmured, feeling that Mrs. Eveleth's tone of priderequired a response. "I know there's a Mr. van Tromp here--the Americanbanker.""He is of the same family as my husband's mother. For nearly threehundred years they've lived on the island of Manhattan, and seen theirfarms and pastures grow into the second city in the world. The world haspoured in on them, literally in millions. It would have submerged themif there hadn't been something in that old stock that couldn't be keptdown. However high the tide rose, they floated on the top. My peoplewere thrifty and industrious. They worked hard, saved money, and livedin simple ways. They cared little for pleasure, for beauty, or for anyof the forms of art; but, on the contrary, they lived for work, forreligion, for learning, and all the other high and serious pursuits. Itwas fine; but I hated it.""Naturally.""I longed to get away from it, and when I married I persuaded my husbandto give up his profession and his home in order to establish himselfhere.""But surely you can't regret that? You were free.""Only the selfish and the useless are ever free. Those who are worthanything in this world are bound by a hundred claims upon them. Theymust either stay caught in the meshes of love and duty, or wrenchthemselves away--and that's what I did. Perhaps I suffered less thanmany people in doing the same thing; but I cannot say that I haven'tsuffered at all.""But you've had a happy life--till now.""I've had what I wanted--which may be happiness, or may not be.""I've heard that you were very much admired. Madame de Nohant has toldme that when you appeared at the Tuileries, no one was more graceful,not even the Empress herself.""I had what I wanted," Mrs. Eveleth repeated, with a sigh. "I don't denythat I enjoyed it; and yet I question now if I did right. When myhusband died, and George was a little boy, my friends made one lasteffort to induce me to take him back, and bring him up in his owncountry. I ignored their opinions, because all their views were sodifferent from mine. I was young and independent, and enamoured of thelife I had begun to lead. I had scruples of conscience from time totime; but when George grew up and developed the tastes I had bred inhim, I let other considerations go. I was pleased with his success inthe little world of Paris, just as I had been flattered by my own. Whenhe fell in love with you I urged him to marry you, not because ofanything in yourself, but because you were Mademoiselle de laFerronaise, the last of an illustrious family. I looked upon the matchas a useful alliance for him and for me. I encouraged George inextravagance. I encouraged him when he began to live in a style far moreexpensive than anything to which he had been accustomed. I encouragedhim when he built this house. I wanted to impress you; I wanted you tosee that the American could give you a more splendid home than anyEuropean you were likely to marry, however exalted his rank. I was notwithout fears that George was spending too much money; but we've alwayshad plenty for whatever we wanted to do; and so I let him go on when Ishould have stopped him. It was my vanity. It wasn't his fault. Heinherited a large fortune; and if I had only brought him up wisely, itwould have been enough.""And wasn't it enough?"In spite of her growing dread, Diane brought out the question firmly.Mrs. Eveleth sat one long minute motionless, with hands clasped, withlips parted, and with suspended breath."No."The monosyllable seemed to fill the room. It echoed and re-echoed inDiane's ears like the boom of a cannon. While her outward vision took insuch details as the despair in Mrs. Eveleth's face, the folds of crapeon her gown, the Watteau picture on the panel of moss-green and goldthat formed the background, all the realities of life seemed to bedissolving into chaos, as the glories of the sunset sink into a blackand formless mass. When Mrs. Eveleth spoke again, her voice sounded asthough it came from far away."I want to take all the blame upon myself. If it hadn't been for me,George would never have gone to such extremes.""Extremes?"Diane spoke not so much from the desire to speak as from the necessityof forcing her reeling intelligence back to the world of fact."I'm afraid there's no other word for it.""Do you mean that there are debts?""A great many debts.""Can't they be paid?""Most of them can be paid--perhaps all; but when that is done I'm afraidthere will be very little left.""But surely we haven't lived so extravagantly as that. I know I've spenta great deal of money--""It hasn't been altogether the style of living. When my poor boy sawthat he was going beyond his means he tried to recoup himself byspeculation. Do you know what that is?""I know it's something by which people lose money.""He had no experience of anything of the kind, and his men of businesstell me he went into it wildly. He had that optimistic temperament whichalways believes that the next thing will be a success, even though thepresent one is a failure. Then, too, he fell into the hands ofunscrupulous men, who made him think that great fortunes were to be madeout of what they call wildcat schemes, when all the time they wereleading him to ruin."Ruin! The word appealed to Diane's memory and imagination alike. It cameto her from her remotest childhood, when she could remember hearing itapplied to her grandfather, the old Comte de la Ferronaise. After thatshe could recollect leaving the great chateau in which she was born, andliving with her parents, first in one European capital, and then inanother. Finally they settled for a few years in Ireland, her mother'scountry, where both her parents died. During all this time, as well asin the subsequent years in a convent at Auteuil, she was never free fromthe sense of ruin hanging over her. Though she understood well enoughthat her way of escape lay in making a rich marriage, it was impressedupon her that the meagreness of her _dot_ would make her efforts in thisdirection difficult. When, within a few months of leaving the convent,she was asked by George Eveleth to become his wife, it seemed as if shehad reached the end of her cares. She had the less scruple in acceptingwhat he had to give in that she honestly liked the generous, easy-goingman who lived but to gratify her whims. During the four years of hermarried life she had spent money, not merely for the love of spending,but from sheer joy in the sense that Poverty, the arch-enemy, had beendefeated; and lo! he was springing at her again."Ruin!" she echoed, when Mrs. Eveleth had let fall the word. "Do youmean that we're--ruined?""It depends on how you look at it. You will always have your own smallfortune, on which you can live with economy.""But you will have yours, too."Mrs. Eveleth smiled faintly."No; I'm afraid that's gone. It was in George's hands, and I can see hetried to increase it for me, by doing with it--as he did with his own.I'm not blaming him. The worst of which he can be accused is a lack ofjudgment.""But there's this house!" Diane urged, "and all this furniture!--andthese pictures!"She glanced up at the Watteau, the Boucher, and the Fragonard, whichgave the key to the decorations of the dainty boudoir. The faint smilestill lingered on Mrs. Eveleth's lips, as it lingers on the face of thedead."There'll be very little left," she repeated."But I don't understand," Diane protested, with a perplexed movement ofthe hand across her brow. "I don't know much about business, but if itwere explained to me I think I could follow.""Come and sit beside me at the desk," Mrs. Eveleth suggested. "You willunderstand better if you see the figures just as they stand."She went over the main points, one by one, using the same untechnicalsimplicity of language which George's men of business had employed withherself. The facts could be stated broadly but comprehensively. When allwas settled the Eveleth estate would have disappeared. Diane wouldpossess her small inheritance, which was a thing apart. Mrs. Evelethwould have a few jewels and other minor personal belongings, but nothingmore. The very completeness of the story rendered it easy in thetelling, though the largeness of the facts made it impossible for Dianeto take them in. It was an almost unreasonable tax on credulity toattempt to think of the tall, fragile woman sitting before her, withluxurious nurture in every pose of the figure, in every habit of themind, as penniless. It was trying to account for daylight without a sun."It can't be!" Diane cried, when she had done her best to weigh thefacts just placed before her.Mrs. Eveleth shook her head, the glimmering smile fixed on her lips ason a mask."It is so, dear, I'm afraid. We must do our best to get used to it.""I shall never get used to it," Diane cried, springing to herfeet--"never, never!""It will be hard for you to do without all you've had--when you've hadso much--but--""Oh, it isn't that," Diane broke in, fiercely. "It isn't for me. I cando well enough. It's for you.""Don't worry about me, dear. I can work."The words were spoken in a matter-of-fact tone, but Diane recoiled atthem as at a sword-thrust."You can--what?"It was the last touch, not only of the horror of the situation, but ofits ludicrous irony."I can work, dear," Mrs. Eveleth repeated, with the poignanttranquillity that smote Diane more cruelly than grief. "There are manythings I could do--""Oh, don't!" Diane wailed, with pleading gestures of the hands. "Oh,don't! I can't bear it. Don't say such things. They kill me. There mustbe some mistake. All that money can't have gone. Even if it was only afew hundred thousand francs, it would be something. I will not believeit. It's too soon to judge. I've heard it took a long time to settle upestates. How can they have done it yet?""They haven't. They've only seen its possibilities--andimpossibilities.""I will never believe it," Diane burst out again. "I will see those men.I will tell them. I am positive that it cannot be. Such injustice wouldnot be permitted. There must be laws--there must be something--toprevent such outrage--especially on you!" She spoke vehemently, stridingto and fro in the little room, and brushing back from time to time theheavy brown hair that in her excitement fell in disordered locks on herforehead. "It's too wicked. It's too monstrous. It's intolerable. Goddoesn't allow such things to happen on earth, otherwise He wouldn't beGod! No, no; you cannot make me think that such things happen. You work!The Mater Dolorosa herself was not called upon to bear such humiliation.If God reigns, as they say He does--""But, Diane dear," Mrs. Eveleth interrupted, gently, "isn't it true thatwe owe it to George's memory to bear our troubles bravely?""I'm ready to bear anything bravely--but this.""But isn't this the case, above all others, in which you and I should beunflinching? Doesn't any lack of courage on our parts imply a reflectionon him?""That's true," Diane said, stopping abruptly."I don't know how far you honor George's memory--?""George's memory? Why shouldn't I honor it?""I didn't know. Some women--after what you've just discovered--""I am not--some women! I am Diane Eveleth. Whatever George did I sharedit, and I share it still.""Then you forgive him?""Forgive him?--I?--forgive him? No! What have I to forgive? Anything hedid he did for me and in order to have the more to give me--and I lovehim and honor him as I never did till now."Mrs. Eveleth rose and stood unsteadily beside her desk."God bless you for saying that, Diane.""There's no reason why He should bless me for saying anything soobvious.""It isn't obvious to me, Diane; and you must let _me_ bless you--blessyou with the mother's blessing, which, I think, must be next to God's."Then opening her arms wide, she sobbed the one word "Come!" and they hadat last the comfort, dear to women, of weeping in each other's arms.IIIIn the private office of the great Franco-American banking-house of VanTromp & Co., the partners, having finished their conference, were aboutto separate."That's all, I think," said Mr. Grimston. He rose with a jerky movement,which gave him the appearance of a little figure shot out of a box.Mr. van Tromp remained seated at the broad, flat-topped desk, his headbent at an angle which gave Mr. Grimston a view of the tips of shaggyeyebrows, a broad nose, and that peculiar kind of protruding lower lipbefore which timid people quail. As there was no response, Mr. Grimstonlooked round vaguely on the sombre, handsome furnishings, fixing hisgaze at last on the lithographed portrait of Mr. van Tromp senior, thefounder of the house, hanging above the mantelpiece."That's all, I think," Mr. Grimston repeated, raising his voice slightlyin order to drown the rumble that came through the open windows from therue Auber.Suddenly Mr. van Tromp looked up."I've just had a letter," he said, in a tone indicating an entirely neworder of discussion, "from a person who signs herself Diana--or is itDiane?--Eveleth.""Oh, Diane! She's written to you, has she?" came from Mr. Grimston, ashis partner searched with short-sighted eyes for the letter in questionamong the papers on the desk."You know her, then?""Of course I know her. You ought to know her, too. You would, if youdidn't shut yourself up in the office, away from the world.""N-no, I don't recall that I've ever met the lady. Ah, here's the note,just sit down a minute while I read it."Mr. Grimston shot back into his seat again, while Mr. van Tromp wipedhis large, circular glasses."'Dear Mr. van Tromp,' she begins, 'I am most anxious to talk to you onvery important business, and would take it as a favor if you would letme call on Tuesday morning and see you very privately. Yours sincerely,Diane Eveleth.' That's all. Now, what do you make of it?"The straight smile, which was all the facial expression Mr. Grimstonever allowed himself, became visible between the lines of his closelyclipped mustache and beard. He took his time before speaking, enjoyingthe knowledge that this was one of those social junctures in which hehad his senior partner so conspicuously at a disadvantage."It's a bad business, I'm afraid," he said, as though summing up ratherthan beginning."What does the woman want with me?""That, I fear, is painfully evident. You must have heard of the Evelethsmash a couple of months ago. Or--let me see!--I think it was just whenyou were in New York. No; you'd be likely not to hear of it. TheEveleths have so carefully cut their American acquaintance for so manyyears that they've created a kind of vacuum around themselves, out ofwhich the noise of their doings doesn't easily penetrate. They belong tothat class of American Parisians who pose for going only into Frenchsociety.""I know the kind.""Mrs. Grimston could tell you all about them, of course. Equally at homeas she is in the best French and American circles, she hears a greatmany things she'd rather not hear.""She needn't listen to 'em.""Unfortunately a woman in her position, with a daughter like Marion, isobliged to listen. But that's rather the end of the story--""And I want the beginning, Grimston, if you don't mind. I want to knowwhy this Diane should be after me.""She's after money," Mr. Grimston declared, bluntly. "She's after money,and you'd better let me manage her. It would save you the trouble of therefusal you'll be obliged to make.""Well, tell me about her and I'll see."Mr. Grimston stiffened himself in his chair and cleared his throat."Diane Eveleth," he stated, with slow, significant emphasis, "is anextremely fascinating woman. She has probably turned more men round herlittle finger than any other woman in Paris.""Is that to her credit or her discredit?""I don't want to say anything against Mrs. Eveleth," Mr. Grimstonprotested. "I wish she hadn't come near us at all. As it is, you must beforewarned.""I'm not particular about that, if you'll give me the facts.""That's not so easy. Where facts are so deucedly disagreeable, a fellowfinds it hard to trot out any poor little woman in her weaknesses. Imust make it clear beforehand that I don't want to say anything againsther.""It's in confidence--privileged, as the lawyers say. I sha'n't think theworse of her--that is, not much.""Poor Diane," Mr. Grimston began again, sententiously, "is one of thebits of human wreckage that have drifted down to us from thepre-revolutionary days of French society. Her grandfather, the old Comtede la Ferronaise, belonged to that order of irreconcilable royalists whopersist in dashing themselves to pieces against the rising wall ofdemocracy. I remember him perfectly--a handsome old fellow, who had lostan arm in the Crimea. He used to do business with us when I was withHargous in the rue de Provence. Having impoverished himself in a plot infavor of the Comte de Chambord, somewhere about 1872, he came utterly togrief in raising funds for the Boulanger craze, in the train of theDuchesse d'Uzes. He died shortly afterward, one of the last to break hisheart over the hopeless Bourbon cause.""That, I understand you to say, was the grandfather of the young womanwho is after money. She's a Frenchwoman, then?""She's half French. That was her grandfather. The father was of much thesame type, but a lighter weight. He married an Irish beauty, a MissO'Hara, as poor as himself. He died young, I believe, and I'd lost sightof the lot, till this Mademoiselle Diane de la Ferronaise floated intoview, some five years ago, in the train of the Nohant family. Hermarriage to George Eveleth, which took place almost at once, was lookedupon as an excellent thing all round. It rid the Nohants of a poorrelation, and helped to establish the Eveleths in the heart of the oldaristocracy. Since then Diane has been going the pace.""What pace?""The pace the Eveleth money couldn't keep up with; the pace that madeher the most-talked-of woman in a society where women are talked of morethan enough; the pace that led George Eveleth to put a bullet throughhis head under pretence of fighting a duel.""Dear me! Dear me! A most unusual young woman! Do you tell me that herhusband actually put an end to himself?""So I understand. The affair was a curious one; but Bienville swears hefired into the air, and I believe him. Besides, George Eveleth was foundshot through the temple, and no one but himself could have inflicted awound like that. To make it conclusive, Melcourt and Vernois, who wereseconds, testify to having seen the act, without having the time toprevent it. You can see that it is a relief to me to be able to takethis view of the case--on poor Marion's account.""Marion--your daughter! Was she mixed up in the affair?""Mixed up is a little to much to say. I don't mind telling you inconfidence that there was something between her and Bienville. I don'tknow where it mightn't have ended; but of course when all this happened,and we got wind of Bienville's entanglement with Mrs. Eveleth, we had toput a stop to the thing, and pack her off to America. She'll stay therewith her aunt, Mrs. Bayford, till it blows over.""And your friend Bienville? Hasn't he brought himself within theclutches of the law?""George Eveleth was officially declared a suicide. He had every reasonto be one--though I don't want to say anything against Mrs. Eveleth.When Bienville refused to put an end to him, he evidently decided to doit himself. His family know nothing about that, so please don't let itslip out if you see Diane. With her notions, the husband fallen in hercause has perished on the field of honor; and if that's any comfort toher, let her keep it. As for Bienville, he's joined young Persigny, theexplorer, in South America. By the time he returns the affair will havebeen forgotten. He's a nice young fellow, and it's a thousand pities heshould have fallen into the net of a woman like Mrs. Eveleth. I don'twant to say anything against her, you understand--""Oh, quite!""But--"Mr. Grimston pronounced the word with a hard-drawn breath, and presentedthe appearance of a man who restrains himself. He was still endeavoringto maintain this attitude of repression when a discreet tap on the doorcalled from Mr. van Tromp a gruff "Come in." A young man entered with acard."She's here," the banker grunted, reading the name.Mr. Grimston shot up again."Better let me see her," he insisted, in a warning tone."No, no. I'll have a look at her myself. Bring the lady in," he added,to the young man in waiting."Then I'll skip," said Mr. Grimston, suiting the action to the word bydisappearing in one direction as Diane entered from another.Mr. van Tromp rose heavily, and surveyed her as she crossed the floortoward him. He had been expecting some such seductive French beauty ashe had occasionally seen on the stage on the rare occasions when he wentto a play; so that the trimness of this little figure in widow's dress,with white bands and cuffs, after the English fashion, somewhatdisconcerted him. Unaccustomed to the ways of banks, Diane half offeredher hand, but, as he was on his guard against taking it, she stood stillbefore him."Mrs. Eveleth, I believe," he said, when he had surveyed her well. "Havethe goodness to sit down, and tell me what I can do for you."Diane took the seat he indicated, which left a discreet space betweenthem. The heavy black satchel she carried she placed on the floor besideher. When she raised her veil, Mr. van Tromp observed to himself thatthe pale face, touching in expression, and the brown eyes, in whichthere seemed to lurk a gentle reproach against the world for havingtreated her so badly, were exactly what he would have expected in awoman coming to borrow money."I've come to you, Mr. van Tromp," Diane began, timidly, "because Ithought that perhaps--you might know--who I am.""I don't know anything at all about you," was the not encouragingresponse."Of course there's no reason why you should--" Diane hastened to say,apologetically."None whatever," he assured her."Only that a good many people do know us--""I dare say. I haven't the honor to be among the number.""And I thought that possibly--just possibly--you might be predisposed inmy favor.""A banker is never predisposed in favor of any one--not even his ownflesh and blood.""I didn't know that," Diane persisted, bravely, "otherwise I might justas well have gone to anybody else.""Just as well.""Would you like me to go now?"The question took him by surprise, and before replying he looked at heragain with queer, bulgy eyes peering through big circular glasses, in away that made Diane think of an ogre in a fairy tale."You're not here for what I like," he said at last, "but for what youwant yourself.""That's true," Diane admitted, ruefully, "but I might go away. I _will_go away, if you say so.""You'll please yourself. I didn't send for you, and I'll not tell you togo. How old are you?"It was Diane's turn to be surprised, but she brought out her agepromptly."Twenty-four.""You look older.""That's because I've had so much trouble, perhaps. It's because we're introuble that I've come to you, Mr. van Tromp.""I dare say. I didn't suppose you'd come to ask me to dinner. There arenot many days go by without some one expecting me to pull him out of thescrape he would never have got into if it hadn't been for his ownfault.""I'm afraid that's very like my case.""It's like a good many cases. You're no exception to the rule.""And what do you do at such times, if I may ask?""You may ask, but I'll not tell you. You're here on your own business, Ipresume, and not on mine.""I thought that perhaps you'd be good enough to make mine yours. Thoughwe've never met, I have seen you at various times, and it always seemedto me that you looked kind; and so--""Stop right there, ma'am!" he cried, putting up a warning hand. "'Mostimportant business,' was what you said in your note, otherwise Ishouldn't have consented to see you. If you have any business, state it,and I'll say yes or no, as it strikes me. But I'll tell you beforehandthat there isn't a chance in a thousand but what it'll be no.""I did come because I thought you looked kind," Diane declared,indignantly, "and if you think it was for any other reason whatever,you're absolutely mistaken.""Then we'll let it be. I can't help my looks, nor what you think aboutthem. The point is that you're here for something; so let's know what itis.""You make it very hard for me," Diane said, almost tearfully, "but I'lltry. I must tell you, first of all, that we've lost a great deal ofmoney.""That's no new situation.""It is to me; and it's even more so to my poor mother-in-law. I shouldthink you must have heard of her at least. She is Mrs. Arthur Eveleth.Her maiden name was Naomi de Ruyter, of New York.""Very likely.""Her husband was related, on his mother's side, to the Van Tromps--thesame family as your own.""That's more likely still. There are as many Van Tromps in New York asthere are shrimps on the Breton coast, and they're all related to me,because I'm supposed to have a little money.""I sha'n't let you offend me," Diane said, stoutly, "because I want yourhelp.""That's a very good reason.""But since you take so little interest in us I will not attempt toexplain how it is that we've come to such misfortune.""I'll take that for granted.""The blow has fallen more heavily on my mother-in-law than on me. Shehas lost everything she had in the world; while I have still my ownmoney--my _dot_--and a little over from the sale of my jewels.""Well?""If you'd ever seen her, you would know how terrible, how impossible,such a situation is for her. She's the sort of woman who ought to havemoney--who _must_ have money. And so I thought if I came to you--""I'd give her some.""No," Diane said, quickly, with a renewed touch of indignation, "butthat you'd help me to do it."He looked at her with an odd, upward glance under his shaggy,overhanging brows, while the protruding lower lip went a shade furtherout."Help you to do it? How?""By letting her have mine."Again he looked at her, almost suspiciously."You've got plenty to give away, I suppose?""On the contrary, I've pitifully little; but such as it is, I want herto have it all. She could live on it--with economy; or at least she saysI could.""And can't you?""I don't want to. As there isn't enough for two, I wish to settle it onher. Isn't that the word?--settle?""It'll do as well as another. And what do you propose to do yourself?""Work."Diane forced the word in a little gasp of humiliation, but she got itout."And what'll you work at?""I don't know yet, exactly. I shall have to see. My mother-in-law isgoing to America; and when she does I'll join her.""Humph! My good woman, you wouldn't do more than just keep ahead ofstarvation.""Oh, I shouldn't expect to do more. If I succeeded in that--I shouldlive.""How much money have you got?""It's all here," she answered, picking up the black satchel and openingit. "These are my securities, and I'm told they're very good.""And do you take them round with you every time you go shopping?""No," Diane smiled, somewhat wanly. "They've been in the hands of theMessrs. Hargous for a good many years past. They are entirely at my owndisposal--not in trust, they said; so that I had a right to take themaway. I thought I would just bring them to you.""What for?""To keep them for my mother-in-law and pay her the interest, or whateverit is.""Why didn't you leave them with Hargous?""I was afraid, from some things he said, he would object to what Iwanted to do.""And what made you think I wouldn't object to it, too?""Two or three reasons. First, Monsieur Hargous is not an American, andyou are; and I'd been told that Americans always like to help oneanother--""I don't know who could have put that notion into your head.""And, then, from the few glimpses I've had of you--I _will_ say it!--Ithought you looked kind.""Well, now that you've had a better look, you see I don't. How muchmoney have you got? You haven't told me that yet.""Here's the memorandum. They said they were mostly bonds, and very goodones."[Illustration: DRAWN BY FRANK CRAIGTHE BANKER TOOK A LONGER TIME THAN WAS NECESSARY TO SCAN THE POOR LITTLELIST]With the slip of paper in his hand the banker leaned back in the chair,and took a longer time than was necessary to scan the poor little list.In reality he was turning over in his mind the unexpected features ofthe case, venturing a peep at Diane as she sat meekly awaiting the endof his perusal."Hasn't it occurred to you," he asked, at last, "that you could leaveyour affairs in Hargous' hands, and still turn over to yourmother-in-law whatever sums he paid you?""Yes; but she wouldn't take the money unless she thought it was her veryown.""But it isn't her very own. It's yours.""I want to make it hers. I want to transfer it to her absolutely--sothat no one else, not even I, shall have a claim upon it. There must beways of doing that.""There are ways of doing that, but as far as she's concerned it comes tothe same thing. If she won't touch the income, she will refuse to acceptthe principal.""I've thought of that, too; and it's among the reasons why I've come toyou. I hoped you'd help me--""To tell a lie about it.""I should think it might be done without that. My mother-in-law is avery simple woman in business affairs. She has been used all her life tohaving money paid into her account, when she had only the vaguest ideaas to where it came from. If you should write to her now and say thatsome small funds in her name were in your hands, and that you would payher the income at stated intervals, nothing would seem more natural toher. She would probably attribute it to some act of foresight on herson's part, and never think I had anything to do with it at all."For three or four minutes he sat in meditation, still glancing at herfurtively under his shaggy brows, while she waited for his decision."I don't approve of it at all," he said, at last."Don't say that," she pleaded. "I've hoped so much that you'd--""At the same time I won't say that the thing isn't feasible. I'll justverify these bonds and certificates, and--"He took them, one by one, from the bag, and, having compared them withthe list, replaced them."And," he continued, "you can come and see me again at this timeto-morrow.""Oh, thank you!""You can thank me when I've done something--not before. Very likely Isha'n't do anything at all. But in the mean while you may leave yoursatchel here, and not run the risk of being robbed in the street. If Irefuse you to-morrow--as is probable I shall--I'll send a man with youto see you and your money safely back to Hargous."He touched a bell, and a young man entered. On directions from thebanker the clerk left the room, taking the bag with him; while Diane,feeling that her errand had been largely accomplished, rose to leave."You can't go without the receipt for your securities. How do you knowI'm not stealing them from you? What right would you have to claim themwhen you came again? Sit down now and tell me something more aboutyourself."Half smiling, half tearfully, Diane complied. Before the clerk returnedshe had given a brief outline of her life, agreeing in all but the toneof telling with much of what Mr. Grimston had stated half an hourearlier."It has been all my fault," she declared, as the young man re-entered."There's been nobody to blame but me.""I see that well enough," the old man agreed, and once more she preparedto depart."Look at your receipt. Compare it with the list there on the desk."Diane obeyed, though her eyes swam so that she could not tell one wordfrom another. "Is it all right? Then so much the better. You'll find meat the same time to-morrow--if you're not late.""Since you won't let me thank you, I must go without doing so," shebegan, tremulously, "but I assure you--""You needn't assure me of anything, but just come again to-morrow."She smiled through the mist over her eyes, and bowed."I shall not be--late," was all she ventured to say, and turned to leavehim.She had reached the door, and half opened it, when she heard his voicebehind her."Stay! Just a minute! I'd like to shake hands with you, young woman."Diane turned and allowed him to take her hand in a grip that hurt her.She was so astounded by the suddenness of the act, as well as by therapidity with which he closed the door behind her, that her tears didnot actually fall until she found herself in the public department ofthe bank, outside.IVOn board the _Picardie_, steaming to New York, Mrs. Eveleth and Dianewere beginning to realize the gravity of the step they had taken. Aslong as they remained in Paris, battling with the sordid details offinancial downfall, America had seemed the land of hope andreconstruction, where the ruined would find to their hands the meanswith which to begin again. The illusion had sustained them all throughthe first months of living on little, and stood by them till the veryhour of departure. It faded just when they had most need of it--when thelast cliffs of France went suddenly out of sight in a thick fog-bank ofnothingness; and the cold, empty void, through which the steamer creptcautiously, roaring from minute to minute like a leviathan in pain,seemed all that the universe henceforth had to offer them. They wouldhave been astonished to know that, beyond the fog, Fate was getting theNew World ready for their reception, by creating among the rich thosemisfortunes out of which not infrequently proceed the blessings of thepoor.When that excellent aged lady, Miss Regina van Tromp, sister to thewell-known Paris banker, was felled by a stroke of apoplexy, thepersonal calamity might, by a mind taking all things into account, havebeen considered balanced by the circumstance that it was affordingemployment to some refined woman of reduced means, capable of takingcare of the invalid. It had the further advantage that, coming suddenlyas it did, it absorbed the attention of Miss Lucilla van Tromp, the sicklady's companion and niece, who became unable henceforth to give to thehousehold of her cousin, Derek Pruyn, that general supervision which akindly old maid can exercise in the home of a young and prosperouswidower. Were Destiny on the lookout for still another opening, shecould have found it in the fact that Miss Dorothea Pruyn, whose father'sdiscipline came by fits and starts, while his indulgence was continuous,had reached a point in motherless maidenhood where, according to MissLucilla, "something ought to be done." There was thus unrest, and astraining after new conditions, in that very family toward which Mrs.Eveleth's imagination turned from this dreary, leaden sea as to apossible haven.Since the wonderful morning when the banker had brought her the news ofher little inheritance her thoughts had dwelt much on Van Tromps andPruyns, as representatives of that old New York clan with which shedeigned to claim alliance; and she found no small comfort in going over,again and again, the details of the interview which had brought her oncemore into contact with her kin. James van Tromp, she informed Diane, asthey lay covered with rugs in their steamer-chairs, had been gruff inmanner, but kind in heart, like all the Van Tromps she had ever heardof. He had not scrupled to dwell upon her past extravagance, but he hadtempered his remarks by commending her resolution to return to her oldhome and friends. In the matter of friends, he assured her, she wouldfind herself with very few. She would be forgotten by some and ignoredby others; while those who still took an interest in her would resentthe fact that in the days of her prosperity she had neglected them. Inany case, she must have the meekness of the suppliant. As her means atmost would be small, she must be grateful if any of her relatives wouldtake her without wages, as a sort of superior lady's maid, and save herthe expense of board and lodging."And so you see, dear," she finished, humbly, "it's going to be allright. George thought of me; and far more than any money, I value that.James van Tromp said that this sum had been placed in his hands sometime ago to be specially used for me, and I couldn't help understandingwhat that meant. When my boy saw the disaster coming he did his best toprotect me; and it will be my part now to show that he did enough."If Diane listened to these familiar remarks, it was only to take a dullsatisfaction in the working of her scheme; but Mrs. Eveleth's next wordsstartled her into sudden attention."Haven't I heard you say that you knew James van Tromp's nephew, DerekPruyn?""I did know him," Diane answered, with a trace of hesitation."You knew him well?""Not exactly; it was different from--well.""Different? How? Did you meet him often?""Never often; but when we did meet--"The possibilities implied in Diane's pause induced Mrs. Eveleth to turnin her chair and look at her."You've never told me about that.""There wasn't much to tell. Don't you know what it is to have met, justa few times in your life, some one who leaves behind a memory out ofproportion to the degree of the acquaintance? It was something like thatwith this Mr. Pruyn.""Where was it? In Paris?""I met him first in Ireland. He was staying with some friends of oursthe last year mamma and I lived at Kilrowan. What I remember about himwas that he seemed so young to be a widower--scarcely more than a boy.""Is that all?""It's very nearly all; but there _is_ something more. He said one daywhen we were talking intimately--we always seemed to talk intimatelywhen we were together--that if ever I was in trouble, I was to rememberhim.""How extraordinary!""Yes, it was. I reminded him of it when we met again. That was the yearI was going out with Marie de Nohant, just before George and I weremarried.""And what did he say then?""That he repeated the request.""Extraordinary!" Mrs. Eveleth commented again. "Are you going to doanything about it?""I've thought of it," Diane admitted, "but I don't believe I can.""Wouldn't it be a pity to neglect so good an opportunity?""It might rather be a pity to avail one's self of it. There are thingsin life too pleasant to put to the test.""He might like you to do it. After all, he's a connection."Not caring to continue the subject, Diane murmured something aboutfeeling cold, and rose for a little exercise. Having advanced as farforward as she could go, she turned her back upon her fellow-passengers,stretched in mute misery in their chairs or huddled in cheerful groupsbehind sheltering projections, and stood watching the dip and rise ofthe steamer's bow as it drove onward into the mist. Whither was shegoing, and to what? With a desperate sense of her ignorance andimpotence, she strained her eyes into the white, dimly translucent bank,from which stray drops repeatedly lashed her face, as though itsvaporous wall alone stood between her and the knowledge of her future.       *       *       *       *       *If she could have seen beyond the fog and carried her vision over theintervening leagues of ocean, so as to look into a large, old-fashionedNew York house in Gramercy Park, she would have found Derek Pruyn andLucilla van Tromp discussing one of the cardinal points on which thatfuture was to turn.That it was not an amusing conversation would have been clear from theagitation of Derek's manner as he strode up and down the room, as wellas from the rigidity with which his cousin, usually a limp person, heldherself erect, in the attitude of a woman who has no intention ofretiring from the stand she has taken."You force me to speak more plainly than I like, Derek," she was saying,"because you make yourself so obtuse. You seem to forget that years havea way of passing, and that Dorothea is no longer a very little girl.""She's barely seventeen--no more than a child.""But a motherless child, and one who has been allowed a great deal ofliberty.""Is there any reason why a girl shouldn't be a free creature?""Only the reason why a boy shouldn't be one.""That's different. A boy would be getting into mischief.""Even a girl isn't proof against that possibility. It mayn't be a boy'skind of mischief, but it's a kind of her own."Unwilling to credit this statement, and yet unable to contradict it,Pruyn continued his march for a minute or two in silence, while MissLucilla waited nervously for him to speak again. It was one of the fewpoints in the round of daily existence on which she was prepared to givehim battle. It was part of the ridiculous irony of life that Derek, withthe domestic incompetency natural to a banker and a club-man, shouldhave a daughter to train, while she whose instinct was so passionatelymaternal must be doomed to spinsterhood. She had never made any secretof the fact that to watch Derek bringing up Dorothea made her as fidgetyas if she had seen him trimming hats, though she recognized the futilityof trying to snatch the task from his hands in order to do it properly.The utmost she had been able to accomplish was to be allowed to ploddaily from Gramercy Park to Fifth Avenue, in the hope of keeping badfrom becoming worse; and even this insufficient oversight must bediscontinued now, since Aunt Regina would monopolize her care. If shetook the matter to heart, it was no more, she thought, than she had aright to do, seeing that Derek was almost like a younger brother, and,with the exception of Uncle James in Paris, and Aunt Regina in New York,her nearest relative in the world.As she glanced up at him from time to time she reflected, with somepride, that no one could have taken him for anything but what he was--arising young New York banker of some hereditary line. As in certainEnglish portraits there is an inborn aptitude for statesmanship, so inDerek Pruyn there was that air, almost inseparable from the Van Trompkinship, of one accustomed to possess money, to make money, to spendmoney, and to support moneyed responsibilities. The face, slightly sternby nature, slightly grave by habit, and tanned by outdoor exercise, wasthat of a man who wields his special kind of power with a due sense ofits importance, and yet wields it easily. Nature having endowed the VanTromps with every excellence but that of good looks, it was MissLucilla's tendency to depreciate beauty; but she was too much a womannot to be sensible of the charms of six feet two, with proportionatewidth of shoulder, and a way of standing straight and looking straight,incompatible with anything but "acting straight," that was full of afine dominance. That he should be carefully dressed was but a detail inthe exactitude which was the main element in his character; while hisdaily custom of wearing in his button-hole a dark-red carnation, a tokenof some never-explained memory of his dead wife, indicated a capacityfor sober romance which she did not find displeasing."Then what would you do about it?" he asked, at last, pausing abruptlyin his walk and confronting her."There isn't much choice, Derek. Human society is so constituted as toleave us very little opportunity for striking into original paths. AuntRegina has told you many a time what was possible, and you didn't likeit; but I'll repeat it if you wish. You could send her to a goodboarding-school--"Never!"Or you could have a lady to chaperon her properly.""Rubbish!""Well, there you are, Derek. You refuse the only means that could helpyou in your situation; and so you leave Dorothea a prey to a woman likeMrs. Wappinger. You'll excuse me for mentioning it; but--""I'd excuse you for mentioning anything; but even Mrs. Wappinger oughtto have justice. You know as well as I do that Uncle James wanted tomarry her, and that it was only her own common-sense that saved us fromhaving her as an aunt. You may not admire her type, but you can't denythat it's one which has a legitimate place in American civilization.Ours isn't a society that can afford to exclude the self-made man, orhis widow.""That may be quite true, Derek; only in that case you have also toreckon with--his son."Derek bounded away once more, making manifest efforts to control himselfbefore he spoke again."You know this subject is most distasteful to me, Lucilla," he said,severely."I know it is; and it's equally so to me. But I see what's going on, andyou don't--there's the difference. What should a young man like you knowabout bringing up a school-girl? To see you intrusted with her at allmakes me very nearly doubt the wisdom of the ends of Providence. She's agood little girl by nature, but your indulgence would spoil an angel.""I don't indulge her. I've forbidden her to do lots of things.""Exactly; you come down on the poor thing when she's not doing any harm,and you put no restrictions on the things in which she's wilful. Ifthere's a girl on earth who is being brought up backward, it's DorotheaPruyn.""She's my child. I presume I've got a right to do what I like with her.""You'll find that you've done what you don't like with her, when you'veallowed her to get into a ridiculous, unmaidenly flirtation with theyoung man Wappinger.""I shouldn't let that distress me if I were you. As far as Dorothea isconcerned, your young man Wappinger doesn't exist.""That's as it may be," Miss Lucilla sniffed, now on the brink of tears."That's as it is," he insisted, picking up his hat."It's to be regretted," he added, with dignity, as he took his leave,"that on this subject you and I cannot see alike; but I think you maytrust me not to endanger the happiness of my child."       *       *       *       *       *Even if Diane could have transcended space to assist at this briefinterview, she would probably have missed its bearing on herself; buthad she transported her spirit at the same instant to still anotherscene, the effect would have been more enlightening. While she stillstood watching the rise and dip of the steamer's bow, Mrs. Wappinger, ina larger and more elaborate mansion than the old-fashioned house inGramercy Park, was reading to her son such portions of a letter fromJames van Tromp as she considered it discreet for him to hear. A stout,florid lady, in jovial middle age, her appearance as an agent in heraffairs would certainly have surprised Diane, had the vision beenvouchsafed to her.Passing over those sentences in which the old man admitted the wisdom ofher decision in rejecting his proposals, on the ground that he saw nowthat the married state would not have suited him, Mrs. Wappinger came towhat was of common interest."'... You will remember, my good friend,'" she read, with a strongWestern accent, "'that both at the time of, and since, your husband'sdeath I have been helpful to you in your business affairs, and laid youunder some obligation to me. I have, therefore, no scruple in asking youto fulfil a few wishes of mine, in token of such gratitude as I conceiveyou to feel. There will arrive in your city by the steamer _Picardie_,on the twenty-eighth day of this month, two foolish women, answering tothe name of Eveleth--mother-in-law and daughter-in-law--both widows--andpresenting the sorry spectacle of Naomi and Ruth returning to the Landof Promise, after a ruinous sojourn in a foreign country--with whosehistory you are familiar from your reading of the Scriptures.'""Is there a Bible in the house, mother?" Carli Wappinger asked, swinginghimself on the piano-stool."I think there must be--somewhere. There used to be one. But, hush! Letme go on. 'They will descend,'" she continued to read, "'at a modestFrench hostelry in University Place, to which I have commended them, asbeing within their means. I desire, first, that you will make theiracquaintance at your earliest possible convenience. I desire, next, thatyou will invite them to your house on some occasion, presumably in theafternoon, when you can also ask my nephew, Derek Pruyn, and Lucilla vanTromp, my niece, to meet them. I desire, furthermore, that though youmay use my name to the Mesdames Eveleth, as a passport to theirpresence, you will in no wise speak of me to my relatives in question,or give them to understand that I have inspired the invitation you willaccord them....'"Mrs. Wappinger threw down the letter with the emphasis of gesture whichwas one of her characteristics."There!" she exclaimed, in a loud, hearty voice, not without a note oftriumph; "that's what I call a chance.""Chance for what, mother?""Chance for a good many things--and first of all for bearding Lucillavan Tromp right in her own den.""I don't see--""No; but I do. We're on to a big thing. I've got to go right there; andshe's got to come right here. She's held off, and she's kept me off; butnow the ice'll be broken with a regular thaw.""Still, I don't see. It's one thing to invite her, to oblige old man VanTromp; but it's another thing to get her to come.""She'll come fast enough--this time; she'll come as if she was shot hereby a secret spring. There is a secret spring, you may take my word forit. I don't know what it is, and I don't care; it's enough for me toknow that it's in good working order--which it is, if James van Tromphas got his hand on it. James van Tromp may look like a fool and talklike a fool, but he isn't a fool--No, sir!"It is commonly believed that a woman never thinks otherwise than gentlyof the man who has wanted to marry her; and if this be the rule, Mrs.Wappinger was no exception to it. As she sat on the sofa in her son'sroom, the mere mention of the old man's name, attended by the kindlyopinion she had just expressed, sent her off into sudden reverie. Whileit was quite true that, in her own phrase, she "would no more havemarried him than she would have married a mole," it was none the lessflattering to have been desired. The onlooker, like Lucilla van Tromp orDerek Pruyn, might wonder what were those hidden forces of affinitywhich led a man to single Mrs. Wappinger out of all the women in theworld; but to Mrs. Wappinger herself the circumstance could not beotherwise than pleasing.Seeing her pensive, Carli swung himself back to the keyboard again,pounding out a few bars of the dance music in Strauss' _Salome_, ofwhich the score lay open before him. He was a good-looking young man oftwenty-two, of whom any mother, not too exacting, might be proud. Veryblond--with well-chiselled features and waving hair--not so tall as tomake his excessive slimness seem disproportionate--there was somethingin the perfection with which he was "turned out" that gave him the airof a "creation." Mrs. Wappinger's joy in him was the more satisfyingbecause of the fact that, relative to herself, he was in the line ofprogress. He was the blossom of culture, travel, and sport, borne by herown strenuous generation of successful material effort. To the things towhich he had attained she felt that in a certain sense she had attainedherself, on the principle of _facit per alium, facit per se._ In thesocial position she had reached it was a pleasure to know that Harvard,Europe, and money had given Carli a refinement that made up in somemeasure for her own deficiencies."Well, what are you going to do about it?" he asked, breaking off in themidst of the cruel ecstasy of the daughter of Herodias, and swinginghimself back, so as to confront her."I'm going to give a little tea," Mrs. Wappinger answered, withdecision; "a _tay antime,_ as the French say. I shall have these twoEveleths--or whatever their name is--Lucilla van Tromp, and Derek andDorothea Pruyn.""You may accomplish the first and the last. You'll find it difficult tofill in the middle. To say nothing of the old girl, Derek Pruyn is toobusy for teas--_intime_, or otherwise.""I'm going to have him," she stated, with energy."You go round and tell Dorothea she's got to bring him--she's just gotto, that's all. He'll come--I know he will. There are forces at workhere that you and I don't see, and if something doesn't happen, my nameisn't Clara Wappinger."With this mysterious saying she rose, to leave Carli to his music."How very occult!" he laughed."Nobody knows James van Tromp better than I do," she declared, withpride, turning on the threshold, "and he doesn't write that way unlesshe has a plan in mind. You tell Dorothea what I say. Let me see! To-dayis Tuesday; the _Picardie_ will get in on Saturday; you'll see Dorotheaon Sunday; and we'll have the tea on Thursday next."With her habitual air of triumphant decision Mrs. Wappinger departed,and the incident closed.VIt must be admitted that Diane Eveleth found her entry into the Land ofPromise rather disappointing. To outward things she paid comparativelylittle heed. The general aspect of New York was what she had seen inpictures and expected. That habits and customs should be strange to hershe took as a matter of course; and she was too eager for a welcome tobe critical. As a Frenchwoman, she was neither curious nor analyticalregarding that which lay outside her immediate sphere of interest, andshe instituted no comparisons between Broadway and the boulevards, orany of the tall buildings and Notre Dame. It may be confessed that herthoughts went scarcely beyond the human element, with its possiblebearing on her fortunes.In this respect she made the discovery that Mrs. Eveleth was not to betaken as an authority. She had given Diane to understand that the returnof Naomi de Ruyter to New York would be a matter of civic interest,"especially among the old families," and that they would scarcely havelanded before finding themselves amid people whom she knew. But fortyyears had made a difference, and Mrs. Eveleth recognized no familiarfaces in the crowd congregated on the dock. When it became furtherevident that not only was Naomi de Ruyter forgotten in the city of herbirth, but that the very landmarks she remembered had been swept away,there was a moment of disillusion, not free from tears.To Diane the discovery meant only that, more than she had supposed, shewould have to depend upon herself. This, to her, was the appalling factthat dwarfed all other considerations. To be alone, while the crowdssurged hurriedly by her, was one thing; to be obliged to press in amongthem and make room for herself was another. As she walked aimlesslyabout the streets during the few days following her arrival she had theforlorn conviction that in these serried ranks there could be no placefor one so insignificant as she. The knowledge that she must make such aplace, or go without food and shelter, only served to paralyze herenergies and reduce her to a state of nerveless inefficiency.She had gone forth one day with the letters of introduction she hopedwould help her, only to find that none of the persons to whom they wereaddressed had returned to town for the winter. Tired and discouraged,she was endeavoring on her return to cheer Mrs. Eveleth with such bitsof forced humor as she could squeeze out of the commonplace happeningsof the day, when cards were brought in, bearing the unknown name of Mrs.Wappinger.That in this huge, overwhelming town any one could desire to make theiracquaintance was in itself a surprise; but in the interview thatfollowed Diane felt as though she had been caught up in a whirlwind andcarried away. Mrs. Wappinger's autocratic breeziness was so novel incharacter that she had no more thought of resisting it than of resistinga summer storm. She could only let it blow over her and bear her whitherit listed. In the end she felt like some wayfarer in the _ArabianNights_, who has been wafted by kindly _jinn_ across unknown miles ofspace, and set down again many leagues farther on in his career.Never in her life did Diane receive in the same amount of time so muchpersonal information as Mrs. Wappinger conveyed in the thirty minutesher visit lasted. She began by explaining that she was a friend of Jamesvan Tromp's--a very great friend. In fact, her husband had been at onetime a partner in the Van Tromp banking-house; but it was an oldbusiness, and what they call conservative, while Mr. Wappinger was fromthe West. The West was a long way ahead of New York, though Mrs.Wappinger had "lived East" so long that she had dropped into walkingpace like the rest. She traced her rise from a comparatively obscureposition in Indiana to her present eminence, and gave details as to Mr.Wappinger's courtship and the number of children she had lost. Left nowwith one, she had spent a good deal of money on him, and was happy tosay that he showed it. While she preferred not to name names, she madeno secret of the fact that Carli was in love; though for her own part afeeling of wounded pride induced her to hope that he would never enter afamily where he wasn't wanted. The transition of topic having thusbecome easy, the invitation to tea was given, and its acceptance takenas a matter of course."It'll only be a _tay antime_," she declared, in answer to Diane's faintprotests, "so you needn't be afraid to come; and as I never do things byhalves, I shall send one of my automobiles for the old lady and you at alittle after four to-morrow." With these words and a hearty shake of thehand, she bustled away as suddenly as she had come, leaving Diane with abewildering sense of having beheld an apparition.       *       *       *       *       *It was not less surprising to Diane to find herself, on the followingafternoon, face to face with Derek Pruyn. Though she had expected, in sofar as she thought of him at all, that chance would one day throw themtogether, she had not supposed that the event would occur so soon. Thelack of preparation, the change in her fortunes, and the necessity toexplain, combined to bring about one of those rare moments in which shefound herself at a loss.On his side, Pruyn had come to the house with a very special purpose. Inspite of the stoutness of his protest when young Wappinger's name wascoupled with his child's, he was not without some inward misgivings,which he resolved to allay once and for all. He would dispel them byseeing with his own eyes that they had no force, while he would convictMiss Lucilla of groundless alarm by ocular demonstration. It would beenough, he was sure, to watch the young people together to prove beyondcavil that Dorothea was aware of the gulf between the son of Mrs.Wappinger, worthy woman though she might be, and a daughter of thePruyns. He had, therefore, astonished every one not only by acceptingthe invitation himself, but by insisting that Miss Lucilla should do thesame, forcing her thus to become a witness to the vindication of hiswisdom.Arrived on the spot, however, it vexed him to find that instead of beinga mere spectator, permitted to take notes at his ease, he was passedfrom lady to lady--Mrs. Wappinger, Miss Lucilla, Mrs. Eveleth, inturn--only to find himself settled down at last with a strange youngwoman in widow's weeds, in a dim corner of the drawing-room. The meetingwas the more abrupt owing to the circumstance that Diane, unaware of hisarrival, had just emerged from the adjoining ball-room, which wasdecorated for a dance. Mrs. Wappinger, coming forward at that minutewith a cup of tea for her, pronounced their names with hurriedindistinctness, and left them together.With her quick eye for small social indications, Diane saw that, owingto the dimness of the room and the nature of her dress, he did not knowher, while he resented the necessity for talking to one person, when hewas obviously looking about for another. With her tea-cup in her handshe slipped into a chair, so that he had no choice but to sit downbeside her.He was not what is called a lady's man, and in the most fluent of moodshis supply of easy conversation was small. On the present occasion hefelt the urgency of speech without inspiration to meet the need. With afurtive flutter of the eyelids, while she sipped her tea, she took inthe salient changes the last five years had produced in him, noting inparticular that though slightly older he had improved in looks, and thatthe dark-red carnation still held its place in his buttonhole."Very unseasonable weather for the time of year," he managed to stammer,at last."Is it? I hadn't noticed."His manner took on a shade of dignity still more severe, as he wonderedwhether this reply was a snub or a mere ineptitude."You don't worry about such trifles as the weather," he struggled on."Not often.""May I ask how you escape the necessity?""By having more pressing things to think about." With the finality ofthis reply the brief conversation dropped, though the perception onDerek's part that it was not from her inability to carry it on stirredhim to an unusual feeling of pique. Most of the women he met were readyto entertain him without putting him to any exertion whatever. They evenwent so far as to manifest a disposition to be agreeable, before whichhe often found it necessary to retire. Without being fatuous on thepoint, he could not be unaware of the general conviction that a wealthywidower, who could still call himself young, must be in want of a wife;and as long as he was unconscious of the need himself, he judged it wiseto be as little as possible in feminine society. On the rare occasionswhen he ventured therein he was not able to complain of a lack ofwelcome; nor could he remember an instance in which his hesitating,somewhat scornful, advances had not been cordially met, until to-day.The immediate effect was to cause him to look at Diane with a closer, ifsomewhat haughty, attention, their eyes meeting as he did so. Her voice,with its blending of French and Irish elements, had already made itsappeal to his memory, so that the minute was one in which thepresentiment of recognition came before the recognition itself. In hissurprise he half arose from his chair, resuming his seat as heexclaimed:"It's Mademoiselle de la Ferronaise!"His astonished tone and awe-struck manner called to Diane's lips alittle smile."It used to be," she said, trying to speak naturally; "it's Mrs. Evelethnow.""Yes," he responded, with the absent air of a man getting his witstogether; "I remember; that was the name.""You knew, then, that I'd been married?""Yes; but I didn't know--"His glance at her dress finished the sentence, and she hastened toreply."No; of course not. My husband died at the beginning of last summer--sixmonths ago. I hoped some one would have told you before we met. But wehave not many common acquaintances, have we?""I hope we may have more now--if you're making a visit to New York.""I'm making more than a visit; I expect to stay.""Oh! Do you think you'll like that?""It isn't a question of liking; it's a question of living. I may as welltell you at once that since my husband's death I have my own bread toearn."To no Frenchwoman of her rank in life could this statement have been aneasy one, but by making it with a certain quiet outspokenness she hopedto cover up her foolish sense of shame. The moment was not made lessdifficult for her by the astonishment, mingled with embarrassment, withwhich he took her remark."You!" he cried. "You!""It isn't anything very unusual, is it?" she smiled."I'm not the first person in the world to make the attempt.""And may I ask if you're succeeding?""I haven't begun yet. I only arrived a few days ago."Oh, I see. You've come here--""In the hope of finding employment--just like the rest of thedisinherited of the earth. I hope to give French lessons, and--""There's always an opening to any one who can," he interrupted,encouragingly. "I'm not without influence in one or two good schoolsthat my daughter has attended--""Is that your daughter?" she asked, glad to escape from her subject, nowthat it was stated plainly--"the very pretty girl in red?"The question gave Pruyn the excuse he wanted or looking about him."I believe she's in red--but I don't see her."He searched the dimly lighted room, where Mrs. Wappinger sat, silent andsatisfied, behind her tea-table, while Mrs. Eveleth was conversing withLucilla on Knickerbocker genealogy; but neither of the young people wasto be seen. His look of anxiety did not escape Diane, who responded toit with her usual straightforward promptness."I fancy she's still in the ball-room with young Mr. Wappinger," sheexplained. "We were all there a few minutes ago, looking at thedecorations for the dance Mrs. Wappinger is giving to-night. It wasbefore you came."The shadow that shot across his face was a thing to be noticed only byone accustomed to read the most trivial signs in the social sky. In aninstant she took in the main points of the case as accurately as if Mrs.Wappinger had named those names over which she had shown such laudablereserve."Wouldn't you like to see them?--the decorations? They're very pretty.It's just in here."She rose as she spoke, with a gesture of the hand toward the ball-room.He followed, because she led the way, but without seeing the meaning ofthe move until they were actually on the polished dancing-floor. Owingto the darkness of the December afternoon, the large empty room was litup as brilliantly as at night. For a minute they stood on the threshold,looking absently at the palms grouped in the corners and the garlandsfestooning the walls. It was only then that Pruyn saw the motive of hercoming; and for an instant he forgot his worry in the perception thatthis woman had divined his thought."There's no one here," he said, at last, in a tone of relief, whichbetrayed him once more."No," Diane replied, half turning round. "Perhaps we had better go backto the drawing-room. My mother-in-law will be getting tired.""Wait," he said, imperiously. "Isn't that--?"He was again conscious of having admitted her into a sort of confidence;but he had scarcely time to regret it before there was a flash of redbetween the tall potted shrubs that screened an alcove. Dorotheasauntered into view, with Carli Wappinger, bending slightly over her,walking by her side. They were too deep in conversation to knowthemselves observed; but the earnestness with which the young man spokebecame evident when he put out his hand and laid it gently on the muffDorothea held before her. In the act, from which Dorothea did not drawback, there was nothing beyond the admission of a certain degree ofintimacy; but Diane felt, through all her highly trained subconscioussensibilities, the shock it produced in Derek's mind.The situation belonged too entirely to the classic repertoire of life topresent any difficulties to a woman who knew that catastrophe is oftenaverted by keeping close to the commonplace."Isn't she pretty!" she exclaimed, in a tone of polite enthusiasm."Mayn't I speak to her? I haven't met her yet."Before she had finished the concluding words, or Wappinger had withdrawnhis hand from Dorothea's muff, she had glided across the floor, anddisturbed the young people from their absorption in each other."Mr. Wappinger," Derek heard her say, as he approached, "I want you tointroduce me to Miss Pruyn. I'm Mrs. Eveleth, Miss Pruyn," shecontinued, without waiting for Carli's intermediary offices. "I couldn'tgo away without saying just a word to you."If she supposed she was coming to Dorothea's rescue in a moment whichmight be one of embarrassment, she found herself mistaken. Noexperienced dowager could have been more amiable to a nice governessthan Dorothea Pruyn to a lady in reduced circumstances. A facility inadapting herself to other people's manners enabled Diane to accept hercue; and presently all four were on their way back to the drawing-room,where farewells were spoken.[Illustration: DRAWN BY FRANK CRAIGPRESENTLY ALL FOUR WERE ON THEIR WAY BACK TO THE DRAWING-ROOM]While Miss Lucilla was making Mrs. Eveleth renew her promise to come andsee her, and "bring young Mrs. Eveleth with her," Pruyn found anopportunity for another word with Diane."You must understand," he said, in a tone which he tried to makeone of explanation for her enlightenment rather than of apology forDorothea--"you must understand that girls have a good deal of liberty inAmerica.""They have everywhere," she rejoined. "Even in France, where they'vebeen kept so strictly, the old law of Purdah has been more or lessrelaxed.""If you take up teaching as a work, you'll naturally be thrown among ouryoung people; and you may see things to which it will be difficult toadjust your mind.""I've had a good deal of practice in adjusting my mind. It often seemsto me as movable as if it was on a pivot. I'm rather ashamed of it.""You needn't be. On the contrary, you'll find it especially useful inthis country, where foreigners are often eager to convert us to theircustoms, while we are tenacious of our own.""Thank you," she said, in the spirit of meekness his didactic attitudeseemed to require. "I'll try to remember that, and not fall into themistake.""And if I can do anything for you," he went on, awkwardly, "in the wayof schools--or--or--recommendations--you know I promised long ago thatif you ever needed any one--""Thank you once more," she said, hurriedly, before he had time to go on."I know I can count on your help; and if I require a good word, I shallnot hesitate to ask you for it."As she slipped away, Pruyn was left with the uncomfortable sense ofhaving appeared to a disadvantage. He had been stilted and patronizing,when he had meant to be cordial and kind. On the other hand, he resentedthe quickness with which she had read his thoughts, as well as herperception that he had ground for uneasiness regarding his child. Thatshe should penetrate the inner shrine of reserve he kept closed againstthose who stood nearest to him in the world gave him a sense of injury;and he turned this feeling to account during the next few hours intrying to deaden the echo of the French voice with the Irish intonationthat haunted his inner hearing, as well as to banish the memory of theplaintive smile in which, as he feared, meekness was blended withamusement at his expense.VIIf the secret spring worked by James van Tromp had been an active agencyin bringing Diane and Derek Pruyn once more together, as well as increating the intimacy that sprang up during the next two months betweenMiss Lucilla and the elder Mrs. Eveleth, it had certainly nothing to dowith the South American complications in the business of Van Tromp &Co., which made Pruyn's departure for Rio de Janeiro a possibility ofthe near future. He had long foreseen that he would be obliged to makethe journey sooner or later, but that he should have to do it just nowwas particularly inconvenient. There was but one aspect in which theexpedition might prove a blessing in disguise--he might take Dorotheawith him.During the six or eight weeks following the afternoon at Mrs.Wappinger's he had bestowed upon Dorothea no small measure of attention,obtaining much the same result as a mastiff might gain from hisinvestigation of the ways of a bird of paradise. He informed himself asto her diversions and her dancing-classes, making the discovery thatwhat other girls' mothers did for them, Dorothea was doing for herself.As far as he could see, she was bringing herself up with the aid of achosen band of eligible, well-conducted young men, varying in age fromnineteen to twenty-two, whom she was training as a sort of body-guardagainst the day of her "coming out." On the occasions when he hadopportunities for observation he noted the skill with which she managedthem, as well as the chivalry with which they treated her; and yet therewas in the situation an indefinable element that displeased him. It wassomething of a shock to learn that the flower he thought he wascultivating in secluded sweetness under glass had taken root of its ownaccord in the midst of young New York's great, gay parterre. Aware ofthe possibilities of this soil to produce over-stimulated growth, hecould think of nothing better than to pluck it up and, temporarily atleast, transplant it elsewhere. Having come to the decision overnight,he made the proposition when they met at breakfast in the morning.A prettier object than Miss Dorothea Pruyn, at the head of her father'stable, it would have been difficult to find in the whole range of"dainty rogues in porcelain." From the top of her bronze-colored hair tothe tip of her bronze-colored shoes she was as complete as taste couldmake her. The flash of her eyes as she lifted them suddenly, and assuddenly dropped them, over her task among the coffee-cups was like thatof summer waters; while the rapture of youth was in her smile, and abecoming school-girl shyness in her fleeting blushes. In the florallanguage of American society, she was "not a bud"; she was only thatsmall, hard, green thing out of which the bud is to unfold itself, butwhich does not lack a beauty of promise specially its own. If anycriticism could be passed upon her, it was that which her fathermade--that there was danger of the promise being anticipated by a ratherpremature fulfilment, and the flower that needed time forced into ahurried, hot-house bloom."What! And leave my friends!" she exclaimed, when Derek, with somehesitation, had asked her how she would like the journey."They would keep.""That's just what they wouldn't do. When I came back I should find themin all sorts of new combinations, out of which I should be dropped.You've got to be on the spot to keep in your set, otherwise you'relost.""Why should you be in a set? Why shouldn't you be independent?""That just shows how much you understand, father," she said, pityingly."A girl who isn't in a set is as much an outsider as a Hindoo who isn'tin a caste. I must know people; and I must know the right people; and Imust know no one but the right people. It's perfectly simple.""Oh, perfectly. I can't help wondering, though, how you recognize theright people when you see them.""By instinct. You couldn't make a mistake about that, any more than onepigeon could make a mistake about another, or take it for a crow.""And is young Wappinger one of the right people?"It was with an effort that Derek made up his mind to broach thissubject, but Dorothea's self-possession was not disturbed."Certainly," she replied, briefly, with perhaps a slight accentuation ofher maiden dignity."I'm rather surprised at that.""Yes; you should be," she conceded; "but I couldn't make you understandit, any more than you could make me understand banking.""I'm not convinced of the impossibility of either," he objected,knocking the top off an egg. "Suppose you were to try."Dorothea shook her head."It wouldn't be of any use. The fact is, I really don't understand itmyself. What's more, I don't suppose anybody else does. Carli Wappingerbelongs to the right people because the right people say he does; andthere is no more to be said about it.""I should think that Mrs. Wappinger might be a--drawback.""Not if the right people don't think so; and they don't. They've takenher up, and they ask her everywhere; but they couldn't tell you why theydo it, any more than birds could tell you why they migrate. As a matterof fact, they don't care. They just do it, and let it be.""That sort of election and predestination may be very convenient forMrs. Wappinger, but I should think you might have reasons for not caringto indorse it.""I haven't. Why should I, more than anybody else.""You've so much social perspicacity that I hoped you would see withoutmy having to tell you. It's chiefly a question of antecedents."Dorothea looked thoughtful, her head tipped to one side, as she buttereda bit of toast."I know that's an important point," she admitted, "but it isn'teverything. You've got to look at things all round, and not mistake yourshadow for your bone.""I'm glad you see there is a shadow.""I see there is only a shadow.""A shadow on--what?"Pruyn meant this for a leading question, and as such Dorothea took it.She gazed at him for a minute with the clear eyes and straightforwardexpression that were so essential a part of her dainty, self-reliantpersonality. If she was bracing herself for an effort, there was noexternal sign of it."I may as well tell you, father," she said, "that Carli Wappinger hasasked me to marry him."For a long minute Derek sat with body seemingly stunned, but with mindbusily searching for the wisest way in which to take this astounding bitof information. At the end of many seconds of silence he exploded inloud laughter, choosing this method of treating Dorothea's confidence inorder to impress her with the ludicrous aspect of the affair, as it mustappear to the grown-up mind."Funny, isn't it?" she remarked, dryly, when he thought it advisable togrow calmer."It's not only funny; it's the drollest thing I ever heard in my life.""I thought it might strike you that way. That's why I told you.""And what did you tell him, if I may ask?""I told him it was out of the question--for the present.""For the present! That's good. But why the reservation?""I couldn't tell him it would be out of the question always, because Ididn't know. As long as he didn't ask me for a definite answer, I didn'tfeel obliged to give him one.""I think you might have committed yourself as far as that.""I prefer not to commit myself at all. I'm very young andinexperienced--""I'm glad you see that.""Though neither so inexperienced nor so young as mamma was when shemarried you. And you were only twenty-one yourself, father, while Carliis nearly twenty-three.""I wouldn't compare the two instances if I were you.""I don't. I merely state the facts. I want to make it plain that, thoughwe're both very young, we're not so young as to make the caseexceptional.""But I understood you to say that there was no--case.""There is to this extent: that while I'm free, Carli considers himselfbound. That's the way we've left it.""That is to say, he's engaged, but you aren't.""That's what Carli thinks.""Then I refuse to consent to it.""But, father dear," Dorothea asked, arching her pretty eyebrows, "do youhave to consent to what Carli thinks about himself? Can't he do thatjust as he likes?""He can't become a hanger-on of my family without my permission.""He says he's not going to hang on, but to stand off. He's going toallow me full liberty of action and fair play.""That's very kind of him.""Only, when I choose to come back to him I shall find him waiting.""I might suggest that you never go back to him at all, only that there'sa better way of meeting the situation. That is to put a stop to thenonsense now; and I shall take steps to do it."Dorothea preserved her self-control, but two tiny hectic spots began toburn in her cheeks, while she kept her eyes persistently lowered, asthough to veil the spirit of determination glowing there."Hadn't you better leave that to me?" she asked, after a brief pause."I will, if you promise to put it through.""You see," she answered, in a reasoning tone, "my whole object is not topromise anything--yet. I should think the advantage of that would strikeyou, if only from the point of view of business. It's like having therefusal of a picture or a piece of property. You may never want them;but it does no harm to know that nobody else can get them till youdecide.""Neither does it do any harm to let somebody else have a chance, whenyou know that you can't take them.""Of course not; but I couldn't say that now. I quite realize that I'mtoo young to know my own mind; and it's only reasonable to considerthings all round. Carli is rich and good-looking. He has a cultivatedmind and a kind heart. There are lots of men, to whom you'd have noobjection whatever, who wouldn't possess all those qualifications, orperhaps any of them.""Nevertheless, I should imagine that the fact that I have objectionswould have its weight with you.""Naturally; and yet you would neither force me into what I didn't liketo do, nor refuse me what I wanted."With this definition of his parental attitude Dorothea pushed back herchair and moved sedately from the room.Physically, Derek was able to go on with his breakfast and finish it,but mentally he was like a man, accustomed to action, who suddenly findshimself paralyzed. To the best of his knowledge he had never before beenput in a position in which he had no idea whatever as to what to do. Hehad been placed in some puzzling dilemmas in private life, and hadpassed through some serious crises in financial affairs, but he hadalways been able to take some course, even if it was a mistaken one. Ithad been reserved for Dorothea to checkmate him in such a way that hecould not move at all.       *       *       *       *       *That the feminine mind possessed resources which his own did not was aclaim Derek had made it a principle to deny. The theory on which he hadbrought up Dorothea had been based on his belief in his own insight intohis daughter's character. Though he was far from abjuring thatconfidence even yet, nevertheless, when the succeeding days brought noenlightenment of counsel, and the long journey to South America becamemore imminent, he was forced once more to turn his steps toward GramercyPark, and seek inspiration from the great, eternal mother-spirit ofmankind, as represented by his cousin.Miss Lucilla van Tromp passed among her friends as a sort of diffidentMinerva. Though deficient in outward charms, she was considered topossess intellectual ability; and, having once been told that herprofile resembled George Eliot's, she made the pursuit of learning,music, and Knickerbocker genealogy her special aims. Derek had, all hislife, felt for her a special tenderness; and having neither mother,wife, nor sister, he was in the habit of coming to her with his cares."You're a woman," he declared, now, in summing up his case. "You're awoman. If you'd been married, you would probably have had children. Youought to be able to tell me exactly what to do."Flushes of shy rapture illumined and softened her ill-assorted featureson being cited as the type of maternity and sex, so that when shereplied it was with an air of authority."I can tell you what to do, Derek; but I've done it already, and youwouldn't listen. You should send her to a good school--""It's too late for that. She wouldn't go.""Then you should have some woman to live in your house who would be wiseenough to manage her."He jerked out the monosyllable, and began, according to his custom whenpuzzled or annoyed, to stride up and down the library."That is," Miss Lucilla went on, "you wouldn't like it. It would boreyou to see a stranger in the house.""Naturally.""And so you would sacrifice Dorothea to your personal convenience.""I wouldn't, if there was a woman competent to take the place; but thereisn't.""There is. There's Diane Eveleth.""Who?"The dark flush that swept into his face made it clear to Lucilla thathis question was not put for purposes of information. She had remarkedin Derek during the past few weeks a manner of fighting shy of Diane atvariance with his usual method with women. Safety in flight was thecourse he commonly adopted; but since Diane appeared on the scene,Lucilla had noticed that it was flight with a curious tendency tolooking backward."I said Diane Eveleth," she replied, in tactful answer to hissuperfluous question; "and I assure you she's fully equal to the dutiesyou would require of her. I suppose you've never noticed herespecially--?""I used to know her a little," he said, in an offhand manner. "I've seenher here. That's all.""If a woman could have been made on purpose for what you want, it'sshe.""Dear me! You don't say so!""It's no use trying to be sarcastic about it, Derek. She's not the oneto suffer by it; it's Dorothea. Though, when it comes to suffering, shehas her share, poor thing.""I suppose no decent woman who has just lost her husband is expected tobe absolutely hilarious over the event.""She hasn't _just_ lost him; it's getting on toward a year. And,besides, it isn't only that. As a matter of fact, I don't believe sheever loved him as she could love the man to whom she gave her heart. Ifgrief was her only trouble, I am sure the poor thing could bear it.""And can't she bear it as it is?""The fact that she does bear it shows that she can; but it must be hardfor a woman, who has lived as she has, to be brought to want.""Want? Isn't that a strong word? One isn't in want unless one is withoutfood and shelter.""She has the shelter for the time being; I'm not sure that she alwayshas the food.""What? You don't know what you're saying.""I know exactly what I'm saying; and I mean exactly what I say. Therehave been days when I've suspected that she's pinching in the essentialsof meat and drink.""But she has pupils.""She has two; but they must pay her very little. It's dreadful forpeople who have as much as we to have to look on at the tragedy ofothers going hungry--""Good Lord! Don't pile it on."Striding to a window, he stood with his back to her, staring out."I'm not piling it on, Derek. I wish I were.""Well, can't we do something? If it's as you say, they mustn't be leftlike that.""It's a very delicate matter. The mother-in-law has money of her own;but Diane has nothing. It's difficult to see what to do, except to findher a situation.""Then find her one.""I have; but you won't take her.""In any case," he said, in the aggressive tone of a man putting forwarda weak final argument, "you couldn't leave the mother-in-law all alone.""I'd take her," Lucilla said, promptly. "You have no idea how much Iwant her, in this big, empty house. It's getting to be more than I cando to take care of Aunt Regina all alone."Minutes went by in silence; but when Derek turned from the window andspoke, Lucilla shrank with constitutional fear from the responsibilityshe had assumed."Go and ring them up, and tell young Mrs. Eveleth I'm waiting to see herhere.""But, Derek, are you sure--?""I'm quite sure. Please go and ring them up.""But, Derek, you're so startling. Have you reflected?""It's quite decided. Please do as I say, and call them up.""But if anything were to go wrong in the future you'd think it was my--""I shall think nothing of the kind. Don't say any more about it, butplease go and tell Diane I'm waiting."The use of this name being more convincing to Lucilla than pledges ofassurance, she sped away to do his bidding; but it was not till aftershe had gone that Derek recognized the fact that the word had passed hislips.VIIDuring the half-hour before the arrival of Mrs. Eveleth and Diane, MissLucilla's tact allowed Derek to have the library to himself. He was thusenabled to co-ordinate his thoughts, and enact the laws which musthenceforth regulate his domestic life. It was easy to silence the voicethat for an instant accused him of taking this step in order to provideDiane Eveleth with a home; for Dorothea's need of a strong hand over herwas imperative. He had reached the point where that circumstance couldno longer be ignored. The avowal that the child had passed beyond hiscontrol would have had more bitterness in it, were it not for the factthat her naive self-sufficiency touched his sense of humor, while herdainty beauty wakened his paternal pride.Nevertheless, it was patent that Dorothea had been too much her ownmistress. Without admitting that he had been wrong in his methodshitherto, he confessed that the time had come when the duenna systemmust be introduced, as a matter not only of propriety, but of prudence.He assured himself of his regret that no American lady who could takethe position chanced to be on the spot, but allayed his sorrow on theground that any fairly well-mannered, virtuous woman could fulfil thefunctions of so mechanical a task, just as any decent, able-bodied manis good enough to be a policeman.It was somewhat annoying that the lady in question should be young andpretty; for it was a sad proof of the crudity of human nature that themere residence of a free man and a free woman under the same roof couldnot pass without comment among their friends. For himself it was amatter of no importance; and as for her, a woman who has her living toearn must often be placed in situations where she is exposed to remark.To anticipate all possibility of mistake, it would be necessary that hisattitude toward Mrs. Eveleth should be strictly that of the employertoward the employed. He must ignore the circumstance of their earlieracquaintance, with its touch of something memorable which neither ofthem had ever been able to explain, and confine himself as far aspossible, both in her interests and his own, to such relations as heheld with his stenographers and his clerks. What friendliness sherequired she must receive from other hands; and, doubtless, she wouldfind sufficient.Having intrenched himself behind his fortifications of reserve, he wasable to maintain just the right shade of dignity, when, in thehalf-light of the midwinter afternoon, Diane glided into the big,book-lined apartment, in which the comfortable air induced through longoccupancy by people of means did not banish a certain sombreness. Sheentered with the subdued manner of one who has been sent for peremptorily,but who acknowledges the right of summons. The perception of this calledan impulse to apologize to Derek's lips; but on reflection he repressedit. It was best to assume that she would do his bidding from the first.Standing by the fireplace, with his arm on the mantelpiece, he bowedstiffly, without offering his hand. Diane bowed in return, keeping herown hands securely in her small black muff."Won't you sit down?"Without changing his position he indicated the large leathern chair onthe other side of the hearth. Diane sat down on the very edge--erect,silent, submissive. If he had feared the intrusion of the personalelement into what must be strictly a business affair, it was plain thatthis pale, pinched little woman had forestalled him.Yes; she was pale and pinched. Lucilla had been right about that. Therewas something in Diane's appearance that suggested privation. Derek hadseen such a thing before among the disinherited of mankind, but never inhis own rank in life. With her air of proud gentleness, of gallantacceptance of what fate had apportioned her, she made him think of someplucky little citadel holding out against hunger. If there was no way ofshowing the pity, the mingled pity and approbation, in his breast, itwas at least some consolation to know that in his house she would bebeyond the most terrible and elemental touch of want."I've troubled you to come and see me," he began, with an effort to keepthe note of embarrassment out of his voice, "to ask if you would bewilling to accept a position in my family."Diane sat still and did not raise her eyes, but it seemed to him that hecould detect, beneath her veil, a light of relief in her face, like asudden gleam of sunshine."I'm looking for a position," was all she said, "and if I could be ofservice--""I'm very much in need of some one," he explained; "though the duties ofthe place would be peculiar, and, perhaps, not particularly grateful.""It would be for me to do them, without questioning as to whether Iliked them or not.""I'm glad you say that, as it will make it easier for us to come to anunderstanding. You've already guessed, perhaps, that I am looking for alady to be with my daughter.""I thought it might be something of that kind."The difficult part of the interview was now to begin, and Pruynhesitated a minute, considering how best to present his case. Reflectiondecided him in favor of frankness, for it was only by frankness on hisside that Diane would be able to carry out his wishes on hers. Theresponsibility imposed upon him by his wife's death, he said, was one hehad never wished to shirk by leaving his child to the care of others.Moreover, he had had his own ideas as to the manner in which she shouldbe brought up, and he had put them into practice. The results had beengood in most respects, and if in others there was something still to bedesired, it was not too late to make the necessary changes, whether inthe way of supplement or correction. Indeed, in his opinion, thepsychological moment for introducing a new line of conduct had only justarrived."It is often better not to force things," Diane murmured, vaguely,"especially with the very young."To this he agreed, though he laid down the principle that not to takestrong measures when there was need for them would be the part ofweakness. Diane having no objection to offer to this bit of wisdom, itwas possible for him to go on to explain the emergency she would becalled on to meet. Briefly, it arose from his own error in allowingDorothea too much liberty of judgment. While he was in favor of areasonable freedom for all young people, it was evident that inthis case the pendulum had been suffered to swing so far in onedirectionthat it would require no small amount of effort on his partand Diane's--chiefly on Diane's--to bring it back. In the interest ofDorothea's happiness it was essential that the proper balance should beestablished with all possible speed, even though they raised somerebellion on her part in doing it.He explained Dorothea's methods in creating her body-guard of young men,as far as he understood them; he described the young people whosesociety she frequented, and admitted that he was puzzled as to theprecise quality in them that shocked his views; coming to the affairwith Carli Wappinger, he spoke of it as "a bit of preposterous nonsense,to which an immediate stop must be put." There were minor points in hisexposition; and at each one, as he made it, Diane nodded her headgravely, to show that she followed him with understanding, and was insympathy with his opinion that it was "high time that some step shouldbe taken."Encouraged by this intelligent comprehension, Derek went on to definethe good offices he would expect from Diane. She should come to hishouse not only as Dorothea's inseparable companion, but as a sort ofwarder-in-chief, armed, by his authority, with all the powers ofcommand. There was no use in doing things by halves; and if Dorotheaneeded discipline she had better get it thoroughly, and be done with it.It was not a thing which he, Derek, would want to see last forever; butwhile it did last it ought to be effective, and he would look to Dianeto make it so. As it was not becoming that a daughter of his should needa bodyguard of youths, Diane would undertake the task of breaking upDorothea's circle. Young men might still be permitted "to call," butunder Diane's supervision, while Dorothea sat in the background, as amaiden should. Diane would make it a point to know the lads personally,so as to discriminate between them, and exclude those who for one reasonor another might not be desirable friends. As for Mr. Carli Wappinger,the door was to be rigorously shut against him. Here the question wasnot one of gradual elimination, but of abrupt termination to theacquaintanceship. He must request Diane to see to it that, as far aspossible, Dorothea neither met the young man, nor held communicationwith him, on any pretext whatever. He laid down no rule in the case ofMrs. Wappinger, but it would follow as a natural consequence that themother should be dropped with the son. These might seem drastic measuresto Dorothea, to begin with; but she was an eminently reasonable child,and would soon come to recognize their wisdom. After all, they were onlythe conditions to which, as he had been given to understand, other younggirls were subjected, so that she would have nothing to complain of inher lot. The probability of his own departure for South America, with anabsence lasting till the spring, would make it necessary for Diane touse to the full the powers with which he commissioned her. He trustedthat he made himself clear.For some minutes after he ceased speaking Diane sat looking meditativelyat the fire. When she spoke her voice was low, but the ring of decisionin it was not to be mistaken."I'm afraid I couldn't accept the position, Mr. Pruyn."Derek's start of astonishment was that of a man who sees intentions hemeant to be benevolent thrown back in his face."You couldn't--? But surely--?""I mean, I couldn't do that kind of work.""But I thought you were looking for it--or something of the sort.""Yes; something of the sort, but not precisely that.""And it's precisely that that I wish to have done," he said, in a tonethat betrayed some irritation; "so I suppose there is no more to besaid.""No; I suppose not. In any case," she added, rising, "I must thank youfor being so good as to think of me; and if I feel obliged to declineyour proposition, I must ask you to believe that my motives are notpetty ones. Now I will say good-afternoon."Keeping her hands rigidly within her muff, and with a slight, dignifiedinclination of the head, she turned from him.She was half-way to the door before Derek recovered himself sufficientlyto speak."May I ask," he inquired, "what your objections are?"She turned where she stood, but did not come back toward him."I have only one. The position you suggest would be intolerable to yourdaughter and odious to me.""But," he asked, with a perplexed contraction of the brows, "isn't itwhat companions to young ladies are generally engaged for?""I was never engaged as a companion before, so I'm not qualified to say.I only know--"She stopped, as if weighing her words."Yes?" he insisted; "you only know--what?""That no girl with spirit--and Miss Pruyn _is_ a girl with spirit--wouldsubmit to that kind of tyranny.""It wouldn't be tyranny in this case; it would be authority.""She would consider it tyranny--especially after the freedom you'veallowed her.""But you admit that it's freedom that ought to be curbed?""Quite so; but aren't there methods of restriction other than those ofcompulsion?""Such as--what?""Such as special circumstances may suggest.""And in these particular circumstances--?""I'm not prepared to say. I'm not sufficiently familiar with them.""Precisely; but I am.""You're familiar with them from a man's point of view," she smiled; "butit's one of those instances in which a man's point of view counts forvery little.""Admitting that, what would be your advice?""I have none to give.""None?"She shook her head. Leaving his fortified position by the mantelpiece,he took a step or two toward her."And yet when I began to speak you seemed favorably inclined to theoffer I was making you. You must have had ideas on the subject, then.""Only vague ones. I made the mistake of supposing that yours would beequally so.""And with your vague ideas, your intention was--?""To adapt myself to circumstances; I couldn't tell beforehand what theywould be. I imagined that what you wanted for your daughter was thesociety of an experienced woman of the world; and I am that, whateverelse I may not be.""You're very young to make the claim.""There are other ways of gaining experience than by years; and," sheadded, with the intention to divert the conversation from herself, "thesmall store I happen to possess I was willing to share with yourdaughter, in whatever way she might have need of it.""But not in my way.""Not in your way, perhaps, but for the furthering of your purposes.""How could you further my purposes when you wouldn't do what I wanted?""By getting her to do it of her own accord.""Could you promise me she would?""I couldn't promise you anything at all. I could only do my best, andsee how she would respond to it.""She's a very good little girl," he hastened to declare."I'm sure of that. Though I don't know her well, I've seen her oftenenough to understand that whatever mistakes she may make, they are thoseof youth and independence. She is only a motherless girl who has beenallowed--who, in a certain way, has been obliged--to look after herself.I've noticed that underneath her self-reliant manner she's very much achild.""That's true.""But I should never treat her as a child, except--except in one way.""Which would be--?""To give her plenty of affection.""She's always had that.""Yes, yours; she hasn't had her mother's. Don't think me cruel in sayingit, but no girl can grow up nourished only by her father's love, and notmiss something that the good God intended her to have. The reason womenare so essential to babies and men is chiefly because of their facultyfor understanding the inarticulate. With all your daughter has had,there is one great thing that she hasn't had; and if you had placed menear her, my idea, which I call vague, would have been--as far as anyone could do it now--to supply her with some of that."Derek retreated again to the fireside, alarmed by a languagesuspiciously like that he had heard on other occasions concerning themotherless condition of his child. Was it going to turn out that allwomen were alike? There had been minutes during the last half-hour when,as he looked into Diane's face, it seemed to him that here at last wasone as honest as air and as straightforward as light. But no experiencedwoman of the world, as she declared herself to be, could forget thatthis was a ludicrously delicate topic with a widower. She must eitheravoid it altogether, or expose herself to misinterpretation in pursuingit. It took him a few minutes to perceive that Diane had chosen thelatter course, and had done it with a fine disdain of anything he mightchoose to think. She was not of the order of women who hesitate forpetty considerations, or who stoop to small manoeuvrings."I'm afraid I must go now," she said, when he had stood some timewithout speaking."Don't go yet. Sit down."His tone was still one of command, but not of the same quality ofcommand as that which he had used on her entry. He brought her a chair,and she seated herself again."You said just now," he began, resuming his former attitude, with hisarm on the mantelpiece, "that you didn't expect me to be so definite.Suppose I had been indefinite; then what would you have done?""I should have been indefinite, too.""That's all very well; but, you see, I have to look at things from thepoint of view of business.""And is there never anything indefinite in business?""Not if we can help it.""And what happens when you can't help it?""Then we have to look for some one to whose discretion we can trust.""Exactly; and, if you'll allow me to say it, Miss Pruyn is at an age andin a position where she needs a friend armed with discretion rather thanauthority.""Well, suppose we were agreed about everything--the discretion andall--what would you begin by doing?""I shouldn't begin by doing anything. I should try to win yourdaughter's confidence; and if I couldn't do that I should go away.""So that in the end it might happen that nothing would be accomplished.""It might happen so. I shouldn't expect it. Good hearts are generallysensitive to good influences; and beneath her shell of manner Miss Pruynstrikes me as neither more nor less than a dear little girl."Again he was suspicious of a bid for favor; but again Diane's air ofalmost haughty honesty negatived the thought."I'm glad you see that," was the only comment he made. "But," he added,once more taking a step or two toward her, "when you had won herconfidence, then you would do things that I suggested, wouldn't you?""I shouldn't have to. She would probably do them herself, and a greatdeal better than you or I.""I don't see how you can be sure of that. If you don't make her--""When you've watered your plant and kept it in the sunshine you don'thave to make it bloom. It will do that of itself.""But all these young men?--and this young Wappinger--?""I should let them alone.""Not young Wappinger!""What harm is he doing? I admit that the present situation has itsfoolish aspects from your point of view and mine; but I can think ofthings a great deal worse. At least you know there is nothingclandestine going on; and young people who have the virtue of being openhave the very first quality of all. If you let them alone--or leave themto sympathetic management--you will probably find that they will outgrowthe whole thing, as children outgrow an inordinate love of sweets."There was a brief pause, during which he stood looking down at her, asmile something like that of amusement hovering about his lips."So that, in your judgment," he began again, "the whole thing resolvesitself into a matter of discretion. But now--if you'll pardon me forasking anything so blunt--how am I to know that you would be discreet?"For an instant she lifted her eyes to his, as if begging to be sparedthe reply."If it's not a fair question--" he began."It _is_ a fair question," she admitted; "only it's one I find difficultto answer. If it wasn't important--urgently important--that I shouldobtain work, I should prefer not to answer it at all. I must tell youthat I haven't always been discreet. I've had to learn discretion--bybitter lessons.""I'm not asking about the past," he broke in, hastily, "but about thefuture.""About the future one cannot say; one can only try.""Then suppose we try it?"His own words took him by surprise, for he had meant to be morecautious; but now that they were uttered he was ready to stand by them.Once more, as it seemed to him, he could detect the light of reliefsteal into her expression, but she made no response."Suppose we try it?" he said again."It's for you to decide," she answered, quietly. "My position places meentirely at the disposal of any one who is willing to employ me.""So that this is better than nothing," he said, in some disappointmentat her lack of enthusiasm."I shouldn't put it in that way," she smiled; "but then I shouldn't putit in any way, until I saw whether or not I gave you satisfaction. Youmust remember you're engaging an untried person; and, as I've told you,I have nothing in the way of recommendations.""We will assume that you don't need them.""It's a good deal to assume; but since you're good enough to do it, Ican't help being grateful. Is there any particular time when you wouldlike me to begin?""Perhaps," he suggested, drawing up a small chair and seating himselfnearer her, "it would be best to settle the business part of ourarrangement first. You must tell me frankly if there is anything in whatI propose that you don't find satisfactory.""I'm sure there won't be," Diane murmured, faintly, with a feeling akinto shame that any one should be offering to pay for such feeble servicesas hers. She was thankful that the winter dusk, creeping into the room,hid the surging of the hot color in her face, as Derek talked of sums ofmoney and dates of payment. She did her best to pretend to give him herattention, but she gathered nothing from what he said. If she had anycoherent thought at all, it was of the greatness, the force, theauthority, of one who could control her future, and dictate her acts,and prescribe her duties, with something like the power of a god. Intimes past she would have tried to weave her spell around this strongman, in sheer wantonness of conquest, as Vivian threw her enchantmentsover Merlin; now she was conscious only of a strange willingness tosubmit to him, to take his yoke, and bow down under it, serving him asmaster.She was glad when he ended, leaving her free to rise and say hisarrangements suited her exactly. She had promised to join Miss Lucillavan Tromp and Mrs. Eveleth at tea, and perhaps he would come with her."No, I'll run away now," he said, accompanying her to the door, "ifyou'll be good enough to make my excuses to Lucilla. But one word more!You asked me when you had better begin. I should say as soon as you can.As I may leave for Rio de Janeiro at any time, it would be well forthings to be in working order before I go."So it was settled, and as she departed he opened the door for her andheld out his hand. But once more the little black muff came into play,and Diane walked out as she had come in, with no other salutation than adignified inclination of the head.Derek closed the door behind her and stood with his hand on the knob. Hetook the gentle rebuke like a man."I'm a cad," he said to himself. "I'm a cad."Returning to his former place on the hearth, he remained long, gazinginto the dying embers, and rehearsing the points of the interview in hismind. The gloaming closed around him, and he took pleasure in the fancythat she was still sitting there--silent, patient, erect, with thatpinched look of privation so gallantly borne."By Jove! she's a brave one!" he murmured, under his breath. "She's abrick. She's a soldier. She's a lady. She's the one woman in the worldto whom I could intrust my child."Then, as his head sank in meditation, he shook himself as though to wakeup from sleep into actual day."I've been dreaming," he said--"I've been dreaming. I must get away. Imust go back to the office. I must get to work."But instead of going he threw himself into one of the deep arm-chairs.Dropping off into a reverie, he conjured up the scene which had longbeen the fairest in his memory.It was the summer. It was the country. It was a garden. In the long bedthe carnations of many colors were bending their beauty-drunken heads,while over them a girl was stooping. She picked one here, one there, insearch of that which would suit him best. When she had found it--deepred, with shades in the inner petals nearly black--she turned to offerit. But when she looked at him, he saw it was--Diane.VIIIIt had apparently been decreed that Derek Pruyn was not to go to SouthAmerica that year. On more than one occasion he had been delayed on theeve of sailing. From February the voyage was postponed to May, and fromMay to September. In September it had ceased for the moment to beurgent, while remaining a possibility. It was the February of a yearlater before it became a definite necessity no longer to be put off.In the mean while, under the beneficent processes of time, sunshine, andDiane Eveleth's cultivation, Miss Dorothea Pruyn had become a "bud." Thesmall, hard, green thing had unfolded petals whose delicacy, purity, andfragrance were a new contribution to the joy of living. Society ingeneral showed its appreciation, and Derek Pruyn was proud.He was more than proud; he was grateful. The development that hadchanged Dorothea from a forward little girl into a charming maiden, andwhich might have been the mere consequence of growth, was to him theevident fruit of Diane's influence. The subtle differences whereby hisown dwelling was transformed from a handsome, more or less empty, shellinto an abode of the domestic amenities sprang, in his opinion, from apresence shedding grace. All the more strange was it, therefore, thatboth presence and influence remained as remote from his own personalgrasp as music on the waves of sound or odors in the air. Of the manyimpressions produced by a year of Diane's residence beneath his roof,none perplexed him more than her detachment. Moreover, it was adetachment as difficult to comprehend in quality as to define in words.There was in her attitude nothing of the retreating nymph or of theself-effacing sufferer. She took her place equally without obtrusivenessand without affectation. Such effects as she brought about came withoutnoise, without effort, and without laboriousness of good intention.Simple and straightforward in all her ways, she nevertheless contrivedto throw into her relations with himself an element as impersonal assunshine.In the first days of her coming it was he who, in pursuance of hismethod of reserve, had held aloof. He had been frequently absent fromNew York, and, even when there, had lived much at one or another of hisclubs. Weeks had already passed when the perception stole on him thathis goings and comings meant little more to her than to the trees wavingin the great Park before his door.The discovery that he had been taking such pains to abstract himselffrom eyes which scarcely noticed whether he was there or not broughtwith it a little bitter raillery at his own expense. He was piqued atonce in his self-love and in his masculine instinct for domination. Itseemed to be out of the natural order of things that his thoughts shoulddwell so much on a woman to whom he was only a detail in the scheme ofher surroundings--superior to the butler, and more animate than thepictures on the wall, but as little in her consciousness as either. Itwas certainly an easy opportunity in which to display thatself-restraint which he had undertaken to make his portion; but when theheroic nature finds no obstacles to overcome, it has a tendency tocreate them.Without obtruding himself upon Diane, Derek began to dine morefrequently at his own house. On those occasions when Dorothea went outalone it was impossible for the two who remained at home to avoid a kindof conversation, which, with the topics incidental to the management ofa common household, often verged upon the intimate. When Dianeaccompanied his daughter to the opera, he adopted the habit of droppinginto the box, and perhaps taking them, with some of Dorothea's friends,to a restaurant for supper. He planned the little parties and excursionsfor which Dorothea's "budding" offered an excuse; and, while herecognized the subterfuge, he made his probable journey, with the longabsence it would involve, serve as a palliation. Since, too, there wasno danger to Diane, there could be the less reason for stinting himselfin the pleasure of her presence, so long as he was prepared to pay forit afterward in full.Thus the first winter had gone by, until with the shifting of theenvironment in summer a certain change entered into the situation. Thegreater freedom of country life on the Hudson made it requisite thatDiane should be more consciously circumspect. In her detachment Dereknoticed first of all a new element of intention; but since it was thefirst sign she had given of distinguishing between him and the dumbcreation, it did not displease him. While he could not affirm that sheavoided him, he saw less of her than when in town. During thosedifficult moments when they had no guests and Dorothea was making visitsamong her friends, Diane found pretexts for slipping away to New York,on what she declared to be business of her own--availing herself of theseclusion of the little French hostelry that had first given hershelter.It was at times such as these that Derek began to perceive what she hadbecome to him. As long as she was near him he could keep his feelingswithin the limitations he had set for them; but in her absence he wasrestless and despondent till she returned. The brutality of life, whichmade him master of the beauty of the country and the coolness of thehills, while it drove her to stifle in the town, stirred him withalternate waves of indignation and compassion.There was a torrid afternoon in August when the sight of her, trudgingalong the dusty highway to the station, almost led him to betray himselfby his curses upon fate. Dorothea having left for Newport in themorning, Diane was, as usual, seeking the privacy of University Placefor the two weeks the girl's visit was to last. Understanding her desirenot to be alone with him for even a few hours when there was no thirdperson in the house, Derek had taken the opportunity to motor for lunchto a friend's house some miles away. With the intention of not returningtill after she had gone, he had ordered a carriage to be in readiness todrive her to her train; but his luncheon was scarcely ended when thethought occurred to him that, by hurrying back, he might catch a lastglimpse of her before she started.He had already half smothered her in dust when he perceived that thelittle woman in black, under a black parasol, was actually Diane. To hisindignant queries as to why she should be plodding her way on foot, withthis scorching sun overhead, her replies were cheerful anduncomplaining. A series of small accidents in the stable--such hadconstantly happened at her own little chateau in the Oise--having madeit inadvisable to take the horses out, one of the men had conveyed herluggage to the station, while she herself preferred to walk. She wasused to the exigencies of country life, in both France and Ireland; andas for the heat, it was a detail to be scorned. Dust, too, was onlymatter out of place, and a necessary concomitant of summer. Would he notdrive on, without troubling himself any more about her?No; decidedly he would not. She must get in and let him take her to thestation. There he could work off his wrath only by buying her ticket andseeing to her luggage; while his charge to the negro porter to look toher comfort was of such a nature that during the whole of the journeyshe was pelted with magazine literature and tormented with glasses ofice-water.That night he found himself impelled by his sense of honor as agentleman to write a letter of apology for the indignity she had beenexposed to while in his house. When it had gone he considered itinsufficient, and only the reflection that he ought to have business intown next day kept him from following it up with a second note.Arrived in New York, where the city was burning as if under a sun-glass,he found his chief subject for consideration to be the choice of a clubat which to lunch. There, in the solitude of the deserted smoking-room,where the heat was tempered, the glare shut out, and the very footfallsubdued, he thought of the little hotel in University Place. Becausehuman society had mysterious unwritten laws, the woman he loved wasforced to steal away from the freshness and peace of green fields andsweeping river, to take refuge amid the noisome ugliness from which, inspite of her courage, her exquisite nature must shrink. He, whose needswere simple, as his tastes were comparatively coarse, could command thesybaritic luxury of a Roman patrician, while she, who could not lift herhand without betraying the habits of inborn refinement, was exposed notonly to vulgar contact, but to a squalor of discomfort as odious asvice. The thought was a humiliation. Even if he had not loved her, itwould have seemed almost the duty of a man of honor to step in betweenher and the cruel pathos of her lot.It was a curious reflection that it was the very fact that he did loveher which held him back. Could he have turned toward Paradise and saidto the sweet soul waiting for him there, "This woman has need of me, butyou alone reign in my heart," he would have felt more free to act. Butthe time when that would have been possible had gone by. Anything hemight do now would be less for her need than his own; and his own hecould endure if loyalty to his past demanded it. None the less was itnecessary to find a way in which to come to Diane's immediate relief;and by the time he had finished his cigar he thought he had discoveredit."Having been obliged to run up to town," he explained, when she hadreceived him in the little hotel parlor, "I've dropped in to tell youthat I'm going away for a few weeks into Canada.""Isn't it rather hot weather for travelling?" she asked, with thatclear, smiling gaze which showed him at once that she had seen throughhis pretext for coming."It won't be hot where I'm going--up into the valley of the Metapedia.""It's rather a sudden decision, isn't it?""N--no. I generally try to get a little sport some time during theyear.""Naturally you know your own intentions best. I only happen to rememberthat you said, yesterday morning, you hoped not to leave Rhinefieldstill the middle of next month.""Did I say that? I must have been dreaming?""Very likely you were. Or perhaps you're dreaming now.""Not at all; in fact, I'm particularly wide awake. I see things soclearly that I've looked in to tell you some of them. You must get outof this stifling hole and go back to Rhinefields at once.""I don't like that way of speaking of a place I've become attached to.It isn't a stifling hole; it's a clean little inn, where the service isthe very law of kindness. The art may be of a period somewhat earlierthan the primitive," she laughed, looking round at the highly coloredchromos of lake and mountain scenery hanging on the walls, "and thefurniture may not be strictly in the style of Louis Quinze, but the hostand hostess treat me as a daughter, and every garcon is my slave.""I can quite understand that; but all the same it's no fit place foryou.""I suppose the fittest place for any one is the place in which he feelsat home.""Don't say that," he begged, with sudden emotion in his voice."I think I ought to say it," she insisted, "first of all because it'strue; and then because you would feel more at ease about me if you knewjust how it's true.""You know that I'm not at ease about you.""I know you think I must be discontented with my lot, when--in a certainsense--I'm not at all so. I don't pretend that I prefer working for aliving to having money of my own; but I've found this"--she hesitated,as if thinking out her phrase--"I've found that life grows richer as itgoes on, in whatever way one has to live it. It's as if the streams thatfed it became more numerous the farther one descended from the height.""I'm glad you're able to say that--""I can say it very sincerely; and I lay stress upon it, because I knowyou're kind enough to be worried about me. I wish I could make youunderstand how little reason there is for it, though you mustn't thinkthat I'm not touched by it, or that I mistake its motive. I've come tosee that what I've often heard, and used scarcely to believe,  is quitetrue, that American men have an attitude toward women entirely differentfrom that of our men. Our men probably think more about women than anyother men in the world; but they think of them as objects of prey--withjoys and sorrows not to be taken seriously. You, on the contrary, arewilling to put yourself to great inconvenience for me, merely because Iam a woman.""Not merely because of that," Derek permitted himself to say."We needn't weigh motives as if they were golddust. When we have theirgeneral trend we have enough. I only want you to see that I understandyou, while I must ask you not to be hurt if I still persist in notavailing myself of your courtesy. I wish you wouldn't question me anymore about it, because there are situations in which one cheapens thingsby the very effort to put them into words. If you were a woman, you'dcomprehend my feeling--""Let us assume that I do, as it is. I have still another suggestion tomake. Admitting that I stay at Rhinefields, why can't you ask yourmother-in-law to come and make you a couple of weeks' visit there?"For a moment Diane forgot the restraint she made it a habit to imposeupon herself in the new conditions of her life, and slipped back intothe spontaneous manner of the past."How tiresome you are! I never knew any one but a child twist himself inso many directions to get his own way.""You see, I'm accustomed to having my own way. You ought not to think ofresisting me.""I'm not resisting you; I'm only eluding your grasp. There's one greatobstacle to what you've just been good enough to propose: mymother-in-law couldn't come. Miss Lucilla van Tromp couldn't spare her.As a matter of fact, she--Miss Lucilla--asked me to go to Newport and staywith her all the time Dorothea is with the Prouds; but I declined theinvitation. You see now that I don't lack cool and comfortable quartersbecause I couldn't get them.""I see," he nodded. "You evidently prefer--this.""I'll tell you what I prefer: I prefer a breathing-space in which tocommune with my own soul.""You could commune with your own soul at Rhinefields.""No, I couldn't. It's an exercise that requires not only solitude andseclusion, but a certain withdrawal from the world. If I were in France,I should go and spend a fortnight in my old convent at Auteuil; but inthis country the nearest approach I can make to that is to be here whereI am. After all that has happened in the last year and more, I am tryingto find myself again, so to speak--I'm trying to re-establish myidentity with the Diane de la Ferronaise, who seems to me to have fadedback into the distant twilight of time. Won't you let me do it in my ownway, and ask me no more questions? Yes; I see by your face that youwill; and we can be friends again. Now," she added, briskly, springingup and touching a bell, "you're going to have some of my iced coffee.I've taught them to make it, just as I used to have it at theMauconduit--that was our little place near Compiegne--and I know you'llfind it refreshing."It was half an hour later, while he was taking leave of her, that athought occurred to him which promised to be fruitful of new resources."Very well," he declared, as they were parting, "if you persist instaying here, I, too, shall persist in looking in whenever I come totown--which will have to be pretty often just now--to see that you'renot down with some sort of fever.""But," she laughed, "I thought you were going away--to Canada?""I'm not obliged to; and you've rather succeeded in dissuading me.""Then let me succeed in dissuading you from everything. Don't come hereagain--please don't.""I certainly shall.""I'm generally out.""In that case I shall stay till you come in.""Of course I can't keep you from doing that. I will only say that theAmerican man I've had in mind for the past few months--wouldn't."The fact that he did not go back to University Place, either on this orany subsequent occasion when she thought it well to withdraw there,emphasized his helplessness to aid her. By the time autumn returned, andthe household was once more settled in town, he had grown aware thatbetween Diane and himself there was an impalpable wall of separation,which he could no more pass than he could transcend the veil betweenmaterial existence and the Unseen World. He began to perceive that whathe had called detachment of manner, more or less purposely maintained,was in reality an element in the situation which from the beginning hadprecluded friendship. Diane and he could not be friends in any of theordinary senses of the word. As employer and employed their necessarydealings might be friendly; but to anything more personal, under thepresent arrangement, there was attached the impossible condition ofstepping off from terra firma into space.The obvious method of putting their mutual relationship on a basisricher in future potentialities Derek still felt himself unable to adoptof his own initiative act. The vow which bound him to his dead wife wasone from which circumstances--and not merely his own fiat--must absolvehim; but as winter advanced it seemed to him that life had begun tospeak on the subject with a voice of imperative command.It was the middle of January, when a small, accidental happening drewall his growing but still debatable intentions into one sharp point ofresolution. It was such an afternoon as comes rarely, even in theexhilarating winter of New York--an afternoon when the unfathomable blueof the sky overhead runs through all the gamut of tones from lavender toindigo; when the air has the living keenness of that which the Spiritfirst breathed into the nostrils of man; when the rapture of the heartis that of neither passion, wine, nor nervous excitement, but comesnearer the exaltation of deathless youth in a deathless world thananything else in a temporary earth. It was a day on which even the jadedheart is in the mood to begin all over again, in renewed pursuit of thehappiness which up to now has been elusive. To Derek, whose heart was byno means jaded, it was a day on which the instinctive hope of youth,which he supposed he had outlived, proved itself of one essence with theconscious passion of maturity.When, as he walked homeward along Fifth Avenue, he overtook Diane, alsomaking her way homeward, the happy occurrence seemed but part of thegeneral radiance permeating life. The chance meeting on the neutralground of out-of-doors took Diane by surprise; and before she had timeto put up her guards of reserve she had betrayed her youth in a shyheightening of color. Under the protection of the cheerful, slowlymoving crowd she felt at liberty to drop for a minute the subdued air ofhis daughter's paid companion, and in her replies to what he said shespoke with some of her old gayety of verve. It was an unfortunate momentin which to yield to this temptation, for it was, perhaps, the onlyoccasion since her coming to New York on which she was closely observed.Engrossed as they were, the one with the other, they had insensiblyrelaxed their pace, becoming mere strollers on the outside edge of thethrong. The sense of being watched came to both of them at once, and,looking up at the same moment, they saw, approaching at a snail's pace,an open Victoria, in which were two ladies, to whom they were objects ofplainly expressed interest. The elder was an insignificant little woman,who looked as though she were being taken out by her costly furs, whilethe younger was a girl of some two or three and twenty, of a type ofbeauty that would have been too imperious had it not been toned down bythat air which to the unintelligent means boredom, though the wise knowit to spring from something gone amiss in life. Both ladies kept theireyes fixed so exclusively on Diane that they had almost passed beforeremembering to salute Derek with a nod."I've seen those ladies somewhere," Diane observed, when they had goneby."I dare say. They've probably seen you, too. The elder is Mrs. Bayford,sister of Mr. Grimston, my uncle's partner in Paris. The girl is MarionGrimston, his daughter.""I remember perfectly now. They used to come to our charity sales,and--and--anything of that kind."Pruyn laughed."Anything, you mean, that was open to all comers. Mrs. Grimston would beflattered.""I didn't mean to speak slightingly," she hastened to say. "There wereplenty of nice people in Paris whom I didn't know.""And plenty, I imagine, who thought you ought to have known them. Mrs.Grimston, and Mrs. Bayford, too, would have been among that number.""Well, you see I do know them--by sight. I recall Miss Grimstonespecially. She's so handsome.""I shall tell her that to-night.""To-night?""Yes; it's with them that Dorothea and I are dining. The name conveyingnothing to you, you probably didn't remember it. The fact is that, asMrs. Bayford is the sister of my uncle's partner--my partner, too--Imake it a point to be very civil to her twice a year--once when I dinewith her, and once when she dines with me. The annual festivals havebeen delayed this season because she has only just returned from a longvisit to Japan and India, with Marion in her wake."There had been so much to say which, in the glamour of that gloriousafternoon, was more important that no further time was spent on thetopic. Derek forgot the meeting till Mrs. Bayford recalled it to him ashe sat beside her in the evening. She was one of those small, ill-shapenwomen whose infirmities are thrown into more conspicuous relief by dressand jewels and _decolletage_. Seated at the head of her table, sheproduced the impression of a Goddess of Discord at a feast ofwell-meaning, hapless mortals."I want a word with you," she said, parenthetically, to Derek, on herleft, before turning her attention to the more important neighbor on herright."One is scant measure," he laughed, in reply, "but I must be gratefuleven for that."It was the middle of dinner before she took notice of him again, butwhen she did she plunged into her subject boldly."I suppose you didn't think I knew who you were walking with thisafternoon?""Yes, I did, because the lady recognized you. She said you and Mrs.Grimston were among the nice people in Paris whom she hadn't met--butwhom she knew very well by sight."If Derek thought this reply calculated to appease an angry deity, hediscovered his mistake."Did she have the indecency to say she hadn't met me?""I think she did; but she probably didn't know that the word indecencycould apply to anything connected with you.""Why, I was introduced to her four times in one season!""I suppose she hasn't as good a memory as yours.""Oh, as for that, it wasn't a matter of memory. Nobody was permitted toforget her--she was quite notorious.""I've always heard that in Paris the mere possession of beauty is enoughto keep any one in the public eye.""It wasn't beauty alone--if she _has_ beauty; though for my part I can'tsee it.""It _is_ of rather an elusive quality.""It must be. But if it exists at all, I can tell you that it's of adangerous quality.""Hasn't that always been the peculiarity of beauty ever since the daysof Helen of Troy?""I'm sure I can't say. I've always tried to steer clear of that sort ofthing--""That must be an excellent plan; only it deprives one of the power ofspeaking as an authority, doesn't it?""I don't pretend to speak as an authority. If I say anything at all,it's what everybody knows.""What everybody knows is generally--scandal.""This was certainly scandal; but it wasn't the fact that everybody knewit that made it so.""Then I'm sure you wouldn't wish to repeat it.""I don't see why you should be sure of anything of the kind. I considerit my duty to repeat it.""Then you won't be surprised if I consider it mine to contradict it.""Certainly not. I shouldn't be surprised at anything you could do,Derek, after what I've heard since I came home.""I won't ask you what that is--""No; your own conscience must tell you. No one can go on as you've beendoing, and not know he must be talked about.""I've always understood that that was more flattering than to beignored.""It depends. There's such a thing as receiving that sort of flatteryfirst, only to be ignored in the sequel. I speak as your friend, Derek--""I thoroughly understand that; but may I ask if it's in the way ofwarning or of threat?""It's in the way of both. You must see that, whatever risks I may beprepared to run myself, as long as I have Marion with me I can't exposeher to--""To what?"Notwithstanding his efforts to keep the conversation to a tone ofbanter, acrimonious though it had to be, Derek was unable to pronouncethe two brief syllables without betraying some degree of anger. Glancingup at him as she shrank under her weight of jewels, Mrs. Bayford foundhim very big and menacing; but she was a brave woman, and if sheshrivelled, it was only as a cat shrivels before springing at a mastiff."I can't expose her to the chance of meeting--"She paused, not from hesitation, but with the rhetorical intention ofmaking the end of her phrase more telling."My future wife," he whispered, before she had time to go on. "It's onlyfair to tell you that.""Good heavens! You're not going to marry the creature!"Mrs. Bayford brought out the words with the dramatic action andintensity they deserved. In the hum of talk around and across the tableit was doubtful whether or not they were heard, and yet more than one ofthe guests glanced up with a look of interrogation. Dorothea caught herfather's eyes in a gaze which he had some difficulty in returning withthe proper amount of steadiness; but Mrs. Berrington Jones came to therescue of the company by asking Mrs. Bayford to tell the amusing storyof how her bath had been managed in Japan.So the incident passed by, leaving a sense of mystery in the air; thoughfor Derek, all sense of annoyance disappeared in the knowledge that hewas Diane's champion.He was thinking over the incident in the luxurious semi-darkness of theelectric brougham as they were going homeward, when the clear voice ofDorothea broke in on his meditation."Are you going to be married, father?"The question could not be a surprise to him after the occurrence at thetable, but he was not prepared to give an affirmative answer on the spurof the moment."What makes you ask?" he inquired, after a second's reflection."I heard what Mrs. Bayford said.""And how should you feel if I were?""It would depend.""On what?""On whether or not it was any one I liked.""That's fair. And if it was some one whom you did like?""Then it would depend on whether or not it was--Diane.""And if it was Diane?""I should be very glad.""Why?"She slipped her arm through his and snuggled up to him."Oh, for a lot of reasons. First, because I've always supposed you'd begetting married one day; and I've been terribly afraid you'd pick outsome one I couldn't get along with.""Have I ever shown any symptom to justify that alarm?""N--no; but you never can tell--with a man.""Can you be any surer with a woman?""No; and that's one of my other reasons. I'm not very sure aboutmyself.""You don't mean that it's to be young Wap--?" he began, uneasily."I suppose it will have to be he--or some one else. They keep at me.""And you don't know how long you may be able to hold out.""I'm holding out as well as I can," she laughed, "but it can't go onforever. And then--if I do--""Well--what?""You'd be left all alone, and, of course, I should be worried aboutthat--unless you--you--""Unless I married some one.""No; not some one; no one--but Diane."They were now at their own door, but before she sprang out she drew downhis face to hers and kissed him.IXDuring the succeeding week Derek Pruyn, having practically announced anengagement which did not exist, found himself in a somewhat ludicroussituation. Too proud to extort a promise of secrecy from Mrs. Bayford,he knew the value of his indiscretion--if indiscretion it were--to anypurveyor of tea-table gossip; and while Diane and he remained in thesame relative positions he was sure it was being bruited about, with hisown authority, that they were to become man and wife. It did notdiminish the absurdity of the situation that he was debarred fromproposing and settling the affair at once by the grotesque fact that heactually had not time.There was certainly little opportunity for lovemaking in those hurrieddays of preparing for his long absence in South America. He was oftenobliged to leave home by eight in the morning, rarely returning exceptto go wearily to bed. Though nothing had been said to him, he had morethan one reason for suspecting that Mrs. Bayford was at work; and, atthe odd minutes when he saw Diane, it seemed to him as if her clearnessof look was extinguished by an expression of perplexity.He would have reproached himself more keenly for his lack of energy inovercoming obstacles had it not been for the fact that, owing to theirpeculiar position as members of one household, and that household his,he was planning to ask Diane to become his wife on that occasion when hewould also be bidding her adieu. She would thus be spared thedifficulties of a trying situation, while she would have the season ofhis absence in which to adjust her mind to the revolution in her life.He resolved to adhere to this intention, the more especially as a smallfamily dinner at Gramercy Park, from which he was to go directly to hissteamer, would give him the exact combination of circumstances hedesired.When, after dinner, Miss Lucilla's engineering of the company allowedhim to find himself alone with Diane in the library, he made her sitdown by the fireside, while he stood, his arm resting on themantelpiece, as on the afternoon of their first serious interview, overa year before. As on that other occasion, so, too, on this, she saterect, silent, expectant, waiting for him to speak. What was coming shedid not know; but she felt once more his commanding dominance, with itspower to ordain, prescribe, and regulate the conditions of her life."Doesn't this make you think of--our first long talk together?""I often think of it," Diane said, faintly, trying to assume that theywere entering on an ordinary conversation. "As you didn't agree withme--""I do now," he said, quickly. "I see you were right, in everything. Iwant to thank you for what you've done for Dorothea--and for me. Ididn't dream, a year ago, that the change in both of us could be sogreat.""Dorothea was a sweet little girl, to begin with--""Yes; but I don't want to talk about that now. She will express her ownsense of gratitude; but in the mean while I want to tell you mine. Youwill understand something of its extent when I say that I ask you to bemy wife."Diane neither spoke nor looked at him. The only sign she gave of havingheard him was a slight bowing of the head, as of one who accepts adecree. The first few instants' stillness had the ineffable qualitywhich might spring from the abolition of time when bliss becomeseternity. There was a space, not to be reckoned by any terrestrialcounting, during which each heart was caught up into wonderful spheresof emotion--on his side the relief of having spoken, on hers the joy ofhaving heard; and though it passed swiftly it was long enough to give toboth the vision of a new heaven and a new earth. It was a vision thatnever faded again from the inward sight of either, though the mists ofmortal error began creeping over it at once."If I take you by surprise--" he began, as he felt the clouds of realityclosing round him."No," she broke in, still without looking up at him; "I heard youintended to ask me."Though he made a little uneasy movement, he knew that this was preciselywhat she might have been expected to say."I thought you had possibly heard that," he said, in her own tone ofquiet frankness, "and I want to explain to you that what happened was anaccident.""So I imagined.""If I spoke of you as my future wife, I must ask you to believe that itwas in the way of neither ill-timed jest nor foolish boast.""You needn't assure me of that, because I could never have thought so.If I want assurance at all it's on other points.""If I can explain them--""I can almost explain them myself. What I require is rather in the wayof corroboration. Wasn't it much as the knight of old threw the mantleof his protection over the shoulders of a distressed damsel?""I know what you mean; but I don't admit the justice of the simile.""But if you did admit it, wouldn't it be something like what actuallyoccurred?""You're putting questions to me," he said, smiling down at her; "but youhaven't answered mine.""I must beg leave to point out," she smiled, in return, "that youhaven't asked me one. You've only stated a fact--or what I presume to bea fact. But before we can discuss it I ought to be possessed of certaininformation; and you've put me in a position where I have a right todemand it."After brief reflection Derek admitted that. As nearly as he could recallthe incident at Mrs. Bayford's dinner-party, he recounted it."You see," he explained, in summing up, "that, as a snobbish person, shecould hardly be expected to forgive you for forgetting her, when she hadbeen introduced to you four times in a season. She not unnaturallyfancied you forgot her on purpose, so to speak--""I suppose I did," she murmured, penitently."What?" he asked, with sudden curiosity. "Would you--""I wouldn't now. I used to then. Everybody did it, when people wereintroduced to us whom we didn't want to know. I've done it when itwasn't necessary even from that point of view--out of a kind of sport, akind of wantonness. I've really forgotten about Mrs. Bayford now--everything except her face--but I dare say I remembered perfectly well,at the time. It would have been nothing unusual if I had.""In that case," he said, slowly, "you can't be surprised--""I'm not," she hastened to say. "If Mrs. Bayford retaliates, now thatshe has the power, she's within her right--a right which scarcely anywoman would forego. It was perfectly natural for Mrs. Bayford to speakill of me; and it was equally natural for you to spring to my defence.You'd have sprung to the defence of any one--""No, no," he interjected, hurriedly."Of any one whom you--respected, as I hope you respect me. You'veoffered me," she went on, her eyes filling with sudden tears--"you'veoffered me the utmost protection a man can give a woman. To tell you howdeeply I'm touched, how sincerely I'm grateful, is beyond my power; butyou must see that I can't avail myself of your kindness. Your verywillingness to repeat at leisure what you said in haste makes it themore necessary that I shouldn't take advantage of your chivalry.""Would that be your only reason for hesitating to become my wife?"The deep, vibrant note that came into his voice sent a tremor throughher frame, and she looked about her for support. He himself offered itby taking both her hands in his. She allowed him to hold them for asecond before withdrawing behind the intrenched position afforded by thehuge chair from which she had risen, and on the back of which she nowleaned."It's the reason that looms largest," she replied--"so large as to putall other reasons out of consideration.""Then you're entirely mistaken," he declared, coming forward in such away that only the chair stood between them. "It's true that at Mrs.Bayford's provocation I spoke in haste, but it was only to utter theresolution I had taken plenty of time to form. If I were to tell you howmuch time, you'd be inclined to scorn me for my delay. But the truth isI'm no longer a very young man; in comparison with you I'm not young atall. You yourself, as a woman of the world, must readily understand thatat my age, and in my position, prudence is as honorable an element inthe offer I am making you as romance would be in a boy's. I make noapology for being prudent. I state the fact that I've been so only thatyou may know that I've tried to look at this question from every pointof view--Dorothea's as well as yours and mine. I took my time about it,and long before I warned Mrs. Bayford that she was speaking of one whowas dear to me, my mind was made up. With such hopes as I had at heartit would have been wrong to have allowed her to go on without a word ofwarning.""I can see that it would have that aspect.""Then, if you can see that, you must see that I speak to you now in allsincerity. My desire isn't new. I can truthfully say that, since thefirst day I saw you, your eyes and voice have haunted me, and thelonging to be near you has never been absent from my heart. I'll bequite frank with you and say that, before you came here, it was myavowed intention not to marry again. Now I have no desire on earth--mychild apart--so strong as to win you for my wife. The year we've spentunder the same roof must have given you some idea of the man whom you'dbe marrying; and I think I can promise you that with your help he wouldbe a better man than in the past. Won't you say that I may hope for it?"With arms supported by the high back of the chair and cheek on herclasped hands, she gazed away into the dimness of the room, as ifwaiting for him to continue; but during the silence that ensued itseemed to Derek as if a shadow crossed her features, while her brightlook died out in a kind of wistfulness. She had, perhaps, been hopingfor a word he had not spoken--a word whose absence he had only coveredup by phrases."Well? Have you nothing to say to me?" he asked, when some minutes hadgone by."I'm thinking.""Of what?""Of what you say about prudence. I like it. It seems to me I ought to beprudent, too.""Undoubtedly," he agreed, in the dry tone of one who assents to what hefinds slightly disagreeable."I mean," she said, quickly, "that I ought to be prudent for you--for usall. There are a great many things to be thought of, things which peopleof our age ought not to let pass unconsidered. Men _think_ the waythrough difficulties, while women _feel_ it. I'm afraid I must ask fortime to get my instincts into play.""Do you mean that you can't give me an answer to-night--before I go onthis long journey?""I couldn't give you an affirmative one.""But you could say, No?""If you pressed the matter--if you insisted--that's what I should haveto say.""Why?""That would be--my secret.""Is it that you think you couldn't love me?"For the first time the color came to her cheek and surged up to hertemples, not suddenly or hotly, but with the semi-diaphanous lightnessof roseate vapor mounting into winter air. As he came nearer, roundingthe protective barrier of the arm-chair, she retreated."I should have to solve some other questions before I could answerthat," she said, trying to meet his eyes with the necessary steadiness."Couldn't I help you?"She shook her head."Then couldn't you consider it first?""A woman generally does consider it first, but she speaks about itlast.""But you could tell me the result of what you think, as far as you'vedrawn conclusions?""No; because whatever I should say you would find misleading. If you'rein earnest about what you say to-night, it would be better for us boththat you should give me time.""I'm willing to do that. But you speak as if you had a doubt of me.""I've no doubt of you; I've only a doubt about myself. The woman you'veknown for the last twelve months isn't the woman other people have knownin the years before that. She isn't the Diane Eveleth of Paris any morethan she is the Diane de la Ferronaise of the hills of Connemara, or ofthe convent at Auteuil. But I don't know which is the real woman, orwhether the one who now seems to me dead mightn't rise again.""I shouldn't be afraid of her.""But I should. You say that because you didn't know her; and I couldn'tlet you marry me without telling you something of what she was.""Then tell me.""No, not now; not to-night. Go on your long journey, and come back. Whenit's all over, I shall be sure--sure, that is, of myself--sure on thepoint about which I'm so much in doubt, as to whether or not the otherwoman could return.""I should be willing to run the risk," he said, with a short laugh,"even if she did.""But I shouldn't be willing to let you. You forget she ruined one richman; she might easily ruin another.""That would depend very much upon the man.""No man can cope with a woman such as I was only a few years ago. Youcan put fetters on a criminal, and you can quell a beast to submission,but you can't bind the subtle, mischievous woman-spirit, bent on doingharm. It's more ruthless than war; it's more fatal than disease. You,with your large, generous nature, are the very man for it to fasten on,and waste him, like a fever."She moved back from him, close to the bookshelves against the wall. Theeyes which Derek had always seen sad and lustreless glowed with a firelike the amber's."You must understand that I couldn't allow myself to do the same thingtwice," she hurried on, "and, if I married you, who knows but what Imight? I'm not a bad woman by nature, but I think I must need to be heldin repression. You'd be giving me again just those gifts of money,position, and power which made me dangerous.""Suppose you were to let me guard against that?" he said."You couldn't. It would be like fighting a poisonous vapor with thesword. The woman's spell, whether for good or ill, is more subtle andmore potent than anything in the universe but the love of God.""I can believe that, and still be willing to trust myself to yours," heanswered, gravely. "I know you, and honor you as men rarely do the womenthey marry, until the proof of the years has tried them. In your casethe trial has come first. I've watched you bear it--watched you moreclosely than you've ever been aware of. I've stood by, and seen youcarry your burden, when it was harder than you imagine not to take mypart in it. I've looked on, and seen you suffer, when it was all I coulddo to keep from saying some word of sympathy you might have resented.But, Diane," he cried, his voice taking on a strange, peremptorysharpness, "I can't do it any longer! My power of standing still, whileyou go on with your single-handed fight, is at an end. If ever God senta man to a woman's aid, He has sent me to yours; and you must let me dowhat I'm appointed for. You must come to me for comfort in yourloneliness. You must come to me for care in your necessity. I have bothcare and comfort for you here; and you must come."Without moving toward her he stood with open arms."Come!" he cried again, commandingly.The tears coursed down her cheeks, but she gave no sign of obeying him,except to drag one hand from the protecting bookcase ledge, to which sheseemed to cling."Come, Diane!" he repeated! "Come to me!"The other hand fell to her side, while she gazed at him piteously, asthough in reluctant submission to his will."Come!" he said once more, in a tone of authority mingled with appeal.Drawn by a force she had no power to withstand, she took one slow,hesitating step toward him."I haven't yielded," she stammered. "I haven't consented. I can'tconsent--yet.""No, dearest, no," he murmured, with arms yearning to her as sheapproached him; "nevertheless--come!"XNotwithstanding the fact that she had wept in his arms--wept as womenweep who are brave in the hour of trial, only to break down in themoment of relief--Diane would give Derek Pruyn no other answer. Shecould not consent--yet. With this reply he was obliged to sail away,getting what comfort he might from its implications.During the three months of his absence Diane took knowledge of herself,appraising her strength and probing her weakness. She was too honest notto own that there were desires in her nature which leaped into newnessof life at the thought that there might again be means to support them.Diane de la Ferronaise was not dead, but sleeping. Her love of luxuryand pleasure--her joy in jewels, equipage, and dress--her woman'selemental weaknesses, second only to the instinct for maternity--allthese, grown lethargic from hunger, were ready to awake again at themere possibility of food. She was forced to confront the fact that, withthe same opportunities, she had it in her to go back to the same life.It was a humiliating fact, but it stared her in the face, thatexperience had shown her a creature for a man to be afraid of. DerekPruyn had seen her subdued by circumstances, as the panther is subduedby famine; but it was not yet proved that the savage, preying thing wastamed.There was only one force that would tame her; but there _was_ thatforce, and Diane knew that she had submitted to its domination. Fromweeks of tortuous self-examination she emerged into this knowledge, asone comes out of a labyrinthine cavern into sunshine. Even here in theopen, however, was a problem still to solve. Could she marry the man whohad never told her that he loved her, even though she herself loved him?Had she the power to give herself without stint, while asking of himonly what he chose to offer her? Would she, who had made men serve her,with little more than smiles for their reward, be content to serve inher own turn, getting nothing but a half-loaf for her heart'ssustenance? She asked herself these questions, but put off answeringthem--waiting for him to force decision on her.So the rest of the winter passed, and by the time Derek came back thehyacinths were fading from the gardens and parks, and the tulips werecoming into bloom. To both Diane and Dorothea spring was bringing a newmotive for looking forward together with a new comprehension of thehuman heart's capacity for joy.Perhaps no day of their patient waiting was so long in passing as thaton which it was announced to them that Derek Pruyn had landed thatafternoon. He had sent word that he could not come home at once, asbusiness required his immediate presence at the office. Having alreadyexhausted their ingenuity in adorning the house, and putting everythinghe could possibly want in the place where he could most easily find it,there was nothing to do but to sit through the long hours in animpatience which even Diane found it difficult to disguise. The visitsof the postman were welcomed as affording the additional task ofarranging Derek's letters on the desk in the small, book-lined roomspecially devoted to his use; and when, in the evening, a cablegramarrived, Diane herself propped it in a conspicuous place, with a tinysilver dagger, for opening the envelope, beside it. The act, with itssuggestion of intimate life, gave her a stealthy pleasure; and whenDorothea glided in and caught her sitting in Derek's own chair at thedesk, she blushed like a school-girl detected in a crime. It was perhapsthis acknowledgment of weakness that enabled Dorothea to speak out, andsay what had been for some time on her mind."Diane," she asked, dropping among the cushions of a divan, "are yougoing to marry father?"[Illustration: DRAWN BY FRANKCRAIG DIANE PROPPED THE CABLEGRAM IN A CONSPICUOUS PLACE]Diane felt the color receding from her face as suddenly as it had come,while she gained time in which to collect her astonished wits by puttingthe silver dagger down beside the telegram with needless exactitudebefore attempting a response."Do you remember what Sir Walter Scott said, in the days when theauthorship of _Waverley_ was still a secret, to the indiscreet peoplewho asked him if he had written it? 'No,' he answered; 'but if I had Ishould give you the same reply.'""That means, I suppose, that you don't want to tell me?""It might be taken to imply something of the sort.""As a matter of fact, I suppose it would be more delicate on my part notto ask you.""I won't attempt to contradict you there.""I shouldn't do it if I didn't wish you _were_ going to marry him. I'vewanted it a long time; but I want it more than ever now.""Why more than ever now?""Because I expect to be married before very long myself.""May I venture to inquire to which of the many--""To none of the many. There's never, really, been more than one.""And his name--?""Is Carli Wappinger.""Oh, Dorothea!""That's just it. That's why I want you to marry father. I want to put astop to the 'Oh, Dorotheas!' and you're the only person in the world whocan help me do it.""How?""I don't have to tell you that. It's one of the reasons why I rely onyou so thoroughly that you always know exactly what to do without havingto receive suggestions. I put myself in your hands entirely.""You mean that you're going to marry a man to whom your father will bebitterly opposed, and you expect me to win his joyful benediction.""That's about it," Dorothea sighed, from the depth of her cushions."Of course, I must be grateful to you, dear, for this display ofconfidence; but you won't be surprised if I find it ratheroverwhelming.""I shall be very much surprised, indeed. I've never seen you findanything overwhelming yet; and you've been put in some difficultsituations. You only have to _live_ things in order to make other peopletake them for granted. You've never done anything to specially pleasefather, and yet he listens to you as if you were an oracle. It's thesame way with me. If any one had told me two years ago that I shouldever come to praying for a stepmother I should have thought them crazy;and yet I have come to it, just because it's you."After that it was not unnatural that Diane should go and sit on thedivan beside Dorothea for any exchange of such confidences as could notbe conveniently made from a distance. If she admitted anything on herown part, it was by implication rather than by direct assertion, andthough she did not promise in words to come to the aid of the youthfullovers, she allowed the possibility that she would do so to be assumed.So, in soft, whispered, broken confessions the evening slipped away morerapidly than the day had done, and by ten o'clock they knew he must benear. The last touch of welcome came when they passed from room to room,lighting up the big house in cheerful readiness for its lord'sinspection. When all was done Dorothea stationed herself at a windownear the street; while Diane, with a curious shrinking from what she hadto face, took her seat in the remotest and obscurest corner in the moredistant of the two drawingrooms. When the sound of wheels, followed by aloud ring at the bell, told her that he was actually at the door, shefelt faint from the violence of her heart's beating.Dorothea danced into the hail, with a cry and a laugh which were stifledin her father's embrace. Diane rose instinctively, waiting humbly andsilently where she stood. At their parting she had torn herself, weepingand protesting, from his arms; but when he came in to find her now, hewould see that she had yielded. The door was half open through which hewas to pass--never again to leave her!"Diane is in there."It was Dorothea's voice that spoke, but the reply reached the fardrawing-room only as a murmur of deep, inarticulate bass."What's the matter, father?"Dorothea's clear voice rose above the noise of servants moving articlesof luggage in the hall; but again Diane heard nothing beyond a confusedmuttering in answer. She wondered that he did not come to her at once,though she supposed there was some slight prosaic reason to prevent hisdoing so."Father"--Dorothea's voice came again, this time with a distinct note ofanxiety--"father, you don't look well. Your eyes are bloodshot.""I'm quite well, thank you," was the curt reply, this time perfectlyaudible to Diane's ears. "Simmons, you fool, don't leave those steamerrugs down here!"Diane had never heard him speak so to a servant, and she knew thatsomething had gone amiss. Perhaps he was annoyed that she had not cometo greet him. Perhaps it was one of the duties of her position toreceive him at the door. She had known him to give way occasionally tobursts of anger, in which a word from herself had soothed him. Leavingher place in the corner, she was hurrying to the hall, when againDorothea's voice arrested her."Aren't you going in to see Diane?""No."From where she stood, just within the door, Diane knew that he had flungthe word over his shoulder as he went up the hail toward the stairway.He was going to his room without speaking to her. For an instant shestood still from consternation, but it was in emergencies like this thather spirit rose. Without further hesitation she passed out into thehall, just as Derek Pruyn turned at the bend in the staircase, on hisway upward. For a brief second, as, standing below, she lifted her eyesto his in questioning, their glances met; but, on his part, it waswithout recognition.XIHalf an hour after Derek's return Diane was summoned into his presencein the little room where she had arranged his letters in the afternoon.The door was standing open, and she went in slowly, her head high. Shewas dressed as when she had parted from him; and the whiteness of herneck and shoulders, free from jewels, collar, or chain, was the morebrilliant from contrast with the severe line of black. In her pale faceall expression was focussed into the pained inquiry of her eyes.She entered so silently that he did not hear her, or lift his head fromthe hand on which it leaned wearily, as he rested his elbow on the desk.Pausing in the middle of the room, she had time to notice that he hadopened a few of the letters lying before him, but had thrust themimpatiently from him, evidently unread. The cablegram she had laid wherehis glance would immediately fall upon it was between his fingers, butthe envelope was unbroken. His attitude was so much that of a man tiredand dispirited that her heart went out to him.It was perhaps the involuntary sigh that broke from her lips that causedhim to look up. When he did so his eyes fixed themselves on her with adazed stare, as though he wondered whence and for what she had come. Inthe eager attention with which she regarded him she noted subconsciouslythat he was unshaven and ill-kempt, and that his eyes, as Dorothea hadsaid, were bloodshot.He dragged himself to his feet, and with forced courtesy asked her tosit down. She allowed herself to sink mechanically to the edge of thedivan where, only an hour ago, Dorothea and she had exchanged happyconfidences. In the minutes of silence that followed, when he hadresumed his own seat, she felt as if she were in some queer nightmare,where nothing could be explained."Did you ever hear of a young French explorer named Persigny?"She nodded, without speaking. The irrelevancy of the question was inkeeping with the odd horror of the dream."Did you know he was exploring in Brazil?""I think I may have heard so.""He came up from Rio with me--on the same steamer."She listened, with eyes fixed fast upon him, wondering what he meant."He wasn't alone," Derek went on, speaking in a lifeless monotone."There were others of his party with him. There was one, especially,with whom I became on terms that were almost--intimate."For the first time it occurred to her that he was trying to see throughher thoughts; but in her bewilderment at his words, she met his gazesteadily."There was something about this young man that attracted me," hecontinued, in the same dull voice, "and I listened to his troubles. Inparticular he told me why he had fled from Paris to hide himself in theforests of the Amazon. Shall I tell you the reason?""If you like.""It was an old story; in some respects a vulgar story. He had got intothe toils of an unscrupulous woman."Her sudden perception of what he was leading up to forced her into alittle involuntary movement."I see you understand," he said, quickly, with the glimmer of a smile."I thought you would; for, as a matter of fact, much of what he saidbrought back our conversation on the night before I sailed. There wasnot a little in it that was mystery to me at the time, whichhe--illumined."She sat with lips parted and bosom heaving, her hands clasped tightly inher lap. If she was conscious of any sensation, it was of terriblecuriosity to know how the tale was to be turned."What you said to me then," he pursued, in the same cruel quietness oftone--"what you said to me then, as to the influence of a bad woman in aman's life, seemed to me--what shall I say?--not precisely exaggerated,but somewhat overwrought. I didn't know it could be so true to theactual facts of experience. My friend's words at times were almost anecho of your own. He had been the lover of a woman--"Once more she started, raising her hand in silent protest against thewords."He--had--been--the--lover--of--a--woman," he repeated, with slowemphasis, "who, after having ruined her husband's life, was preparing toruin his. She would have ruined his as she had ruined the lives of othermen before him. When he endeavored to elude her, she set on her husbandto call him out. There was a duel--or the semblance of a duel. My friendfired into the air. The poor devil of a husband shot himself. It appearsthat he had every reason for doing so.""My husband didn't shoot himself.""Your husband?" he asked, with an ironical lifting of the eyebrows."What makes you think I've been speaking of him?""The man whom you call your friend is the Marquis de Bienville--""He didn't mention your name; but I see you're able to tell me his. It'swhat I was afraid of. I've repeated only a very little of what he said;but since you recognize its truth already, it isn't necessary tocontinue."She passed her hand over her forehead, with the gesture of one tryingdesperately to see aright."I must ask you to tell me plainly: Was I the--the unscrupulous womaninto whose toils Monsieur de Bienville fell?""He didn't say so.""Then why--why have you spoken of this to me?""Because what I heard from him fitted in so exactly with what I hadheard from you that it made an entire story. It was like the two partsof a puzzle. The one without the other is incomplete and perplexing; buthaving both, you can see the perfect whole. I will be frank enough totell you that many of your sayings were dark to me until I had his tolend them light.""Would it be of any use to say that what he told you wasn't true?""I don't know that it would be of any use to say it, unless it could beproved.""Did you ask him to give you proof?""No; because you had already provided me with that."How?""Surely you must remember telling me that you had ruined one rich man,and might ruin another: that no man could cope with a woman such as youwere two or three years ago. There were these things--there were otherthings--many other things--""And that's what you understood from them?""I understood nothing whatever. If I thought of such words at all, itwas to attribute them to a morbid sensibility. It wasn't until I gottheir interpretation that they came back to me. It wasn't until I hadmet some one who knew you before I did, and better than I did--""It wasn't till then that you thought of me what no man ever thinks of awoman until he is ready to trample her in the mire, under his feet."Straightening himself up, as a man who defends his position, he took anargumentative tone."What motive would Bienville have for lying?--to a stranger?--and abouta stranger? There are moments when you know a man is telling you thetruth, as if he were in the confessional. He wasn't speaking of you, butof himself. Not only were no names mentioned, but he had no reason tothink I had ever heard of the woman he talked to me about, nor has heyet. If it hadn't been for your own half-hints, your ownhalf-confessions, I doubt if I should ever have had more than a suspicionof--of--the truth.""I could have explained everything," she said, with a break in hervoice. "I've never concealed from you the fact that there was a time inmy life when I was very indiscreet. I lived like the women of fashionaround me. I was inconsiderate of other people. I did things that werewrong. But before I knew you I had repented of them.""Quite so; but, unfortunately, what is conventionally known as arepentant woman is not the sort of person I would have chosen to be nearmy child."She rose, wearily, dragging herself toward the desk. "Now that I'veheard your opinion of me," she said, quietly, "I suppose you have noreason for detaining me any longer.""Are you going away?" he asked, sharply."What else is there for me to do?""Have you nothing to say in your own defence?""You haven't asked me to say anything. You've tried and condemned meunheard. Since you adopt that method of justice I'm forced to abide byit. I'm not like a person who has rights or who can claim protectionfrom any outside authority. You're not only judge and jury to me, but myfinal court of appeal. I must take what you mete out to me--and bearit.""I don't want to be hard on you," he groaned."No; I can believe that. I dare say the situation is just as cruel foryou as for me. When circumstances become so entangled that you can'texplain them, everybody has to suffer.""I'm glad you can do me that justice. My life for the past week--eversince Bienville began to talk to me--has been hell.""I'm sorry for that. I'm sorry to have brought it on you. I'm afraid,too, that the future may be harder for you still; for no man can do awoman such wrong as you're doing me, and not pay for it.""Wrong? Can you honestly say I'm doing you wrong, Diane? Isn't ittrue--you'll pardon me if I put my questions bluntly, the circumstancesdon't permit of sparing either your feelings or my own--isn't it truethat for two or three years before your husband's death your name inParis was nothing short of a byword?""I'm not sure of what you mean by a byword. I acknowledge that I bravedpublic opinion, and that much ill was said of me--often, more than Ideserved.""Isn't it true that your name was connected with that of a man calledLalanne, and that he was killed in a duel on your account?""It's true that Monsieur Lalanne made love to me; it's also true that hewas killed in a duel; but it's not true that it was on my account. Theinstance is an excellent illustration of the degree to which the trueand the false are mixed in Parisian gossip--perhaps in all gossip--and awoman's reputation blasted. Unhappily for me, I felt myself young andstrong enough to be indifferent to reputation. I treated it with theneglect one often bestows upon one's health--not thinking that therewould come a day of reckoning.""If there had been only one such case it might have been allowed topass; but what do you say of De Cretteville? what of De Melcourt? whatof Lord Wendover?""I have nothing to say but this: that for such scandal I've a rule, fromwhich I have no intention of departing even now: I neither tell it, norlisten to it, nor contradict it. If it pleases the Marquis de Bienvilleto repeat it, and you to give it credence, I can't stoop to correct it,even in my own defence.""God knows I'm not delving into scandal, Diane. If I bring up thesemiserable names, it's only that you may have the opportunity to rightyourself.""It's an opportunity impossible for me to use. If I were to attempt tounravel the strand of truth from the web of falsehood, it would end inyour condemning me the more. The canons of conduct in France are sodifferent from those in America that what is permissible in one countryis heinous in the other. In the same way that your young girls shock ourconceptions of propriety, our married women shock yours. It would beuseless to defend myself in your eyes, because I should be appealing toa standard to which I was never taught to conform.""I thought I had taken that into consideration. I'm not entirelyignorant of the conditions under which you've lived, and I meant to haveallowed for them. But isn't it true that you exceeded the very widelatitude recognized by public opinion, even in a place like Paris?""I didn't take public opinion into account. I was reckless of itsinjustice, as I was careless of its applause. I see now, however, thatindifference to either brings its punishment.""Those are abstract ideas, and I'm trying to deal with concrete facts.Isn't it true that George Eveleth was a rich man when you married him,and that your extravagance ruined him?""It helped to ruin him. I plead guilty to that. I had no knowledge ofthe value of money; but I don't offer that as an excuse.""Isn't it true that the Marquis de Bienville was your lover, and thatyou were thinking of deserting your husband to go with him?""It's true that the Marquis de Bienville asked me to do so, and that Iwas rash enough to turn him into ridicule. I shouldn't have done it if Ihad known that there was a man in the world capable of taking such arevenge upon a woman as he took on me.""What revenge?""The revenge you're executing at this minute. He said--what very fewmen, thank God, will say of a woman, even when it's true, and what ittakes a dastard to say when it's not true. Even in the case of thefallen woman there's a chivalrous human pity that protects her; whilethere's something more than that due to the most foolish of our sex whohas not fallen. I took it for granted that, at the worst, I could counton that, until I met your friend. His cup of vengeance will be full whenhe learns that he has given you the power to insult me.""I don't mean to insult you," he said, in a dogged voice, "but I mean,if possible, to know the truth.""I'm not concealing it. I'm ready to tell you anything.""Then, tell me this: isn't it the case that when George Evelethdiscovered your relations with Bienville, he challenged him?""It's the case that he challenged him, not because of what hediscovered, but of what Monsieur de Bienville said.""At their encounter, didn't Bienville fire into the air--?""I've never heard so.""And didn't George Eveleth fall from a self-inflicted shot?""No. He died at the hand of the Marquis de Bienville.""So you told me once before, though you didn't tell me the man's name.But, Diane, aren't you convinced in your heart that George Eveleth knewthat which made his life no longer worth the living?""Do you mean that he knew something--about me?""Yes--about you.""That's the most cruel charge Monsieur de Bienville has invented yet.""Suppose he didn't invent it? Suppose it was a fact?""Have you any purpose in subjecting me to this needless torture?""I have a purpose, and I'm sorry if it involves torture; but I assureyou it isn't needless. I must get to the bottom of this thing. I'veasked you to marry me; and I must know if my future wife--""But I'm not--your future wife.""That remains to be seen. I can come to no decision--""But I can.""That must wait. The point before us is this: Did, or did not, GeorgeEveleth kill himself?""He did not.""You must understand that it would prove nothing if he did.""It would prove, or go far to prove, what you said just now--that I hadmade his life not worth the living.""His money troubles may have counted for something in that. What itwould do is this: it would help to corroborate Bienville's wordagainst--yours.""Fortunately there are means of proving that I'm right. I can't tell youexactly what they are; but I know that, in France, when people die theregisters tell just what they died of.""I've already sent for the necessary information. I've done even morethan that. I couldn't wait for the slow process of the mails. I cabledthis morning to Grimston, one of my Paris partners, to wire me the causeof George Eveleth's death, as officially registered. This is his reply."He held up the envelope Diane had placed on the desk earlier in theevening."Why don't you open it?" she asked, in a whisper of suspense."I've been afraid to. I've been afraid that it would prove him right inthe one detail in which I'm able to put his word to the test. I've beenhoping against hope that you would clear yourself; but if this is in hisfavor--""Open it," she pleaded.With the silver dagger she had laid ready to his hand he ripped up theenvelope, and drew out the paper."Read it," he said, passing it to her, without unfolding it.Though it contained but one word, Diane took a long time to decipher it.For minutes she stared at it, as though the power of comprehension hadforsaken her. Again and again she lifted her eyes to his, in sheerbewilderment, only to drop them then once more on the all but blanksheet in her hand. At last it seemed as if her fingers had no morestrength to hold it, and she let it flutter to the floor."He was right?"The question came in a hoarse undertone, but Diane had no voice in whichto reply. She could only nod her head in dumb assent.It grew late, and Derek Pruyn still sat in the position in which Dianehad left him. His hands rested clinched on the desk before him, whilehis eyes stared vacantly at the cluster of electric lights overhead. Hewas living through the conversations with Bienville on shipboard. Hebegan with the first time he had noticed the tall, brown-eyed,black-bearded young Frenchman on the day when they sailed out of theharbor of Rio de Janeiro. He passed on to their first interchange ofcasual remarks, leaning together over the deck-rail, and watching thelights of Para recede into the darkness. It was in the hot, still eveningsin the Caribbean Sea that, smoking in neighboring deck-chairs, they hadfirst drifted into intimate talk, and the young man had begun to unburdenhimself. They had been distinctly interesting to Derek, these glimpsesof a joyous, idle, light-o'-love life, with a tragic element never veryfar below its surface, so different from his own gray career ofbusiness. They not only beguiled the tedious nights, but they opened upvistas of romance to an imagination growing dull before its time, in theseriousness of large practical affairs. In proportion as the youngFrenchman showed himself willing to narrate, Derek became a sympatheticlistener. As Bienville told of his pursuit, now of this fair face, andnow of that, Derek received the impression of a chase, in which thehunted engages not of necessity, but, like Atalanta, in sheer glee ofexcitement. Like Atalanta, too, she was apt to over-estimate her speed,and to end in being caught.It was not till after he had recounted a number of _petites histoires_,more or less amusing, that Bienville came to what he called "_l'affairela plus serieuse de ma vie,_" while Derek drank in the tale with all theavidity the jealous heart brings to the augmentation of its pain. To theidealizing purity of his conception of Diane any earthly failing on herpart became the extremity of sin. He had placed her so high that whenshe fell it was to no middle flight of guilt; as to the fallen angel,there was no choice for her, in his estimation, between heaven and thenether hell.Outwardly he was an ordinary passenger, smoking quietly in a deck-chair,in order to pass the time between dinner and the hour for "turning in."His voice, as he plied Bienville with questions, betrayed his emotionsno more than the darkened surface of the sea gave evidence of the raginglife within its depths. To Bienville himself, during these idle, balmynights, there was a threefold inspiration, which in no case called forstrict exactitude of detail. There was, first, the pleasure of talkingabout himself; there was, next, the desire to give his career theadvantage of a romantic light; and there was, thirdly, thestory-teller's natural instinct to hold his hearer spellbound. The littlemore or the little less could not matter to a man whom he didn't know, intalking about a woman whose name he hadn't given; while, on the otherhand, there was the satisfaction, to which the Latin is so sensitive, ofshowing himself a lion among ladies.Moreover, he had boasted of his achievements so often that he had cometo believe in them long before giving Derek the detailed account of hisvictory on the gleaming Caribbean seas. On his part, Derek had found nodifficulty in crediting that which was related with apparent fidelity tofact, and which filled up, in so remarkable a manner, the empty spacesbetween the mysterious, broken hints Diane had at various times givenhim of her own inner life. The one story helped to tell the other asaccurately as the fragments of an ancient stele, when put together, makeup the whole inscription. The very independence of the sources fromwhich he drew his knowledge negatived the possibility of doubt. Therewas but one way in which Diane could have put herself right with him:she could have swept the charge aside, with a serene contemptuousness ofdenial. Had she done so, her assertion would have found his owneagerness to believe in her ready to meet it half-way. As it was, alas!her admissions had been damning. Where she acknowledged the smoke, theresurely must have been the fire! Where she owned to so much culpability,there surely must have been the entire measure of guilt!For the time being, he forgot Bienville, in order to review theconversation of the last half-hour. Diane had not carried herself like awoman who had nothing with which to reproach herself; and that a womanshould be obliged to reproach herself at all was a humiliation to herwomanhood. In the midst of this gross world, where the man's soulnaturally became stained and coarsened, hers should retain the celestialbeauty with which it came forth from God. That, in his opinion, was herduty; that was her instinct; that was the object with which she had beenplaced on earth. A woman who was no better than a man was an error onthe part of nature; and Diane--oh, the pity of it!--had put herself downon the man's level with a naivete which showed her unconscious of everhaving been higher up. She had confessed to weaknesses, as though shewere of no finer clay than himself, and spoke of being penitent, whenthe tragedy lay in the fact that a woman should have anything to repentof.The minutes went by, but he sat rigid, with hands clinched before him,and eyes fixed in a kind of hypnotic stare on the cluster of lights,taking no account of time or place. Throughout the house there was thestillness of midnight, broken only by the rumble of a carriage or theclatter of a motor in the street. The silence was the more ghostly owingto the circumstance that throughout the empty rooms lights were stillflaring uselessly, welcoming his return. Presently there came asound--faint, soft, swift, like the rustle of wings, or a weird spiritfootfall. Though it was scarcely audible, it was certain that somethingwas astir.With a start Derek came back from the contemplation of his intolerablepain to the world of common happenings. He must see what could be movingat this unaccustomed hour; but he had barely risen in his place when hewas disturbed by still another sound, this time louder and heavier, andcharacterized by a certain brusque finality. It was the closing of adoor; it was the closing of the large, ponderous street-door. Some onehad left the house.In a dozen strides he was out in the hail and on the stairway. There, onthe landing, where an hour or two ago he had turned to look down uponDiane, stood Dorothea in her night-dress--a little white figure, scaredand trembling."Oh, father, Diane has gone away!"For some seconds he stared at her blankly, like a man who puzzles oversomething in a strange language. When he spoke, at last, his voice camewith a forced harshness, from which the girl shrank back, more terrifiedthan before:"She was quite right to go. You run back to bed."XIIFrom the shelter of the little French hostelry in University Place,Diane wrote, on the following morning, to Miss Lucilla van Tromp,telling her as briefly and discreetly as possible what had occurred.While withholding names and suppressing the detail which dealt with themanner of her husband's death, she spoke with her characteristicfrankness, stating her case plainly. Though she denied the main charge,she repeated the admissions Derek had found so fatal, and accepted hershare of all responsibility."Mr. Pruyn is not to blame," she wrote. "From many points of view he isas much the victim of circumstances as I am. I have to acknowledgemyself in fault; and yet, if I were more so, my problem would be easierto solve. There are conditions in which it is scarcely less difficult todiscern the false from the true than it is to separate the foul currentfrom the pure, after their streams have run together; and I cannotreproach Mr. Pruyn if, looking only on the mingled tides, he does notsee that they flow from dissimilar sources. Though I left his houseabruptly, it was not because he drove me forth; it was rather because Ifeel that, until I have regained some measure of his respect, I cannotbe worthy in his eyes--nor in my own--to be under one roof with hisdaughter."       *       *       *       *       *To Miss Lucilla, in her ignorance of the world, it seemed, as she readon, as if the foundations of the great deep had been broken up and thewindows of heaven opened. That such things happened in romances, she hadread; that they were not unknown in real life, even in New York, she hadheard it whispered; but that they should crop up in her own immediatecircle was not less wonderful than if the night-blooming cereus hadsuddenly burst into flower in her strip of garden. Miss Lucilla owned tobeing shocked, to being grieved, to being puzzled, to being stunned; butshe could not deny the thrill of excitement at being caught up into thewhirl of a real love-affair.When the first of the morning's duties in the sickroom were over shewaylaid Mrs. Eveleth in a convenient spot and told her tale. She did notread the letter aloud, finding its phraseology at times too blunt; but,with those softening circumlocutions of which good women have thesecret, she conveyed the facts. There was but one short passage whichshe quoted just as Diane had written it:"'I am sure my mother-in-law will stand by me, and bear me out. Shealone knows the sort of life I led with her son, and I am convinced thatshe will see justice done me.'"Mrs. Eveleth listened silently, with the still look of pain that belongsto those growing old in the expectation of misfortune."I've been afraid something would happen," was her only comment."But surely, dear Mrs. Eveleth, you don't think any of it can be true!"The elder woman began moving toward the door."So many things have been true, dear, that I hoped were not!"This answer, given from the threshold, left Miss Lucilla not more aghastthan disappointed. It brought into the romance features which no singlewoman can afford to contemplate. She would have entered into the affairsof a wronged heroine with enthusiastic interest; but what was to be donewith those of a possibly guilty one? She was so ready for the unexpectedthat as she stood at a back window, looking into the garden, it wasalmost a surprise not to find the night-blooming cereus really liftingits exotic head among the stout spring shoots of the peonies. With thevague feeling that the Park might prove more fruitful ground for thephenomenon, she moved to a front window, where she was not longunrewarded. If it was not the night-blooming cereus that drove up in thehandsome, open automobile, turning into the Park, it was somethingequally portentous; for Mrs. Bayford had already played a part inDiane's drama, and was now, presumably, about to enter on the sceneagain. Miss Lucilla drew back, so as to be out of sight, while keepingher visitors in view. For a minute she hoped that Marion Grimstonherself might be minded to make her a call, for she liked the handsomegirl, whose outspoken protests against the shams of her life agreed withher own more gentle horror of pretension. Marion, wreathed in veils,was, however, at the steering-wheel, and, as she guided the huge machineto the curbstone, showed no symptoms of wishing to alight. Beside herwas Reggie Bradford, a large, fat youth, whose big, good-natured laughalmost called back echoes from the surrounding houses. As the carstopped he lumbered down from his perch, and helped Mrs. Bayford todescend. When he had clambered back to his place again the great vehiclerolled on. It was plain now to Miss Lucilla that a new act of the piecewas about to begin, and she hurried back to the library in order to bein her place before the rising of the curtain. For Miss Lucilla'scallers there was always an immediate subject of conversation which hadto be exhausted before any other topic could be touched upon; and Mrs.Bayford tackled it at once, asking the questions and answering themherself, so as to get it out of the way."Well, how is Regina? Very much the same, of course. I don't supposeyou'll see any change in her now, until it's for the worse. Poor thing!one could almost wish, in her own interests, that our Heavenly Fatherwould think fit to take her to Himself. Now, I want to talk to you aboutsomething serious."Mrs. Bayford made herself comfortable in a deep, low chair, with herfeet on a footstool."I suppose you've never guessed," she asked, at last, "why Marion hasbeen with me all this time?""I did guess," Miss Lucilla admitted, with a faint blush, "but I don'tknow that I guessed right.""I expect you did. No one could see as much of her as you've donewithout knowing she had a love-affair.""That's what I thought.""It's been a great trial," Mrs. Bayford sighed, "and it isn't over yet.In fact, I don't know but what it's only just beginning.""Wasn't he--desirable?""Oh yes; very much so, and is so still. It wasn't that. He was all thatany one could wish--old family, position, title, good looks,everything.""But if Marion liked him, and he liked her--?""I could explain it to you better if you knew more about men.""I do know a--a little," Miss Lucilla ventured to assert, shyly."There is a case in which a little is not enough. You've got tounderstand a man's capacity for loving one woman and being fascinated byanother. I think they call it double consciousness.""I don't think it's very honorable," Miss Lucilla declared, indisapproval."A man doesn't stop to think of honor, my dear, when he's in a grandpassion. Bienville has honor written in his very countenance, but thiswas an occasion when he couldn't get it into play. It was perfectlytragic. He had already spoken to Robert Grimston in the manliestway--told all about himself--found out how much Marion would have asher _dot_--and got permission to pay her his addresses--when all cameto nothing because of another woman."With this as an introduction it was natural that Mrs. Bayford should goon to repeat the oft-told tale in its entirety, lending it a light thatno one had given to it yet. With the information she already possessedfrom Diane's letter it was impossible for Lucilla not to recognize allthe characters as readily as Derek Pruyn had done, while she had theadvantage over him of knowing Marion Grimston's place in the action. Itwas a dreadful story, and if Miss Lucilla was not more profoundlyshocked it was because Mrs. Bayford, by overshooting the mark, renderedit incredible. None the less she agreed with Mrs. Bayford on the mainpoint she had come to urge, that Diane, on one side, and Marion andBienville, on the other, should be kept, if possible, from meeting."Not that I think," Mrs. Bayford went on, "that Raoul--that's hisname--would ever take up with her again. Still, you never can tell;I've seen such cases. A fire will often blaze up when you think it'sout. And now that everything is going so smoothly it would be athousand pities to throw any obstacle in the way.""Everything is going smoothly, then? I'm glad of that, for Marion'ssake.""Yes; it's practically a settled thing. When it seemed likely that hewould return to France by way of New York, Robert Grimston wrote me tosay that if anything happened it would have his full consent. Thingsmove rapidly in Paris, and the whole episode is as much a part of thepast as last year's styles. Then, too, everybody there knows now thatRaoul didn't kill George Eveleth; and, of course, that removes a certainunpleasant thought that some people might have about him.""Have you seen him yet?""I heard from him this morning. He asked if he could call on Marion andme this afternoon. You can guess what was my reply."The nature of this having been made clear, Mrs. Bayford went on toexpress her fears as to the complications which might arise from thechance meeting of Bienville and Derek on the steamer, of which theformer had given her information in his note. Nothing would be morenatural now than for Derek to invite Marion and Bienville to dinner; andthere would be Diane!"I think I can relieve your mind on that point," Miss Lucilla said,trying to choose her words cautiously. "There would be no danger oftheir meeting Mrs. Eveleth just now, as she has left Dorothea for thepresent."There was so much satisfaction to Mrs. Bayford in knowing that, as faras Diane was concerned, the coast was comparatively clear, that shegathered up her skirts and departed. After she had gone, Miss Lucilla'ssense of being the pivot of a romantic plot was heightened by theappearance of Diane. She came in with her usual air of confidence in herability to meet the world, and if her pale face showed traces of tearsand sleeplessness, its expression was, if anything, more courageous. Hadit not been for this brave show Miss Lucilla would have wanted toembrace her and hold her hands, but, as it was, she could only retireshyly into herself, as in the presence of one too strong to need thesupport of friends."No; don't call my mother-in-law yet," Diane pleaded, as Miss Lucillawas about to touch a bell. "I want to talk to you first, and tell youthings I couldn't say in writing."Then the story was told again, and from still another point of view.Once more Diane acknowledged the weaknesses of conduct she had confessedalready, but Miss Lucilla was a woman and understood her speech."I knew you'd believe in me," Diane said, half sobbing, as she ended hertale. "I knew you'd understand that one can be a foolish woman withouthaving been a wicked one. Mr. Pruyn would not have been so hard on me ifhe had thought of that.""Shall I go and tell him?""No; it's too late. The wrong that's been done needs a more radicalremedy than you or I could bring to it. Bienville has lied, and I mustforce him to retract. Nothing else can help me."To poor Miss Lucilla this was a new and alarming feature in thesituation. If it was so, then Marion Grimston ought not to be allowed tomarry him. If Diane was right--and she must be right--Mrs. Bayford wasmistakenly urging on a match that would bring unhappiness to her niece.This complication was almost more than Miss Lucilla's quietly workingintellect could seize, and she followed Diane's succeeding words withbut a wandering attention. She understood, however, that, next to beingjustified by Bienville, Diane attached importance to the aid sheexpected from Mrs. Eveleth. Hers was the only living voice that couldtestify to the happy relations always existing between her son and hiswife. She could tell, and would tell, that George had fallen as thechampion of Diane's honor, and not as the victim of her baseness. If hedied it was because he believed in her, not because he was seeking thereadiest refuge from their common life. Diane would explain all to Mrs.Eveleth, to whose loyalty she could trust, and on whose love she coulddepend."I'll go and find her," Miss Lucilla said, rising. "You'd like to seeher alone?""No; I'd rather you were present. My troubles have got beyond the stageof privacy. It's best that those who care for me should hear what can besaid in my defence."Miss Lucilla went, and returned. A few minutes later Mrs. Eveleth couldbe heard coming slowly down the stairs. But before she had time to enterthe room Derek Pruyn, using the privilege of a relative, walked inwithout announcement.XIIIIf the morning had brought surprises to Miss Lucilla van Tromp, it hadnot denied them to the Marquis de Bienville. They were all the moreastonishing in that they came out of a sky that was relatively clear. Ashe stood in his dressing-gown, with a cigarette between his fingers, atone of the upper windows of his tall, towerlike hotel, he would havesaid that his life at the moment resembled the blue dome above him, fromwhich, after a cloudy dawn and dull early morning, the last fleecydrifts were being blown away.There were many circumstances that combined just now to make him glad ofbeing Raoul de Laval, Marquis de Bienville. The mere material comfort ofmodern hotel luxury had a certain joyous novelty after nearly two yearsspent amid the unprofitable splendors of the tropical forest. True, NewYork was not Paris; but it was an excellent distributing centre forParisian commodities and news, and would do very well for the work hehad immediately in hand. So far, all promised hopefully. His valet hadjoined him from France, with whatever he could wish in the way ofwardrobe; and Mrs. Bayford's reply to his note contained muchinformation beyond what was actually written down in words. Moreover,the statement he had found awaiting him from the Credit Lyonnaisrevealed the fact that, owing to the two years in which he had little orno need to spend money, he could now live with handsome extravaganceuntil after he married Miss Grimston. He might even pay the morepressing of his debts, though that possibility presented itself in thelight of a work of supererogation, seeing that in so short a time heshould be able to pay them all.Then would begin a new era in his life. On that point he was quitedetermined. At thirty-two years of age it was high time to think ofbeing something better in the world than a mere man-beauty. Hisexperience with Persigny had shown that he was capable of somethingworthier than dalliance, as his fathers had been before him.He did not precisely blame himself for shortcomings in the past, since,according to French ideas, he had not enough money on which to beuseful, while his social position precluded work. He could not serve hiscountry for fear of serving the republic, nor live on his estates,because Bienville was too expensive to keep up. However well-meaning hisnature, there had been almost nothing open to him but the career of theidle, handsome, high-born youth, with money enough to pay for theluxuries of life, while his name secured credit for its necessities.With his looks and his address it would have been easy to find a wifewho, by meeting his financial need, would have facilitated his path invirtue; but on this point he was fastidious. Rather, perhaps, he wastypical of that modern, transitional phase of the French social mindwhich, while still acknowledging the supremacy of the family inmatrimonial affairs, insists on some freedom of personal selection. Thathis future wife should have enough money to make her a worthy chatelaineof Bienville, as well as to meet the subsidiary expenses the positionimplied, was a foregone conclusion; but it was equally a matter beyonddispute that she should be some one whom he could love. He had not foundthis combination of essentials until he met Marion Grimston, and thehand he was thereupon prepared to offer her was not wholly empty of hisheart.In her he saw for the first time in his life the intrepid maiden whoseems to dare a man to come and master her. That she should be thedaughter of Robert Grimston, with his commercial primness, and Mrs.Grimston, with her pretentious snobbery, was a mystery he made noattempt to solve. It was enough for him that this proud creature was inthe world, especially as her bearing toward him inspired the hope thathe might win her. It was a pity that he should have turned aside fromsuch high endeavor in a foolish dash to make himself the Hippomenes ofDiane Eveleth's Atalanta. Putting little heart into the latter contest,he would have suffered little mortification from defeat, had it not beenthat the high spirits of the pursued lady invited the world to come andlaugh with her at his expense.Then it was that the Marquis de Bienville, in an uncontrollable accessof wounded vanity, had thrown his traditions of honor to the winds, andlied. It was not such a lie as could be told--and forgotten; for therewere too many people eager to believe and repeat it. Within twenty-fourhours he found himself famous, all the way from the Parc Monceau to therue de Varennes. After his conscience had given him a sleepless night hegot up to see that any modification of his statement meant retraction.Retraction was out of the question, in that it involved the loss of hisreputation among men. He was caught in a trap. He must lie and maintainhis place, or he must confess and go out of society. It must not besupposed that he took his predicament lightly, or that he made hischoice without pangs of self-pity at the cruel necessity. It was hishonor, or hers! and if only the one or the other could be saved, it mustbe his. So he saved it--according to his lights. He saved it by beingvery bold in his statements by day, and heaping ignominy on himselfduring the black hours of sleeplessness. He found, however, that theprocess paid; for boldness engendered a sort of fictitious belief whichparalyzed the tendency to self-upbraiding until it ceased.The special quality of his courage was shown on that gray dawn when hestood up before George Eveleth in a corner of the Pre Catalan. He hadnot the moral force to confess himself a perjurer in the sight of Paris,but he could stand ready to take the bullets in his breast. In going tothe encounter he had no intention of doing otherwise. He would not atoneto an injured woman by setting her right in the eyes of men, but hewould make her the offering of his life.It was a satisfaction now to know, as he was assured by letters, thatthe incident was practically forgotten, and that Diane Eveleth haddisappeared. He himself found it easier than it used to be to dismissthe subject from his mind; and if he recalled it at times, it wasgenerally--as it had been on shipboard--when at the end of his store ofconfidential anecdotes. He was thinking, however, of dropping the storyfrom his repertoire, for he had more than remarked that its effect wasslightly sinister upon himself. He noticed, too, that, during the firsttwenty-four hours on the steamer, Derek Pruyn avoided him, while he onhis part had felt a curious impulse to slink out of sight, which couldonly be explained by the supposition that, as often happens on longvoyages, they had seen too much of each other.Finding that he had let his cigarette go out, he threw it away, andturned from the window to complete his toilet. As he did so his valetentered with a card, stating that the gentleman who had sent it in waswaiting in the hail outside."Ask him to come in," he said, briefly, when he had read the name. Hewas scarcely surprised, for Pruyn had spoken more than once of showinghim some civilities when they reached New York, and putting him up atone or two convenient dubs."My dear sir," he cried, going forward with outstretched hand; but thewords died on his lips as Derek pushed his way in brusquely, withoutgreeting.Again the young man attempted the ceremonious by apologizing for theinformality of his surroundings and the state of his dress; but again hefaltered before the haggard glare in Derek's eyes."I want to talk to you," Pruyn said, abruptly. Bienville made a gestureof mingled politeness and astonishment."Certainly; but shall we not sit down while we do it? Will you smoke?Here are cigarettes, but you probably prefer a cigar."Educated in England, like many young Frenchmen of the upper classes,Bienville spoke English fluently and with little accent."I want to talk to you," Derek said again. He took no notice of theproffered seat, and they remained standing, as they were, with the roundtable, bestrewn with letters, between them. "You remember," Derekcontinued, speaking with difficulty--"you remember the story you told meon the voyage--about a woman?"Bienville nodded. He had a sudden presentiment of what was coming."I must tell you that on the night before I sailed for South America,three months ago, I asked that woman to be my wife.""In that case," Bienville said, promptly, and with a tranquillity he didnot feel, "I withdraw my statements.""Withdrawal isn't enough. You must tell me they were not true."Bienville remained silent for a minute. He was beginning to realize thefirmness of the ground he stood on. His instinct for self-preservationwas strong, and he had confidence in his dexterous use of the necessaryweapons."You must give me time to reflect on that," he said, after a pause."Why do you need time? If the thing isn't true, you've only got to sayso.""It's not quite so easy as that. You can't cut every difficulty with asword, as they did the Gordian knot. One may go far in defence of awoman's honor, but there are boundaries which even a gallant man cannotpass; and, before I speak, I must see where they lie.""I want the truth. I want no defence of a woman's honor--""Ah, but I do. That's the difference.""Damn your difference! You didn't think much of a woman's honor when youbegan your infernal tales.""Did you, when you let me go on?""No. That's where I share your crime. That's all that keeps me fromstriking you now.""I let that pass. I know how you feel. I know just how hard it is foryou. I've been in something like your situation myself. No man can havemuch to do with a woman without being put there in one way if notanother. It's because I do understand you that I share your pain--andsupport your insults."The tremor in his voice, coupled with the dignity of his bearing,carried a certain degree of conviction, so that when Derek spoke againit was less fiercely."Then I understand you to confirm what you told me on board ship?""On the contrary; you understand me to take it back. Why shouldn't thatbe enough for you--without asking further questions?""Because I'm not here to go through formalities, but to seek for facts.""Precisely; and yet, wouldn't it be wise, under the circumstances, notto be too exacting? If I do my best for you--""It isn't a question of doing your best, but of telling me the truth.""I can quite see that it might strike you in that way; but you'll pardonme, I know, if I see it from another point of view. No man in mysituation would consider it a matter of telling you the truth, so muchas of coming to the aid of a lady whose good name he had unwittinglyimperilled. My supreme duty is there; and I'm willing to do it to theutmost of my power. I am willing to withdraw everything I have everuttered that could tell against her. Can you ask me to do more?""Yes; I can ask you to deny it.""Isn't that already a form of denial?""No; it's a form of affirmation.""That's because you choose to take it so. It's because you prefer to gobehind my words, and ascribe to me motives which, for all you know, I donot possess.""I've nothing to do with your motives; my aim is to get at the truth.""Since you have nothing to do with my motives," Bienville said, with aslight lifting of the brows, "you'll permit me, I am sure, to be equallyindifferent to your aims. I tell you what I am prepared to do; butwhat is it to me whether you are satisfied or not? I am sorryto--to--inconvenience the lady; but as for you--!"With a snap of the fingers he turned and strolled to the window, wherehe stood, looking out, with his back toward his guest. It wassignificant of their tension of feeling and concentration of mind thatboth gesture and attitude went unnoted by both. Derek remained silentand motionless, his slower mind trying to catch up with the Frenchman'snimble adroitness. He had not yet done so when Bienville turned andspoke again."Why should we quarrel? What should we gain by doing that? You and I aretwo men of the world, to whom human nature is as an open book. What doyou expect me to do? What do you expect me to say? What more did youthink to call forth from me when you came here this morning? Do mejustice. Am I not going as far as a man can go when I say that I blotout of my memory the cursed evenings you and I spent together in cursedtalk? That doesn't cover the ground, you think; but would any other formof words cover it any better? Would you believe me the more, whateverset of speeches I might adopt? Would you not always have in the back ofyour mind your expressive English phrase, that I was lying like agentleman? You know best what you can do, as I know best what I can do;but is it not true that we have arrived at a point where the less thatis spoken in words on either side, the better it will be for us all?"When he had finished, Bienville turned again toward the window, leaninghis head wearily against the frame. Derek stood a minute longer watchinghim. Then, as if accepting the assertion that there was nothing morethat could be said, he went quietly, with bent head, from the room.       *       *       *       *       *He was down in the street before he became fully conscious that, amongthe confused, strangled cries of pain within him, that which was loudestand most imploring was a wailing self-reproach. It was a self-reproachwith a strain of pleading in it, akin to that with which a mother blamesherself for the failings of her son, seizing on any one else's wrong topalliate the guilt of the accused. He had injured Diane himself! He hadpried into her past, and laid bare her sins, and stripped her life ofthat covering of secrecy which no human existence could do without,least of all his own.He walked on with bowed head, his eyes blind to the May sunshine, hisears deaf to the city's joyous, energetic uproar, his mind closed to thefact that important business affairs were awaiting his attention. Hisfeet strayed toward Gramercy Park, directed not so much by volition asby the primary man-instinct to be near some sweet, sympathetic woman inthe hour of pain. Lucilla and he had, grown up in one family as boy andgirl together, and there were moments when he found near her the peacehe could get nowhere else in the world.He pushed by the footman who admitted him and walked straight to theroom where Lucilla was generally to be found. Though he could scarcelybe surprised to see Diane sitting by her, he stopped on the threshold,with signs of embarrassment, and made as though he would withdraw.Overwhelmed by the responsibilities of such a moment, Miss Lucillalooked appealingly at Diane, who rose."Don't go, Mr. Pruyn," she said, forcing herself to show firmness. "Youarrive very opportunely. I have just asked my mother-in-law to come tomy aid in some of the things we discussed last night. Won't you do methe justice to hear her?"She crossed the room to where Mrs. Eveleth appeared on the threshold,and, taking her by the hand, led her to the chair which Pruyn placed forher."I'd better go, Diane dear," Miss Lucilla whispered, tremblingly."Please don't," Diane insisted. "I'd much rather have you stay. I've nosecrets from Miss Lucilla," she added, speaking to Derek. "I need awoman friend; and I've found one.""You couldn't find a better," Pruyn murmured, while Miss Lucilla slippedher arm around Diane's waist, rather to steady herself than to supporther friend."Miss Lucilla knows everything that you know, petite mere," Dianecontinued, turning to where her mother-in-law sat, slightly bowed, herextended hand resting on her cane, like some graceful Sibyl. "She knowseverything that you know, and she knows one thing more. She knows whatsome cruel people say was the way in which--George died."Diane uttered the last two words in a kind of sob, and Mrs. Evelethlooked up, startled."George--died?" she questioned, slowly, with a look of wonder.Diane nodded, unable, for the minute, to speak."But we know how--he died.""Mr. Pruyn tells me that we don't.""I beg you not to put it in that way," Derek said, hurriedly. "Irepeated only what was told me, and what was afterward verified. Do younot think we can spare Mrs. Eveleth what must be so painful?""There's no need to spare me, Mr. Pruyn. I think I've reached the pointto which old people often come--where they can't feel any more.""Oh, mother, don't say that," Diane wailed, with a curiously childlikecry. She had never before called Mrs. Eveleth mother, and the wordsounded strangely in this room which had not heard it since Miss Lucillawas a little girl. "My mother would rather know," she declared, almostproudly, speaking again to Pruyn, "than be kept in ignorance ofsomething in which she could help me so much.""What is it?" Mrs. Eveleth asked, eagerly.Then Diane told her. It had been stated, so she said, that George hadnot fallen in her defence, but by his own hand--to escape her; andthere was no one in the world but his own mother to give this monstrouscalumny the lie. During the recital Mrs. Eveleth sat with clasped hands,but with head sinking lower at each word. Once she murmured somethingwhich only Miss Lucilla was near enough to hear:"Then that's why they wouldn't let me look at him in his coffin.""He did love me, didn't he?" Diane cried. "He was happy with me, wasn'the, mother dear? He understood me, and upheld me, and defended me,whatever I did. He didn't want to leave me. He knew I should never havecared for the loss of the money--that we could have faced thattogether. Tell them so, mother; tell them."For the first time since he had known her Derek saw Diane forget herreserve in eager pleading. She stepped forward from Miss Lucilla'sembrace, standing before Mrs. Eveleth with palms opened outward, in anattitude of petition. The older woman did not raise her head nor speak."He was happy with me," Diane insisted. "I made him happy. I wasn't thebest wife he could have had, but he was satisfied with me as I was, inspite of my imperfections. He was worried sometimes, especiallytoward--toward the last; but he wasn't worried about me, was he, motherdear?"Still the mother did not speak nor raise her head. Diane took a stepnearer and began again."I didn't know we were living beyond our means. I didn't know what wasgoing on around me. I reproach myself for that. A wiser woman _would_have known; but I was young, and foolish, and very, very happy. I didn'tknow I was ruining George, though I'm ready to take all theresponsibility for it now. But he never blamed me, did he, mother?never, by a word, never by a look. Oh, speak, and tell them!"Her voice came out with a sharp note of anxiety, in which there was aninflection almost of fear; but when she ceased there was silence."Petite mere," she cried, "aren't you going to say anything?"The bowed head remained bowed; the only sign came from the trembling ofthe extended hand, resting on the top of the stick."If you don't speak," Diane cried again, "they'll think it's because youdon't want to."If there was a response to this, it was when the head bent lower."Mother," Diane cried, in alarm, "I've no one in the world to speak aword for me but you. If you don't do it, they'll believe I drove Georgeto his death--they'll say I was such a woman that he killed himselfrather than live with me any longer."Suddenly Mrs. Eveleth raised her head and looked round upon them all.Then she staggered to her feet."Take me away!" she said, in a dead voice, to Lucilla van Tromp. "Helpme! Take me away! I can't bear any more!" Leaning on Miss Lucilla's arm,she advanced a step and paused before Diane, who stood wide-eyed, andawe-struck rather than amazed, at the magnitude of this desertion. "MayGod forgive you, Diane," she said, quietly, passing on again. "I try todo so; but it's hard."While Derek's eyes were riveted on Diane, she stood staring vacantly atthe empty doorway through which Mrs. Eveleth and Miss Lucilla had passedon their way up-stairs. This abandonment was so far outside the range ofwhat she had considered possible that there seemed to be no avenues toher intelligence through which the conviction of it could be broughthome. She gazed as though her own vision were at fault, as though herpowers of comprehension had failed her.[Illustration: DRAWN BY FRANK CRAIG"I'VE NO ONE TO SPEAK A WORD FOR ME BUT YOU"]Derek, on his part, watched her, with the fascination with which wewatch a man performing some strange feat of skill--from whom first onesupport, and then another, and then another, falls away, until he isleft with nothing to uphold him, perilously, frightfully alone.When at length the knowledge of what had occurred came over her, Dianelooked round the familiar room, as though to bring her senses back outof the realm of the incredible. When her eyes rested on him it wassimply to include him among the common facts of earth after thisexcursion into the impossible. She said nothing, and her face was blank;but the little gesture of the hands--the little limp French gesture: thesudden lift, the sudden drop, the soft, tired sound, as the arms fellagainst the sides--implied fatality, finality, inexplicability, and aninfinite weariness of created things.XIV"Do you think he did--shoot himself?"They continued to stand staring into each other's eyes--the width of theroom between them. A red azalea on the long mahogany table, strewn withbooks, separated them by its fierce splash of color. The apathy ofDiane's voice was not that of worn-out emotion, but of emotion whichfinds no adequate tones. The very way in which her inquiry ignored allother subjects between them had its poignancy."What do _you_ think?""Oh, I suppose he did. Every one says so; then why shouldn't it be true?If it were, it would only be of a piece with all the rest.""I reminded you last night that he had other troubles besides--besides--""Besides those I may have caused him.""If you like to put it so. He might have been driven to a desperate actby loss of fortune.""Leaving me to face poverty alone. No; I can't think so ill of him asthat. If you suggest it by way of offering me consolation, you're makinga mistake. Of the two, I'd rather think of him as seeking death fromhorror--horror of me--than from simple cowardice.""It would be no new thing in the history of money troubles; and it wouldrelieve you of the blame.""To fasten it on him. I see what you mean; but I prefer not to acceptthat kind of absolution. If there's any consolation left to me, it's inthe pride of having been the wife of an honorable man. Don't take itaway from me as long as there's any other explanation possible. I seeyou're puzzled; but you'd have to be a wife to understand me. Accuse meof any crime you like; take it for granted that I've been guilty of it;only don't say that he deserted me in that way. Let me keep at least thecomfort of his memory.""I want you to keep all the comfort you can get, Diane. God forbid thatI should take from you anything in which you find support. So far am Ifrom that, that I come to offer you--what I have to offer."There was a minute's silence before she replied:"I don't know what that is.""My name."There was another minute's silence, during which she looked at himhardly."What for?""I should think you'd see.""I don't. Will you be good enough to explain?""Is that necessary? Is this a minute in which to bandy words?""It's a minute in which I may be permitted to ask the meaning ofyour--generosity.""It isn't generosity. I'm saying nothing new. I've come only for ananswer to the question I asked you before going to South America, threemonths ago.""Oh, but I thought that question had answered itself.""Then perhaps it has--in that, whatever reply you might have given meunder other conditions, now you must accept me.""You mean, I must accept--your name.""My name, and all that goes with it.""How could you expect me to do that, after what happened last night?""What happened last night shall be--as though it had not happened.""Could you ever forget it?""I didn't say I should forget it. I suppose I couldn't do that any morethan you. I said it should be as though it hadn't been.""And what about Dorothea?""That must be as it may.""You mean that Dorothea would have to take her chance.""She needn't know anything about it--yet.""You couldn't keep it from her forever.""No. But she'll probably marry soon. After that she'll understand thingsbetter.""That is, she'll understand the position in which you've beenplaced--that you could hardly have acted otherwise.""I don't want to go into definitions. There are times in life when wordsbecome as dangerous as explosives. Let us do what we see to be ourobvious duty, without saying too much about it.""Isn't it your first duty to protect your child?""My first duty, as I see it now, is to protect you.""I don't see much to be gained by shielding one person when you exposeanother. What happens to me is a small matter compared with theconsequences to her.""Your influence hasn't hurt her in the past; why should it do so now?""You forget that there are other things besides my influence. Her wholeposition, her whole life, would be changed, if she had for a mother--ifyou had for a wife--a notorious woman like me.""There are situations where the child must follow the parent.""But there are none, as far as I know, in which the parent mustsacrifice the child.""I don't agree with you. There are moments in which we must act in acertain definite manner, no matter what may be the outcome. Don't let ustalk of it any more, Diane. You must know as well as I that there is butone thing for us to do.""You mean, of course, that I must marry you.""You must give me the right to take care of you.""Because it's a duty that no one else would assume. That's what it comesto, isn't it?""I repeat that I don't want to discuss it--""You must let me point out that some amount of discussion is needed. Ifwe didn't have it before marriage, we should have it afterward, when itwould be worse. You won't think I'm boasting if I say that I think myvision is a little keener than yours, and that I see what you'd be doingmore clearly than you do yourself. You know me--or you think you knowme--as a guilty woman, homeless, penniless, and without a friend in theworld. You don't want to leave me to my fate, and there's no way ofhelping me but one. That way you're prepared to take, cost what it will.I admire you for it; I thank you for it; I know you would do it like aman. But it's just because you _would_ do it like a man--because you_are_ doing it like a man--that your kindness is far more cruel thanscorn. No woman, not the weakest, not the worst, among us, would consentto be taken as you're offering to take me. A man might bring himself toaccept that kind of pity; but a woman--never! You said just now that youhad come to offer me--what you had to offer; but surely I'm not fallenso low as to have to take it.""I said I offered you my name and all that goes with it. I would try totell you what it is, only that I find something in our relativepositions transcending words. But since you need words--since apparentlyyou prefer plainness of speech--I'll tell you something: I saw Bienvillethis morning."She looked up with a new expression, verging on that of curiosity."And--?""Since then," he continued, "I've become even more deeply conscious thanI was before of the ineradicable nature of what I feel for you.""Ah?""I've come to see that, whatever may have happened, whatever you may be,I want you as my wife.""Do you mean that you would overlook wrongdoing on my part,and--and--care for me, just the same?""I mean that life isn't a conceivable thing to me without you; I meanthat no considerations in the world have any force as against my desireto get you. Whatever your life has been, I subscribe to it. Listen! WhenI saw Bienville this morning he withdrew what he said on shipboard--asnearly as possible, without giving himself the lie, he denied it--andyet, Diane, and yet I knew his first story was--the truth. No, don'tshrink. Don't cry out. Let me go on. I swear to God that it makes nodifference. I see the whole thing from another point of view. I'll notonly take you as you are, but I want you as you are. I give you myhonor, which is dearer than my life--I give you my child, who is moreprecious than my honor. Everything--everything is cheap, so long as Ican win you. Don't shrink from me, Diane. Don't look at me like that--""How can I help shrinking from anything so base?"Her voice rose scarcely above a whisper, but it checked the movementwith which, after the minutes of almost motionless confrontation, hecame toward her with eager arms."Base?" he echoed, offended."Yes--base. That a man should care for a woman whom he thinks to be badis comprehensible; that he should wish to make her his wife is credible;that he should hope to lift her out of her condition is admirable; butthat he should descend from his own high plane to stay on hers isdespicably weak; while to drag down with him a girl in the very flowerof her purity is a crime without a name."The dark flush showed how quickly his haughty spirit responded to theflicker of the lash."If you choose to put that interpretation of my words--" he began,indignantly."I don't; but it's the interpretation they deserve. There's almost noindignity that can be uttered which you haven't heaped upon me; and ofthem all this last is the hardest to be borne. I bear it; I forgive it;because it convinces me of what I've been afraid of all along--that I'ma woman who throws some sort of evil influence over men. Even you arenot exempt from it--even you! Oh, Derek, go away from me! If you won'tdo it for your own sake, do it for Dorothea's. I won't do battle withBienville's accusations now. Perhaps I may never do battle with them atall. What does it matter whether he tells the truth or lies? Thepressing thing just now is that you should be saved--""Thank you; I can take care of myself. Let's have no more fine splittingof moral hairs. Let us settle the thing, and be done with it. There'sone big fact before us, and only one. You can't do without me; I can'tdo without you. It's a crisis at which we've the right to think only ofourselves and thrust every one else outside.""Wait!" she cried, as he advanced once more upon her. "Wait! Let me tellyou something. You mustn't be hard on me for saying it. You asked justnow for my answer to your question of three months ago. My answer is--""Diane!" he said, lifting his hand in warning. "Be careful. Don't speakin a hurry. I'm not in a mood to plead or argue any longer. What you saynow will be--the irrevocable word.""I know it. It will not only be the irrevocable word, but the last word.Derek, I see you as you are, a strong, simple, honest man. I admire you;I esteem you; I honor you; I'm grateful to you as a woman is rarelygrateful to a man. And yet I'd rather be all you think me; I'd ratherearn my bread as desperate women do earn it than be your wife."They looked at each other long and steadily. When he spoke, his wordswere those she had invited, but they made her gasp as one gasps at thatwhich suddenly takes one's breath."As you will," he said, briefly.XVAs the pivot of events, Miss Lucilla van Tromp was beginning to feel theresponsibilities of her position. Only a woman with an inexhaustibleheart could have met as she did the demands for sympathy, of variousshades, made by the chief participants in the drama; while there was onephase of the action which called for a heroic display of conscience.It was impossible now to contemplate Marion Grimston's peril without agrave sense of the duties imposed by friendship. Some people might standby and see a girl wreck her happiness by giving her heart to an unworthysuitor, but Miss van Tromp was not among that number. It was, in fact,one of those junctures at which all her good instincts prompted her tosay, "I ought to go and tell her." As a patriotic spinster, she helddecided views on the question of marriage between American heiresses andimpecunious foreign noblemen--and, in her eyes, all foreign noblemenwere impecunious--in any case; but to see Marion Grimston become thevictim of her parents' vulgar ambition gave to the subject a personalbearing which made her duty urgent. If ever there was a moment when agoddess in a machine could feel justified in descending, for activeintervention, it was now. She had the less hesitation in doing so, owingto the fact that she had known Marion since her cradle; and between thetwo there had always existed the subtle tie which not seldom binds thewidely diverse but essentially like-minded together. Accordingly, on abright May morning, within a few days of the last meeting between DerekPruyn and Diane Eveleth, she sallied forth to the fashionable quarterwhere Mrs. Bayford dwelt, coming home, some two hours later, with aconsiderably extended knowledge of the possibilities inherent in humannature.The tale Miss Lucilla told was that which had already been many timesrepeated, each narrator lending to it the color imparted by his ownviews of life. As now set forth, it became the story of a girl sought inmarriage by a man who has inflicted mortal wrong upon an innocent youngwoman. With unconscious art Miss Lucilla placed Marion Grimston herselfin the centre of the piece, making the subsidiary characters revolvearound her. This situation brought with it a double duty: the oneexplicit in righting the oppressed, the other implicit--for Miss Lucillabalked at putting it too plainly into words--in punishing a wickedmarquis.The girl sat with head slightly bowed and rich color deepening. If sheshowed emotion at all, it was in her haughty stillness, as though shevoluntarily put all expression out of her face until the recital wasended. The effect on Miss Lucilla, as they sat side by side on a sofa,was slightly disconcerting, so that she came to her conclusion lamely."Of course, my dear, I don't know his side of the story, or what he mayhave to say in self-defence. I'm only telling you what I've heard, andjust as I heard it.""I dare say it's quite right."The brevity and suggested cynicism of this reply produced in MissLucilla a little shock."Oh! Then, you think--?""There would be nothing surprising in it. It's the sort of thing that'salways happening in Paris. It's one of the peculiarities of that societythat you can never believe half the evil you hear of any one--not evenif it's told you by the man himself. I might go so far as to say that,when it's told you by himself you're least of all inclined to creditit.""But how dreadful!""Things are dreadful or not, according to the degree in which you'reused to them. I've grown up in that atmosphere, and so I can endure it.In fact, any other atmosphere seems to me to lack some of the necessaryingredients of air; just as to some people--to Napoleon, for instance--awoman who isn't rouged isn't wholly dressed.""I know that's only your way of talking, dear. Oh, you can't shock_me_.""At any rate, the way of talking shows you what I mean. I can quiteunderstand how Monsieur de Bienville might have said that of Mrs.Eveleth."Lucilla's look of pain induced Miss Grimston promptly to qualify herstatement."I said I could understand it; I didn't say I respected it. It's onlywhat's been said of hundreds of thousands of women in Paris by hundredsof thousands of men, and in the place where they've said it it's takenwith the traditional grain of salt. If all had gone as it was going atthe time--if the Eveleths hadn't lost their money--if Mr. Eveleth hadn'tshot himself--if Mrs. Eveleth had kept her place in French society--thestory wouldn't have done her any harm. People would have shrugged theirshoulders at it, and forgotten it. It's the transferring of the scenehere, among you, that makes it grave. All your ideas are so differentthat what's bad becomes worse, by being carried out of its milieu.Monsieur de Bienville must be made to understand that, and repair thewrong.""You seem to think there's no question but that--there _is_ a wrong?""Oh, I suppose there isn't. There are so many cases of the kind. Mrs.Eveleth is probably neither more nor less than one of the manyFrenchwomen of her rank in life who like to skate out on the thin edgeof excitement without any intention of going through. There are alwayswomen like my aunt Bayford to think the worst of people of that sort,and to say it.""And yet I don't see how that justifies Monsieur de Bienville.""It doesn't justify; it only explains. Responsibility presses lessheavily on the individual when it's shared.""But wouldn't the person--you'll forgive me, dear, won't you, if I'mgoing too far?--wouldn't the person who has to take his part in thatkind of responsibility be a doubtful keeper of one's happiness?"Miss Grimston, half lowering her eyes, looked at her visitor withslumberous suspension of expression, and made no reply."If a man isn't good--" Miss Lucilla began again, tremblingly."No man is perfect.""True, dear; and yet are there not certain qualities which we ought toconsider as essentials--?""Monsieur de Bienville has those qualities for me.""But surely, dear, you can't mean--?""Yes, I do mean."The avowal was made quietly, with the still bearing of one who gives afew drops of confession out of deep oceans of reserve. Miss Lucillagazed at her in astonishment. That her parents should sacrifice her wasnot surprising; but that she should be willing to sacrifice herself wentbeyond the limits of thought. The revelation that Marion could actuallylove the man was so startling that it shocked her out of her timidity,loosening the strings of her eloquence and unsealing the sources of hermaternal tenderness. There was nothing original in Miss Lucilla'ssubsequent line of argument. It was the old, oft-uttered, futile appealto the head, when the heart has already spoken. It premised thepossibility of placing one's affections where one cannot give one'srespect, regardless of the fact that the thing is done a thousand timesa day. It reasoned, it predicted, it implored, with an effect no moredisintegrating on the girl's decision than moonbeams make upon amountain. Through it all, she sat and listened with the veiled eyes andmysterious impassivity which gave to her personality a curiouslyincalculable quality, as of a force presenting none of the ordinaryphenomena by which to measure or compute it.It was not till Miss Lucilla touched on the subject of honor that sheobtained any sign of the effect she was producing. It was no more, onMarion's part, than an uneasy movement, but it betrayed its cause. MissLucilla pressed her point with renewed insistence, and presently two bigtears hung on the long, black lashes and rolled down."I should like to see Mrs. Eveleth."Like the hasty raising and dropping of a curtain on some jealouslyguarded view, the words gave to Miss Lucilla but a fleeting glimpse ofwhat was passing in the obscure recesses of the girl's heart; but shedetermined to make the most of it by fixing, there and then, the day andhour when, without apparently forcing the event, the two might come faceto face on the neutral ground of Gramercy Park.It was a meeting that, when it took place, would have been attended withembarrassment had not both young women been practised in the ways oftheir little world. Progress in mutual understanding was made the easierby the existence, on both sides, of the European view of life, with itsfusion of interests, its softness of outline, its give and take oftoleration, in contradistinction to the sharp, clear, insistent Americandemands for a certain line of conduct and no other. Five minutes had notgone by in talk before each found in the other's presence that sense ofrepose which comes from similar habits of thought and a common nativeidiom. Whatever grounds for difference they might find, they were, atleast, ranged on the same side in that battle which the two hemisphereshalf unconsciously wage upon each other as to the main purposes of life.Thus they were able to approach their subject without that firstpreliminary shock which makes it difficult for races to agree; and thus,too, Marion Grimston found herself, before she was aware of it, pouringout to Diane Eveleth that heart which, in response to Miss Lucilla'stender pleading, had been dumb.They sat in the big, sombre library where, only a few days before, Dianehad seen Derek Pruyn turn his back on her, without even a gesture offarewell. On the long mahogany table the red azalea was in almostpassionate luxuriance of blossom; while through the open window faintodors of lilac came from Miss Lucilla's bit of garden."I don't want you to think him worse than you're obliged to," Marionsaid, as though in defence of the stand her heart had taken. "I've beentold that very few men possess the two kinds of courage--the moral andthe physical. Savonarola had the one and Nelson had the other; butneither of them had both. And of the two, for me, the physical is theessential. I can't help it. If I had to choose between a soldier and asaint, I'd take the soldier. When the worst is said of Monsieur deBienville, it must be admitted that he's brave.""I've always understood that he was a good rider and a good shot," Dianeadmitted. "I've no doubt that in battle he would conduct himself like ahero."The girl's head went up proudly, and from the languorous eyes there cameone splendid flash before the lids fell over them again."I know he would; and when a man has that sort of courage he's worthsaving.""You admit, then, that he needs to be--saved?" Again the heavy lids werelifted for one brief, search-light glance."Yes; I admit that. I believe he has wronged you. I can't tell you how Iknow it; but I do. It's to tell you so that I've asked you to come here.I hoped to make you see, as I do, that he's capable of doing it withoutappreciating the nature of his crime. If we could get him to see that--""Then--what?""He'd make you reparation.""Are you so sure?""I'm very sure. If he didn't--" The consequences of that possibilitybeing difficult of expression, she hung upon her words."I should be sorry to have you brought to so momentous a decision on myaccount.""It wouldn't be on your account; it would be on my own. I understandmyself well enough to see that I could love a dishonorable man; but Icouldn't marry him.""You have, of course, your own idea as to what makes a mandishonorable.""What makes a man dishonorable is to persist in dishonor after he hasbecome aware of it. Any one may speak thoughtlessly, or boastfully, orfoolishly, and be forgiven for it. But he can't be forgiven if he keepsit up, especially when by his doing so a woman has to suffer."The movement with which Diane pushed back her chair and rose betrayed atroubled rather than an impatient spirit."Miss Grimston," she said, standing before the girl and looking downupon her, "I should almost prefer not to have you take my affairs intoyour consideration. I doubt if they're worth it. I can't deny that Ishrink from becoming a factor in your life, as well as from feeling thatyou must make your decisions, or unmake them, with reference to me.""I'm not making my decisions, or unmaking them, with reference to you;it's with reference to Monsieur de Bienville. He has my father's consentto his asking me to be his wife. I understand that, according to theformal French fashion, he's going to do it to-morrow. Before I give himan answer I must know that he is such a man as I could marry.""You would have thought him so if you hadn't heard this about me.""Even so, it's better for me to have heard it. Any prudent person wouldtell you that. What I'm going to ask you to do now will not be for yoursake; it will be for mine.""You're going to ask me to do something?""Yes; to see Monsieur de Bienville."Diane recoiled with an expression of dismay."I know it will be hard for you," Miss Grimston pursued, "and I wouldn'task you to do it if it were not the straightest way out of a perplexingsituation. I've confidence enough in him to believe that when he hasseen you and heard your story, he'll act according to the dictates of anature which I know to be essentially honorable, even if it's weak. Youcan see what that will mean to us all. It will not only clear you andrehabilitate him, but it will bring happiness to me."There was something in the way in which these brief statements were madethat gave them the nature of an appeal. The very difficulty of thereserved heart in speaking out, the shame-flushed cheek--the subduedvoice--the halting breath--had on Diane a more potent effect thaneloquence. What was left of her own hope, too, at once put forth itsclaim at the possibility of getting justice. It was a matter of takingher courage in both hands, in one tremendous effort, but the fact thatthis girl believed in her was a stimulus to making the attempt. Beforethey parted--with stammering expressions of mutual sympathy--she hadgiven her word to do it.XVIIn the degree to which masculine good looks and elegance are accessoriesto impressing a maid's heart, the Marquis de Bienville had reason to besure of the effect he was producing, as he bent and kissed Miss MarionGrimston's hand, in her aunt's drawing-room, on the following afternoon.He was not surprised to detect the thrill that shot through her being athis act of homage, and communicated itself back to him; for he wastolerably certain of her love. That had been, to all intents andpurposes, confessed more than two years ago; while, during theintervening time, he had not lacked signs that the gift once bestowedhad never been withdrawn. He had stood for a few seconds at thethreshold on entering the room, just to rejoice consciously at his greatgood-fortune. She had risen, but not advanced, to meet him, her tallfigure, sheathed in some close-fitting, soft stuff, thrown into reliefby the dark-blue velvet portiere behind her. He was not unaware of hisunworthiness in the presence of this superb young creature, and as hecrossed the room it was with the humility of a worshipper before ashrine."Mademoiselle," he said, simply, when he had raised himself, "I come totell you that I love you."The glance, slightly oblique, of suspended expression with which shereceived the words encouraged him to continue."I know how far what I have to give is beneath the honor of youracceptance; and yet when men love they are impelled to offer all thelittle that they have. My one hope lies in the fact that a woman likeyou doesn't love a man for what he is--but for what she can make him."The words were admirably chosen, reaching her heart with a force greaterthan he knew."A woman," she answered, with a certain stately uplifting of the head,"can only make a man that which he has already the power to become. Shemay be able to point out the way; but it's for him to follow it.""I don't think you'd see me hesitate at that.""I'm glad you say so; because the road I should have to ask you to takewould be a hard one.""The harder the better, if it's anything by which I can prove my love.""It is; but it's not only that; it's something by which you could provemine."His face brightened."In that case, Mademoiselle--speak."She took an instant to assemble her forces, standing before him with acalmness she did not feel."You must forgive me," she said, trying to keep her voice steady, "if Itake the initiative, as no girl is often called upon to do. Perhaps Ishould hesitate more if you hadn't told me, two years ago, what I knowyou've come to repeat to-day. The fact that I've waited those two yearsto hear you say it gives me a right that otherwise I shouldn't claim."He bowed."There are no rights that a woman can have over a man which you,Mademoiselle, do not possess over me.""Before telling me again," she continued, speaking with difficulty,"what you've told me already, I want to say that I can only listen to iton one condition.""Which is--?""That your own conscience is at peace with itself."There was a sudden startled toss of the head, but he answered, bravely:"Is one's conscience ever at peace with itself? A woman's, perhaps; buta man's--!"He shook his head with that wistful smile of contrition which is alreadya plea for pardon."I'm not speaking of life in general, but of something in particular. Iwant you to understand, before you ask me--what you've come to ask, thatyou couldn't make one woman happy while you're doing another a greatwrong."He was sure now of what was in store for him, and braced himself for hispart. He was one of those men who need but to see peril to see also theway of meeting it. He stood for a minute, very straight and erect, likea soldier before a court-martial--a culprit whose guilt is half excusedby his very manliness."I have wronged women. They've wronged me, too. All I can do to show I'msorry for it is--not to give them the same sort of offence again.""I'm thinking of one woman--one woman in particular."He threw back his head with fine confidence."I don't know her.""It's Diane Eveleth. She says--""I can imagine what she says. If I were you, I wouldn't pay it moreattention than it deserves.""It deserves a good deal--if it's true.""Not from you, Mademoiselle. It belongs to a region into which yourthought shouldn't enter.""My thought does enter it, I'm afraid. In fact, I think of it so muchthat I've invited Mrs. Eveleth to come here this afternoon. I hope youdon't mind meeting her?""Certainly not. Why should I?" he demanded, with an air of consciousrectitude.Miss Grimston touched a bell."Ask Mrs. Eveleth to come in," she said to the footman who answered it.As Diane entered she greeted Bienville with a slight inclination of thehead, which he returned, bowing ceremoniously."I've begged Mrs. Eveleth to meet us," Marion hastened to explain, "fora very special reason.""Then perhaps she will be good enough to tell me what it is," Bienvillesaid, with a look of courteous inquiry."Miss Grimston thought--you might be able--to help me."There was a catch in Diane's voice as she spoke, but she mastered it,keeping her eyes on his, in the effort to be courageous."If there's anything I can do--" he began, allowing the rest of hissentence to be inferred.He concealed his nervousness by placing a small gilded chair for Dianeto sit on. He himself took a chair a few feet away, seating himselfsidewise, with his elbow supported on the back, in an easy attitude ofattention. Marion Grimston withdrew to the more distant part of theroom, where, with her hands behind her, she stood leaning against thegrand piano, with the bearing of one only indirectly, and yet intensely,concerned. Bienville left the task of beginning to Diane. In spite ofhis determination to be self-possessed, a trace of compunction wasvisible in his face as he contrasted the subdued little woman before himwith the sparkling, insouciant creature to whom, two or three years ago,he had paid his inglorious court."I shall have to speak to you quite simply and frankly," Diane began,with some hesitation, still keeping her eyes on his, "otherwise youwouldn't understand me.""Quite so," Bienville assented, politely."You may not have heard that since--my--my husband's death, I have myown living to earn?""Yes; I did hear something of the kind.""I've had what people in my position call a good situation; but I havelost it.""Ah? I'm sorry.""I thought you would be. That's why Miss Grimston asked me to tell youthe reason. She was sure you wouldn't injure me--knowingly.""Naturally. I'm very much surprised that any one should think I'veinjured you at all. To the best of my knowledge your name has not passedmy lips for two years, at the least. If it had it would only have beenspoken--with respect.""I'm sure of that. I'm not pretending when I say that I'm absolutelyconvinced you're a man of sensitive honor. If you weren't you couldn'tbe a Frenchman and a Bienville. I want you to understand that I've neverattributed--the--things that have happened--to anything but folly andimprudence--for which I want to take my full share of the blame.""I've never ventured to express to you my own regret," Bienville said,in a tone not free from emotion, "but I assure you it's very deep.""I know. All our life was so wrong! It's because I feel sure you mustsee that as well as I do that I hoped you'd help me now."He said nothing in reply, letting some seconds pass in silence, waitingfor her to come to her point."On the way up from South America," she began again, with visibledifficulty, "you were on the same ship with my--my--employer. Fromcertain things you said then--""But I've withdrawn them," he interrupted, quickly. "He should have toldyou that. Mademoiselle," he added, rising, and turning toward MarionGrimston, "wouldn't it spare you if we continued this conversationalone?""No; I'd rather stay," Miss Grimston said, with an inflection ofrequest. "Please sit down again.""He should have told you that," Bienville repeated, taking his seat oncemore, and speaking with some animation. "I did my best to straightenthings out for him.""Then he didn't understand you. He told me you had taken back what youhad said, but only in a way that reaffirmed it.""That's nothing but a tortuous construction put on straightforwardwords.""Quite so; but for that very reason I thought that perhaps you'd go tohim again and explain what you meant more clearly."He took a minute to consider this before speaking."I don't see how I can," he said, slowly. "I've already used theplainest words of which I have command.""Words aren't everything. It's the way they're spoken that often countsmost. I'm sure you could convince him if you went the right way to workabout it.""I doubt that. I'm afraid I don't know how to force conviction on anyone against his will.""You mean--?""I mean--you'll excuse me; I speak quite bluntly--I mean that he seemedvery willing to believe anything that could tell against you, but lesseager to credit what was said in your defence.""You think so because you don't understand him. As a matter of fact--""Oh, I dare say. I don't pretend to understand the gentleman inquestion. But for that very reason it would be useless for me to try toenlighten him further. It would only make matters worse.""It wouldn't if you'd put things before him just as they happened. Idon't want any excuses made for me. My best defence would be--thetruth."There was a perceptible pause, during which his eyes shifted uneasilytoward Marion Grimston."I should think you could tell him that yourself," he suggested, atlast."It wouldn't be the same thing. You're the only person who could speakwith authority. He'd accept your word, if you gave it--in a certainway.""I'm afraid I don't know what that way is.""Oh yes, you do, Bienville!" she exclaimed, pleadingly, leaning forwardslightly, with her hands clasped in her lap. "Don't force me to speakmore plainly than I need. You must know what I refer to."He shook his head slowly, with a look of mystification."What you may not know," she continued, "is all it means to me. I won'tput the matter on any ground but that of my need for earning money.Because Mr. Pruyn has--misunderstood you, I've had to give upmy--my--place"--she forced the last word with a little difficulty--"anduntil something like a good name is restored to me I shall find it hardto get another. You can have no idea of what that means. I had none,until I had to face it. There's only one kind of work I'm fittedfor--the kind I've been doing; but it's just the kind I can't havewithout the--the reputation you could give back to me."That this appeal was not without its effect was evident from the way inwhich his expressive brown eyes clouded, while he stroked his blackbeard nervously. The fact that his pity was largely for himself--thatwith instincts naturally chivalrous he should be driven to thesemiserable verbal shifts--being unknown to Diane, she was encouraged toproceed."You see," she went on, eagerly, "it wouldn't only bring me happiness,but it would add to your own. You're at the beginning of a new life,just like me--or, rather, just as I could be if you'd give me thechance. Think what it would be for you to enter on it, I won't say witha clear conscience, but with the knowledge that in rising yourself youhad helped an unhappy woman up, instead of thrusting her further down!It isn't as if it would be so hard for you, Bienville. I'd make it easyfor you. Miss Grimston would help me. Wouldn't you?" she added, turningtoward Marion. "It could all be done quite simply and confidentiallybetween ourselves--and Mr. Pruyn.""Oh no, it couldn't," he said, coldly. "If I were to admit what youimply, secrecy wouldn't be of any use to me.""Does that mean," she asked, fixing her earnest eyes upon him, "that youdon't admit it?""It means," he said, rising quietly and standing behind his chair, "thatthis conversation is extremely painful to me, and I must ask to beexcused from taking any further part in it. I know only vaguely what youmean, Madame; and if I don't inquire more in detail, it's because I wantto spare you distressing explanations. I think you must agree with me,Mademoiselle," he continued, looking toward Miss Grimston, "that weshould all be well advised in letting the subject drop."Marion came slowly forward, advancing to the side of Diane, over whoseshoulder, as she remained seated, she allowed her hand to fall, in apose suggestive of protection."Of course, Monsieur," she agreed, "we must let the subject drop, if youhave nothing more to say."He stood silent a minute, looking at her steadily. "I'm afraid Ihaven't," he said, then."Nor I," Miss Grimston returned, significantly.Again there was a minute or two of silence, during which Bienvilleseemed to probe for the meaning of the two laconic words. If anythingcould be read from his countenance, it was doubt as to whether torelinquish the prize with dignity or to pay its price in humiliation.There was an instant in which he appeared to be bracing himself to dothe latter; but when he spoke his interrogation threw the responsibilityfor decision on Miss Grimston."Have I received--my answer?"She waited, finding it hard to give him his reply. It was as if forcedto it against her will that her head bent slowly in assent."Then," he said, in a tone of dignified regret, "there's nothing for mebut to wish Mademoiselle good-by."He bowed separately to Miss Grimston and to Diane, and, with theself-possession of a man accustomed to the various turns of drawing-roomdrama, he left the room.XVIIDuring the summer that followed these events Derek Pruyn set himself thetask of stamping the memory and influence of Diane Eveleth out of hislife. His sense of duty combined with his feelings of self-respect inmaking the attempt. In reflecting on his last interview with her, he sawthe weakness of the stand he had taken in it, recoiling from so unworthya position with natural reaction. To have been in love at all at his agestruck him as humiliation enough; but to have been in love with thatsort of woman came very near mental malady. He said "that sort ofwoman," because the vagueness of the term gave scope to the bitternessof resentment with which he tried to overwhelm her. It enabled him tocreate some such paradise of pain as that into which the souls ofOthello and Desdemona might have gone together. Had he been a Moor ofVenice he would doubtless have smothered her with a pillow; but being aNew York banker he could only try to slay the image, whose eyes andvoice had never haunted him so persistently as now. In his rage ofsuffering he was as little able to take a reasoned view of the situationas the maddened bull in the arena to appraise the skill of histormentors.When in the middle of May he had retired to Rhinefields it was with theintention of laying waste all that Diane had left behind in the courseof her brief passage through his life. The process being easier in theexterior phases of existence than in those more secret and remote, hedetermined to work from the outside inward. Wherever anything remindedhim of her, he erased, destroyed, or removed it. All that she hadchanged within the house he put back into the state in which it wasbefore she came. Where he had followed her suggestions about the groundsand gardens he reversed the orders. Taken as outward and visible signsof the inward and spiritual change he was trying to create withinhimself, these childish acts gave him a passionate satisfaction. In ashort time, he boasted to himself, he would have obliterated all traceof her presence.And so he came, in time, to giving his attention to Dorothea. She, too,bore the impress of Diane; and as she bore it more markedly than theinanimate things around, it caused him the greater pain. He could forbidher to hold intercourse with Diane, and to speak of her; but he couldnot control the blending of French and Irish intonations her voice hadcaught, or the gestures into which she slipped through youth's mimeticinstinct. In happier days he had been amused to note the degree to whichDorothea had become the unconscious copy of Diane; but now this constantreproduction of her ways was torture. Telling himself that it was notthe child's fault, he bore it at first with what self-restraint hecould; but as solitude encouraged brooding thoughts, he found, as thesummer wore on, that his stock of patience was running low. There weretimes when some chance sentence or imitated bit of mannerism onDorothea's part almost drew from him that which in tragedy would be acry, but which in our smaller life becomes the hasty or exasperatedword.In these circumstances the explosion was bound to come; and one day itproduced itself unexpectedly, and about nothing. Thinking of itafterward Derek was unable to say why it should have taken place thenmore than at any other time. He was standing on the lawn, noting withsavage complacency that the bit by which he had enlarged it, at Diane'sprompting, had grown up again, in luxuriant grass, when Dorotheadescended the steps of the Georgian brick house, behind him."Would you be afther wantin' me to-day?" she called out, using the Irishexpression Diane affected in moments of fun."Dorothea," he cried, sharply, wheeling round on her, "drop that idioticway of speaking. If you think it's amusing, you're mistaken. You can'teven do it properly."The words were no sooner out than he regretted them, but it was too lateto take them back. Moreover, when a man, nervously suffering, has oncewounded the feelings of one he loves, it is not infrequently hisinstinct to go on and wound them again."We have enough of that sort of language from the servants and thestable-boys. Be good enough in future to use your mother-tongue."Standing where his words had stopped her, a few yards away, she lookedup at him with the clear gaze of astonishment; but the slight shrug ofthe shoulders before she spoke was also a trick caught from Diane, andnot calculated to allay his annoyance."Very well, father," she answered, with a quietness indicating judgmentheld in reserve, "I won't do it again. I only meant to ask you if youwant me for anything in particular to-day; otherwise I shall go over andlunch at the Thoroughgoods'.""The Thoroughgoods' again? Can't you get through a day without goingthere?""I suppose I could if it was necessary; but it isn't.""I think it is. You'll do well not to wear out your welcome anywhere.""I'm not afraid of that.""Then I am; so you'd better stay at home."He wheeled from her as sharply as he had turned to confront her,striding off toward a wild border, where he tried to conceal the extentto which he was ashamed of his ill temper by pretending to be engrossedin the efforts of a bee to work its way into a blue cowl of monk's-hood.When he looked around again she was still standing where he had lefther, her eyes clouded by an expression of wondering pain that smote himto the heart.Had he possessed sufficient mastery of himself he would have gone backand begged her pardon, and sent her away to enjoy herself. It was whathe wanted to do; but the tension of his nerves seemed to get relief fromthe innocent thing's suffering. The very fact that her pretty littleface was set with his own obstinacy of self-will, while behind it herspirit was rising against this capricious tyranny, goaded him intopersistence. He remembered how often Diane had told him that Dorotheacould be neither led nor driven; she could only be "managed"; but hewould show Diane, he would show himself, that she could be both drivenand led, and that "management" should go the way of the wall-fruit andthe roses.As, recrossing the lawn, he made as though he would pass her withoutfurther words, he was an excellent illustration of the degree to whichthe adult man of the world, capable of taking an important part amonghis fellow-men, can be, at times, nothing but an overgrown infant. Itwas not surprising, however, that Dorothea should not see this aspect ofhis personality, or look upon his commands as other than those of anunreasonable despotism."Father," she said, "I can't go on living like this.""Living like what?""Living as we've lived all this summer.""What's the matter with the summer? It's like any other summer, isn'tit?""The summer may be like any other summer; but you're not like yourself.I do everything I can to please you, but--""You needn't do anything to please me but what you're told.""I always do what I'm told--when you tell me; but you only tell me byfits and starts.""Then, I tell you now: you're not to go to the Thoroughgoods'.""But they expect me. I said I'd go to lunch. They'll think it verystrange if I don't.""They'll think what they please. It's enough for you to know what Ithink.""But that's just what I don't know. Ever since Diane went away--""Stop that! I've forbidden you to speak--""But you can't forbid me to think; and I think till I'm utterlybewildered. You don't explain anything to me. You haven't even told mewhy she went away. If I ask a question you won't answer it.""What's necessary for you to know, you can depend on me to tell you.Anything I don't explain to you, you may dismiss from your mind.""But that's not reasonable, father; it's not possible. If you want me toobey you, I must know what I'm doing. Because I don't know what I'mdoing, I haven't--""You haven't obeyed me?" he asked, quickly."Not entirely. I've meant to tell you when an occasion offered, so Imight as well do it now. I've written to Diane.""You've--!"He strode up to her and caught her by the arm. It was not strange thatshe should take the curious light in his face for that of anger; but amore experienced observer would have seen that two distinct emotionscrowded on each other."I've written to her twice," Dorothea repeated, defiantly, as he heldher arm. "She didn't reply to me--but I wrote.""What for?""To tell her that I loved her--that no trouble should keep me fromloving her--no matter what it was."He released her arm, stepping back from her again, surveying her with anadmiration he tried to conceal under a scowling brow. The rigidity ofher attitude, the lift of her head, the set of her lips, the directnessof her glance, suggested not merely rebellion against his will, but theassertion of her own. It occurred to him then that he could break herlittle body to pieces before he could force her to yield; and in hispride in this temperament, so like his own, he almost uttered the cry of"Brava!" that hung on his lips. He might have done so if Dorothea hadnot found it a convenient moment at which to make all her confessions atonce and have them off her mind. It was best to do it, she thought, nowthat her courage was up."And, father," she went on, "it may be a good opportunity to tell yousomething else. I've decided to marry Mr. Wappinger."During the brief silence that followed this announcement he had time tothrow the blame for it upon Diane, using the fact as one more argumentagainst her. Had she taken his suggestions at the beginning, andsuppressed the Wappinger acquaintance, this distressing folly would havereceived a definite check: As it was, the odium of putting a stop to it,which must now fall on him, was but an additional part of the penalty hehad to pay for ever having known her. So be it! He would make good theuttermost farthing! In doing it he had the same sort of frenziedsatisfaction as in defacing Diane's image in his heart."You shall not," he said, at last."I don't understand how you're going to stop me.""I must ask you to be patient--and see. You can make a beginning to-day,by staying at home from the Thoroughgoods'. That will be enough for theminute."Fearing to look any longer into her indignant eyes, he passed on towardthe stables. For some minutes she stood still where he left her, whilethe collie gazed up at her, with twitching tail and questioning regard,as though to ask the meaning of this futile hesitation; but when, atlast, she turned slowly and re-entered the house, one would have saidthat the "dainty rogue in porcelain" had been transformed into anintensely modern little creature made of steel.She did not go to the Thoroughgoods' that day, nor was any furtherreference made to the discussion of the morning. Compunction havingsucceeded irritation, with the rapidity not uncommon to men of hischaracter, Derek was already seeking some way of reaching his end bygentler means, when a new move on Dorothea's part exasperated him stillfurther. As he was about to sit down to his luncheon on the followingday, the butler made the announcement that Miss Pruyn had asked him toinform her father that she had driven over in the pony-cart to Mrs.Throughgood's, and would not be home till late in the afternoon.He was not in the house when she returned, and at dinner he refrainedfrom conversation till the servants had left the room."So it's--war," he said, then, speaking in a casual tone, and toyingwith his wine-glass."I hope not, father," she answered, promptly, making no pretence not tounderstand him. "It takes two to make a quarrel, and--""And you wouldn't be one?""I was going to say that I hoped you wouldn't be.""But you yourself would fight?""I should have to. I'm fighting for liberty, which is always anhonorable motive. You're fighting to take it away from me--""Which is a dishonorable motive. Very well; I must accept thatimputation as best I may, and still go on.""Oh, then, it is war. You mean to make it so.""I mean to do my duty. You may call your rebellion against it what youlike.""I'm not accustomed to rebel," she said, with significant quietness."Only people who feel themselves weak do that.""And are you so strong?""I'm very strong. I don't want to measure my strength against yours,father; but if you insist on measuring yours against mine, I ought towarn you.""Thank you. It's in the light of a warning that I view your actionto-day. You probably went to meet Mr. Wappinger."In saying this his bow was drawn so entirely at a venture that he wasastonished at the skill with which he hit the mark."I did."He pushed back his chair; half rose; sat down again; poured out a glassof Marsala; drank it thirstily; and looked at her a second or two inhelpless distress before finding words."And you talk of honorable motives!""My motive was entirely honorable. I went to explain to him that Icouldn't see him any more--just now.""While you were about it you might as well have said neither justnow--nor at any other time."She was silent."Do you hear?""Yes; I bear, father.""And you understand?""I understand what you mean.""And you promise me that it shall be so?""No, father.""You say that deliberately? Remember, I'm asking you an importantquestion, and you're giving me an equally important reply.""I recognize that; but I can't give you any other answer.""We'll see." He pushed back his chair again, and rose. He had alreadycrossed the room, when, a new thought occurring to him, he turned at thedoor. "At least I presume I may count on you not to see this young managain without telling me?""Not without telling you--afterward. I couldn't undertake more thanthat.""H'm!" he ejaculated, before passing out. "Then I must take activemeasures."It was easier, however, to talk about active measures than to devisethem. While Dorothea was sobbing, with her elbows on the dining-roomtable, and her face buried in her hands, he was pacing his room insearch of desperate remedies. It was a case in which his mind turnedinstinctively to Diane for help; but in the very act of doing so he wasconfronted by her theories as to Dorothea's need of diplomatic guidance.For that, he told himself, the time was past. The event had proved howimpotent mere "management" was to control her, and justified his ownpreference for force.Before she went to bed that night Dorothea was summoned to her father'spresence, to receive the commands which should regulate her conducttoward "the young man Wappinger." They could have been summed up in thestatement that she must know him no more. She was not only never to seehim, or write to him, or communicate with him, by direct or indirectmeans; as far as he could command it, she was not to think of him, orremember his name. His measures grew more drastic in proportion as hegave them utterance, until he himself become aware that they would bedifficult to fulfil."I will not attempt to extract a promise from you," he was prudentenough to say, in conclusion, "that you will carry out my wishes,because I know you would never bring on me the unhappiness that wouldspring from disobedience.""It's hardly fair, father, to say that," she replied, firmly. "In war,no one should shrink from--the misfortunes of war.""That means, then, that you defy me?"She was calmer than he as she made her reply."It doesn't mean that I defy you. I love you too much to put either youor myself in such an odious position as that. But it does mean that oneday, sooner or later, I shall marry--Mr. Wappinger."He looked at her with a bitter smile."I admire your frankness, Dorothea," he said, after a brief pause, "andI shall do my best to imitate it. If it's to be war, we shall at leastfight in the open. I know what you intend to do, and you know that Imean to circumvent you. The position on both sides being so pleasantlyclear, you may come and kiss me good-night."During the process of the stiff little embrace that followed it was asdifficult for her not to fling herself sobbing on his breast as for himnot to seize her in his arms; but each maintained the restraint inspiredby the justice of their respective causes. When she had closed the doorbehind her, he stood for a long time, musing. That his thoughts were notaltogether tragic became manifest as his brow cleared, and the ghost ofa smile, this time without bitterness, hovered about his lips. Suddenlyhe slapped his leg, like a man who has made a discovery."By Gad!" he whispered, half aloud, "when all is said and done, sheknows how to play the game!"XVIIIIt was, perhaps, the knowledge that Dorothea could play the game thatenabled Derek, during the rest of the summer, to play it himself. Thishe did without flinching, finding strength in the fact that, as timewent on, Dorothea seemed to enter into his plans and submit to hisjudgment. The first few weeks of pallor and silence having passed, sheresumed her accustomed ways, and, as far as he could tell, grewcheerful. Always having credited her with common-sense, he was pleasednow to see her make use of it in a way of which few girls of nineteenwould have been capable. She accepted his surveillance with so muchdocility that, by the time they returned to town in the autumn he wasable to congratulate himself on his success.On her part, Dorothea carried out his instructions to the letter.Notwithstanding the opening of the season and the renewal of the usualgayeties, she lived quietly, accepting few invitations, and rarely goinginto society at all, except under her father's wing. On those accidentaloccasions when Carli Wappinger came within their range of vision, it wasonly as a distant ship drifts into sight at sea--to drift silently awayagain. If Dorothea perceived him, she gave no sign. It was clear toDerek that her spurt of rebellion was over, and that her littleexperience had done her no harm. The name of Wappinger being tacitlyignored between them, he could only express his pleasure, in the resultshe had achieved, by an extravagant increase of Dorothea's allowance, andgifts of inappropriate jewels. It would have taken a more weatherwiseperson than he to guess that behind this domestic calm the storm wasbrewing.The first intuition of threatening events came to Mrs. Wappinger."I've seen nothing and heard nothing," she declared, in her emphaticway, to Diane, "but I know something is going on."That was in September. They sat in the shade of the cool flag-pavedpergola at Waterwild, Mrs. Wappinger's place on Long Island. Thetea-table stood between them, and they lounged in wicker chairs. Framedby marble pillars, and festooned from above by vines drooping from theroof, there was a view of terraced lawns descending toward the sea.Between the slightly overcrowded urns and statues there were brightdashes of color, here of dahlias in full bloom, there of reddeninggarlands of ampelopsis or Virginia creeper. It was what Mrs. Wappingercalled an "off-day," otherwise she could not have had Diane atWaterwild. In her loyalty toward the deserted woman she seized thoseopportunities when Carli was away, and she was certain of having noother guests, "to have the poor thing down for the day, and give her agood meal."Not that people occupied themselves with Diane or her affairs! Her placein the hurrying, scrambling social throng had been so unobtrusive that,now that she no longer filled it, she was easily forgotten. Among thefew who paid her the tribute of recollection there was the generallyreceived impression that Derek Pruyn, having discovered her relationswith the Marquis de Bienville--relations which, so they said, had beenwell known in Paris, in the days when she was still some one--haddismissed her from her position in his household. That was naturalenough, and there was no further reason for remembering her. Havingdisappeared into the limbo of the unfortunate, she was as far beyond themental range of those who retained their blessings as souls that havepassed are out of sight of men and women who still walk the earth. Forthis very reason she called out in Mrs. Wappinger that motherlygood-nature which was only partially warped by the ambition for socialsuccess. On more than one of her "off-days" she had lured Diane out ofher refuge in University Place, treating her with all the kindness shecould bestow without causing disparaging comment upon herself. On thepresent occasion she was the more desirous of her company because of thefact that, as she expressed it herself, she had "sniffed something goingon."[Illustration: DRAWN BY FRANK CRAIGIT WAS WHAT MRS. WAPPINGER CALLED AN "OFF DAY"]"As I tell you," she repeated, "I've heard nothing, and seen nothing;I've just sniffed it. If you were to ask me how, I couldn't explain itto you any more than I can say how I get the scent of this climbingheliotrope. But I do get it; and I do know something is in the wind,more than what is told to you and I.""One can only hope that it will be nothing foolish," Diane murmured,guardedly."It _will_ be something foolish," Mrs. Wappinger declared, "and you maytake my word for it. Derek Pruyn can't arrogate to himself the powers ofthe Lord above any more than we can. If he thinks he can stop youngblood from running he'll find out he's wrong."It was the first mention of his name that Diane had heard in many weeks,and at the sound her hand trembled in such a way that she was obliged toput down untasted the cup she had half raised to her lips."He's not an unkind man," she found voice to say; "he's only a mistakenone. He has one of those natures capable of dealing magnificently withgreat affairs, but helpless in the trivial matters of every day. He'slike the people who see well at a distance, but become confused over theobjects right under their eyes.""Then the farther you keep away from that man the better the view he'lltake of you. It's what I'd say to Carli if he'd ask for my advice.""Does that mean," Diane ventured to inquire, "that you don't want him tomarry Dorothea?""I certainly do not. If there were no other reason, she's the sort ofgirl to make me put one foot into the grave, whether I want to or no;and it stands to reason that I don't want to be squelched one hourbefore my time.""Naturally; but I fancy you'd find her a sweeter girl than you mightsuppose.""So she may be, dear; but I've spent too much money on Carli to wish tosee him force his way into a family where he isn't wanted."This was the text of Mrs. Wappinger's discourse, not only on the presentoccasion, but on the subsequent "off-days," when Diane was induced tovisit Waterwild."Whatever is going on, Reggie Bradford's in it," she confided to Dianesome few weeks later."Is that the fat young man with the big laugh?""Yes; and one of the greatest catches in New York. Carli tells me he'swild about Marion Grimston, and I can see for myself that Mrs. Bayfordis playing him against that Frenchman. She'll get the title if she can,but if not, she'll fall back on the money.""It's a pretty safe alternative," Diane smiled, making an effort tospeak without betraying her feelings."Reggie is a good-natured boy," Mrs. Wappinger pursued, "but a regularwater-pipe. If you want to get anything out of him you've only got toturn the faucet. It's just as well that he is; because whatever Carli isup to Reggie knows, and what Reggie knows Marion Grimston knows. If everyou see her--""Oh, but I don't--not now.""That's a pity. If you did, you could pump her.""I'm afraid I'm not much good at that sort of thing.""Well, I am, when I get a chance. I'm bound to find out, somehow; andthere are more ways of killing a cat than by giving it poison."A few weeks later still Mrs. Wappinger informed Diane that DorotheaPruyn was not happy."The Thoroughgoods told the Louds," she explained, "and the Louds toldme. Her father thinks she has given in to him; but she hasn't--not aninch. He keeps her like a jailer; and she acts like a convict--alwayswith an eye open for some way of escape. That man no more understandswomen than he does making pie.""I've always noticed that the really strong men rarely do. There'salmost invariably something petty about a man to whom a woman isn't apuzzle and a mystery.""If it comes to a puzzle and a mystery, I don't know where you'd find agreater one than Derek Pruyn himself. After the way he's acted--andtreated people--"Diane flushed, but kept her emotions sufficiently under control to beable to follow her usual plan of straightforward speaking."If you mean me, Mrs. Wappinger, I ought to say that Mr. Pruyn has donenothing for which I can blame him. He was placed in a situation withwhich only a very subtle intelligence could have dealt, and I respecthim the more for not having had it. It's generally the man who is mostcompetent in his own domain who is most likely to blunder when he getsinto the woman's; and I, for one, would rather have him do it. I've hadto suffer because of it, and so has Dorothea; and yet that doesn't makeme like it less.""No, I dare say not," Mrs. Wappinger responded, sympathetically. "Mr.Wappinger himself was just such a man as that. He'd put through a dealthat would make Wall Street shiver; but he understood my woman's naturejust about as much as old Tiger there, wagging his tail on the grass,follows the styles in bonnets. Only, I'll tell you what, Mrs. Eveleth:it's for men like that that God created sensible, capable wives, likeyou and me; and they ought to have 'em."This theme admitting of little discussion, Diane did not pursue it, butshe went away from Waterwild with a deepened sense of Derek's need ofher, as well as of Dorothea's. She could so easily have helped them boththat the enforced impotence was a new element in her pain. To walk thetown in search of work to which she was little suited, when that whichno one but herself could accomplish had to remain undone, became, duringthe next few weeks, the most intolerable part of the irony ofcircumstance. The wifely, the maternal qualities of her being, of whichshe had never been strongly conscious till of late, awoke in response tothe need that drew them forth, only to be blighted by denial.The inactivity was the harder to endure because of the fact that, asautumn passed into early winter, there came a period when all her littleworld seemed to have dropped her out of sight. There were no more"off-days" at Waterwild, and Miss Lucilla's occasional letters fromNewport ceased. Between her mother-in-law and herself, after a few painfulattempts at intercourse, there had fallen an equally painful silence.Even her two or three pupils fell away.From the papers she learned that one or another of those for whom shecared was back in town again. She walked in the chief thoroughfares inthe hope of meeting some of them, but chance refused to favor her. Inthe dusk of the early descending November and December twilights shepassed their houses, watching the warm glow of the lights within,against which, now and then, a shadow that she could almost recognizewould pass by. She could have entered at Miss Lucilla's door, or Mrs.Wappinger's; but a strange shyness, the shyness of the unfortunate, hadtaken hold of her, and she held back. In the mean time she was free towatch, with sad eyes and sadder spirit, the great city, reversing theprocesses of nature, awaken from the torpor of the genial months intoits winter life.No one knew better than herself that thrill of excited energy with whichthose born with the city instinct return from the acquired taste formountain, seaside, and farm, to enter once more the maze of purely humanrelationships. It was a moment with which her own active nature was insympathy. She liked to see the blinds being raised in the houses and thebarricading doors taken down. She liked to see the vehicles begin tocrowd one another in the streets and the pedestrians on the pavementwear a brisker air. She liked to see the shop-windows brighten withcolor and the great public gathering-spots let in and let out theirthrongs. She responded to the quickened animation with the spontaneityof one all ready to take her part, till the thought came that a part hadbeen refused her. It was with a curious sensation of being outside therange of human activities that, during those days of timid, futilelooking for employment, she roamed the busy thoroughfares of New York.As time passed she ceased to think much about her need of sympatheticfellowship in her anxiety to get work. She wrote advertisements andanswered them; she applied at schools, and offices, and shops; she camedown to seeking any humble drudgery which would give her the chance tolive.It was not till one day in early December that the last flicker of herhope went out. Chance had made her pass at midday along the pavementopposite one of the great restaurants. Lifting her eyes instinctivelytoward the group of well-dressed people on the steps, she saw that Mrs.Bayford and Marion Grimston were going in, accompanied by ReggieBradford and the Marquis de Bienville. She had heard little or nothingof them during the last four empty months; but it was plain now that thelovers were agreed and her own cause abandoned. Up to this moment shehad not realized how tenaciously she had clung to the belief that theproud, high-souled girl would yet see justice done her; and now she haddeserted her, like the rest!For the first time during her years of struggle she felt absolutelybeaten--beaten so thoroughly that it would be useless to renew thefight. She had been on her way to see a lady who had advertised for anursery governess; but she had no strength left with which to face theinterview. In the winter-garden of the restaurant Mrs. Bayford waspurring to her guests, Reggie Bradford was whispering to Miss Grimston,and the Marquis de Bienville was ordering the wines, while Diane waswandering blindly back to the poor little room she called her home,there to lie down and allow her heart to break.But hearts do not break at the command of those who own them, and whenshe had moaned away the worst of her pain, she fell asleep. When sheawoke it was already growing dark, and the knocking at her door, whichroused her, was like a call from the peace of dreams to the desolationof reality. When she had turned on the light she received from the handsof the waiting servant that which had become a most rare visitant in theblankness of her life--a note.The address was in a sprawling hand, which she recognized. What waswritten within was more sprawling still:  "For Heaven's sake, come to me at once. The expected has happened, and  I don't know what to do. The motor will wait and bring you.  CLARA WAPPINGER."[Illustration: DRAWN BY FRANK CRAIGMRS. BAYFORD WAS PURRING TO HER GUESTS]XIXAs Diane entered, Mrs. Wappinger, dishevelled and distraught, wasstanding in the hail, a slip of yellow paper in her hand."Oh, my dear, I'm so glad you've come! I'm just about crazy! Read this!"Diane took the paper and read:  "D. and I are to be married to-night. Be ready to receive us  to-morrow.  CARLI.""When did this come?" Diane asked, quickly."About half an hour ago. I sent for you at once.""I see it's dated from Lakefield. Where's that?"Mrs. Wappinger explained that Lakefield was a small winter health resortsome two hours by train from New York. She and Carli had stayed there,more than once, at the Bay Tree Inn. He would naturally go to the samehotel, only, when she had telephoned to it, a few minutes ago, she couldfind no one of the name in residence. Under the circumstances, Dianesuggested, he would probably not give his name at all. There followed afew minutes of silent reflection, during which Mrs. Wappinger gazed atDiane, in the half-tearful helplessness of one not used to coping withunusual situations."Won't you come in and sit down?" she asked, with a sudden realizationthat they were still standing beneath the light in the hail."No," Diane answered, with decision; "it isn't worth while. May I havethe motor for an hour or so?""Why, certainly. But where are you going?""I'm going first to Mr. Pruyn's, and afterward to Lakefield.""To Lakefield? Then I'll go with you. We could go in the car."Diane negatived both suggestions. The motor might break down, or thechauffeur might lose his way; the train would be safer. If any one wentwith her, it would have to be Mr. Pruyn."But don't go to bed," she added, "or at least have some one to answerthe telephone, for I'll ring you up as soon as I have news for you.""God bless you, dear," Mrs. Wappinger murmured. "I know you'll do yourbest for me, and them. Keep the auto as long as you like; and if youdecide to go down in it, just say so to Laporte."But Diane seemed to hesitate before going. A flush came into her cheek,and she twisted her fingers in embarrassment."I wonder", she faltered, "if--if--you could let me have a little money?I shall need some, and--and I haven't--any.""Oh, my dear! my poor dear!"Mrs. Wappinger bustled away, crumpling the notes she found in her deskinto a little ball, which she forced into Diane's hand. To forestallthanks she thrust her toward the door, accompanying her down the steps,and kissing her as she entered the automobile."Why, bless my 'eart, if it ain't the madam!"This outburst was a professional solecism on the part of Fulton, theEnglish butler, at Derek Pruyn's, but it was wrung from him in sheer joyat Diane's unexpected appearance."You'll excuse me, ma'am", he continued, recapturing his air of decorum,"but I fair couldn't help it. We'll be awful pleased to see you, ma'am,if I may make so bold as to say it--right down to the cat. It hasn'tbeen the same 'ouse since you went away, ma'am; and me and Mr. Simmonshas said so time and time again. You'll excuse me, ma'am, but--""You're very kind, Fulton, and so is Simmons, but I'm in a great hurrynow. Is Mr. Pruyn at home?""Why, no, he ain't, ma'am, and that's a fact. He's to dine out.""Where?""I couldn't tell you that, ma'am; but perhaps Mr. Simmons would know. Hetook Mr. Pruyn's evening clothes to the bank, and he was to changethere. If you'll wait a minute, ma'am, I'll ask him."But when Simmons came he could only give the information that his masterwas going to a "sort o' business banquet" at one of the greatrestaurants or hotels. Moreover, Miss Dorothea had gone out, saying thatshe would not be home to dinner."Then I must write a note," Diane said, with that air of naturalauthority which had seemed almost lost from her manner. "Will you,Fulton, be good enough to bring me a glass of wine and a few biscuitswhile I write? I must ask you, Simmons, for a railway guide."In Derek's own room she sat down at the desk where, six months ago, shehad arranged his letters on the night when he had returned from SouthAmerica. She had no time to indulge in memories, but a tremor shotthrough her frame as she took up the pen and wrote on a sheet of paperwhich he had already headed with a date:  "I have bad news for you, but I hope I may be in time to keep it from  being worse. I have reason to think that Dorothea has gone to  Lakefield to be married there to Carli Wappinger. Should there be any  mistake you will forgive me for disturbing you; but I think it well to  be prepared for extreme possibilities. I am, therefore, going to  Lakefield now--at once. A train at seven-fifteen will get there a  little after nine. There are other trains through the evening, the  latest being at five minutes after ten. Should this reach you in time  to enable you to take one of them, you will be wise to do so; but in  case it may be too late, you may count on me to do all that can be  done. Let some one be ready to answer the telephone all night. I shall  communicate with the house from the Bay Tree Inn. I must ask you again  to forgive me if I am interfering rashly in your affairs, but you can  understand that I have no time to take counsel or reflect.  "DIANE EVELETH."[Illustration: DRAWN BY FRANK CRAIGHAVING MADE A COPY OF THIS LETTER, SHE CALLED SIMMONS AND FULTON ANDGAVE THEM THEIR INSTRUCTIONS]Having made a copy of this letter, she called Simmons and Fulton andgave them their instructions. There had been an accident, she said, ofwhich she had been able to get only imperfect information, but it seemedpossible that Miss Dorothea was involved in it. She herself was hurryingto Lakefield, and it would be Simmons' task to find Mr. Pruyn in timefor him to catch the ten-five train, at latest. He was to pack twovalises with all that Mr. Pruyn could require for a change. He was totake one of the two letters, and one of the two valises, and go fromplace to place, until he tracked his master down. Fulton was to saynothing to alarm the other servants, merely informing Miss Dorothea'smaid that the young lady was absent for the night and that Mrs. Evelethwas with her. He would take charge of the second letter and the secondvalise, in case Mr. Pruyn should return to the house before Simmonscould find him. The important charge of the telephone was also to be inFulton's trust, and he was to answer all calls through the night. Inconcluding her directions Diane acknowledged her relief in having twolieutenants on whose silence, energy, and tact she could so thoroughlydepend. She committed the matter to their hands not merely as to Mr.Pruyn's butler and valet, but as to his trusted friends, and in thatcapacity she was sure they would do their duty and hold their tongues.In a similar spirit, when she arrived, about half-past nine, at the BayTree Inn, she asked for the manager, and took him into her confidence. Arunaway marriage, she informed him, had been planned to take place thatvery night at Lakefield, and she had come there as the companion andfriend of a motherless girl, her object being to postpone the ceremony.The manager listened with sympathy, and promised his help. As a matterof fact, a gentleman had arrived, driving his own motor, that veryafternoon. He had put the machine in the garage, and taken a room, buthad not registered. Their season having scarcely begun, and the hotelbeing empty, they were somewhat careless about such formalities. Hecould only say that the young man was tall, fair, and slender, andseemed to be a person of means. He believed, too, that at this veryminute he was smoking on the terrace before the door. If Diane had notcome up by another way she must have met him. She could step out on theterrace and see for herself whether it was the person she was lookingfor or not.Being tolerably sure of that already, Diane preferred to complete herarrangements first. She would ask for a room as near as possible to themain door of the hotel, so that when the young lady arrived she could beushered directly into it. Fortunately the establishment was able tooffer her exactly what she required, one of the invalids' suites whichwere a special feature of the house--a little sitting-room and bedroomfor the use of persons whose infirmities made a long walk between theirown apartments and the sun-parlor inadvisable. Having inspected andaccepted it, Diane bathed her face and smoothed her hair, after whichshe stepped out to confront Mr. Wappinger.XXShe saw him at the end of the terrace, peering through the moonlight,down the driveway. She did not go forward to meet him, but waited untilhe turned in her direction. She knew that at a distance, and especiallyat night, her own figure might seem not unlike Dorothea's, andcalculated on that effect. She divined his start of astonishment oncatching sight of her by the abrupt jerk of his head and the way inwhich he half threw up his hands. When he began coming forward, it waswith a slow, interrogative movement, as though he were asking how shehad come there, in disregard of their preconcerted signals. Someexclamation was already on his lips, when, by the light streaming fromthe windows of the hotel, he saw his mistake, and paused."Good-evening, Mr. Wappinger. What an extraordinary meeting!"Priding himself on his worldly wisdom, Carli Wappinger never allowedhimself to be caught by any trick of feminine finesse. On the presentoccasion he stood stock-still and silent, eying Diane as a bird eyes atrap before hopping into it. Though he knew her as a friend to Dorotheaand himself, he knew her as a subtle friend, hiding under her sympathymany of those kindly devices which experience keeps to foil the young.He did not complain of her for that, finding it legitimate that sheshould avail herself of what he called "the stock in trade of achaperon"; while it had often amused him to outwit her. But now it was amatter of Greek meeting Greek, and she must be given to understand thathe was the stronger. How she had discovered their plans he did not stopto think; but he must make it plain to her that he was not duped intoascribing her presence at Lakefield to an accident."Is it an extraordinary meeting, Mrs. Eveleth--for you?""No, not for me," Diane replied, readily. "I only thought it mightbe--for you.""Then I'll admit that it is.""But I hoped, too", she continued, moving a little nearer to him, "thatmy coming might be in the way of a--pleasant surprise.""Oh yes; certainly; very pleasant--very pleasant indeed.""I'm a good deal relieved to hear you say that, Mr. Wappinger," shesaid, "because there was a possibility that you mightn't like it.""Whether I like it or not", he said, warily, "will depend upon yourmotive.""I don't think you'll find any fault with that. I came because I thoughtI could help Dorothea. I hoped I might be able indirectly to help you,too.""What makes you think we're in need of help?"She came near enough for him to see her smile."Because, until after you're married, you'll both be in an embarrassingposition.""There are worse things in the world than that.""Not many. I can hardly imagine two people like Dorothea and yourselfmore awkwardly placed than you'll be from the minute she arrives.Remember, you're not Strephon and Chloe in a pastoral; you're two mostsophisticated members of a most sophisticated set, who scarcely know howto walk about excepting according to the rules of a code of etiquette.Neither of you was made for escapade, and I'm sure you don't like it anymore than she will.""And so you've come to relieve the situation?""Exactly.""And for anything else?""What else should I come for?""You might have come for--two or three things.""One of which would be to interfere with your plans. Well, I haven't. IfI had wanted to do that, I could have done it long ago. I'll tell yououtright that Mr. Pruyn requested me more than once to put a stop toyour acquaintance with Dorothea, and I refused. I refused at firstbecause I didn't think it wise, and afterward because I liked you. Ikept on refusing because I came to see in the end that you were born tomarry Dorothea, and that no one else would ever suit her. I'm here thisevening because I believe that still, and I want you to be happy.""Did you think your coming would make us happier?""In the long run--yes. You may not see it to-night, but you willto-morrow. You can't imagine that I would run the risk of forcingmyself upon you unless I was sure there was something I could do.""Well, what is it?""It isn't much, and yet it's a great deal. When you and Dorothea aremarried I want to go with you. I want to be there. I don't want her togo friendless. When she goes back to town to-morrow, and everything hasto be explained, I want her to be able to say that I was beside her. Iknow that mine is not a name to carry much authority, but I'm a woman--awoman who has head a position of responsibility, almost a mother'splace, toward Dorothea herself--and there are moments in life when anykind of woman is better than none at all. You may not see it just now,but--""Oh yes, I do," he said, slowly; "only when you've gone in for anunconventional thing you might as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb.""I don't agree with you. Nothing more than the unconventional requires anicely discriminating taste; and it's no use being more violent than youcan help. You and Dorothea are making a match that sets the rules ofyour world at defiance, but you may as well avail yourselves of anylittle mitigation that comes to hand. Life is going to be hard enoughfor you as it is--""Oh, I don't know about that. They can't do anything to us--""Not to you, perhaps, because you're a man. But they can to Dorothea,and they will. This is just one of those queer situations in whichyou'll get the credit and she'll get the blame. You can always make apoem on Young Lochinvar, when it's less easy to approve of the damselwho springs to the pillion behind him. I don't pretend to account forthis idiosyncrasy of human nature; I merely state it as a fact. Societywill forget that you ran away with Dorothea, but it will never forgetthat she ran away with you.""H'm!""But I don't see that that need distress you. You wouldn't care; and asfor Dorothea, she's got the pluck of a soldier. Depend upon it, she seesthe whole situation already, and is prepared to face it. That's part ofthe difference between a woman and a man. _You_ can go into a thing likethis without looking ahead, because you know that, whatever theopposition, you can keep it down. A woman is too weak for that. She mustcount every danger beforehand. Dorothea has done that. This isn't goingto be a leap in the dark for her; it wouldn't be for any girl of herintelligence and social instincts. She knows what she's doing, and she'sdoing it for you. She has made her sacrifice, and made it willingly,before she consented to take this step at all. She crossed her Rubiconwithout saying anything to you about it, and you needn't consider herany more.""Well, I like that!" he said, in an injured tone, thrusting his handsinto his overcoat pockets and beginning to move along the terrace."Yes; I thought you would," she agreed, walking by his side. "It showswhat she's willing to give up for you. It shows even more than that. Itshows how she loves you. Dorothea is not a girl who holds societylightly, and if she renounces it--""Oh, but, come now, Mrs. Eveleth! It isn't going to be as bad as that.""It isn't going to be as bad as anything. Bad is not the word. When Ispeak of renouncing society, of course I only mean renouncing--the best.There will always be some people to--Well, you remember Dumas'comparison of the sixpenny and the six-shilling peaches. If you can'thave the latter, you will be able to afford the former."They walked on in silence to the end of the terrace, and it was not tillafter they had turned that the young man spoke again."I believe you're overdrawing it," he said, with some decision."Isn't it you who are overdrawing what I mean? I'm simply trying to saythat while things won't be very pleasant for you, they won't be worsethan you can easily bear--especially when Dorothea has steeled herselfto them in advance. I repeat, too, that, poor as I am, my presence willbe taken as safeguarding some of the proprieties people expect one toobserve. I speak of my presence, but, after all, you may have providedyourself with some one better. I didn't think of that.""No; there's no one.""Then Dorothea is coming all alone?""Reggie Bradford is bringing her--if you want to know.""By the ten-five train?""No; in his motor.""How very convenient these motors are! And has she no companion but Mr.Bradford?""She hasn't any companion at all. She doesn't even know that the mandriving the machine is Reggie. He thought that, going very slowly, as hepromised to do, to avoid all chances of accident, they might arrive byeleven.""And Dorothea was to be alone here with you two men?""Well, you see, we are to be married as soon as she arrives. We gostraight from here to the clergyman's house; he's waiting for us; in tenminutes' time I shall be her husband; and then everything will be allright.""How cleverly you've arranged it!""I had to make my arrangements pretty close," Carli explained, in a toneof pride. "There were a good many difficulties to overcome, but I didit. Dorothea has had no trouble at all, and will have none; that is", headded, with a sigh, at the recollection of what Diane had just said, "asfar as getting down here is concerned. She went to tea at the Belfords',and on coming out she found a motor waiting for her at the door. Shewalked into it without asking questions and sat down; and that's all.She doesn't know whose motor it is, or where she's going, except thatshe is being taken toward me. I provided her with everything. She's gotnothing to do but sit still till she gets here, when she will be marriedalmost before she knows she has arrived.""It's certainly most romantic; and if one has to do such things, theycouldn't be done better.""Well, one has to--sometimes.""Yes; so I see.""What do you suppose Derek Pruyn will say?" he asked, after a briefpause."I haven't the least idea what he'll say--in these circumstances. Ofcourse, I always knew--But there's no use speaking about that now.""Speaking about what now?" he asked, sharply."Oh, nothing! One must be with Mr. Pruyn constantly--live in hishouse--to understand him. You can always count on his being kinder thanhe seems at first, or on the surface. During the last months I was withDorothea I could see plainly enough that in the end she would get herway."He paused abruptly in his walk and confronted her."Then, for Heaven's sake," he demanded, "why didn't you tell me thatbefore?""You never asked me. I couldn't go around shouting it out for nothing.Besides, it was only my opinion, in which, after all, I am quite likelyto be wrong.""But quite likely to be right.""I suppose so. Naturally, I should have told you," she went on, humbly,"if I had thought that you wanted to hear; but how was I to know that?One doesn't talk about other people's private affairs unless one isinvited. In any case, it doesn't matter now. A man who can cut theGordian knot as you can doesn't care to hear that there's a way by whichit might have been unravelled.""I'm not so sure about that. There are cases in which the longest wayround is the shortest way home, and if--""But I didn't suppose you would consider so cautious a route as that.""I shouldn't for myself; but, you see, I have to think of Dorothea.""But I've already told you that there's no occasion for that. IfDorothea has made her choice with her eyes open--""Good Lord!" he cried, impatiently, "you talk as if all I wanted was toget her into a noose.""Well, isn't it? Perhaps I'm stupid, but I thought the whole reason forbringing her down here was because--""Because we thought there was no other way," he finished, in a tone ofexasperation. "But if there _is_ another way--""I'm not at all sure that there is," she retorted, with a touch ofasperity, to keep pace with his rising emotion. "Don't begin to thinkthat because I said Mr. Pruyn was coming round to it he's obliged to doit.""No; but if there was a chance--""Of course there's always that. But what then?""Well, then--there'd be no particular reason for rushing the thingto-night. But I don't know, though," he continued, with a sudden change oftone; "we're here, and perhaps we might as well go through with it. AllI want is her happiness; and since she can't be happy in her own home--"Diane laughed softly, and he stopped once more in his walk to look downat her."There's one thing you ought to understand about Dorothea," she said,with a little air of amusement. "You know how fond I am of her, and thatI wouldn't criticise her for the world. Now, don't be offended, anddon't glower at me like that, for I _must_ say it. Dorothea isn'tunhappy because she hasn't a good home, or because she has a sternfather, or because she can't marry you. She's unhappy because she isn'tgetting her own way, and for no other reason whatever. She's thedearest, sweetest, most loving little girl on earth, but she has a willlike steel. Whatever she sets her mind on, great or small, that she isdetermined to do, and when it's done she doesn't care any more about it.When I was with her, I never crossed her in anything. I let her do whatshe was bent on doing, right up to the point where she saw, herself,that she didn't want to. If her father would only treat her like that,she--""She wouldn't be coming down here to-night. That's what you mean, isn'tit?""Oh no! How can you say so?""I can say so, because I think there's a good deal of truth in it. I'mnot without some glimmering of insight into her character myself; and tobe quite frank, it was seeing her set her pretty white teeth and clinchher fist and stamp her foot, to get her way over nothing at all, thatfirst made me fall in love with her.""Then I will say no more. I see you know her as well as I do.""Yes, I know her," he said, confidently, marching on again. "I don'tthink there are many corners of her character into which I haven'tseen."Several remarks arose to Diane's lips, but she repressed them, and theycontinued their walk in silence. During the three or four turns theytook, side by side, up and down the terrace, she divined the course histhought was taking, and her speech was with his inner rather than hisouter man. Suddenly he stopped, with one of his jerky pauses, and whenhe spoke his voice took on a boyish quality that made it appealing."Mrs. Eveleth, do you know what I think? I think that you and I havecome down here on what looks like a fool's business. If it wasn't forleaving Dorothea here with Reggie Bradford, I'd put you in the motor andwe'd travel back to New York as fast as tires could take us.""Upon my word," she confessed, "you make me almost wish we could do it.But, of course, it isn't possible. There must be some one here to meetDorothea--and explain. I could do that if you liked.""Oh no!" he exclaimed, with a new change of mind; "I should look as if Iwere showing the white feather.""On the contrary, you'd look as if you knew what it was to be a man.""And Derek Pruyn might hold out against me in the end.""It would be time enough, even then, to do--what you meant to doto-night; and I'd help you."He hesitated still, till another thought occurred to him."Oh, what's the good? It's too late to rectify anything now. They mustknow at her house by this time that she has gone to meet me.""No; I've anticipated that. They understand that she's here, at the BayTree Inn--with me."He moved away from her with a quick backward leap."With you? You've done that? You've seen them? You've told them? You'rea wonderful woman, Mrs. Eveleth. I see now what you've been up to," headded, with a shrill, nervous laugh. "You've been turning me round yourlittle finger, and I'm hanged if you haven't done it very cleverly.You've failed in this one point, however, that you haven't done it quitecleverly enough. I stay.""Very well; but you won't refuse to let me stay too--for the reasonsthat I gave you at first.""You're wily, I must say! If you can't get best, you're willing to takesecond best. Isn't that it?""That's it exactly. I did hope that no marriage would take place betweenDorothea and you to-night. I hoped that, before you came to that, you'drealize to what a degree you're taking advantage of her wilfulness andher love for you--for it's a mixture of both--to put her in a falseposition, from which she'll never wholly free herself as long as shelives. I hoped you'd be man enough to go back and win her from herfather by open means. Failing all that, I hoped you'd let me blunt thekeenest edge of your folly by giving to your marriage the countenancewhich my presence at it could bestow. Was there any harm in that? Wasthere anything for you to resent, or for me to be ashamed of? Is a goodthing less good because I wish it, or a wise thought less wise because Ithink it? You talk of turning you round my little finger, as though itwas something at which you had to take offence. My dear boy, that onlyshows how young you are. Every good woman, if I may call myself one,turns the men she cares for round her little finger, and it's the menwho are worth most in life who submit most readily to the process. Whenyou're a little older, when, perhaps, you have children of your own,you'll understand better what I've done for you to-night; and you won'tuse toward my memory the tone of semi-jocular disdain that has enteredinto nearly every word you've addressed to me this evening. Now, ifyou'll excuse me," she added, wearily, "I think I'll go in. I'm verytired, and I'll rest till Dorothea comes. When she arrives you mustbring her to me directly; and she must stay with me till I take herto--the wedding. My room is the first door on the left of the mainentrance."She was half-way across the terrace when he called out to her, theboyish tremor in his voice more accentuated than before."Wait a minute. There's lots of time." She came back a few paces towardhim. "Shouldn't I look very grotesque if I hooked it?""Not half so grotesque as you'll look to-morrow morning when you have togo back to town and tell every one you meet that you and Dorothea Pruynhave run away and got married. That's when you'll look foolish and cut apathetic figure. As things are it could be kept between two or three ofus; but if you go on, you'll be in all the papers by to-morrowafternoon. Of course your mother knows?""I suppose so; I wired when I thought it was too late for her to spreadthe alarm. But I don't mind about her. She'll be only too glad to haveme back at any price.""Then--I'd go."The light from the hotel was full on his face, and she could almost havekissed him for his doleful, crestfallen expression."Well--I will."There was no heroism in the way in which he said the words, and thespring disappeared from his walk as he went back to the hotel to pay hisbill and order out his "machine." Diane smiled to herself to see how hishead drooped and his shoulders sagged, but her eyes blinked at the mistthat rose before them. After all, he was little more than a schoolboy,and he and Dorothea were but two children at play.She did not continue her own way into the hotel. Now that the first partof her purpose in coming had been accomplished, she was free to rememberwhat the comedy with Carli had almost excluded from her mind--thatwithin an hour or two Derek Pruyn and she might be face to face again.The thought made her heart leap as with sudden fright. Fortunately,Dorothea would have arrived by that time, and would stand between them,otherwise the mere possibility would have been overwhelming.Yes; Dorothea ought to be coming soon. She looked at her watch, andfound it was nearly eleven. On the stillness of the night there came asound, a clatter, a whiz, a throb--the unmistakable noise of anautomobile. She hurried to the end of the terrace; but it was notDorothea coming; it was Carli going away. She breathed more freely,standing to see him pass, and knowing that he was really gone.A minute later he went by in the moonlight, waving his hand to her asshe stood silhouetted on the terrace above him. Then, to her annoyance,the motor stopped and he leaped out. For a moment her heart stood stillin alarm, for if he was coming back the work might be to do all overagain. He did come back, scrambling up the steps till he was at herfeet. But it was only to seize her hand and kiss it hastily, afterwhich, without a word, he was off again. Then once more the huge machineclattered and whizzed and throbbed, rattling its way down the drive andon into the dark, till all sound died away in the solemn winter silence.XXIDuring the next half-hour small practical tasks occupied Diane's mindand kept the thought of Derek Pruyn's arrival from becoming more than asubconscious dread. She informed the manager of her success with hismysterious young guest, and arranged that Dorothea, when she came,should spend the night with her. Then she put herself in telephoniccommunication, first with Mrs. Wappinger, and then with Fulton. She gavethe former the intelligence that Carli had departed, and received fromthe latter the information that Simmons had found his master, who hadbeen able to leave for Lakefield by the ten-five train. These stepsbeing taken, there was nothing to do but to sit down and wait forDorothea. Allowing thirty or forty minutes for possible delays, shecalculated that the girl ought to arrive a good half-hour before herfather. This would give her time to deal with each separately, clearingup misunderstandings on both sides, and preparing the way for such ameeting as would lead to mutual concessions and future peace.Physically tired, she took off her hat and threw herself on the couch inher little sitting-room. By sheer force of will she continued to shutout Derek from her thought, concentrating all her mental faculties onthe arguments and persuasions she should bring to bear on Dorothea. Shehad no nervousness on this account. The naughty, headstrong child thatruns away from home does not get far without a realizing sense of itshappy shelter. She divined that the long ride through the dark, with anunknown man, toward an unknown goal, would have already subduedDorothea's spirits to the point where she would be only too glad to findherself dropping into familiar, feminine arms.At eleven o'clock she got up from her couch with a vague impulse to bein a more direct attitude of welcome. At half-past eleven she went tothe office to inquire of the manager how long a motor going slowlyshould take to reach Lakefield from New York, assuming that it had gotaway from the city about six o'clock. Alarmed by his reply, she beggedhim to keep a certain number of the servants up, and the hotel inreadiness to cope with any emergency or accident, promising liberalremuneration for all unusual work. After that came another long hour ofwaiting.  It was about half-past twelve when there was a sound of acarriage coming up the driveway. It was probably Derek; and yet therewas a possibility that, the automobile having broken down, Reggie andDorothea had been obliged to finish their journey in a humbler way thanthat in which they had started. Diane hurried to the terrace. The moonhad disappeared, but the stars were out, and the night had grown colder.The pines surrounding the hotel shot up weirdly against the midnightsky, soughing with a low murmur, like the moan of primeval nature. Upthe ascent from the main road the carriage crept wearily, while Diane'sheart poured itself out in a sort of incoherent prayer that Dorotheamight have arrived before her father. The horses dragged themselves tothe steps, and Derek Pruyn sprang out.Instinctively Diane fell back."Oh, it's you," she gasped, unable for the instant to say more."Yes," he returned, quickly, peering down into her face. "What news?""Dorothea hasn't come. The--the other person has gone.""Gone? How--gone?""He went away of his own accord.""That is, you sent him.""Not exactly; he was willing to go. He saw he'd been doing wrong."A porter having come from the hotel and seized Derek's valise, it wasnecessary for them to go in and attend to the small preliminaries ofarrival. When they were finished Derek returned to Diane, who had seatedherself in a wicker chair beside one of the numerous tea-tables to whicha large part of the hall was given up. Under the eye of the drowsyclerk, who still kept his place at the office desk, she felt a certainsense of protection, even though the width of the hotel lay betweenthem."Now, tell me," Derek said, in his quick, commanding tones; "tell meeverything."The repressed intensity of his bearing had on Diane the effect of makingher more calmly mistress of herself. Quietly, and in a manner asmatter-of-fact as she could make it, she told her tale from the beginning.She narrated her summons from Mrs. Wappinger, her visit to his own house,her arrangements there, her journey to Lakefield, and her interview withCarli Wappinger. Without making light of what he and Dorothea hadundertaken to do, she reduced their fault to a minimum, turning it intoindiscretion rather than anything more grave. She laid stress on theexcellence of the young man's character, as well as on the promptnesswith which he had relinquished his part in the plan as soon as he sawits true nature. In spite of himself Derek began to think of the lad asof one who had sprung to his help in a moment of need, and to whom hewas indebted for a service. Not until Diane ceased speaking was he ableto brush this absurd impression away, in the knowledge that Dorothea,who should have arrived nearly two hours ago, was still out in the dark.That, for the moment, was the one fact to which everything else wassubordinate."I can't understand it," he said, nervously. "If they left New York bysix, or even seven, they should have been here by eleven at the latest.That would have given them time for slow going or taking a circuitousroute."He rose nervously from his seat, interviewed the clerk at the desk, wentout on the terrace, listened in the silence, walked restlessly up anddown, and, returning to Diane, enumerated the different possibilitiesthat would reasonably account for the delay. Glad of this preoccupation,since it diverted thought from their more personal relations, shepointed out the wisdom of accepting whatever explanation was least graveuntil they knew the certainty. When he had gone out several times more,to listen on the terrace, he came back, and, resuming his seat, said,brusquely:"You look tired. You ought to get some rest."The tone of intimate care reached Diane's heart more directly than wordsof greater import."I would," she said, simply--"that is, I'd go to my room if I thoughtyou'd be kind to Dorothea when she came.""And _don't_ you think so?""I think you'd want to be," she smiled, "if you knew how.""But I shouldn't know how?""You see, it's a situation that calls directly for a woman; and you'reso essentially a man. When Dorothea arrives, she won't be a headstrong,runaway girl; she'll be a poor little terrified child, frightened todeath at what she has done, and wanting nothing so much as to creepsobbing into her mother's arms and be comforted. If you could only--""I'll do anything you tell me.""It's no use telling; you have to know. It's a case in which you mustact by instinct, and not by rule of thumb."In her eagerness to have something to say which would keep conversationaway from dangerous themes, she spoke exhaustively on the subject ofparental tact, holding well to the thread of her topic until sheperceived that he was not so much listening to what she said as thinkingof her. But she had gained her point, and led him to see that Dorotheawas to be treated leniently, which was sufficient for the moment."Now," she finished, rising, "I think I'll take your advice, and go andrest till she comes. That's my door, just opposite. I chose the room forits convenience in receiving Dorothea. You'll be sure to call me, won'tyou, the minute you hear the sound of wheels?"He had sat gazing up at her, but now he, too, rose. It was a minute atwhich their common anxiety regarding Dorothea slipped temporarily intothe background, allowing the main question at issue between them toassert itself; but it asserted itself silently. He had meant to speak,but he could only look. She had meant to withdraw, but she remained toreturn his look with the lingering, quiet, steady gaze which time andplace and circumstance seemed to make the most natural mode ofexpression for the things that were vital between them. What passed thusdefied all analysis of thought, as well as all utterance in language,but it was understood by each in his or her own way. To her it was thegreeting and farewell of souls in different spheres, who again pass oneanother in space. For him it was the dumb, stifled cry of nature, theclaim of a heart demanding its rightful place in another heart, theprotest of love that has been debarred from its return by a cruel codeof morals, a preposterous convention, grown suddenly meaningless to awoman like her and to a man like him. Something like this it would havebeen a relief to him to cry out, had not the strong hand of custom beenupon him and forced him to say that which was far below the pressure ofhis yearning."This isn't the time to talk about what I owe you," he said, feeling theinsufficiency of his words; "it's too much to be disposed of in a fewphrases.""On the contrary, you owe me nothing at all.""We'll not dispute the point now.""No; but I'd rather not leave you under a misapprehension. If I've doneanything to-night--been of any use at all--it's been simply because Iloved Dorothea--and--and--it was right. When it was in my power, Icouldn't have refused to do it for any one--for any one, youunderstand.""Oh yes, I understand perfectly; but _any one_, in the samecircumstances, would feel as I do. No, not as I do," he corrected,quickly. "No one else in the world could feel--""I'm really very tired," she said, hurriedly; "I'll go now; but I counton you to call me."He watched her while she glided across the room; but it was only whenher door had closed and he had dropped into his seat that he was able tostate to himself the fact that the mere sight of her again haddemolished all the barricades he had been building in his heart againsther for the last six months. They had fallen more easily than the wallsof Jericho at the blast of the sacred horn. The inflection of her voice,the look from her eyes, the gestures of her hands, had dispelled theminto nothingness, like ramparts of mist. But it was not that alone! Hewas too much a man of affairs not to give credit to the practicalabilities she had shown that night. No graces of person or charms ofmind or resources of courage could have called forth his admiration moreeffectively than this display of prosaic executive capacity. What had tobe done she had done more promptly, wisely, and easily than any mancould have accomplished it. She had foreseen possibilities andforestalled accident with a thoroughness which he himself could not haveequalled."My God!" he groaned, inwardly, "what a wife she would have made for anyman! How I could have loved her, if it hadn't been for--"He stopped abruptly and leaped to his feet, looking around dazed on thegreat empty hail, at the end of which a porter slept in his chair, whilethe clerk blinked drowsily behind his desk."I do love her," he declared to himself. "All summer long I have utteredblasphemies. I do love her. Whatever she may have been, she shall be mywife."Out on the terrace the cold wind was grateful, and he stood for a minutebareheaded, letting it blow over his fevered face and through his hair.It had risen during the last hour, making the pines rock slowly in thestarlight and swelling their moan into deep sobs.As Derek Pruyn paced the terrace in strained expectation he was deceivedagain and again into the thought that something was approaching. Now itwas the champing and stamping of horses toiling up the ascent; now itwas the bray and throb of the automobile; now it was the voices of men,conversing or calling or breaking into laughter. Twenty times hehastened to the steps at the end of the terrace, sure he could not havebeen mistaken, only to hear the earth-forces sob and sough and shoutagain, as if in derision of this puny, presumptuous mortal, with hisevanescent joy and pain.So another hour passed. His mind was not of the imaginative order whichinvents disaster in moments of suspense, so that he was able to keep hiswatch more patiently than many another might have done. Once he tried tosmoke; but the mere scent of tobacco seemed out of place in this curiousworld, alive with odd psychical suggestions, and he threw the cigar awayinto the darkness, where its light glowed reproachfully, like a dyingeye, till it went out.It was after three when a sudden sound from the driveway struck his ear;but he had been deceived so often that he would pay it no attention.Though it seemed like the unmistakable approach of an automobile, it hadseemed so before, and he would not even look round till he had reachedthe distant end of the terrace. When he turned he could see through thetrees, and along the dark line of the avenue, the advance of theheralding light. Dorothea had come at last. She was even close uponthem. In a few more seconds she would be alighting at the steps.He hurried inside to wake the porter and warn Diane."She's here!" he called, rapping sharply at her door. "Please come!Quick!"There was a response and a hurried movement from within, but he did notwait for her to appear. When she came out of her room she could see fromthe light thrown over the terrace that the motor had already stopped atthe steps. Some one was getting out, and she could hear men's voices.Advancing to a spot midway between her room and the main entry, shestood waiting for Derek to bring her his daughter. A moment later hesprang into the light of the doorway with features white and alarmed."Go back!" he cried to her, with a commanding gesture. "Go back!""But what's the matter?""Go back!" he ordered, more imperiously than before."Oh, Derek, it's Dorothea! She's hurt. I must go to her. I will not goback."She rushed toward the entry, but he caught her and pushed her back."I tell you you must go back," he repeated."It's Dorothea!" she cried. "She's hurt! She's killed! Let me go! Sheneeds me!""It isn't Dorothea," he whispered, forcing her over the threshold of herown room and trying to close the door upon her."Then what is it?" she begged. "Tell me now. You're hurting me. Let mego! You're killing me.""It's--"But there was no need to say more, for the main door swung open againand the Marquis de Bienville entered, followed by a porter carrying hisvalise.At his appearance Derek relinquished Diane's hands, and Diane herselfwas so astonished that she stepped plainly into view. Not lessastonished than herself, Bienville stopped stock-still, looked at her,looked into the room behind her, looked at Derek with a long,half-amused, comprehending stare, lifted his hat gravely, and passed on.When he had gone there was a minute of dead silence. With parted lipsand awe-stricken eyes Diane gazed after him till he had spoken to theclerk at the desk and passed on into the darker recesses of the hotel.When she turned toward Derek he was smiling, with what she knew was aneffort to treat the situation lightly."Well, this time we've given him something to talk about," he laughed,bravely.She shrugged her shoulders and spread apart her hands with one of herhabitual, fatalistic gestures."I don't mind. He can't do me more harm than he's done already. It's notof him that I'm thinking, but of Dorothea. She hasn't come.""No, she hasn't come."The fact had grown alarming, so much so as to make the incident ofBienville's appearance seem in comparison a matter of little moment.Diane remained on the threshold of her room, and Derek in the hailoutside, while, for mutual encouragement, they rehearsed once more thelist of predicaments in which the young people might have foundthemselves without serious danger.Diane was about to withdraw, when a man ran down the hall calling:"The telephone!--for the gentleman!"Derek started on a run, Diane following more slowly. When she reachedthe office Derek had the receiver to his ear and was talking."Yes, Fulton. Go on. I hear.... Who has rung you up?... I didn'tcatch ... Miss--who? Oh, Miss Marion Grimston. Yes?... In Philadelphia,at the Hotel Belleville.... Yes; I understand... and Miss Dorothea iswith her.... Good!... Did she say how she got there?... Will explainwhen we get back to New York to-morrow morning.... All right.... Yes,to lunch.... She said Miss Dorothea was quite well, and satisfied withher trip!... That's good.... Well, good-night, Fulton. Sorry to havekept you up."He put up the receiver and turned to Diane."Did you understand?""Perfectly. I think I know what has happened. I can guess.""Then, I'll be hanged if I can. What is it?""I'll let them tell you that themselves. I'm too tired to say anythingmore to-night."She kept close to the office where the clerk was shutting books andlocking drawers preparatory to closing."You must let me come and thank you--" he began."You must thank Miss Marion Grimston," she interrupted, "for any realservice. All I've done for you, as you see, has been to bring you on anunnecessary journey.""For me it has been a journey--into truth.""I'll say good-night now. I shall not see you in the morning. You'll notforget to be very gentle with Dorothea, will you--and with him?Good-night again--good-night."Smiling into his eyes, she ignored the hand he held out to her andslipped away into the semi-darkness as the impatient clerk began turningout the lights.XXIIDerek Pruyn was guilty of an injustice to the Marquis de Bienville insupposing he would make the incident at Lakefield a topic ofconversation among his friends. His sense of honor alone would have kepthim from betraying what might be looked upon as an involuntaryconfidence, even if it had not better suited his purposes to intrust thematter, in the form of an amusing anecdote, told under the seal ofsecrecy, to Mrs. Bayford. In her hands it was like invested capital,adding to itself, while he did nothing at all. Months of insinuation onhis part would have failed to achieve the result that she brought aboutin a few days' time, with no more effort than a rose makes in sheddingperfume.Before Derek had been able to recover from the feeling of having passedthrough a strange waking dream, before Dorothea and he had resumed theordinary tenor of their life together, before he had seen Diane again,he was given to understand that the little scene on Bienville's arrivalat the Bay Tree Inn was familiar matter in the offices, banks, and clubshe most frequented. The intelligence was conveyed by a score of trivialsigns, suggestive, satirical, or over-familiar, which he would not haveperceived in days gone by, but to which he had grown sensitive. It wasclear that the story gained piquancy from its contrast with thestaidness of his life; and his most intimate friends permittedthemselves a little covert "chaff" with him on the event. He was not ofa nature to resent this raillery on his own account; it was serious tohim only because it touched Diane.For her the matter was so grave that he exhausted his ingenuity indevising means for her protection. He refrained from even seeing heruntil he could go with some ultimatum before which she should be obligedto yield. An unsuccessful appeal to her, he judged, would be worse thannone at all; and until he discovered arguments which she could notcontrovert he decided to hold his peace.Action of some sort became imperative when he found that Miss LucillaVan Tromp had heard the story and drawn from it what seemed to her theobvious conclusion."I should never have believed it," she declared, tearfully, "if youhadn't admitted it yourself. I told Mrs. Bayford that nothing but yourown words would convince me that any such scene had taken place.""Allowing that it did, isn't it conceivable that it might have had anhonorable motive?""Then, what is it? If you could tell me that--""I could tell you easily enough if there weren't other considerationsinvolved. I should think that in the circumstances you could trust me.""Nobody else does, Derek.""Whom do you mean by nobody else?--Mrs. Bayford?""Oh, she's not the only one. If your men friends don't believe in you--""They believe in me, all right; don't you worry about that.""They may believe in you as men believe in one another; but it isn't theway I believe in people.""I know how you believe in people if ill-natured women would let youalone. You wouldn't mistrust a thief if you saw him stealing your watchfrom your pocket.""That's not true, Derek. I can be as suspicious as any one when I like.""But don't you see that your suspicion doesn't only light, on me? Itstrikes Diane.""That's just it.""Lucilla! he cried, reproachfully."Well, Derek, you know how loyal I've been to her. It's been harder,too, than you've ever been aware of; for I haven't told you--I_wouldn't_ tell you--one-half the things that people have hinted to meduring the past two years.""Yes; but who? A lot of jealous women--""It's no use saying that, Derek; because your own actions contradictyou. Why did Diane leave your house, if it wasn't that you believed--?""Don't." He raised his hand to his face, as if protecting himself from ablow."I wouldn't," she cried, "if you didn't make me. I say it only inself-defence. After all, you can only accuse me of what you've doneyourself. Diane made me think at first that you had misjudged her; but Isee now that if she had been a good woman you wouldn't have sent heraway.""I didn't send her away. She went.""Yes, Derek; but why?""That has nothing to do with the question under discussion.""On the contrary, it has everything to do with it. It all belongstogether. I've loved Diane, and defended her; but I've come to the pointwhere I can't do it any longer. After what's happened--""But, I tell you, what's happened is nothing! If it was only right forme to explain it to you, as I shall explain it to you some day, you'dfind you owed her a debt that you never could repay.""Very well! I won't dispute it. It still doesn't affect the main pointat issue. Can you yourself, Derek, honestly and truthfully affirm thatyou look upon Diane as a good woman, in the sense that is usuallyattached to the words?""I can honestly and truthfully affirm that I look upon her as one of thebest women in the world.""That isn't the point. Louise de la Valliere became one of the bestwomen in the world; but there are some other things that might be saidof her. But I'll not argue; I'll not insist. Since you think I'm wrong,I'll take your own word for it, Derek. Just tell me once, tell mewithout quibble and on your honor as my cousin and a gentleman, that youbelieve Diane to be--what I've supposed her to be hitherto, and what youknow very well I mean, and I'll not doubt it further."For a moment he stood speechless, trying to formulate the lie he couldutter most boldly, until he was struck with the double thought that todefend Diane's honor with a falsehood would be to defame it further,while a lie to this pure, trusting, virginal spirit would be a crime."Tell me, Derek," she insisted; "tell me, and I'll believe you."He retreated a pace or two, as if trying to get out of her presence."I'm listening, Derek; go on; I'm willing to take your word.""Then I repeat," he said, weakly, "that I believe her, I _know_ her, tobe one of the best women in the world.""Like Louise de la Valliere?""Yes," he shouted, maddened to the retort, "like Louise de la Valliere!And what then?" He stood as if demanding a reply. "Nothing. I have nomore to say.""Then I have; and I'll ask you to listen." He drew near to her again andspoke slowly. "There were doubtless many good women in Jerusalem in thetime of Herod and Pilate and Christ; but not the least held in honoramong us to-day is--the Magdalen. That's one thing; and here's somethingmore. There is joy, so we are told, in the presence of the angels ofGod--plenty of it, let us hope!--but it isn't over the ninety-and-ninejust persons who need no repentance, so much as over the one poor,deserted, lonely sinner that repenteth--that repenteth, Lucilla, do youhear?-and you know whom I mean."With this as his confession of faith he left her, to go in search ofDiane. He had formed the ultimatum before which, as he believed, sheshould find herself obliged to surrender.It was a day on which Diane's mood was one of comparative peace. She wasengrossed in an occupation which at once soothed her spirits andappealed to her taste. Madame Cauchat, the land-lady, bewailing thecontinued illness of her lingere, Diane had begged to be allowed to takecharge of the linen-room of the hotel, not merely as a means of earninga living, but because she delighted in such work. Methodical in herhabits and nimble with her needle, the neatness, smoothness, and purityof piles of white damask stirred all those house-wifely, home-keepinginstincts which are so large a part of every Frenchwoman's nature. Herfingers busy with the quiet, delicate task of mending, her mind coulddwell with the greater content on such subjects as she had forsatisfaction.They were more numerous than they had been for a long time past. Themeeting at Lakefield had changed her mental attitude toward Derek Pruyn,taking a large part of the pain out of her thoughts of him, as well asout of his thoughts of her. She had avoided seeing him after that onenight, and she had heard nothing from him since; but she knew it wasimpossible for him to go on thinking of her altogether harshly. She hadbeen useful to him; she had saved Dorothea from a great mistake; she haddone it in such a way that no hint of the escapade was likely to becomeknown outside of the few who had taken part in it; she had put herselfin a relation toward him which, as a final one, was much to be preferredto that which had existed before. She could therefore pass out of hislife more satisfied than she had dared hope to be with the effect thatshe had had upon it. As she stitched she sighed to herself with acertain comfort, when, glancing up, she saw him standing at the door.The nature of her thoughts, coupled with his sudden appearance, drew toher lips a quiet smile."They shouldn't have shown you in here," she protested, gently, lettingher work fall to her lap, but not rising from her place."I insisted," he explained, briefly, from the threshold."You can come in," she smiled, as he continued to stand in the doorway."You can even sit down." She pointed to a chair, not far from her own,going on again with her stitching, so as to avoid the necessity forfurther greeting. "I suppose you wonder what I'm doing," she pursued,when he had seated himself."I'm not wondering at that so much as whether you ought to be doing it.""I can relieve your mind on that score. It's a case, too, in which dutyand pleasure jump together; for the delight of handling beautiful linenis like nothing else in the world.""It seems to me like servants' work," he said, bluntly."Possibly; but I can do servants' work at a pinch--especially when Ilike it.""I don't," he declared."But then you don't have to do it.""I mean that I don't like it for you.""Even so, you wouldn't forbid my doing it, would you?""I wish I had the right to. I've come here this afternoon to ask youagain if you won't give it to me."For a few minutes she stitched in silence. When she spoke it was withoutstopping her work or lifting her head."I'm sorry that you should raise that question again. I thought it wassettled.""Supposing it was, it can be reopened--if there's a reason.""But there is none.""That's all you know about it. There's a very important reason.""Since--when?""Since Lakefield.""Do you mean anything that Monsieur de Bienville may have said?""I do.""That wouldn't be a reason--for me.""But you don't know--""I can imagine. Monsieur de Bienville has already done me all the harmhe can. It's beyond his power to hurt me any more.""But, Diane, you don't know what you're saying. You don't know what he'sdoing. He's--he's--I hardly know how to put it--He's destroying yourreputation."She glanced up with a smile, ceasing for an instant to sew."You mean, he's destroying what's left of it. Well, he's welcome! Therewas so little of it--""For God's sake, Diane, don't say that; it breaks my heart. You mustconsider the position that you put me in. After you've rendered me onethe greatest services one person can do another, do you think I can sitquietly by while you are being robbed of the dearest thing in life, justbecause you did it?""I should be sorry to think the opinion other people hold of me to bethe dearest thing in life; but, even if it were, I'd willingly give itup for--Dorothea.""It isn't for Dorothea; it's for me.""Well, wouldn't you let me do it--for you? I'm not of much use in theworld, but it would make me a little happier to think I could do any onea good turn without being promised a reward.""A reward! Oh, Diane!""It's what you're offering me, isn't it? If it hadn't been for--for--thegreat service you speak about, you wouldn't he here, asking me again tobe your wife.""That's your way of putting it, but I'll put it in mine. If it hadn'tbeen for the magnitude of the sacrifice you're willing to make for me, Ishouldn't have dared to hope that you loved me. When all pretexts andsecondary causes have been considered and thrust aside, that's why I'mhere, and for no other reason whatever. If you love me," he continued,"why should you hesitate any longer? If you love me, why seek forreasons to justify the simple prompting of your heart? What have you andI got to do with other people's opinions? When there's a plain,straightforward course before us, why not go right on and follow it?"She raised her eyes for one brief glance."You forget."The words were spoken quietly, but they startled him."Yes, Diane; I do forget. Rather, there's nothing left for me toremember. I know what you'd have me recall. I'll speak of it this oncemore, to be silent on the subject forever. I want you to forgive me. Iwant to tell you that I, too, have repented.""Repented of what?""Of the wrong I've done you. I believe your soul to be as white as allthis whiteness around you.""Then," she continued, questioning gently, "you've changed your point ofview during the last six months?""I have. You charged me then with being willing to come down to yourlevel; now I'm asking you to let me climb up to it. I see that I was aself-righteous Pharisee, and that the true man is he who can smite hisbreast and say, God be merciful to me a sinner!""A sinner--like me.""I don't want to be led into further explanations," he said, suddenly onhis guard against her insinuations. "You and I have said too much toeach other not to be able to be frank. Now, I've been frank enough.You've understood what I've felt at other times; you understand what Ifeel to-day. Why draw me out, to make me speak more plainly?""I am not drawing you out," she declared. "If I ask you a question ortwo, it was to show you that not even the woman that you take mefor--not even the forgiven penitent--could be a good wife for you. Ican't marry you, Mr. Pruyn. I must beg you to let that answer bedecisive."There was decision in the way in which she folded her work and smoothedthe white brocaded surface in her lap. There was decision, too, in thequickness with which he rose and stood looking down at her. For a secondshe expected him to turn from her, as he had turned once before, andleave her with no explanation beyond a few laconic words. She held herbreath while she awaited them."Then that means," he said, at last, "that you put me in the position oftaking all, while you give all.""I don't put you in any position whatever. The circumstances are not ofmy making. They are as much beyond my control as they are beyond yours.""They're not wholly beyond mine. If there are some things I can't do,there are some I can prevent.""What things?"His tone alarmed her, and she struggled to her feet."You're willing to make me a great sacrifice; but at least I can refuseto accept it.""What do you mean?" She moved slightly back from him, behind theprotection of one of the tables piled breast-high with its white load."You're willing to lose for me the last vestige of your good name--""I don't care anything about that," she said, hurriedly."But I do. I won't let you.""How can you stop me?" she asked, staring at him with large, frightenedeyes."I shall tell Dorothea's part in the story.""You'd--?" she began, with a questioning cry."All who care to hear it, shall. They shall know it from its beginningto its end. They shall lose no detail of her folly or of your wisdom.""You would sacrifice your child like that?""Yes, like that. Neither she nor I can remain so indebted to any one, asyou would have us be to you.""You--wouldn't--be--indebted--to--me?""Not to so terrible an extent. If it's a choice between your good nameand hers--hers must go. She'd agree with me herself. She wouldn'thesitate for one single fraction of an instant--if she knew. She'd begrateful to you, as I am; but she couldn't profit by your magnanimity.""So that the alternative you offer me is this: I can protect myself bysacrificing Dorothea, or I can marry you, and Dorothea will be saved.""I shouldn't express it in just those words, but it's something likeit.""Then I'll marry you. You give me a choice of evils, and I take theleast.""Oh! Then to marry me would be--an evil?""What else do you make it? You'll admit that it's a little difficult tokeep pace with you. You come to me one day accusing me of sin, and onanother announcing my contrition, while on the third you may be in someentirely different mood about me.""You can easily render me ridiculous. That's due to my awkwardness ofexpression and not to anything wrong in the way I feel.""Oh, but isn't it out of the heart that the mouth speaketh? I think so.You've advanced some excellent reasons why I should become your wife,and I can see that you're quite capable of believing them. At one timeit was because I needed a home, at another because I needed protection,while to-day, I understand, it is because I love you.""Is this fair?""I dare say you think it isn't; but then you haven't been tried andjudged half a dozen times, unheard, as I've been. I'll confess thatyou've shown the most wonderful ingenuity in trying to get me into aposition where I should be obliged to marry you, whether I would or not;and now you've succeeded. Whether the game is worth the candle or not isfor you to judge; my part is limited to saying that you've won. I'mready to marry you as soon as you tell me when.""To save Dorothea?""To save Dorothea.""And for no other reason?""For no other reason.""Then, of course, I can't keep you to your word.""You can't release me from it except on one condition.""Which is--?""That Dorothea's secret shall be kept.""I must use my own judgment about that.""On the contrary, you must use mine. You've made me a proposal which I'mready to accept. As a man of honor you must hold to it--or be silent.""Possibly," he admitted, on reflection. "I shall have to think it over.But in that case we'd be just where we were--""Yes; just where we were.""And you'd be without help or protection. That's the thought I can'tendure, Diane. Try to be just to me. If I make mistakes, if I flounderabout, if I say things that offend you, it's because I can't rest whileyou're exposed to danger. Alone, as you are, in this great city,surrounded by people who are not your friends, a prey to criticism andmisapprehension, when it is no worse, it's as if I saw you flung intothe arena among the beasts. Can you wonder that I want to stand by you?Can you be surprised if I demand the privilege of clasping you in myarms and saying to the world, This is my wife? When Christian women werethrown to the lions there was once a heathen husband who leaped into thering, to die at his wife's side, because he could do no more. That's myimpulse--only I could save you from the lions. I couldn't protect youagainst everything, perhaps, but I could against the worst. I know I'mstupid; I know I'm dull. When I come near you, I'm like the clown whotouches some exquisite tissue, spun of azure; but I'm like the clown whowould fight for his treasure, and defend it from sacrilegious hands, andspend his last drop of blood to keep it pure. It's to be put in aposition where I can't do that that I find hard. It's to see you sodefenceless--""But I'm not defenceless.""Why not? Whom have you? Nobody--nobody in this world but me.""Oh yes, I have.""Who?"She smiled faintly at the fierceness of his brief question."It's no one to whom you need feel any opposition, even though it's someone who can do for me what you cannot.""What I cannot?""What you cannot; what no man can. _Asperges me hyssopo, et mundabor_.Thou shalt purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Derek, He haspurged me with hyssop, even though it has not been in the way you think.With the hyssop of what I've had to suffer He has purged me from so manythings that now I see I can safely commit my cause to Him.""So that you don't need me?"She looked at him in silence before she replied:"Not for defence.""Nor for anything else?"She tried to speak, but her voice failed her."Nor for anything else?" he asked again.Her voice was faint, her head sank, her body trembled, but she forcedthe one word, "No."XXIII"Mademoiselle has sent for me?" Bienville kissed the hand that MissGrimston, without rising from her comfortable chair before the fire,lifted toward him. The hand-screen with which she shielded her faceprotected her not only from the blaze, but from his scrutiny. In thesame way, the winter gloaming, with its uncertain light, nerved heragainst her fear of self-betrayal, giving her that assurance of beingmistress of herself which she lacked when he was near."I did send for you. I wanted to see you. Won't you sit down?""I've been expecting the summons," he said, significantly, taking theseat on the other side of the hearth."Indeed? Why?""I thought the day would come when you would be more just to me.""You thought I'd--hear things?""Perhaps.""I have. That's why I asked you to come."During the brief silence before she spoke again he was able tocongratulate himself on his diplomacy. He had checked his first impulseto come to her with his great news immediately on his return fromLakefield. He had seen how relatively ineffective the information wouldbe were it to proceed bluntly from himself. He had even restrained Mrs.Bayford's enthusiasm, in order to let the intelligence filter gentlythrough the neutral agencies of common gossip. In this way it would seemto Miss Grimston a discovery of her own, and appeal to her as anindirect corroboration of his word. He had the less scruple in takingthese precautions in that he believed Diane to have justified anythinghe might have said of her. It was no small relief to a man of honor toknow he had not been guilty of a gratuitous slander, even though it wasonly on a woman. He awaited Miss Grimston's next words with complacentexpectancy, but when they came they surprised him."I wondered a little why you should have been at Lakefield.""I'm afraid you'll think it was for a very foolish reason," he laughed,"but I'll tell you, if you want to know. I went because I thought youwere there.""I? At three o'clock in the morning?""It was like this," he went on. "You'll pardon me if I say anything togive you offence, but you'll understand the reason why. On the day whenwe all lunched together at the Restaurant Blitz--you, Madame your aunt,your friend Monsieur Reggie Bradford, and I--I was a little jealous ofsome understanding between you two, in which I was not included. Youspoke together in whispers, and exchanged glances in such a way that allmy fears were aroused. Afterward you went away with him. That evening,at the Stuyvesant Club, I heard a strange rumor. It was whispered fromone to another until it reached me. Your friend Monsieur Bradford is nota silent person, and what he knows is sure to become common property.The rumor--which I grant you was an absurd one--was to the effect thathe had persuaded you to run away and marry him; and that you hadactually been seen on the way to Lakefield in his car.""I was in his car. That's quite true.""Ah? Then there was some foundation for the report. Madame your auntwill have told you how I hurried here, about eleven o'clock that night.You had disappeared, leaving nothing behind but an enigmatic note sayingyou would explain your absence in the morning. What was I to think,Mademoiselle? I was afraid to think. I didn't stop to think. Idetermined to follow you. It was too late for any train, so I took anauto. I reached the Bay Tree Inn--and saw what I saw. _Voila_!"A smile of amusement flickered over her grave features, but she made noremark."If I was guilty of an indiscretion in following you, Mademoiselle," hepursued, "it was because of my great love for you. If you had chosen tomarry some one else, I couldn't have kept you from it; but at least Iwas determined to try. Though I thought it incredible that you shouldtake a step like that, in secrecy and flight, yet I find so many strangeways of marrying in America that I must be pardoned for my fear. As itis, I cannot regret it, since, by a miracle, it gave me proof of thatwhich you have found it so difficult to believe. It has grieved me morethan I could ever make you understand to know that during all thesemonths you have doubted me.""I'm sure of that," she said, softly, gazing into the fire. "But haven'tyou wondered where I was that night when you followed me to Lakefield?""If I have, I shouldn't presume to inquire.""It's a secret; but I should like to tell it to you. I know you'll guardit sacredly, because it concerns--a woman's honor."Though she did not look up, she felt the startled toss of the head,characteristic of his moments of alarm."If Mademoiselle is pleased to be satirical--""No. There's no reason why I should be satirical. If, in spite ofeverything, my confidence in you wasn't absolute, I shouldn't risk aname I hold so dear as that of Dorothea Pruyn.""_Tiens!_" he exclaimed, under his breath."Miss Pruyn is a charming girl, but she's been very foolish. What shedid was not quite so bad in American eyes as it would be in French ones,but it was certainly very wilful. If you heard rumors of an elopement,it was hers.""_Mon Dieu!_ With the big Monsieur Reggie?""Not quite. I needn't tell you the young man's name; it will be enoughto say that the big Monsieur Reggie, as you call him, was in hisconfidence. It was Reggie who undertook to convey Dorothea to Lakefield,where she was to meet the bridegroom-elect and marry him.""And then?""Then Reggie told me. It was silly of any one to intrust him with amission of the kind, for he couldn't possibly keep it to himself. Hetold me while we were lunching at the Blitz. That's what he waswhispering. That's why I went away with him after lunch and left youwith my aunt. I saw you were annoyed, but I couldn't help it.""You wanted to dissuade him?""I tried; but I saw it was too late for that. Reggie wouldn't desert hisfriend at the last minute. The only concession I could wring from himwas that he should let me take his place in the motor.""You?""I drive at least as well as Mr. Bradford. I made him see that in caseof accident it would make all the difference in the world to MissPruyn's future life to be with a woman, rather than a man.""Did you make her see it, too?""I didn't try. The arrangements these wise young people had maderendered the substitution easy. Dorothea had apparently considered itpart of the romance not to know with whom she was going, or where shewas being taken. At the time and place appointed she found anautomobile, driven by a person in a big fur coat, a cap, and goggles. Itwas agreed that she should enter and ask no questions.""And did she?""She fulfilled her engagement to the letter. As soon as she was seated Idrove away; and for six hours I didn't hear a sound from her.""Six hours? Did it take you all that time to reach Lakefield?""I didn't go to Lakefield. I took her to Philadelphia. My one object wasto keep her from meeting the young man that night; but perhaps that'swhere I made my mistake.""But why? It was better for her that she shouldn't.""For her, perhaps; but not for every one else. You see, I lost my waytwo or three times; though, as I had been over the ground twice already,I was always able to right myself after a while. Near Trenton, Dorotheagot frightened, and when I peeped inside I could see she was crying. Asall danger was over then, I stopped and let her see who I was.""Was she angry?""Quite the contrary! The poor child was terrified at her own rashness,and very much relieved to find she had been kept from being as foolishas she had intended. I got in beside her, and let her have her cry outin comfort. After that we ate some sandwiches and took heart. It wasweird work, in the dead of night and along the lonely roads; but wepushed on, and crept into Philadelphia between one and two in themorning.""That was a very brave, act, Mademoiselle." Bienville's eyes glistenedand his face lighted up with an ardor that was not dampened by thecasual, almost listless, air with which she told her story."It might have been better if I had let the whole thing alone.""Why so?""You can rarely interfere in other people's affairs without doing moreharm than good. If I had let them go their own way, Diane Evelethwouldn't have been put in a false position.""Ah?""That's the other part of the story. If I had known, I should have leftthe matter in her hands. She would have managed it better than I. As itwas, she made my bit of help superfluous.""I should find it hard to credit that," he said, twisting his fingersnervously."You won't when I tell you."In the quiet, unaccentuated manner in which she had given her own sharein the action she gave Diane's. Shading her eyes with the hand-screen,she was able to watch his play of feature, and note how the first forcedsmile of bravado faded into an expression of crestfallen gravity."You see," she concluded, "they were frantic at Dorothea's failure toappear. When you arrived they naturally thought it was she; and if DerekPruyn hadn't lost his head when he saw you, he wouldn't have tried tothrust her out of sight as though she were caught in a crime. It was solike a man to do it; a woman would have had a dozen ways of disarmingyour suspicion, while he did the very thing to arouse it. I don't blameyou for thinking what you did--not in the least. I don't even blame youfor telling it, since it would seem to bear out--what you said before. Ishould only blame you--""Yes, Mademoiselle? You would only blame me--?""I should only blame you if--now that you know the truth--you didn'tcorrect the impression you have given.""Are you going to begin on that again?" he asked, in a tone ofdisappointment."I'm not beginning again, because I've never ceased. If I say anythingnew on the subject, it is this--that it's time the final word wasspoken.""I agree with you there; it _is_ time for that word; but you must speakit."There was a ring of energy in his voice which caused her to turn fromher contemplation of the fire and look at him. When she did he had takenon a new air of resolution."I think it's time we came to a definite understanding," he went on,"and that you should see how the matter looks from my point of view. Youspeak of doing right, Mademoiselle, as if it were an easy thing. Youdon't realize that, for me, it would have to be the last act but one inlife."In spite of the shock, she ignored his implied confession, going on tospeak in the tone of ordinary conversation."The last act but one? I don't understand you.""Really? I'm surprised at that. You're so good a sportsman that I shouldthink you'd see that if I do what you ask there will be only one morething left for me."For a few minutes she looked at him silently, with fixed gaze, taking inthe full measure of his meaning."That's folly," she said at last."Is it? Not for me. It might be for some people, but--not for me. Youmust remember who I am. I'm a Frenchman. I'm an aristocrat. I'm aBienville. I'm a member of a class, of a clan, that lives and breatheson--honor. I can do without almost everything in the world but that. Ican do without money, I can do without morals, I can do without mostkinds of common honesty, I can do without nearly all the Christianvirtues, and still keep my place among my friends; but I can't dowithout that particular shade of conduct which they and I understand bythe word honor.""But aren't you doing without it as it is?""No; because there again our code is special to ourselves. With us thecrime is not in suspicion or supposition; it isn't even in detection.It's in admission. It's in confession. All sorts of things may bethought of you, and said of you, and even known of you, and you canbluff them out; but when you have acknowledged them--you're doomed.""Even so, isn't it better to acknowledge them--and _be_ doomed?""That's the question. That's what I have to decide. That's where youmust help me decide. If you had allowed me, I should have made up my ownmind, on my own responsibility; but you won't let me. Now that theincident at Lakefield is no good as evidence, I see that you will neverrest until we come to the plainest of plain speech. The problem I've hadto solve is this: Is Diane Eveleth to be happy, or am I? Is she to risewhile I go under, or shall I keep her down and stay on the surface?Since it's her life or mine, which is it to be? The alternative may be abrutal one, but there it is.""And you've decided in your own favor?""So far. I've been actuated by the instinct of self-preservation.""And are you going to persist in it?""That's for you to tell me. But I should like to remind you first ofthis, that if I don't--I go.""And what if--if I went with you?""You couldn't. The journey would be too long.""But you needn't go so far if I'm there.""I couldn't take you with me. You must understand that. I once knew anAmerican girl who married a man who cheated at cards, and buried herselfalive with him. I wouldn't let a woman do that for me.""But if she wanted to?""In that case she ought to be protected from herself. There's no use inruining two lives where one will do.""There's such a thing as losing your life to find it.""If so, it's something for me to do--alone.""Isn't it a kind of moral cowardice to say that?""I don't think so. To me it seems only looking things squarely in theface. I'm not the sort of man for whom there's any possibility ofbeginning life anew. A man like me can't live things down. When once, byhis own confession, he has lost his honor, there's no rehabilitationthat can make him a man again. Like Cain, he has got to go out from thepresence of the Lord; only, unlike Cain, there's no land of Nod waitingto receive him. There's no place for him anywhere on earth. A few yearsago, when I was motoring in the Black Forest with the d'Aubignys, wedropped into a little hole of an inn as nearly out of the world asanything could be. As we approached the door a man got up from a benchand shambled away. When he had got to what he considered a safe distancehe turned to look at us. I knew him. It was Jacques de la Tour deLorme.""Really?""The poor wretch had hidden himself in that God-forsaken spot, where hesupposed no one would be able to track him down; but we had done it.I've never forgotten his weary gait or the woe-begone look in his eyes.It is what would come to me if I waited for it.""I don't see why. There's no similarity between the cases. Jacques de LaTour de Lorme did wrong he never could put right. You'd be doing thevery thing he found impossible." He shook his head. "It wouldn't makeany difference in my world. Nobody there would think of the right or thewrong; they'd only consider what I'd owned to. It's the confession thatwould ruin me.""Surely you exaggerate. You could do it quietly. No one needknow--outside Derek Pruyn and two or three more of us.""I don't dothings in that way," he said, with an odd return of his old-time pride."If I put the woman right, it shall be in the eyes of the world. I don'task to have things made easy for me. If I do it at all, I shall do itthoroughly. I'm not afraid of it or of anything it entails. It's acurious thing that a man of my make-up is afraid of being ridiculed orbeing given the cold shoulder, but he's not afraid to die."Though he was looking straight at her, he was too deeply engrossed inhis own thoughts to see how proudly her head went up, or to note theflash of splendid light in which her glance enveloped him."I was all ready to die," he pursued, in the same meditative tone, "thatmorning in the Pre Catalan. George Eveleth could have had my life forthe asking. I'd never known him to miss his mark, and he wouldn't havemissed me--if he hadn't had another destination for his bullet. I'veregretted it more than once. I've had pretty nearly all that life couldgive me--and I've made a mess of it.""You haven't had--love," she ventured."Love?" he echoed, with a short laugh. "I've had every kind of love butone; and that I'm not worthy of.""We get a good many things we're not worthy of; but they help us justthe same.""This wouldn't help me," he returned, speaking very slowly. "I shouldn'tknow what to do with it. It would be as useless to me in my newconditions as a chaplet of pearls to a slave in the galleys. So, whatwould you do?""I'd do right at any cost."She scarcely knew that the words were spoken, so intent was her thoughton the strange mixture of elements in his personality. It was not untilshe had waited in vain for a response that she found the echo of herspeech still in her mental hearing and recognized its import. Her firstimpulse was to cry out and take it back; but she restrained herself andwaited. It was an instant in which the love of daring, that was soinstinctive in her nature, blew, as it were, a trumpet-challenge to thesame passion in his own, while they sat staring at each other, wide-eyedand speechless, in the dancing firelight.XXIVOn the following day the Marquis de Bienville found the execution of anyintentions he might have had toward Derek Pruyn postponed by thecircumstance that Miss Regina van Tromp was dead. The helpless,inarticulate life, which for three years had served as a bond to holdmore active existences together, had failed suddenly, leaving in thelittle group a curious impression of collapse. It became perceptiblethat the hushed sick-room, where Miss Lucilla and Mrs. Eveleth were theonly ministrants, had in reality been a centre for those who neverentered it. Now that the living presence was withdrawn, there came theconsciousness of dispersing interests, inseparable from the passing awayof the long established, which gives the spirit pause. The days beforethe funeral became a period of suspended action, in which Life refrainedfrom too marked a manifestation of its energies, out of reverence forDeath. Even when the grave was filled in, and the will read, and thefamily face to face with its new conditions, there was a respectfulabsence of hurry in beginning the work of reconstruction. The lulllasted, in fact, till James van Tromp arrived from Paris; and it wasbroken then only by the banker's desire "to get things settled" with allpossible speed, so that he might return to the Rue Auber.The first sign of real disintegration came from Mrs. Eveleth. She hadwaited for the arrival of the man whom she looked upon now as herconfidential adviser, to make the announcement that, since Miss Lucillawould no longer need her, she meant to have a home of her own. Theeconomies she had been able to practise during the last two years,together with a legacy from Miss van Tromp, would, when added to "herown income," provide her with modest comfort for the rest of her days.There was something triumphant in the way in which she proclaimed herindependence of the daughter-in-law who had been the author of so manyof her woes. It was the old banker himself who brought this intelligenceto Diane.During the fortnight he had been in New York he had formed an almostdaily habit of dropping in on her. She was the more surprised at hisdoing so from the fact that her detachment from the rest of the circleof which she had formed a part was now complete. She had gone to seeMiss Lucilla with words of sympathy, but her reception was such that shecame away with cheeks flaming. Miss Lucilla had said nothing; she hadonly wept; but she had wept in a way to show that Diane herself, morethan the departed Miss Regina, was the motive of her grief. After thatDiane had remained shut up in her linen-room, finding in its occupiedseclusion something of the peace which the nun seeks in the cloister.There was no one but the old man to push his way into her sanctuary, andfor his visits she was grateful. They not only relieved the tedium ofher days, but they brought her news from that small world into which hermost vital interests had become absorbed."So the old lady is set up for life on your money," he observed, as hewatched Diane hold a white table-cloth up to the light and search it forimperfections."It isn't my money now; and even if it were I'd rather she had the useof it. She would have had much more than that if it hadn't been for me.""She might; and then again she mightn't. Who told _you_ what would havehappened--if everything had been different from what it is? There arepeople who think they would have had plenty of money if it hadn't beenfor me; but that doesn't prove they're right.""In any case I'm glad she has it.""That's because you're a very foolish little woman, as I told you whenyou came to me three years ago. I said then that you'd be sorry for itsome day--""But I'm not.""Tut! tut! Don't tell me! Can't I see with my own eyes? No woman couldlose her good looks as you've done and not know she's made a mistake.How old are you now?""I'm twenty-seven.""Dear me! dear me! You look forty.""I feel eighty.""Yes; I dare say you do. Any one who's got into so many scrapes as youhave must feel the burden of time. I don't think I ever saw a youngwoman make such poor use of her opportunities. Why didn't you marryDerek Pruyn?"Diane kept herself quite still, her needle arrested half-way through itsstitch. She took time to reflect that it was useless to feel annoyed atanything he might say, and when she formed her answer it was in thespirit of meeting him in his own vein."What makes you think I ever had the chance?""Because I gave it to you myself.""You, Mr. van Tromp?""Yes; me. I did all that wire-pulling when you first came to New York;and I did it just so that you might catch him.""Oh?""I did," he declared, proudly. "And if you had been the woman I took youfor, you could have had him.""But suppose I--didn't want him?""Oh, don't tell me that," he said, pityingly. "Why shouldn't you wanthim?--just as much as he'd want you?""Well, I'll put it that way if you like. Suppose he didn't want me?""Then the more fool he. I picked you out for him on purpose.""May I ask why?""Certainly. I saw he was getting on in life, and, as he'd been a goodmany years a widower, I imagined he'd had some difficulty in getting anyone to have him. If he's good-looking, he's not what you'd call verybright; and he's got a temper like--well, I won't say what. I'd pity thewoman who got him, that's all; and so--""And so you thought you'd pity me.""I did pity you as it was. It seemed to me you couldn't be worse off,not even if you married Derek Pruyn.""It was certainly good of you to give me the opportunity; and if I hadonly known--""You would have let it slip through your fingers just the same. You'reone of the young women who will always stand in their own light. I daresay, now, that if I told you I was willing to marry you myself, youwouldn't profit by the occasion.""I should never want to profit by your loss, Mr. van Tromp.""But suppose I could afford--to lose?"Unable to answer him there, she held her peace, though it was a reliefthat, before he had time to speak again, a page-boy knocked at the doorand entered with a card. Diane took it hastily and read the name."Tell the gentleman I can't see him," she said, with a visible effort tospeak steadily."Wait!" the banker ordered, as the boy was about to turn. "Who is it?"Without ceremony he drew the card from Diane's hand and looked at it."Heu!" he cried. "It's Bienville, is it? Of course you'll see him; ofcourse you will; of course! Here, boy, I'll go with you."Returning to Gramercy Park after this interview, the banker potteredabout his apartment until, on hearing the door-bell ring, he looked outof the window and recognized Derek Pruyn's chauffeur. On the stairs, ashe went down, he heard Miss Lucilla's voice in the hall."Oh, come in, Derek. Marion isn't here yet, but she won't be long. Iasked you to come punctually, because I gathered from her note that shewanted to see you very particularly, and without Mrs. Bayford'sknowledge. She has evidently something on her mind that she wants totell you.""Hello, dears!" the old man interrupted suddenly, as, leaning heavily onthe baluster, he descended the stairs. "I've got good news for you.""Good news, Uncle James?" Miss Lucilla said, reproachfully. With herlong, grave face, and in her heavy crape, she looked as though she foundgood news decidedly out of place."The very best," the banker declared, reaching the hall and taking hisnephew and niece each by an arm. "Come into the library and I'll tellyou. There!" he went on, pushing Miss Lucilla into an arm-chair. "Sitdown, Derek, and make yourself comfortable. Now, listen, both of you.Perhaps you're going to have a new aunt.""Oh, Uncle James!" Miss Lucilla cried, in the voice of a person about tofaint."You're going to be married!" Derek roared, with the fury of a fatheraddressing a wayward son."The young woman," the banker went on to explain, "is of Frenchextraction, but Irish on the mother's side."Derek grasped the arms of his chair and half rose, making aninarticulate sound."'Sh! 'Sh!" the old man went on, lifting a warning hand. "She'd hadreverses of fortune; but that wasn't the reason why she came to me.Though her husband had just died, leaving nothing, she had her own_dot_, on the income of which she could have lived. But that didn't suither. Her husband had left a mother, who had neither _dot_ nor anythingelse in the world. At the age of sixty the old woman was a pauper. Mylittle lady came to see me in order to transfer all her own moneysecretly to her mother-in-law, and face the world herself with emptyhands.""My God!" Derek breathed, just audibly. Miss Lucilla sat upright andtense, hot tears starting to her eyes."Plucky, wasn't it?" the uncle went on, complacently. "I didn't approveof it at first, but I let her do it in the end, knowing that some goodfellow would make it up to her.""Don't joke, uncle," Derek cried, nervously. "It's too serious forthat.""I'm not joking. It's what I did think. And if the world wasn't full ofidiots who couldn't tell diamonds from glass, a little woman like thatwould have been snapped up long ago."Derek sprang up and strode across the room."Do you mean to tell me," he demanded, turning abruptly, "that she madeover all her money to Mrs. Eveleth--a woman who has deserted her, likethe rest of us?""That's what she did; but there's this to be said for the old lady, thatshe doesn't know it. She thinks it's the wreck of her own fortune, andDiane wouldn't let me tell her the truth. Since you seem to beinterested in the little story," he added, with sarcasm, "you may hearall about it."With tolerable accuracy he gave the details of his first interview withDiane, three years previous. Long before he finished, Lucilla wasweeping silently, while Derek stood like a man turned to stone. Even thebanker's own face took on an expression of whimsical gravity as he saidin conclusion:"And so I've decided to give her a home--that is," he added,significantly, "if no one else will.""Do you mean that for me?" Derek asked, in a tone too low for Lucilla tohear it."Oh no--not particularly. I mean it for--any one.""Because," Derek went on, "as for me--I'm not worthy to have her undermy roof."The banker made no comment, sitting in a hunched attitude and humming tohimself in a cracked voice while Derek stared down at him.They were still in this position when Marion Grimston was shown in.XXVGreetings having been exchanged, it was Miss Lucilla's policy to drawher uncle away to some other room, leaving Marion free to have herconference with Pruyn; but the old man settled himself in his chairagain, with no intention of quitting the field. Derek, too, entered onthe task of dislodging him, but without success. Nursing his knee, andpeering at Marion with bulgy, short-sighted eyes, the banker kept heranswering questions as to Mrs. Bayford's health, blind to her obviousnervousness and distress.The cousins exchanged baffled, impatient glances, while Lucilla managedto say in an undertone: "Take Marion to the drawing-room. We'll neverget him to go."Derek was about to comply with this suggestion, when the footman threwopen the library door again. For a moment no one appeared, though asound of smothered voices from the hall caused the four within the roomto sit in strangely aroused expectancy."No, no; I can't go in," came a woman's whispered protest. "You can doit without me.""You must!" was the man's response; and a second later Bienville was onthe threshold, standing aside as Diane Eveleth entered.Derek sprang to his feet, but, as if petrified by a sense of his ownimpotence, stood still. Miss Lucilla, with the instincts of the hostessawake, even in these strange conditions, went forward, with her handhalf outstretched and the words "Monsieur de Bienville" on her lips. Theold banker rose, and, taking Diane's hand, drew it within his arm in aprotecting way for which she was grateful, while she suffered him tolead her some few steps apart. Marion Grimston alone, seated in adistant corner, did not move. With her arm resting on a small table, shewatched the rapidly enacted scene with the detachment of a spectatorlooking at a play. She had thrown back her black veil over her hat, andagainst the dark background her face had the grave, marble whiteness ofclassic features in stone.During the minute of interrogatory silence that ensued, Bienville, withquick reversion to the habits of the drawing-room, was able tore-establish his self-control. With his hat, his gloves, and his stick,he had that air of the casual visitor which helped to give him back thesensation of having his feet on accustomed ground."I must beg your pardon, Miss van Tromp, for disturbing you," he said,addressing himself to Miss Lucilla, who stood in the foreground. "Ishouldn't have done so if I hadn't something of great importance tosay."His voice was so calm that Miss Lucilla could not do otherwise thanreply in the same vein of commonplace formality."I'm very glad to see you, Monsieur de Bienville. Won't you sit down? Iwas just going to ring for tea.""Thank you," he said, with a wave of the hand that declined withoutwords the proffered entertainment. "Perhaps I had better say what I haveto say--and go.""Oh, if you think so--!"Having fulfilled her necessary duties as mistress of the house, she feltat liberty to fall back, leaving Bienville isolated in the doorway."Mr. Pruyn," he said, after further brief hesitation, "I come to make aconfession which can scarcely be a confession to any one in thisroom--but you."Derek grew white to the lips, but remained motionless, while Bienvillewent on."On the way up from South America last spring I said certain thingsabout a certain lady which were not true. I said them first out ofthoughtless folly; but I maintained them afterward with deliberateintent. When I pretended to take them back, I did so in a way which, asI knew, must convince you further.""It did."As he brought out the two words, Derek tried to look at Diane, but shewas clinging to the arm of old James van Tromp, while her frightenedeyes were riveted on Bienville."I'm telling you the truth to-day," Bienville continued, "partly becausecircumstances have forced my hand, partly because some one whom Igreatly respect desires it, and partly because something withinmyself--I might almost call it the manhood I've been fightingagainst--has made it imperative. I've come to the point where mypunishment is greater than I can bear. I'm not so lost to honor as notto know that life is no longer worth the living when honor is lost tome."He spoke without a tremor, leaning easily on the cane he held againsthis hip."I must do myself the justice to say that the wrong of which I wasguilty had its origin, at the first, in a sort of inadvertence. I had nointention of doing any one irreparable harm. I was taking part in agame, but I meant to play it fairly. The lady of whom I speak would bearme out when I say that the people among whom she and I were born--inFrance--in Paris--engage in this game as a sort of sport, and we callit--love. It isn't love in any of the senses in which you understand ithere. We give it a meaning of our own. It's a game that requires thecombination of many kinds of skill, and, if it doesn't call for aconspicuous display of virtues, it lays all the greater emphasis on itsown few, stringent rules. Like all other sports, it demands a certainkind of integrity, in which the moralist could easily pick holes, butwhich nevertheless constitutes its saving grace. Well, in this game oflove I--cheated. I said, one day, that I had won, when I hadn't won. Isaid it to people who welcomed my victory, not through friendship forme, but from envy of--her." The perspiration began to stand in beadsupon Bienville's forehead, but he held himself erect and went on withthe same outward tranquillity. His eyes were fixed on Pruyn's, andPruyn's on his, in a gaze from which even the nearest objects wereexcluded. "In the little group in which we lived her position waspeculiar. She was both within our gates and without them. While she wasone of us by birth, she was a stranger by education and by marriage. Shewas admitted with a welcome, and at the same time with a question. Shewas a mark for enmity from the very first. There was something abouther that challenged our institutions. In among our worn-out passions andmoribund ideals she brought a freshness we resented. She made ourprejudices seem absurd from contrast with her own sanity, and showed ourmoral standards to be rotten by the light of the something clear andvirginal in her character. I can't tell you how this effect was broughtabout, but there were few of us who weren't aware of it, as there werefew of us who didn't hate it. There was but one impulse among us--tocatch her in a fault, to make her no better than ourselves. The daringof her innocence afforded us many opportunities; and we made use ofthem. One man after another confessed himself defeated. Then came myturn. I wasn't merely defeated; I was put to utter rout, with ridiculeand scorn. That was too much for me. I couldn't stand it; and--and--Ilied.""Oh, Bienville, that will do!" Diane cried out, in a pleading wail."Don't say any more!""I'm not sure that there's any more I need to say. The rest can beeasily understood. Every one knows how a man who lies once is obliged tolie again, and again, and yet again, unless he frees himself as I do.When I began I thought I had it in me to go on heroically--but I hadn't.I can't keep it up. I'm not one of the master villains, who commandrespect from force of prowess. I'm a weakling in evil, as in good, fitneither for God nor for the devil. But that's my affair. I needn'ttrouble any one here with what only concerns myself. It's toolate for me to make everything right now; but I'll do what I canbefore--before--I mean," he stammered on, "I'll write. I'll write to thepeople--there were only a few of them--to whom I actually used the wordsI did. I'll ask them to correct the impression I have given. I knowthey'll do it, when they know--"He stopped helplessly. The lustre died out of his eyes, and his pallorbecame sallowness."But I've said enough," he began again, making a tremendous effort toregain his self-mastery. "You can have no doubt as to my meaning; andyou will be able to fill in anything I may have left unspoken. Now," headded, sweeping the room with a look--"now--I'd better--go.""No, by God! you infernal scoundrel," shouted Derek Pruyn, "you shallnot go."All the suffering of months shot out in the red gleam of his eyes, whilethe muscular tension of his neck was like that of an infuriated mastiff.In three strides he was across the room, with clinched fist uplifted.Bienville had barely time in which to fold his arms and stand with feettogether and head erect, awaiting the blow."Go on," he said, as Derek stood with hand poised above him. "Go on."There was a second of breathless stillness. Then slowly the clinchedfingers began to relax and the open hand descended, softly, gently, onBienville's shoulder. Between the two men there passed a look of thingsunspeakable, till, with bent head and drooping figure, Derek wheeledaway."I'll say good-by--now."Bienville's voice was husky, but he bowed with dignity to each member ofthe company in turn and to Marion Grimston last. "Raoul!" The namearrested him as he was about to go. He looked at her inquiringly."Raoul," she said again, without rising from her place, "I promised thatif you ever did what you've done to-day I would be your wife.""You did," he answered, "but I've already given you to understand that Iclaim no such reward.""It isn't you who would be claiming the reward; it's I. I've sufferedmuch. I've earned it.""The very fact that you've suffered much would be my motive in notallowing you to suffer more.""Raoul, no man knows the sources of a woman's joy and pain. How can youtell from what to save me?""There's one thing from which I _must_ save you: from uniting yourdestiny with that of a man who has no future--from pouring the richesof your heart into a bottomless pit, where they could do no one anygood. I thank you, Mademoiselle, with all my soul. I've asked you manytimes for your love; and of the hard things I've had to do to-day, thehardest is to give it back to you, now, when at last you offer it. Don'tadd to my bitterness by urging it on me.""But, Raoul," she cried, raising herself up, "you don't understand. Weregard these things differently here from the way in which you do inFrance. It may be true, as you say, that in losing your honor you'velost all--in French eyes; but we don't feel like that. We never look onany one as beyond redemption. We should consider that a man who has beenbrave enough to do what you've done to-day has gone far to establish hismoral regeneration. We can honor him, in certain ways--in _certain_ways, Raoul--almost more than if he had never done wrong at all.None of us would condemn him, or cast a stone at him--should we,Lucilla?--should we, Mr. Pruyn?""No, no," Miss Lucilla sobbed. "We'd pity him; we'd take him to ourhearts.""She's right, Bienville," Derek muttered, nodding toward Marion. "Betterdo just as she says.""I'm a Frenchman. I'm a Bienville. I can't accept mercy.""But you can bestow it," the girl cried, passionately. "Any one wouldtell you that, after all that has happened--after this--I should behappier in sharing your life than in being shut out of it. I appeal toyou, Miss Lucilla! I appeal to you, Diane!--wouldn't any woman be proudto be the wife of Raoul de Bienville after what he has done thisafternoon, no matter how the world turned against him?""These ladies, in the goodness of their hearts, might say anything theychose; but nothing would alter their conviction that for you to be mywife would be only to add misery to mistake.""That's so," the old banker corroborated, smacking his lips, "but youwouldn't be much worse when you'd done that than you are now; so why notjust let her have her way?"Bienville tried to speak again, but his dry lips refused to frame thewords."Noble ... impossible ... drag you down," came incoherently from him,when by a quick backward movement he stepped over the threshold into thesemi-obscurity of the hail.The act was so sudden that seconds had already elapsed before MarionGrimston uttered the cry that rent her like the wail of some strong,primordial creature without the power of tears."Raoul, come back!"With rapid motion she glided across the room and was in the hail."Raoul, come back!"She had descended the hail, and had almost reached him as he opened thedoor to pass out."Raoul, I love you!"But the door closed as, falling against it, she sank to the floor.Before Miss Lucilla and James van Tromp could reach her she was alreadylosing consciousness.XXVI"No; stay where you are; I'll go." Derek spoke with the terse command ofsubdued excitement, almost pushing Diane back, as she, too, attempted togo to Marion's assistance. She sank obediently into one of the greatchairs, too dazed even for curiosity as to what was passing in the hail.Derek closed the door behind him, and, though confused sounds of voicesand shuffling feet reached her, she gave them but a dulled attention. Itwas not till he came back that her stunned intelligence revivedsufficiently to enable her to think.He closed the door again, throwing himself wearily into another of thebig leathern chairs."They've taken her into Lucilla's room. She'll be all right now. It wasbetter that it should end like that.""I'm not so sure. I'm afraid for him.""Oh, he'll survive it.""You don't know our Frenchmen. They're not like you, nor any of yourmen. With their sensitiveness to honor and their indifference to moralright, it's difficult for you to understand them. I shouldn't besurprised at anything he might do.""I'll go and see him to-morrow and try to knock a little reason intohim.""If it isn't too late.""Oh, I dare say it will be. Everything seems to be--too late.""It's better that some things should come too late rather than not atall.""What things do you mean?""I suppose I mean the same things as you do." He gave a long sigh thatwas something of a groan, slipping down in his chair into an attitude,not of informality, but of dejection. For the moment neither was equalto facing the great subjects that must be met."I wonder what Bienville will do to himself?" he asked, suddenly,changing his position with nervous brusqueness, leaning forward now,with his elbows on his knees. "I wish you'd go and see him to-night.""Well, perhaps I will. I've a good deal of fellow-feeling with him. Ican't help thinking that he and I are in much the same box, and that hehas shown me the way Out.""Derek!"She sprang up with a cry of alarm, standing, with hands crossed on herbreast, in a sudden access of terror."Oh, don't be afraid," he laughed, grimly, staring up at her. "I'm nothis sort. There are no heroics about me. Men of my stamp don't maketheatrical exits; we're too confoundedly sane. Whether we do well orwhether we do ill, we plod along on our treadmill round, from the houseto the office, and from the office to the grave, as if we never hadanything on the conscience. But if I had the spirit of Bienville, do youknow what I should do?""No, no, no!" she burst out. "Don't say it! Don't say it!""Then I won't. But if Bienville thought of it, why shouldn't I? What hashe done that is worse than what I've done? What has he done that's asbad? For, after all, you were little or nothing to him, when you wereeverything to me. I knew you as he didn't know you. I had lived in onehouse with you, watched you, studied you, tried you, put you to teststhat you never knew anything about, and had seen you come through themsuccessfully. I had seen how you bore misfortune; I had seen how youcarried yourself in difficult situations; I had seen the skill withwhich you ruled my house, and the wisdom with which you were more than amother to my child; I had seen you combine with all that is most womanlythe patience and fortitude of a man; and it wasn't enough for me--itwasn't enough for me!"He threw himself back into his seat, with a desperate flinging out ofthe hands, letting his arms drop heavily over the sides of his chairtill his fingers touched the floor."My God! My God!" he groaned, ironically. "It wasn't enough for me! Idoubted her. I doubted her on the first idle word that came my way. Idid more than doubt her. I haled her into my court, and tried her, andcondemned her, and, as nearly as might be, put her to death. I, with myten hundred thousand sins--all of them as black as Erebus--found her notpure enough for me! It ought to make one die of laughter. Diane," hewent on, in another tone--a tone of ghastly jocularity--"didn't it amuseyou, knowing yourself to be what you are--knowing what you had done forMrs. Eveleth--knowing the things Bienville has just said of you--didn'tit amuse you to see me sitting in judgment on you?""It doesn't amuse me to see you sitting in judgment on yourself.""Doesn't it? I should think it would. It seems to me that if I saw a manwho had done me so much harm visited with such awful justice as I'mgetting now, it would make up to me for nearly everything I ever had tosuffer.""In my case it only adds to it. I wish you wouldn't say these things. Ifyou ever did me wrong, I always knew it was--by mistake.""Oh, Lord! Oh, Lord!" He laughed outright, getting up from his chair anddragging himself heavily across the room, where, with his hands in hispockets and his back against the bookshelves, he stood facing her. "Whatdo you think of Bienville's attitude toward Marion Grimston?" he asked,with an inflection that would have sounded casual if it had not been forall that lay behind."I can understand it; but I think he was wrong.""You think he ought to allow her to marry him?""Weighing one thing with another--yes.""Would you marry a man who had shown himself such a hound?""It would depend.""On what?""Oh, on a good many things.""Such as--?"She hesitated a minute before deciding whether or not to walk into histrap, but, as his eyes were on the ground and she felt stronger than aminute or two ago, she decided to do it."It would depend, for one thing, on whether or not I loved him.""And if you did love him?"Again she hesitated, before making up her mind to speak."Then it would depend on whether or not he loved me."She had given him his chance. The word he had never uttered must comenow or never. For an instant he seemed about to seize his opportunity;but when he actually spoke it was only to say:"Would _you_ marry _me_?""No." She gave her answer firmly."No?""No.""Why?"She shrugged her shoulders and threw out her hands, but said nothing inwords."Is it because I haven't expressed regret for all the things I have--toregret?"She shook her head."Because if it is," he went on, "I haven't done it only for the reasonthat the utmost expression would be so inadequate as to become amockery. When a man has sinned against light, as I've done, no merecries of contrition are going to win him pardon. That must come as aspontaneous act of grace, as it wells out of the heart of the MostHigh--or it can't come at all.""That isn't the reason.""Then there's another one?""Yes; another one.""One that's insurmountable?""Yes, as things are--that's insurmountable."With a look of dumb, unresenting sadness, he turned away, and, leaningon the mantelpiece, stood with his back toward her, and his face buriedin his hands.[Illustration: DRAWN BY FRANK CRAIG"SINCE THE INNER SHRINE IS UNLOCKED--AT LAST--I'LL GO IN"]Minutes went by in silence. When he spoke it was over his shoulder, and,as it were, parenthetically:"But, Diane, I love you."He stood as he was, listening, but as if without much expectation, for aresponse. When none came, and he turned round inquiringly, he beheld inher that radiant change which was visible to those who saw the martyredStephen's face as he gazed straight into heaven.For a long minute he stood spellbound and amazed."Was it that?" he asked, in a whisper.She gave him no reply."It was that," he declared, in the tone of a man making a discovery. "It_was_ that.""Why didn't you tell me so before?" she found strength to say."Tell you, Diane? What was the use of telling you--when you knew? Mylife has been open, for you to look into as you would.""Yes, but not to go into. There's only one key that unlocks the innershrine of all--the word you've just spoken. A woman knows nothing tillshe hears it."He looked at her with the puzzled air of a man getting strangeinformation."Well," he said, after a long pause, "you've heard it. So what--now?""Now I'm willing to say that I love you.""Oh, but I knew that already," he returned. "A man doesn't need to betold what he can see. That isn't what I'm asking. What I want to learnis, not what you feel, but what you'll--do."She smiled faintly."I'm asking what you'll--do?" he repeated."If you insist on my telling you that," she said glancing up at himshyly, "I'll say that--since the inner shrine is unlocked--at last--I'llgo in.""Then, come, come."He stood with arms open, his tone of petition still blended with asuggestion of command, as she crossed the room toward him.THE ENDEnd of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Inner Shrine, by Basil King*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE INNER SHRINE ******** This file should be named 14393.txt or 14393.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/4/3/9/14393/Produced by Rick Niles, Carol David and the PG Online DistributedProofreading TeamUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Hoosier Schoolmaster, by Edward EgglestonThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Hoosier Schoolmaster       A Story of Backwoods Life in IndianaAuthor: Edward EgglestonRelease Date: February 18, 2005 [EBook #15099]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE HOOSIER SCHOOLMASTER ***Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Charlie Kirschner and the PG OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team.THE HOOSIERSCHOOLMASTERA Story of Backwoods Lifein IndianaREVISEDwith an introduction and Notes on the Districtby the Author,EDWARD EGGLESTONWith Character Sketches byF. OPPERand other Illustrations byW.E.B. STARKWEATHERGROSSET & DUNLAPPUBLISHERS NEW YORK1871AS A PEBBLE CAST UPON A GREATCAIRN, THIS EDITION IS INSCRIBED TO THEMEMORY OF JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL,WHOSE CORDIAL ENCOURAGEMENT TO MYEARLY STUDIES OF AMERICAN DIALECT ISGRATEFULLY REMEMBERED.THE AUTHOR.PREFACE TO THE LIBRARY EDITION.BEING THE HISTORY OF A STORY."THE HOOSIER SCHOOL-MASTER" was written and printed in the autumn of1871. It is therefore now about twenty-one years old, and the publisherspropose to mark its coming of age by issuing a library edition. I availmyself of the occasion to make some needed revisions, and to preface thenew edition with an account of the origin and adventures of the book. IfI should seem to betray unbecoming pride in speaking of a story that haspassed into several languages and maintained an undiminished popularityfor more than a score of years, I count on receiving the indulgencecommonly granted to paternal vanity when celebrating the majority of afirst-born. With all its faults on its head, this little tale has becomea classic, in the bookseller's sense at least; and a public that hasshown so constant a partiality for it has a right to feel some curiosityregarding its history.I persuade myself that additional extenuation for this biography of abook is to be found in the relation which "The Hoosier School-Master"happens to bear to the most significant movement in American literaturein our generation. It is the file-leader of the procession of Americandialect novels. Before the appearance of this story, the New Englandfolk-speech had long been employed for various literary purposes, it istrue; and after its use by Lowell, it had acquired a standing that madeit the classic _lingua rustica_ of the United States. Even Hoosiers andSoutherners when put into print, as they sometimes were in rudeburlesque stories, usually talked about "huskin' bees" and "apple-parin'bees" and used many other expressions foreign to their vernacular.American literature hardly touched the speech and life of the peopleoutside of New England; in other words, it was provincial in the narrowsense.I can hardly suppose that "The Hoosier School-Master" bore any causativerelation to that broader provincial movement in our literature which nowincludes such remarkable productions as the writings of Mr. Cable, Mr.Harris, Mr. Page, Miss Murfree, Mr. Richard Malcom Johnson, Mr. Howe,Mr. Garland, some of Mrs. Burnett's stories and others quite worthy ofinclusion in this list. The taking up of life in this regional way hasmade our literature really national by the only process possible. TheFederal nation has at length manifested a consciousness of thecontinental diversity of its forms of life. The "great American novel,"for which prophetic critics yearned so fondly twenty years ago, isappearing in sections. I may claim for this book the distinction, suchas it is, of being the first of the dialect stories that depict a lifequite beyond New England influence. Some of Mr. Bret Harte's brief andpowerful tales had already foreshadowed this movement toward a largerrendering of our life. But the romantic character of Mr. Harte'sdelightful stories and the absence of anything that can justly be calleddialect in them mark them as rather forerunners than beginners of theprevailing school. For some years after the appearance of the presentnovel, my own stories had to themselves the field of provincial realism(if, indeed, there be any such thing as realism) before there came thesuccession of fine productions which have made the last fourteen yearsnotable.Though it had often occurred to me to write something in the dialect nowknown as Hoosier--the folk-speech of the southern part of Ohio, Indiana,and Illinois of forty years ago--I had postponed the attemptindefinitely, probably because the only literary use that had been madeof the allied speech of the Southwest had been in the books of theprimitive humorists of that region. I found it hard to dissociate in myown mind the dialect from the somewhat coarse boisterousness whichseemed inseparable from it in the works of these rollicking writers. Itchanced that in 1871 Taine's lectures on "Art in the Netherlands," orrather Mr. John Durand's translation of them, fell into my hands as abook for editorial review. These discourses are little else than anelucidation of the thesis that the artist of originality will workcourageously with the materials he finds in his own environment. InTaine's view, all life has matter for the artist, if only he have eyesto see.Many years previous to the time of which I am now speaking, while I wasyet a young man, I had projected a lecture on the Hoosier folk-speech,and had even printed during the war a little political skit in thatdialect in a St. Paul paper. So far as I know, nothing else had everbeen printed in the Hoosier. Under the spur of Taine's argument, I nowproceeded to write a short story wholly in the dialect spoken in mychildhood by rustics on the north side of the Ohio River. This tale Icalled "The Hoosier School-Master." It consisted almost entirely of anautobiographical narration in dialect by Mirandy Means of the incidentsthat form the groundwork of the present story. I was the newlyinstalled editor of a weekly journal, _Hearth and Home_, and I sent thislittle story in a new dialect to my printer. It chanced that one of theproprietors of the paper saw a part of it in proof. He urged me to takeit back and make a longer story out of the materials, and he expressedgreat confidence in the success of such a story. Yielding to hissuggestion, I began to write this novel from week to week as it appearedin the paper, and thus found myself involved in the career of anovelist, which had up to that time formed no part of my plan of life.In my inexperience I worked at a white-heat, completing the book in tenweeks. Long before these weeks of eager toil were over, it was aquestion among my friends whether the novel might not write _finis_ tome before I should see the end of it.The sole purpose I had in view at first was the resuscitation of thedead-and-alive newspaper of which I had ventured to take charge. One ofthe firm of publishers thought much less favorably of my story than hispartner did. I was called into the private office and informed with someseverity that my characters were too rough to be presentable in a paperso refined as ours. I confess they did seem somewhat too robust for asheet so anaemic as _Hearth and Home_ had been in the months justpreceding. But when, the very next week after this protest was made, thecirculation of the paper increased some thousands at a bound, myemployer's critical estimate of the work underwent a rapid change--achange based on what seemed to him better than merely literaryconsiderations. By the time the story closed, at the end of fourteeninstalments, the subscription list had multiplied itself four or fivefold. It is only fair to admit, however, that the original multiplicandhad been rather small.Papers in Canada and in some of the other English colonies transferredthe novel bodily to their columns, and many of the American countrypapers helped themselves to it quite freely. It had run some weeks ofits course before it occurred to any one that it might profitably bereprinted in book form. The publishers were loath to risk much in theventure. The newspaper type was rejustified to make a book page, andbarely two thousand copies were printed for a first edition. I rememberexpressing the opinion that the number was too large."The Hoosier School-Master" was pirated with the utmost promptitude bythe Messrs. Routledge, in England, for that was in the barbarous daysbefore international copyright, when English publishers complained ofthe unscrupulousness of American reprinters, while they themselvespounced upon every line of American production that promised someshillings of profit. "The Hoosier School-Master" was brought out inEngland in a cheap, sensational form. The edition of ten thousand haslong been out of print. For this large edition and for the editionsissued in the British colonies and in continental Europe I have neverreceived a penny. A great many men have made money out of the book, butmy own returns have been comparatively small. For its use in serial formI received nothing beyond my salary as editor. On the copyright editionI have received the moderate royalty allowed to young authors at theoutset of their work. The sale of the American edition in the firsttwenty years amounted to seventy thousand copies. The peculiarity ofthis sale is its steadiness. After twenty years, "The HoosierSchool-Master" is selling at the average rate of more than threethousand copies per annum. During the last half-dozen years thepopularity of the book has apparently increased, and its twentieth yearclosed with a sale of twenty-one hundred in six months. Only those whoare familiar with the book trade and who know how brief is the life ofthe average novel will understand how exceptional is thislong-continued popularity.Some of the newspaper reviewers of twenty years ago were a littlepuzzled to know what to make of a book in so questionable a shape, forthe American dialect novel was then a new-comer. But nothing could havegiven a beginner more genuine pleasure than the cordial commendation ofthe leading professional critic of the time, the late Mr. George Ripley,who wrote an extended review of this book for the _Tribune_. The monthlymagazines all spoke of "The Hoosier School-Master" in terms as favorableas it deserved. I cannot pretend that I was content with these noticesat the time, for I had the sensitiveness of a beginner. But on lookingat the reviews in the magazines of that day, I am amused to find thatthe faults pointed out in the work of my prentice hand are just thosethat I should be disposed to complain of now, if it were any part of mybusiness to tell the reader wherein I might have done better._The Nation_, then in its youth, honored "The Hoosier School-Master" bygiving it two pages, mostly in discussion of its dialect, but dispensingparadoxical praise and censure in that condescending way with which weare all familiar enough. According to its critic, the author hadunderstood and described the old Western life, but he had done it"quite sketchily, to be sure." Yet it was done "with essential truth andsome effectiveness." The critic, however instantly stands on the otherfoot again and adds that the book "is not a captivating one." But hemakes amends in the very next sentence by an allusion to "thefaithfulness of its transcript of the life it depicts," and theninstantly balances the account on the adverse side of the ledger byassuring the reader that "it has no interest of passion or mentalpower." But even this fatal conclusion is diluted by a dependent clause."Possibly," says the reviewer, "the good feeling of the intertwined lovestory may conciliate the good-will of some of the malcontent." One couldhardly carry further the fine art of oscillating between moderatecommendation and parenthetical damnation--an art that lends a factitiousair of judicial impartiality and mental equipoise. Beyond question, _TheNation_ is one of the ablest weekly papers in the world; the admirablescholarship of its articles and reviews in departments of specialknowledge might well be a subject of pride to any American. But itsinadequate reviews of current fiction add nothing to its value, and itshabitual tone of condescending depreciation in treating imaginativeliterature of indigenous origin is one of the strongest discouragementsto literary production.The main value of good criticism lies in its readiness and penetrationin discovering and applauding merit not before recognized, orimperfectly recognized. This is a conspicuous trait of Sainte-Beuve, thegreatest of all newspaper critics. He knew how to be severe uponoccasion, but he saw talent in advance of the public and dispensedencouragement heartily, so that he made himself almost a foster-fatherto the literature of his generation in France. But there is a class ofanonymous reviewers in England and America who seem to hold atraditional theory that the function of a critic toward new-born talentis analogous to that of Pharaoh toward the infant Jewish population[1].During the first year after its publication "The Hoosier School-Master"was translated into French and published in a condensed form in the_Revue des Deux Mondes_. The translator was the writer who signs thename M. Th. Bentzon, and who is well known to be Madame Blanc. ThisFrench version afterward appeared in book form in the same volume withone of Mr. Thomas Bailey Aldrich's stories and some other stories ofmine. In this latter shape I have never seen it. The title given to thestory by Madame Blanc was "Le Maitre d'Ecole de Flat Creek." It may beimagined that the translator found it no easy task to get equivalents inFrench for expressions in a dialect new and strange. "I'll be dog-on'd"appears in French as "devil take me" ("_diable m'emporte_"), which isnot bad; the devil being rather a jolly sort of fellow, in French. "TheChurch of the Best Licks" seems rather unrenderable, and I do not seehow the translator could have found a better phrase for it than"_L'Eglise des Raclees_" though "_raclees_" does not convey the doublesense of "licks." "_Jim epelait vite comme l'eclair_" is not a goodrendering of "Jim spelled like lightning," since it is not the celerityof the spelling that is the main consideration. "_Concoursd'epellation_" is probably the best equivalent for "spelling-school,"but it seems something more stately in its French dress. When Bud says,with reference to Hannah, "I never took no shine that air way," thephrase is rather too idiomatic for the French tongue, and it becomes "Ihaven't run after that hare" ("_Je n'ai pas chasse ce lievre-la_").Perhaps the most sadly amusing thing in the translation is the way themeaning of the nickname Shocky is missed in an explanatory foot-note. Itis, according to the translator, an abbreviation or corruption of theEnglish word "shocking," which expresses the shocking ugliness of thechild--"_qui exprime la laideur choquante de l'enfant_."A German version of "The Hoosier School-Master" was made about the timeof the appearance of the French translation, but of this I have neverseen a copy. I know of it only from the statement made to me by a Germanprofessor, that he had read it in German before he knew any English.What are the equivalents in High German for "right smart" and "dog-on" Icannot imagine.Several years after the publication of "The Hoosier School-Master" itoccurred to Mr. H. Hansen, of Kjoege, in Denmark, to render it intoDanish. Among the Danes the book enjoyed a popularity as great, perhaps,as it has had at home. The circulation warranted Mr. Hansen and hispublisher in bringing out several other novels of mine. The Danishtranslator was the only person concerned in the various foreigneditions of this book who had the courtesy to ask the author's leave.Under the old conditions in regard to international copyright, an authorcame to be regarded as one not entitled even to common civilities in thematter of reprinting his works--he was to be plundered withoutpoliteness. As I look at the row of my books in the unfamiliar Danish, Iam reminded of that New England mother who, on recovering her childrencarried away by the Canadian Indians, found it impossible to communicatewith a daughter who spoke only French and a son who knew nothing but thespeech of his savage captors. Mr. Hansen was thoughtful enough to sendme the reviews of my books in the Danish newspapers; and he had thedouble kindness to translate these into English and to leave out all butthose that were likely to be agreeable to my vanity. Of these I rememberbut a single sentence, and that because it was expressed with felicity.The reviewer said of the fun in "The Hoosier School-Master:" "This ishumor laughing to keep from bursting into tears."A year or two before the appearance of "The Hoosier School-Master," anewspaper article of mine touching upon American dialect interested Mr.Lowell, and he urged me to "look for the foreign influence" that hasaffected the speech of the Ohio River country. My reverence for him asthe master in such studies did not prevent me from feeling that thesuggestion was a little absurd. But at a later period I became awarethat North Irishmen used many of the pronunciations and idioms thatdistinctly characterized the language of old-fashioned people on theOhio. Many Ulster men say "wair" for were and "air" for are, forexample. Connecting this with the existence of a considerable element ofScotch-Irish names in the Ohio River region, I could not doubt that herewas one of the keys the master had bidden me look for. While pursuing ata later period a series of investigations into the culture-history ofthe American people in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, Ibecame much interested in the emigration to America from the north ofIreland, a movement that waxed and waned as the great Irish-linenindustry of the last century declined or prospered. The first Americanhome of these Irish was Pennsylvania. A portion of them weresteady-going, psalm-singing, money-getting people, who in course of timemade themselves felt in the commerce, politics, and intellectual life ofthe nation. There was also a dare-devil element, descended perhaps fromthose rude borderers who were deported to Ireland more for the sake ofthe peace of North Britain than for the benefit of Ireland. In thisrougher class there was perhaps a larger dash of the Celtic fire thatcame from the wild Irish women whom the first Scotch settlers in Ulstermade the mothers of their progeny. Arrived in the wilds of Pennsylvania,these Irishmen built rude cabins, planted little patches of corn andpotatoes, and distilled a whiskey that was never suffered to growmellow. The forest was congenial to men who spent much the larger partof their time in boisterous sport of one sort or another. Themanufacture of the rifle was early brought to Lancaster, inPennsylvania, direct from the land of its invention by Swiss emigrants,and in the adventurous Scotch-Irishman of the Pennsylvania frontier therifle found its fellow. Irish settlers became hunters of wild beasts,explorers, pioneers, and warriors against the Indians, upon whom theyavenged their wrongs with relentless ferocity. Both the Irish race andthe intermingled Pennsylvania Dutch were prolific, and the up-country ofPennsylvania soon overflowed. Emigration was held in check to thewestward for a while by the cruel massacres of the French and Indianwars, and one river of population poured itself southward into thefertile valleys of the Virginia mountain country; another and largerflood swept still farther to the south along the eastern borders of theAppalachian range until it reached the uplands of Carolina. When themilitia of one county in South Carolina was mustered during theRevolution, it was found that every one of the thirty-five hundred menenrolled were natives of Pennsylvania. These were mainly sons of NorthIrishmen, and from the Carolina Irish sprang Calhoun, the mostaggressive statesman that has appeared in America, and Jackson, the mostbrilliant military genius in the whole course of our history. Before theclose of the Revolution this adventurous race had begun to break overthe passes of the Alleghanies into the dark and bloody ground ofKentucky and Tennessee. Soon afterward a multitude of Pennsylvanians ofall stocks--the Scotch-Irish and those Germans, Swiss, and Hollanderswho are commonly classed together as the Pennsylvania Dutch, as well asa large number of people of English descent--began to migrate down theOhio Valley. Along with them came professional men and people of more orless culture, chiefly from eastern Virginia and Maryland. There camealso into Indiana and Illinois, from the border States and from as farsouth as North Carolina and Tennessee, a body of "poor whites." Thesesemi-nomadic people, descendants of the colonial bond-servants, formed,in the second quarter of the nineteenth century, the lowest rank ofHoosiers. But as early as 1845 there was a considerable exodus of theseto Missouri. From Pike County, in that State, they wended their way toCalifornia, to appear in Mr. Bret Harte's stories as "Pikes." Themovement of this class out of Indiana went on with augmented volume inthe fifties. The emigrants of this period mostly sought the States lyingjust west of the Mississippi, and the poorer sort made the trip inlittle one-horse wagons of the sorriest description, laden mainly withwhite-headed children and followed by the yellow curs that are the oneluxury indispensable to a family of this class. To this migration and toa liberal provision for popular education Indiana owes a greatimprovement in the average intelligence of her people. As early as 1880,I believe, the State had come to rank with some of the New EnglandStates in the matter of literacy.The folk-speech of the Ohio River country has many features in commonwith that of the eastern Middle States, while it received but littlefrom the dignified eighteenth-century English of eastern Virginia. Thereare distinct traces of the North-Irish in the idioms and in the peculiarpronunciations. One finds also here and there a word from the"Pennsylvania Dutch," such as "waumus" for a loose jacket, from theGerman _wamms_, a doublet, and "smearcase" for cottage cheese, from theGerman _schmierkaese_. The only French word left by the old _voyageurs_,so far as I now remember, is "cordelle," to tow a boat by a rope carriedalong the shore.Substantially the same folk-speech exists wherever the Pennsylvaniamigration formed the main element of the primitive settlement. I haveheard the same dialect in the South Carolina uplands that one gets froma Posey County Hoosier, or rather that one used to get in the old daysbefore the vandal school-master had reduced the vulgar tongue to themonotonous propriety of what we call good English.In drawing some of the subordinate characters in this tale a little toobaldly from the model, I fell into an error common to inexperiencedwriters. It is amusing to observe that these portrait characters seemthe least substantial of all the figures in the book. Dr. Small is arather unrealistic villain, but I knew him well and respected him in myboyish heart for a most exemplary Christian of good family at the verytime that, according to testimony afterward given, he was diversifyinghis pursuits as a practising physician by leading a gang of burglars.More than one person has been pointed out as the original of Bud Means,and I believe there are one or two men each of whom flatters himselfthat he posed for the figure of the first disciple of the Church of theBest Licks. Bud is made up of elements found in some of his race, butnot in any one man. Not dreaming that the story would reach beyond thesmall circulation of _Hearth and Home_, I used the names of people inSwitzerland and Decatur counties, in Indiana, almost without being awareof it. I have heard that a young man bearing the surname given to one ofthe rudest families in this book had to suffer many gibes while astudent at an Indiana college. I here do public penance for my culpableindiscretion."Jeems Phillips," name and all, is a real person whom at the time ofwriting this story I had not seen since I was a lad of nine and he a manof nearly forty. He was a mere memory to me, and was put into the bookwith some slighting remarks which the real Jeems did not deserve. I didnot know that he was living, and it did not seem likely that the storywould have vitality enough to travel all the way to Indiana. But theportion referring to Phillips was transferred to the county papercirculating among Jeems' neighbors. For once the good-natured man was,as they say in Hoosier, "mad," and he threatened to thrash the editor."Do you think he means you?" demanded the editor. "To be sure he does,"said the champion speller. "Can you spell?" "I can spell down any masterthat ever came to our district," he replied. As time passed on,Phillips found himself a lion. Strangers desired an introduction to himas a notability, and invited the champion to dissipate with them at thesoda fountain in the village drug store. It became a matter of pridewith him that he was the most famous speller in the world. Two yearsago, while visiting the town of my nativity, I met upon the street theaged Jeems Phillips, whom I had not seen for more than forty years. Iwould go far to hear him "spell down" a complacent school-master oncemore.The publication of this book gave rise to an amusing revival of thespelling-school as a means of public entertainment, not in rusticregions alone, but in towns also. The furor extended to the great citiesof New York and London, and reached at last to farthest Australia,spreading to every region in which English is spelled or spoken. But theeffect of the chapter on the spelling-school was temporary andsuperficial; the only organization that came from the spelling-schoolmania, so far as I know, was an association of proof-readers in Londonto discuss mooted points. The sketch of the Church of the Best Licks,however, seems to have made a deep and enduring impression uponindividuals and to have left some organized results. I myselfendeavored to realize it, and for five years I was the pastor of achurch in Brooklyn, organized on a basis almost as simple as that in theFlat Creek school-house. The name I rendered into respectable English,and the Church of the Best Licks became the Church of ChristianEndeavor. It was highly successful in doing that which a church ought todo, and its methods of work have been widely copied. After my work as aminister had been definitely closed, the name and the underlying thoughtof this church were borrowed for a young people's society; and thus thelittle story of good endeavor in Indiana seems to have left a permanentmark on the ecclesiastical organization of the time.If any one, judging by the length of this preface, should conclude thatI hold my little book in undue esteem, let him know that I owe it morethan one grudge. It is said that Thomas Campbell, twenty years after theappearance of his best-known poem, was one day introduced as "the authorof 'The Pleasures of Hope.'" "Confound 'The Pleasures of Hope,'" heprotested; "can't I write anything else?" So, however much I may prefermy later work, more carefully wrought in respect of thought, structure,and style, this initial novel, the favorite of the larger public, hasbecome inseparably associated with my name. Often I have mentallyapplied Campbell's imprecation on "The Pleasures of Hope" to thisstory. I could not write in this vein now if I would, and twenty-oneyears have made so many changes in me that I dare not make any but minorchanges in this novel. The author of "The Hoosier School-Master" isdistinctly not I; I am but his heir and executor; and since he is a morepopular writer than I, why should I meddle with his work? I have,however, ventured to make some necessary revision of the diction, andhave added notes, mostly with reference to the dialect.A second grudge against this story is that somehow its readers persistin believing it to be a bit of my own life. Americans are credulousbelievers in that miracle of the imagination whom no one has ever seenin the flesh--the self-made man. Some readers of "The HoosierSchool-Master" have settled it for a certainty that the author sprangfrom the rustic class he has described. One lady even wrote to inquirewhether my childhood were not represented in Shocky, the little lad outof the poor-house. A biographical sketch of me in Italian goes so far asto state that among the hard resorts by which I made a living in myearly life was the teaching of a Sunday-school in Chicago.No one knows so well as I the faults of immaturity and inexperience thatcharacterize this book. But perhaps after all the public is right in sooften preferring an author's first book. There is what Emerson wouldhave called a "central spontaneity" about the work of a young man thatmay give more delight to the reader than all the precision of thoughtand perfection of style for which we strive as life advances.JOSHUA'S ROCK ON LAKE GEORGE, 1892.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 1: Since writing the passage in the text, I have met with thefollowing in _The Speaker_, of London: "Everybody knows that when animportant work is published in history, philosophy, or any branch ofscience, the editor of a respectable paper employs an expert to reviewit; . . . indeed, the more abstruse the subject of the book, the morecareful and intelligent you will find the review. . . . It is equallywell known that works of fiction and books of verse are not treated withanything like the same care. . . . A good poem, play, or novel is atleast as fine an achievement as a good history; yet the history gets thebenefit of an expert's judgment and two columns of thoughtful pimse orcensure, while the poem, play, or novel is treated to ten skittish linesby the hack who happens to be within nearest call when the book comesin."]PART OF THE PREFACE TO THEFIRST EDITION.I may as well confess, what it would be affectation to conceal, that Iam more than pleased with the generous reception accorded to this storyas a serial in the columns of _Hearth and Home_. It has been in my mindsince I was a Hoosier boy to do something toward describing life in theback-country districts of the Western States. It used to be a matter ofno little jealousy with us, I remember, that the manners, customs,thoughts, and feelings of New England country people filled so large aplace in books, while our life, not less interesting, not less romantic,and certainly not less filled with humorous and grotesque material, hadno place in literature. It was as though we were shut out of goodsociety. And, with the single exception of Alice Gary, perhaps, ourWestern writers did not dare speak of the West otherwise than as theunreal world to which Cooper's lively imagination had given birth.I had some anxiety lest Western readers should take offence at myselecting what must always seem an exceptional phase of life to thosewho have grown up in the more refined regions of the West. But nowherehas the School-master been received more kindly than in his own countryand among his own people.Some of those who have spoken generous words of the School-master andhis friends have suggested that the story is an autobiography. But it isnot, save in the sense in which every work of art is an autobiography:in that it is the result of the experience and observation of thewriter. Readers will therefore bear in mind that not Ralph nor Bud norBrother Sodom nor Dr. Small represents the writer, nor do I appear, asTalleyrand said of Madame de Stael, "disguised as a woman," in theperson of Hannah or Mirandy. Some of the incidents have been drawn fromlife; none of them, I believe, from my own. I should like to beconsidered a member of the Church of the Best Licks, however.It has been in my mind to append some remarks, philological andotherwise, upon the dialect, but Professor Lowell's admirable anderudite preface to the Biglow Papers must be the despair of every onewho aspires to write on Americanisms. To Mr. Lowell belongs thedistinction of being the only one of our most eminent authors and theonly one of our most eminent scholars who has given careful attention toAmerican dialects. But while I have not ventured to discuss theprovincialisms of the Indiana backwoods, I have been careful to preservethe true _usus loquendi_ of each locution.BROOKLYN, December, 1871.CONTENTS.CHAPTER I                                     PAGEA Private Lesson from a Bulldog . . .  37CHAPTER II.A Spell Coming. . . . . . . . . . . .  52CHAPTER III.Mirandy, Hank, and Shocky . . . . . .  57CHAPTER IV.Spelling Down the Master. . . . . . .  70CHAPTER V.The Walk Home . . . . . . . . . . . .  90CHAPTER VI.A Night at Pete Jones's . . . . . . .  97CHAPTER VIIOminous Remarks of Mr. Jones. . . . . 105CHAPTER VIII.The Struggle in the Dark. . . . . . . 109CHAPTER IX.Has God Forgotten Shocky? . . . . . . 114CHAPTER X.The Devil of Silence. . . . . . . . . 118CHAPTER XI.Miss Martha Hawkins . . . . . . . . . 125CHAPTER XII.The Hardshell Preacher. . . . . . . . 133CHAPTER XIII.A Struggle for the Mastery. . . . . . 143CHAPTER XIV.A Crisis with Bud . . . . . . . . . . 150CHAPTER XV.The Church of the Best Licks. . . . . 157CHAPTER XVI.The Church Militant . . . . . . . . . 163CHAPTER XVII.A Council of War. . . . . . . . . . . 169CHAPTER XVIII.Odds and Ends . . . . . . . . . . . . 175CHAPTER XIX.Face to Face. . . . . . . . . . . . . 180CHAPTER XX.God Remembers Shocky. . . . . . . . . 185CHAPTER XXI.Miss Nancy Sawyer . . . . . . . . . . 192CHAPTER XXII.Pancakes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195CHAPTER XXIII.A Charitable Institution. . . . . . . 203CHAPTER XXIVThe Good Samaritan. . . . . . . . . . 212CHAPTER XXV.Bud Wooing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 215CHAPTER XXVI.A Letter and its Consequences . . . . 220CHAPTER XXVII.A Loss and a Gain . . . . . . . . . . 224CHAPTER XXVIII.The Flight. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 228CHAPTER XXIX.The Trial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 234CHAPTER XXX."Brother Sodom" . . . . . . . . . . . 249CHAPTER XXXI.The Trial Concluded . . . . . . . . . 254CHAPTER XXXII.After the Battle. . . . . . . . . . . 269CHAPTER XXXIII.Into the Light. . . . . . . . . . . . 274CHAPTER XXXIV."How it Came Out" . . . . . . . . . . 278The Hoosier School-Master.CHAPTER IA PRIVATE LESSON FROM A BULLDOG."Want to be a school-master, do you? You? Well, what would _you_ do inFlat Crick deestrick, _I'd_ like to know? Why, the boys have driv offthe last two, and licked the one afore them like blazes. You might teacha summer school, when nothin' but children come. But I 'low it takes aright smart _man_ to be school-master in Flat Crick in the winter.They'd pitch you out of doors, sonny, neck and heels, afore Christmas."The young man, who had walked ten miles to get the school in thisdistrict, and who had been mentally reviewing his learning at every stephe took, trembling lest the committee should find that he did not knowenough, was not a little taken aback at this greeting from "old JackMeans," who was the first trustee that he lighted on. The impressionmade by these ominous remarks was emphasized by the glances which hereceived from Jack Means's two sons. The older one eyed him from the topof his brawny shoulders with that amiable look which a big dog turns ona little one before shaking him. Ralph Hartsook had never thought ofbeing measured by the standard of muscle. This notion of beatingeducation into young savages in spite of themselves dashed his ardor.He had walked right to where Jack Means was at work shaving shingles inhis own front yard. While Mr. Means was making the speech which we haveset down above, and punctuating it with expectorations, a large brindlebulldog had been sniffing at Ralph's heels, and a girl in a newlinsey-woolsey dress, standing by the door, had nearly giggled her headoff at the delightful prospect of seeing a new school-teacher eaten upby the ferocious brute.The disheartening words of the old man, the immense muscles of the youngman who was to be his rebellious pupil, the jaws of the ugly bulldog,and the heartless giggle of the girl, gave Ralph a delightful sense ofhaving precipitated himself into a den of wild beasts. Faint withweariness and discouragement, and shivering with fear, he sat down on awheelbarrow."You, Bull!" said the old man to the dog, which was showing more andmore a disposition to make a meal of the incipient pedagogue, "you,Bull! git aout[2], you pup!" The dog walked sullenly off, but not untilhe had given Ralph a look full of promise of what he meant to do when hegot a good chance. Ralph wished himself back in the village ofLewisburg, whence he had come."You see," continued Mr. Means, spitting in a meditative sort of a way,"you see, we a'n't none of your saft sort in these diggings. It takes a_man_ to boss this deestrick. Howsumdever, ef you think you kin trustyour hide in Flat Crick school-house I ha'n't got no 'bjection. But efyou git licked, don't come on us. Flat Crick don't pay no 'nsurance, youbet! Any other trustees? Wal, yes. But as I pay the most taxes, t'othersjist let me run the thing. You can begin right off a Monday. They a'n'tbeen no other applications. You see, it takes grit to apply for thisschool. The last master had a black eye for a month. But, as I wuzsayin', you can jist roll up and wade in. I 'low you've got spunk,maybe, and that goes for a heap sight more'n sinnoo with boys. Walk in,and stay over Sunday with me. You'll hev' to board roun', and I guessyou better begin here."Ralph did not go in, but sat out on the wheelbarrow, watching the oldman shave shingles, while the boys split the blocks and chopped wood.Bull smelled of the new-comer again in an ugly way, and got a good kickfrom the older son for his pains. But out of one of his red eyes the dogwarned the young school-master that _he_ should yet suffer for all kicksreceived on his account."Ef Bull once takes a holt, heaven and yarth can't make him let go,"said the older son to Ralph, by way of comfort.It was well for Ralph that he began to "board roun'" by stopping at Mr.Means's. Ralph felt that Flat Creek was what he needed. He had lived abookish life; but here was his lesson in the art of managing people, forhe who can manage the untamed and strapping youths of a winter school inHoopole County has gone far toward learning one of the hardest oflessons. And in Ralph's time, things were worse than they are now. Theolder son of Mr. Means was called Bud Means. What his real name was,Ralph could not find out, for in many of these families the nickname of"Bud" given to the oldest boy, and that of "Sis," which is thebirth-right of the oldest girl, completely bury the proper Christianname. Ralph saw his first strategic point, which was to capture BudMeans.After supper, the boys began to get ready for something. Bull stuck uphis ears in a dignified way, and the three or four yellow curs who wereBull's satellites yelped delightedly and discordantly."Bill," said Bud Means to his brother, "ax the master ef he'd like tohunt coons. I'd like to take the starch out uv the stuck-up feller.""'Nough said[3]," was Bill's reply."You durn't[4] do it," said Bud."I don't take no sech a dare[5]," returned Bill, and walked down to thegate, by which Ralph stood watching the stars come out, and half wishinghe had never seen Flat Creek."I say, mister," began Bill, "mister, they's a coon what's been a eatin'our chickens lately, and we're goin' to try to ketch[6] the varmint.You wouldn't like to take a coon hunt nor nothin', would you?""Why, yes," said Ralph, "there's nothing I should like better, if Icould only be sure Bull wouldn't mistake me for the coon."And so, as a matter of policy, Ralph dragged his tired legs eight or tenmiles, on hill and in hollow, after Bud, and Bill, and Bull, and thecoon. But the raccoon[7] climbed a tree. The boys got into a quarrelabout whose business it was to have brought the axe, and who was toblame that the tree could not be felled. Now, if there was anythingRalph's muscles were good for, it was climbing. So, asking Bud to givehim a start, he soon reached the limb above the one on which the raccoonwas. Ralph did not know how ugly a customer a raccoon can be, and sogot credit for more courage than he had. With much peril to his legsfrom the raccoon's teeth, he succeeded in shaking the poor creature offamong the yelping brutes and yelling boys. Ralph could not helpsympathizing with the hunted animal, which sold its life as dearly aspossible, giving the dogs many a scratch and bite. It seemed to him thathe was like the raccoon, precipitated into the midst of a party of dogswho would rejoice in worrying _his_ life out, as Bull and his crowd weredestroying the poor raccoon. When Bull at last seized the raccoon andput an end to it, Ralph could not but admire the decided way in which hedid it, calling to mind Bud's comment, "Ef Bull once takes a holt,heaven and yarth[8] can't make him let go."But as they walked home, Bud carrying the raccoon by the tail, Ralphfelt that his hunt had not been in vain. He fancied that even red-eyedBull, walking uncomfortably close to his heels, respected him moresince he had climbed that tree."Purty peart kind of a master," remarked the old man to Bud, after Ralphhad gone to bed. "Guess you better be a little easy on him. Hey?"But Bud deigned no reply. Perhaps because he knew that Ralph heard theconversation through the thin partition.Ralph woke delighted to find it raining. He did not want to hunt or fishon Sunday, and this steady rain would enable him to make friends withBud. I do not know how he got started, but after breakfast he began totell stories. Out of all the books he had ever read he told story afterstory. And "old man Means," and "old _Miss_ Means," and Bud Means, andBill Means, and Sis Means listened with great eyes while he told ofSinbad's adventures, of the Old Man of the Sea, of Robinson Crusoe, ofCaptain Gulliver's experiences in Liliput, and of Baron Munchausen'sexploits.Ralph had caught his fish. The hungry minds of these backwoods peoplewere refreshed with the new life that came to their imaginations inthese stories. For there was but one book in the Means library, andthat, a well-thumbed copy of "Captain Riley's Narrative," had long sincelost all freshness."I'll be dog-on'd[9]," said Bill, emphatically, "ef I hadn't 'rutherhear the master tell them whoppin' yarns than to go to a circus the bestday I ever seed!" Bill could pay no higher compliment.What Ralph wanted was to make a friend of Bud. It's a nice thing tohave the seventy-four-gun ship on your own side, and the more Hartsookadmired the knotted muscles of Bud Means the more he desired to attachhim to himself. So, whenever he struck out a peculiarly brilliantpassage, he anxiously watched Bud's eye. But the young Philistine kepthis own counsel. He listened, but said nothing, and the eyes under hisshaggy brows gave no sign. Ralph could not tell whether those eyes weredeep and inscrutable or only stolid. Perhaps a little of both. WhenMonday morning came, Ralph was nervous. He walked to school with Bud."I guess you're a little skeered by what the old man said, a'n't you?"Ralph was about to deny it, but on reflection concluded that it was bestto speak the truth. He said that Mr. Means's description of the schoolhad made him feel a little down-hearted."What will you do with the tough boys? You a'n't no match for 'em." AndRalph felt Bud's eyes not only measuring his muscles, but scrutinizinghis countenance. He only answered:"I don't know.""What would you do with me, for instance?" and Bud stretched himself upas if to shake out the reserve power coiled up in his great muscles."I sha'n't have any trouble with you.""Why, I'm the wust chap of all. I thrashed the last master, myself."And again the eyes of Bud Means looked out sharply from his shadowingbrows to see the effect of this speech on the slender young man."You won't thrash me, though," said Ralph."Pshaw! I 'low I could whip you in an inch of your life with my lefthand, and never half try," said young Means, with a threatening sneer."I know that as well as you do.""Well, a'n't you afraid of me, then?" and again he looked sidewise atRalph."Not a bit," said Ralph, wondering at his own courage.They walked on in silence a minute. Bud was turning the matter over."Why a'n't you afraid of me?" he said presently."Because you and I are going to be friends.""And what about t'others?""I am not afraid of all the other boys put together.""You a'n't! The mischief! How's that?""Well, I'm not afraid of them because you and I are going to be friends,and you can whip all of them together. You'll do the fighting and I'lldo the teaching."The diplomatic Bud only chuckled a little at this; whether he assentedto the alliance or not Ralph could not tell.When Ralph looked round on the faces of the scholars--the little facesfull of mischief and curiosity, the big faces full of an expressionwhich was not further removed than second-cousin from contempt--whenwhen young Hartsook looked into these faces, his heart palpitated withstage-fright. There is no audience so hard to face as one ofschool-children, as many a man has found to his cost. Perhaps it is thatno conventional restraint can keep down their laughter when you do orsay anything ridiculous.Hartsook's first day was hurried and unsatisfactory. He was not ofhimself, and consequently not master of anybody else. When evening came,there were symptoms of insubordination through the whole school. PoorRalph was sick at heart. He felt that if there had ever been the shadowof an alliance between himself and Bud, it was all "off" now. It seemedto Hartsook that even Bull had lost his respect for the teacher. Halfthat night the young man lay awake. At last comfort came to him. Areminiscence of the death of the raccoon flashed on him like a vision.He remembered that quiet and annihilating bite which Bull gave. Heremembered Bud's certificate, that "Ef Bull once takes a holt, heavenand yarth can't make him let go." He thought that what Flat Creek neededwas a bulldog. He would be a bulldog, quiet, but invincible. He wouldtake hold in such a way that nothing should make him let go. And then hewent to sleep.In the morning Ralph got out of bed slowly. He put his clothes onslowly. He pulled on his boots in a bulldog mood. He tried to move as hethought Bull would move if he were a man. He ate with deliberation, andlooked everybody in the eyes with a manner that made Bud watch himcuriously. He found himself continually comparing himself with Bull. Hefound Bull possessing a strange fascination for him. He walked to schoolalone, the rest having gone on before. He entered the school-roompreserving a cool and dogged manner. He saw in the eyes of the boys thatthere was mischief brewing. He did not dare sit down in his chair forfear of a pin. Everybody looked solemn. Ralph lifted the lid of hisdesk. "Bow-wow! wow-wow!" It was the voice of an imprisoned puppy, andthe school giggled and then roared. Then everything was quiet.The scholars expected an outburst of wrath from the teacher. For theyhad come to regard the whole world as divided into two classes, theteacher on the one side representing lawful authority, and the pupils onthe other in a state of chronic rebellion. To play a trick on the masterwas an evidence of spirit; to "lick" the master was to be the crownedhero of Flat Creek district. Such a hero was Bud Means; and Bill, whohad less muscle, saw a chance to distinguish himself on a teacher ofslender frame. Hence the puppy in the desk.Ralph Hartsook grew red in the face when he saw the puppy. But the cool,repressed, bulldog mood in which he had kept himself saved him. Helifted the dog into his arms and stroked him until the laughtersubsided. Then, in a solemn and set way, he began:"I am sorry," and he looked round the room with a steady, hardeye--everybody felt that there was a conflict coming--"I am sorry thatany scholar in this school could be so mean"--the word was uttered witha sharp emphasis, and all the big boys felt sure that there would be afight with Bill Means, and perhaps with Bud--"could be so _mean_--asto--shut up his _brother_ in such a place as that!"There was a long, derisive laugh. The wit was indifferent, but by onestroke Ralph had carried the whole school to his side. By thesignificant glances of the boys, Hartsook detected the perpetrator ofthe joke, and with the hard and dogged look in his eyes, with just sucha look as Bull would give a puppy, but with the utmost suavity in hisvoice, he said:"William Means, will you be so good as to put this dog out of doors?"FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 2: _Aout_ is not the common form of _out_, as it is in certainrustic New England regions. The vowel is here drawn in this way forimperative emphasis, and it occurs as a consequence of drawling speech.][Footnote 3: "_'Nough said_" is more than enough said for the Frenchtranslator, who takes it apparently for a sort of barbarous negative andrenders it, "I don't like to speak to him." I need hardly explain to anyAmerican reader that _enough said_ implies the ending of all discussionby the acceptance of the proposition or challenge.][Footnote 4: _Durn't, daren't, dasent, dursent_, and _don't dast_ areforms of this variable negative heard in the folk-speech of variousparts of the country. The tenses of this verb seem to have gothopelessly mixed long ago, even in literary use, and the speech of thepeople reflects the historic confusion.][Footnote 5: _To take a dare_ is an expression used in sensesdiametrically opposed. Its common sense is that of the text. The man whorefuses to accept a challenge is said to take a dare, and there is someimplication of cowardice in the imputation. On the other hand, one whoaccepts a challenge is said also to take the dare.][Footnote 6: Most bad English was once good English. _Ketch_ was used bywriters of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries for _catch_. A NewHampshire magistrate in the seventeenth century spells it _caitch_, andprobably pronounced it in that way. _Ketch_, a boat, was sometimesspelled _catch_ by the first American colonists, and the far-fetchedderivation of the word from the Turkish may be one of the fancies ofetymologists.][Footnote 7: The derivation of _raccoon_ from the French _raton_, towhich Mr. Skeat gives currency, still holds its place in some of ourstandard dictionaries. If American lexicographers would only read theliterature of American settlement they would know that Mr. Skeat'scitation of a translation of Buffon is nearly two centuries too late. Asearly as 1612 Captain John Smith gives _aroughcune_ as the aboriginalVirginia word, and more than one New England writer used _rackoon_ a fewyears later.][Footnote 8: This prefixed _y_ is a mark of a very illiterate or antiqueform of the dialect. I have known _piece yarthen_ used for "a piece ofearthen" [ware], the preposition getting lost in the sound of the _y_. Ileave it to etymologists to determine its relation to that ancientprefix that differentiates _earn_ in one sense from _yearn_. But thearticle before a vowel may account for it if we consider it acorruption. "The earth" pronounced in a drawling way will produce _theyearth_. In the New York Documents is a letter from one Barnard Hodges,a settler in Delaware in the days of Governor Andros, whose spellingindicates a free use of the parasitic _y_. He writes "yunless,""yeunder" (under), "yunderstanding," "yeundertake," and "yeouffeis"(office).][Footnote 9: Like many of the ear-marks of this dialect, the verb"dog-on" came from Scotland, presumably by the way of the north ofIreland. A correspondent of _The Nation_ calls attention to the use of"dagon" as Scotch dialect in Barrie's "Little Minister," a recent book.On examining that story, I find that the word has precisely the sense ofour Hoosier "dog-on," which is to be pronounced broadly as a Hoosierpronounces dog--"daug-on." If Mr. Barrie gives his _a_ the broad sound,his "dagon" is nearly identical with "dog-on." Here are some detachedsentences from "The Little Minister:""Beattie spoke for more than himself when he said: 'Dagon that Manse! Inever gie a swear but there it is glowering at me.'""'Dagon religion,' Rob retorted fiercely; 't spoils a' thing.'""There was some angry muttering from the crowd, and young Charles Yuillexclaimed, 'Dagon you, would you lord it ower us on week-days as well ason Sabbaths?'""'Have you on your Sabbath shoon or have you no on your Sabbath shoon?''Guid care you took I should ha'e the dagont things on!' retorted thefarmer."It will be seen that "dagont," as used above, is the Scotch form of"dog-oned." But Mr. Barrie uses the same form apparently for "dog-on it"in the following passage:"Ay, there was Ruth when she was na wanted, but Ezra, dagont, it lookedas if Ezra had jumped clean out o' the Bible!"Strangely enough, this word as a verb is not to be found in Jamieson'sdictionary of the Scottish dialect, but Jamieson gives "dugon" as anoun. It is given in the supplement to Jamieson, however, as "dogon,"but still as a noun, with an ancient plural _dogonis_. It is explainedas "a term of contempt." The example cited by Jamieson is Hogg's "WinterTales," I. 292, and is as follows:"What wad my father say if I were to marry a man that loot himsel' bethrashed by Tommy Potts, a great supple wi' a back nae stiffer than awilly brand? . . . When one comes to close quarters wi' him he's but adugon."Halliwell and Wright give _dogon_ as a noun, and mark it Anglo-Norman,but they apparently know it only from Jamieson and the supplement toJamieson, where _dogguin_ is cited from Cotgrave as meaning "a filthieold curre," and _doguin_ from Roquefort, defined by "brutal, currish"[hargneux]. A word with the same orthography, _doguin_, is still used inFrench for puppy. It is of course a question whether the noun _dogon_and its French antecedents are connected with the American verb_dog-on_. It is easy to conceive that such an epithet as _dogon_ mightget itself mixed up with the word dog, and so become an imprecation. Forinstance, a servant in the family of a friend of mine in Indiana,wishing to resign her place before the return of some daughters of thehouse whom she had never seen, announced that she was going to leave"before them dog-on girls got home." Here the word might have been theold epithet, or an abbreviated participle. _Dogged_ is apparently acorruption of dog-on in the phrase "I'll be dogged." I prefer _dog-on_to _dogone_, because in the dialect the sense of setting a dog on isfrequently present to the speaker, though far enough away from theprimitive sense of the word; perhaps.]CHAPTER II.A SPELL COMING.There was a moment of utter stillness; but the magnetism of Ralph's eyewas too much for Bill Means. The request was so polite, the master'slook was so innocent and yet so determined. Bill often wonderedafterward that he had not "fit" rather than obeyed the request. Butsomehow he put the dog out. He was partly surprised, partly inveighed,partly awed into doing just what he had not intended to do. In the weekthat followed, Bill had to fight half a dozen boys for calling him"Puppy Means." Bill said he wished he'd licked the master on the spot.'Twould 'a' saved five fights out of the six.And all that day and the next, the bulldog in the master's eye was aterror to evil-doers. At the close of school on the second day Bud washeard to give it as his opinion that "the master wouldn't be much in atussle, but he had a heap of thunder and lightning in him."Did he inflict corporal punishment? inquires some philanthropic friend.Would you inflict corporal punishment if you were tiger-trainer in VanAmburgh's happy family? But poor Ralph could never satisfy hisconstituency in this regard."Don't believe he'll do," was Mr. Pete Jones's comment to Mr. Means."Don't thrash enough. Boys won't l'arn 'less you thrash 'em, says I.Leastways, mine won't. Lay it on good is what I says to a master. Lay iton good. Don't do no harm. Lickin' and l'arnin' goes together. Nolickin', no l'arnin', says I. Lickin' and l'arnin,' lickin' and larnin',is the good ole way."And Mr. Jones, like some wiser people, was the more pleased with hisformula that it had an alliterative sound. Nevertheless, Ralph wasmaster from this time until the spelling-school came. If only it had notbeen for that spelling-school! Many and many a time after the night ofthe fatal spelling-school Ralph used to say, "If only it had not beenfor that spelling-school!"There had to be a spelling-school. Not only for the sake of my story,which would not have been worth the telling if the spelling-school hadnot taken place, but because Flat Creek district had to have aspelling-school. It is the only public literary exercise known inHoopole County. It takes the place of lyceum lecture and debating club.Sis Means, or, as she wished now to be called, Mirandy Means, expressedherself most positively in favor of it. She said that she 'lowed thefolks in that district couldn't in no wise do without it. But it wasrather to its social than to its intellectual benefits that shereferred. For all the spelling-schools ever seen could not enable her tostand anywhere but at the foot of the class. There is one branchdiligently taught in a backwoods school. The public mind seems impressedwith the difficulties of English orthography, and there is a solemnconviction that the chief end of man is to learn to spell. "'KnowWebster's Elementary' came down from Heaven," would be the backwoodsversion of the 'Greek saying but that, unfortunately for the Greeks,their fame has not reached so far. It often happens that the pupil doesnot know the meaning of a single word in the lesson. This is of noconsequence. What do you want to know the meaning of a word for? Wordswere made to be spelled, and men were probably created that they mightspell them. Hence the necessity for sending a pupil through thespelling-book five times before you allow him to begin to read, orindeed to do anything else. Hence the necessity for those longspelling-classes at the close of each forenoon and afternoon session ofthe school, to stand at the head of which is the cherished ambition ofevery scholar. Hence, too, the necessity for devoting the whole of theafternoon session of each Friday to a "spelling-match." In fact,spelling is the "national game" in Hoopole County. Baseball and croquetmatches are as unknown as Olympian chariot-races. Spelling andshucking[10] are the only public competitions.So the fatal spelling-school had to be appointed for the Wednesday ofthe second week of the session, just when Ralph felt himself master ofthe situation. Not that he was without his annoyances. One of Ralph'stroubles in the week before the spelling-school was that he was loved.The other that he was hated. And while the time between the appointingof the spelling tournament and the actual occurrence of that remarkableevent is engaged in elapsing, let me narrate two incidents that made itfor Ralph a trying time.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 10: In naming the several parts of the Indian corn and thedishes made from it, the English language was put to many shifts. Suchwords as _tassel_ and _silk_ were poetically applied to the blossoms;_stalk_, _blade_, and _ear_ were borrowed from other sorts of corn, andthe Indian tongues were forced to pay tribute to name the dishesborrowed from the savages. From them we have _hominy_, _pone_, _supawn_,and _succotash_. For other nouns words were borrowed from Englishprovincial dialects. _Shuck_ is one of these. On the northern belt,shucks are the outer covering of nuts; in the middle and southernregions the word is applied to what in New England is called the husksof the corn. _Shuck_, however, is much more widely used than _husk_ incolloquial speech--the farmers in more than half of the United Statesare hardly acquainted with the word _husk_ as applied to the envelope ofthe ear. _Husk_, in the Middle States, and in some parts of the Southand West, means the bran of the cornmeal, as notably in Davy Crockett'sverse:     "She sifted the meal, she gimme the hus';     She baked the bread, she gimme the crus';     She b'iled the meat, she gimme the bone;     She gimme a kick and sent me home."In parts of Virginia, before the war, the word _husk_ or _hus'_ meantthe cob or spike of the corn. "I smack you over wid a cawn-hus'" is athreat I have often heard one negro boy make to another. _Cob_ isprovincial English for ear, and I have known "a cob of corn" used inCanada for an ear of Indian corn. While writing this note "a cob ofIndian corn "--meaning an ear--appears in the report of an address by adistinguished man at a recent meeting of the Royal Geographical Society.A lady tells me that she met, in the book of an English traveller, theremarkable statement that "the Americans are very fond of the younggrain called cob." These Indian-corn words have reached an acceptedmeaning after a competition. To _shell_ corn, among the earliestsettlers of Virginia, meant to take it out of the envelope, which waspresumably called the shell. The analogy is with the shelling of pulse.]CHAPTER III.MIRANDY, HANK, AND SHOCKY.Mirandy had nothing but contempt for the new master until he developedthe bulldog in his character. Mirandy fell in love with the bulldog.Like many other girls of her class, she was greatly enamored with the"subjection of women," and she stood ready to fall in love with any manstrong enough to be her master. Much has been said of the strong-mindedwoman. I offer this psychological remark as a contribution to thenatural history of the weak-minded woman.It was at the close of that very second day on which Ralph had achievedhis first victory over the school, and in which Mirandy had been seizedwith her desperate passion for him, that she told him about it. Not inwords. We do not allow _that_ in the most civilized countries, and stillless would it be tolerated in Hoopole County. But Mirandy told themaster the fact that she was in love with him, though no word passed herlips. She walked by him from school. She cast at him what are commonlycalled sheep's-eyes. Ralph thought them more like calf's eyes. Shechanged the whole tone of her voice. She whined ordinarily. Now shewhimpered. And so by ogling him, by blushing at him, by tittering athim, by giggling at him, by snickering at him, by simpering at him, bymaking herself tenfold more a fool even than nature had made her, shemanaged to convey to the dismayed soul of the young teacher thefrightful intelligence that he was loved by the richest, the ugliest,the silliest, the coarsest, and the most entirely contemptible girl inFlat Creek district.Ralph sat by the fire the next morning trying to read a few minutesbefore school-time, while the boys were doing the chores and the boundgirl was milking the cows, with no one in the room but the old woman.She was generally as silent as Bud, but now she seemed for someunaccountable reason disposed to talk. She had sat down on the broadhearth to have her usual morning smoke; the poplar table, adorned by nocloth, stood in the middle of the floor; the unwashed blue teacups satin the unwashed blue saucers; the unwashed blue plates kept company withthe begrimed blue pitcher. The dirty skillets by the fire were kept incountenance by the dirtier pots, and the ashes were drifted and strewnover the hearth-stones in a most picturesque way."You see," said the old woman, knocking the residuum from her cob pipe,and chafing some dry leaf between her withered hands preparatory tofilling it again, "you see, Mr. Hartsook, my ole man's purty well alongin the world. He's got a right smart lot of this world's plunder[11],one way and another." And while she stuffed the tobacco into her pipeRalph wondered why she should mention it to him. "You see, we moved inhere nigh upon twenty-five years ago. 'Twas when my Jack, him as diedafore Bud was born, was a baby. Bud'll be twenty-one the fif' of nextJune."Here Mrs. Means stopped to rake a live coal out of the fire with herskinny finger, and then to carry it in her skinny palm to the bowl--orto the _hole_--of her cob pipe. When she got the smoke a-going, sheproceeded:"You see, this yere bottom land was all Congress land[12] in them theredays, and it sold for a dollar and a quarter, and I says to my ole man,'Jack,' says I, 'Jack, do you git a plenty while you're a-gittin'. Git aplenty while you're a-gittin',' says I, 'fer 'twon't never be nocheaper'n 'tis now,' and it ha'n't been; I knowed 'twouldn't," and Mrs.Means took the pipe from her mouth to indulge in a good chuckle at thethought of her financial shrewdness. "'Git a plenty while you'rea-gittin' says I. I could see, you know, they was a powerful sight ofmoney in Congress land. That's what made me say, 'Git a plenty whileyou're a-gittin'.' And Jack, he's wuth lots and gobs of money, all madeout of Congress land. Jack didn't git rich by hard work. Bless you, no!Not him. That a'n't his way. Hard work a'n't, you know. 'Twas that airsix hundred dollars he got along of me, all salted down into Flat Crickbottoms at a dollar and a quarter a' acre, and 'twas my sayin' 'Git aplenty while you're a gittin'' as done it." And here the old ogrelaughed, or grinned horribly, at Ralph, showing her few straggling,discolored teeth.Then she got up and knocked the ashes out of her pipe, and laid the pipeaway and walked round In front of Ralph. After adjusting the chunks[13]so that the fire would burn, she turned her yellow face toward Ralph,and scanning him closely came out with the climax of her speech in theremark: "You see as how, Mr. Hartsook, the man what gits my Mirandy'lldo well. Flat Crick land's wuth nigt upon a hundred a' acre."This gentle hint came near knocking Ralph down. Had Flat Creek land beenworth a hundred times a hundred dollars an acre, and had he owned fivehundred times Means's five hundred acres, he would have given it alljust at that moment to have annihilated the whole tribe of Meanses.Except Bud. Bud was a giant, but a good-natured one. He thought he wouldexcept Bud from the general destruction. As for the rest, he mentallypictured to himself the pleasure of attending their funerals. There wasone thought, however, between him and despair. He felt confident thatthe cordiality, the intensity, and the persistency of his dislike of SisMeans were such that he should never inherit a foot of the Flat Creekbottoms.But what about Bud? What if he joined the conspiracy to marry him tothis weak-eyed, weak-headed wood-nymph, or backwoods nymph?If Ralph felt it a misfortune to be loved by Mirandy Means, he foundhimself almost equally unfortunate in having incurred the hatred of themeanest boy in school. "Hank" Banta, low-browed, smirky, and crafty, wasthe first sufferer by Ralph's determination to use corporal punishment,and so Henry Banta, who was a compound of deceit and resentment, neverlost an opportunity to annoy the young school-master, who was obliged tolive perpetually on his guard against his tricks.One morning, as Ralph walked toward the school-house, he met littleShocky. What the boy's first name or last name was the teacher did notknow. He had given his name as Shocky, and all the teacher knew was thathe was commonly called Shocky, that he was an orphan, that he lived witha family named Pearson over in Rocky Hollow, and that he was the mostfaithful and affectionate child in the school. On this morning that Ispeak of, Ralph had walked toward the school early to avoid the companyof Mirandy. But not caring to sustain his dignity longer than wasnecessary, he loitered along the road, admiring the trunks of themaples, and picking up a beech-nut now and then. Just as he was aboutto go on toward the school, he caught sight of little Shocky runningswiftly toward him, but looking from side to side, as if afraid of beingseen.[Illustration: BETSY SHORT]"Well, Shocky, what is it?" and Ralph put his hand kindly on the greatbushy head of white hair from which came Shocky's nickname. Shocky hadto pant a minute."Why, Mr. Hartsook," he gasped, scratching his head, "they's a pond downunder the school-house," and here Shocky's breath gave out entirely fora minute."Yes, Shocky, I know that. What about it? The trustees haven't come tofill it up, have they?""Oh! no, sir; but Hank Banta, you know--" and Shocky took anotherbreathing spell, standing as dose to Ralph as he could, for poor Shockygot all his sunshine from the master's presence."Has Henry fallen in and got a ducking, Shocky?""Oh! no, sir; he wants to git you in, you see.""Well, I won't go in, though, Shocky.""But, you see, he's been and gone and pulled back the board that youhave to step on to git ahind your desk; he's been and gone and pulledback the board so as you can't help a-tippin' it up, and a-sowsin' rightin ef you step there.""And so you came to tell me." There was a huskiness in Ralph's voice.He had, then, one friend in Flat Creek district--poor little Shocky. Heput his arm around Shocky just a moment, and then told him to hastenacross to the other road, so as to come back to the school-house in adirection at right angles to the master's approach. But the caution wasnot needed. Shocky had taken care to leave in that way, and wasaltogether too cunning to be seen coming down the road with Mr.Hartsook. But after he got over the fence to go through the "sugar camp"(or sugar _orchard_, as they say at the East), he stopped and turnedback once or twice, just to catch one more smile from Ralph. And then hehied away through the tall trees, a very happy boy, kicking andploughing the brown leaves before him in his perfect delight, sayingover and over again: "How he looked at me! how he did look!" And whenRalph came up to the school-house door, there was Shocky saunteringalong from the other direction, throwing bits of limestone at fencerails, and smiling still clear down to his shoes at thought of themaster's kind words."What a quare boy Shocky is!" remarked Betsey Short, with a giggle. "Hejust likes to wander round alone. I see him a-comin' out of the sugarcamp just now. He's been in there half an hour." And Betsey giggledagain; for Betsey Short could giggle on slighter provocation than anyother girl on Flat Creek.When Ralph Hartsook, with the quiet, dogged tread that he wascultivating, walked into the school-room, he took great care not to seemto see the trap set for him; but he carelessly stepped over the boardthat had been so nicely adjusted. The boys who were Hank's confidants inthe plot were very busy over their slates, and took pains not to showtheir disappointment.The morning session wore on without incident. Ralph several times caughttwo people looking at him. One was Mirandy. Her weak and watery eyesstole loving glances over the top of her spelling-book, which she wouldnot study. Her looks made Ralph's spirits sink to forty below zero, andcongeal.But on one of the backless little benches that sat in the middle of theschool-room was little Shocky, who also cast many love glances at theyoung master; glances as grateful to his heart as Mirandy's ogling--hewas tempted to call it ogring--was hateful."Look at Shocky," giggled Betsey Short, behind her slate. "He looks asif he was a-goin' to eat the master up, body and soul."And so the forenoon wore on as usual, and those who laid the trap hadforgotten it, themselves. The morning session was drawing to a close.The fire in the great old fire-place had burnt low. The flames, whichseemed to Shocky to be angels, had disappeared, and now the brightcoals, which had played the part of men and women and houses in Shocky'sfancy, had taken on a white and downy covering of ashes, and the greathalf-burnt back-log lay there smouldering like a giant asleep in asnow-drift. Shocky longed to wake him up.As for Henry Banta, he was too much bothered to get the answer to a"sum" he was doing, to remember anything about his trap. In fact, he hadquite forgotten that half an hour ago in the all-absorbing employment ofdrawing ugly pictures on his slate and coaxing Betsey Short to giggle byshowing them slyly across the school-room. Once or twice Ralph had beenattracted to Betsey's extraordinary fits of giggling, and had come sonear to catching Hank that the boy thought it best not to run anyfurther risk of the beech switches, four or five feet long, laid upbehind the master in sight of the school as a prophylactic. Hence hisapplication just now to his "sum" in long division, and hence hispuzzled look, for, idler that he was, his "sums" did not solvethemselves easily. As usual in such cases, he came up in front of themaster's desk to have the difficulty explained. He had to wait a minuteuntil Ralph got through with showing Betsey Short, who had been seizedwith a studying fit, and who could hardly give any attention to theteacher's explanations, she did want to giggle so much! Not at anythingin particular, but just at things in general.While Ralph was "doing" Betsey's "sum" for her, he was solving a muchmore difficult question. A plan had flashed upon him, but the punishmentseemed a severe one. He gave it up once or twice, but he remembered howturbulent the Flat Creek elements were; and had he not inly resolved tobe as unrelenting as a bulldog? He fortified himself by recalling againthe oft-remembered remark of Bud, "Ef Bull wunst takes a holt, heavenand yarth can't make him let go." And so he resolved to give Hank andthe whole school one good lesson."Just step round behind me, Henry, and you can see how I do this," saidRalph.Hank was entirely off his guard, and, with his eyes fixed upon the slateon the teacher's desk, he sidled round upon the broad loose boardmisplaced by his own hand, and in an instant the other end of the boardrose up in the middle of the school-room, almost striking Shocky in theface, while Henry Banta went down into the ice-cold water beneath theschool-house."Why, Henry!" cried Ralph, jumping to his feet with well-feignedsurprise. "How _did_ this happen?" him by the fire.Betsey Short giggled.Shocky was so tickled that he could hardly keep his seat.The boys who were in the plot looked very serious indeed.Ralph made some remarks by way of improving the occasion. He spokestrongly of the utter meanness of the one who could play so heartless atrick on a schoolmate. He said that it was as much thieving to get yourfun at the expense of another as to steal his money. And while hetalked, all eyes were turned on Hank--all except the eyes of MirandyMeans. They looked simperingly at Ralph. All the rest looked at Hank.The fire had made his face very red. Shocky noticed that. Betsey Shortnoticed it, and giggled. The master wound up with an appropriatequotation from Scripture. He said that the person who displaced thatboard had better not be encouraged by the success--he said _success_with a curious emphasis--of the present experiment to attempt anothertrick of the kind. For it was set down in the Bible that if a man dug apit for the feet of another he would be very likely to fall in ithimself. Which made all the pupils look solemn, except Betsey Short, whogiggled. And Shocky wanted to. And Mirandy cast an expiring look atRalph. And if the teacher was not love-sick, he certainly was sick ofMirandy's love.[Illustration: HANK BANTA'S IMPROVED PLUNGE BATH]When school was "let out," Ralph gave Hank every caution that he couldabout taking cold, and even lent him his overcoat, very much againstHank's will. For Hank had obstinately refused to go home before theschool was dismissed.Then the master walked out in a quiet and subdued way to spend the noonrecess in the woods, while Shocky watched his retreating footsteps withloving admiration. And the pupils not in the secret canvassed thequestion of who moved the board. Bill Means said he'd bet Hank did it,which set Betsey Short off in an uncontrollable giggle. And Shockylistened innocently.But that night Bud said slyly: "Thunder and lightning! what a manageryou _air_, Mr. Hartsook!" To which Ralph returned no reply except afriendly smile. Muscle paid tribute to brains that time.But Ralph had no time for exultation; for just here came thespelling-school.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 11: This word _plunder_ is probably from Pennsylvania, as itis exactly equivalent to the German word _plunder_, in the sense ofhousehold effects, the original meaning of the word in German. Any kindof baggage may be called _plunder_, but the most accepted sense ishousehold goods. It is quite seriously used. I have seen bills of ladingon the Western waters certifying that A.B. had shipped "1 lot ofplunder;" that is, household goods. It is here used figuratively forgoods in general.][Footnote 12: _Congress land_ was the old designation for land owned bythe government. Under the Confederation, the Congress was thegovernment, and the forms of speech seem to have long retained thenotion that what belonged to the United States was the property ofCongress.][Footnote 13: The commonest use of the word _chunk_ in the old days wasfor the ends of the sticks of cord-wood burned in the great fireplaces.As the sticks burned in two, the chunks fell down or rolled back on thewall side of the andirons. By putting the chunks together, a new firewas set a-going without fresh wood. This use of the word is illustratedin a folk-rhyme or nursery jingle of the country which has neither sensenor elegance to recommend it:     "Old Mother Hunk     She got drunk     And fell in the fire     And kicked up a chunk."]CHAPTER IV.SPELLING DOWN THE MASTER."I 'low," said Mrs. Means, as she stuffed the tobacco into her cob pipeafter supper on that eventful Wednesday evening: "I 'low they'll app'intthe Squire to gin out the words to-night. They mos' always do, you see,kase he's the peartest[14] _ole_ man in this deestrick; and I 'low someof the young fellers would have to git up and dust ef they would keep upto him. And he uses sech remarkable smart words. He speaks so polite,too. But laws! don't I remember when he was poarer nor Job's turkey?Twenty year ago, when he come to these 'ere diggings, that air SquireHawkins was a poar Yankee school-master, that said 'pail' instid ofbucket, and that called a cow a 'caow,' and that couldn't tell to savehis gizzard what we meant by '_low_[15] and by _right smart_[16]. Buthe's larnt our ways now, an' he's jest as civilized as the rest of us.You would-n know he'd ever been a Yankee. He didn't stay poar long. Nothe. He jest married a right rich girl! He! he!" And the old womangrinned at Ralph, and then at Mirandy, and then at the rest, until Ralphshuddered. Nothing was so frightful to him as to be fawned on by thisgrinning ogre, whose few lonesome, blackish teeth seemed ready to devourhim. "He didn't stay poar, you bet a hoss!" and with this the coal wasdeposited on the pipe, and the lips began to crack like parchment aseach puff of smoke escaped. "He married rich, you see," and here anothersignificant look at the young master, and another fond look at Mirandy,as she puffed away reflectively. "His wife hadn't no book-larnin'. She'dbeen through the spellin'-book wunst, and had got as fur as 'asperity'on it a second time. But she couldn't read a word when she was married,and never could. She warn't overly smart. She hadn't hardly got thesense the law allows. But schools was skase in them air days, and,besides, book-larnin' don't do no good to a woman. Makes her stuck up. Inever knowed but one gal in my life as had ciphered into fractions, andshe was so dog-on stuck up that she turned up her nose one night at aapple-peelin' bekase I tuck a sheet off the bed to splice out thetable-cloth, which was rather short. And the sheet was mos' clean too.Had-n been slep on more'n wunst or twicet. But I was goin' fer to saythat when Squire Hawkins married Virginny Gray he got a heap o' money,or, what's the same thing mostly, a heap o' good land. And that'sbetter'n book-larnin', says I. Ef a gal had gone clean through alleddication, and got to the rule of three itself, that would-n buy afeather-bed. Squire Hawkins jest put eddication agin the gal's farm, andtraded even, an' ef ary one of 'em got swindled, I never heerd nocomplaints."And here she looked at Ralph in triumph, her hard face splintering intothe hideous semblance of a smile. And Mirandy cast a blushing, gushing,all-imploring, and all-confiding look on the young master."I say, ole woman," broke in old Jack, "I say, wot is all this 'erespoutin' about the Square fer?" and old Jack, having bit off an ounce of"pigtail," returned the plug to his pocket.As for Ralph, he fell into a sort of terror. He had a guilty feelingthat this speech of the old lady's had somehow committed him beyondrecall to Mirandy. He did not see visions of breach-of-promise suits.But he trembled at the thought of an avenging big brother."Hanner, you kin come along, too, ef you're a mind, when you git thedishes washed," said Mrs. Means to the bound girl, as she shut andlatched the back door. The Means family had built a new house in frontof the old one, as a sort of advertisement of bettered circumstances, aneruption of shoddy feeling; but when the new building was completed,they found themselves unable to occupy it for anything else than alumber room, and so, except a parlor which Mirandy had made an effort tofurnish a little (in hope of the blissful time when somebody should "setup" with her of evenings), the new building was almost unoccupied, andthe family went in and out through the back door, which, indeed, was thefront door also, for, according to a curious custom, the "front" of thehouse was placed toward the south, though the "big road" (Hoosier for_highway_) ran along the north-west side, or, rather, past thenorth-west corner of it.When the old woman had spoken thus to Hannah and had latched the door,she muttered, "That gal don't never show no gratitude fer favors;" towhich Bud rejoined that he didn't think she had no great sight to bepertickler thankful fer. To which Mrs. Means made no reply, thinking itbest, perhaps, not to wake up her dutiful son on so interesting a themeas her treatment of Hannah. Ralph felt glad that he was this evening togo to another boarding place. He should not hear the rest of thecontroversy.Ralph walked to the school-house with Bill. They were friends again. Forwhen Hank Banta's ducking and his dogged obstinacy in sitting in his wetclothes had brought on a serious fever, Ralph had called together thebig boys, and had said: "We must take care of one another, boys. Whowill volunteer to take turns sitting up with Henry?" He put his own namedown, and all the rest followed."William Means and myself will sit up to-night," said Ralph. And poorBill had been from that moment the teacher's friend. He was chosen to beRalph's companion. He was Puppy Means no longer! Hank could not beconquered by kindness, and the teacher was made to feel the bitternessof his resentment long after. But Bill Means was for the time entirelyplacated, and he and Ralph went to spelling-school together.Every family furnished a candle. There were yellow dips and white dips,burning, smoking, and flaring. There was laughing, and talking, andgiggling, and simpering, and ogling, and flirting, and courting. What afull-dress party is to Fifth Avenue, a spelling-school is to HoopoleCounty. It is an occasion which is metaphorically inscribed with thislegend: "Choose your partners." Spelling is only a blind in HoopoleCounty, as is dancing on Fifth Avenue. But as there are some in societywho love dancing for its own sake, so in Flat Creek district there werethose who loved spelling for its own sake, and who, smelling the battlefrom afar, had come to try their skill in this tournament, hoping tofreshen the laurels they had won in their school-days."I 'low," said Mr. Means, speaking as the principal school trustee, "I'low our friend the Square is jest the man to boss this 'ere consarnto-night. Ef nobody objects, I'll app'int him. Come, Square, don't bebashful. Walk up to the trough, fodder or no fodder, as the man said tohis donkey."There was a general giggle at this, and many of the young swains tookoccasion to nudge the girls alongside them, ostensibly for the purposeof making them see the joke, but really for the pure pleasure ofnudging. The Greeks figured Cupid as naked, probably because he wears somany disguises that they could not select a costume for him.The Squire came to the front. Ralph made an inventory of theagglomeration which bore the name of Squire Hawkins, as follows:1. A swallow-tail coat of indefinite age, worn only on state occasions^when its owner was called to figure in his public capacity. Either theSquire had grown too large or the coat too small.2. A pair of black gloves, the most phenomenal, abnormal, and unexpectedapparition conceivable in Flat Creek district, where the preachers woreno coats in the summer, and where a black glove was never seen except onthe hands of the Squire.3. A wig of that dirty, waxen color so common to wigs. This one showed acontinual inclination to slip off the owner's smooth, bald pate, and theSquire had frequently to adjust it. As his hair had been red, the wigdid not accord with his face, and the hair ungrayed was doublydiscordant with a countenance shrivelled by age.4. A semicircular row of whiskers hedging the edge of the jaw and chin.These were dyed a frightful dead-black, such a color as belonged to nonatural hair or beard that ever existed. At the roots there was aquarter of an inch of white, giving the whiskers the appearance ofhaving been stuck on.5. A pair of spectacles "with tortoise-shell rim." Wont to slip off.6. A glass eye, purchased of a peddler, and differing in color from itsnatural mate, perpetually getting out of focus by turning in or out.7. A set of false teeth, badly fitted, and given to bobbing up anddown.8. The Squire proper, to whom these patches were loosely attached.It is an old story that a boy wrote home to his father begging him tocome West, because "mighty mean men get into office out here." But Ralphconcluded that some Yankees had taught school in Hoopole County whowould not have held a high place in the educational institutions ofMassachusetts. Hawkins had some New England idioms, but they were welloverlaid by a Western pronunciation."Ladies and gentlemen," he began, shoving up his spectacles, and suckinghis lips over his white teeth to keep them in place, "ladies andgentlemen, young men and maidens, raley I'm obleeged to Mr. Means ferthis honor," and the Squire took both hands and turned the top of hishead round half an inch. Then he adjusted his spectacles. Whether he wasobliged to Mr. Means for the honor of being compared to a donkey was notclear. "I feel in the inmost compartments of my animal spirits a mosthappifying sense of the success and futility of all my endeavors tosarve the people of Flat Creek deestrick, and the people of Tomkinstownship, in my weak way and manner." This burst of eloquence wasdelivered with a constrained air and an apparent sense of a danger thathe, Squire Hawkins, might fall to pieces in his weak way and manner,and of the success and futility of all attempts at reconstruction. Forby this time the ghastly pupil of the left eye, which was black, waslooking away round to the left, while the little blue one on the righttwinkled cheerfully toward the front. The front teeth would drop down sothat the Squire's mouth was kept nearly closed, and his words whistledthrough."I feel as if I could be grandiloquent on this interesting occasion,"twisting his scalp round, "but raley I must forego any such exertions.It is spelling you want. Spelling is the corner-stone, the grand,underlying subterfuge, of a good eddication. I put the spellin'-bookprepared by the great Daniel Webster alongside the Bible. I do, raley. Ithink I may put it ahead of the Bible. For if it wurn't ferspellin'-books and sich occasions as these, where would the Bible be? Ishould like to know. The man who got up, who compounded this work ofinextricable valoo was a benufactor to the whole human race or anyother." Here the spectacles fell off. The Squire replaced them in someconfusion, gave the top of his head another twist, and felt of his glasseye, while poor Shocky stared in wonder, and Betsey Short rolled fromside to side in the effort to suppress her giggle. Mrs. Means and theother old ladies looked the applause they could not speak."I app'int Larkin Lanham and Jeems Buchanan fer captings," said theSquire. And the two young men thus named took a stick and tossed it fromhand to hand to decide which should have the "first choice." One tossedthe stick to the other, who held it fast just where he happened to catchit. Then the first placed his hand above the second, and so the handswere alternately changed to the top. The one who held the stick lastwithout room for the other to take hold had gained the lot. This wastried three times. As Larkin held the stick twice out of three times, hehad the choice. He hesitated a moment. Everybody looked toward tall JimPhillips. But Larkin was fond of a venture on unknown seas, and so hesaid, "I take the master," while a buzz of surprise ran round the room,and the captain of the other side, as if afraid his opponent wouldwithdraw the choice, retorted quickly, and with a little smack ofexultation and defiance in his voice, "And _I_ take Jeems Phillips."And soon all present, except a few of the old folks, found themselvesranged in opposing hosts, the poor spellers lagging in, with what gracethey could, at the foot of the two divisions. The Squire opened hisspelling-book and began to give out the words to the two captains, whostood up and spelled against each other. It was not long until Larkinspelled "really" with one _l_, and had to sit down in confusion, while amurmur of satisfaction ran through the ranks of the opposing forces. Hisown side bit their lips. The slender figure of the young teacher tookthe place of the fallen leader, and the excitement made the house veryquiet. Ralph dreaded the loss of prestige he would suffer if he shouldbe easily spelled down. And at the moment of rising he saw in thedarkest corner the figure of a well-dressed young man sitting in theshadow. Why should his evil genius haunt him? But by a strong effort heturned his attention away from Dr. Small, and listened carefully to thewords which the Squire did not pronounce very distinctly, spelling themwith extreme deliberation. This gave him an air of hesitation whichdisappointed those on his own side. They wanted him to spell with adashing assurance. But he did not begin a word until he had mentallyfelt his way through it. After ten minutes of spelling hard words JeemsBuchanan, the captain on the other side, spelled "atrocious" with an _s_instead of a _c_, and subsided, his first choice, Jeems Phillips, comingup against the teacher. This brought the excitement to fever-heat. Forthough Ralph was chosen first, it was entirely on trust, and most ofthe company were disappointed. The champion who now stood up against theschool-master was a famous speller.Jim Phillips was a tall, lank, stoop-shouldered fellow who had neverdistinguished himself in any other pursuit than spelling. Except in thisone art of spelling he was of no account. He could not catch well or batwell in ball. He could not throw well enough to make his mark in thatfamous West ern game of bull-pen. He did not succeed well in any studybut that of Webster's Elementary. But in that he was--to use the usualFlat Creek locution--in that he was "a boss." This genius for spellingis in some people a sixth sense, a matter of intuition. Some spellersare born, and not made, and their facility reminds one of themathematical prodigies that crop out every now and then to bewilder theworld. Bud Means, foreseeing that Ralph would be pitted against JimPhillips, had warned his friend that Jim could "spell like thunder andlightning," and that it "took a powerful smart speller" to beat him, forhe knew "a heap of spelling-book." To have "spelled down the master" isnext thing to having whipped the biggest bully in Hoopole County, andJim had "spelled down" the last three masters. He divided thehero-worship of the district with Bud Means.For half an hour the Squire gave out hard words. What a blessed thingour crooked orthography is! Without it there could be nospelling-schools. As Ralph discovered his opponent's mettle he becamemore and more cautious. He was now satisfied that Jim would eventuallybeat him. The fellow evidently knew more about the spelling-book thanold Noah Webster himself. As he stood there, with his dull face and longsharp nose, his hands behind his back, and his voice spellinginfallibly, it seemed to Hartsook that his superiority must lie in hisnose. Ralph's cautiousness answered a double purpose; it enabled him totread surely, and it was mistaken by Jim for weakness. Phillips was nowconfident that he should carry off the scalp of the fourth school-masterbefore the evening was over. He spelled eagerly, confidently,brilliantly. Stoop-shouldered as he was, he began to straighten up. Inthe minds of all the company the odds were in his favor. He saw this,and became ambitious to distinguish himself by spelling without givingthe matter any thought.Ralph always believed that he would have been speedily defeated byPhillips had it not been for two thoughts which braced him. The sinistershadow of young Dr. Small sitting in the dark corner by the water-bucketnerved him. A victory over Phillips was a defeat to one who wished onlyill to the young school-master. The other thought that kept his pluckalive was the recollection of Bull. He approached a word as Bullapproached the raccoon. He did not take hold until he was sure of hisgame. When he took hold, it was with a quiet assurance of success. AsRalph spelled in this dogged way for half an hour the hardest words theSquire could find, the excitement steadily rose in all parts of thehouse, and Ralph's friends even ventured to whisper that "maybe Jim hadcotched his match, after all!"But Phillips never doubted of his success."Theodolite," said the Squire."T-h-e, the o-d, od, theod, o, theodo, l-y-t-e, theodolite," spelled thechampion."Next," said the Squire, nearly losing his teeth In his excitement.Ralph spelled the word slowly and correctly, and the conquered championsat down In confusion. The excitement was so great for some minutes thatthe spelling was suspended. Everybody In the house had shown sympathywith one or the other of the combatants, except the silent shadow in thecorner. It had not moved during the contest, and did not show anyinterest now in the result."Gewhilliky crickets! Thunder and lightning! Licked him all to smash!"said Bud, rubbing his hands on his knees, "That beats my time allholler!"And Betsey Short giggled until her tuck-comb fell out, though she was onthe defeated side.Shocky got up and danced with pleasure.But one suffocating look from the aqueous eyes of Mirandy destroyed thelast spark of Ralph's pleasure in his triumph, and sent that awfulbelow-zero feeling all through him."He's powerful smart, is the master," said old Jack to Mr. Pete Jones."He'll beat the whole kit and tuck of 'em afore he's through. I know'dhe was smart. That's the reason I tuck him," proceeded Mr. Means."Yaas, but he don't lick enough. Not nigh," answered Pete Jones. "Nolickin', no larnin', says I."It was now not so hard. The other spellers on the opposite side wentdown quickly under the hard words which the Squire gave out. The masterhad mowed down all but a few, his opponents had given up the battle, andall had lost their keen interest in a contest to which there could bebut one conclusion, for there were only the poor spellers left. ButRalph Hartsook ran against a stump where he was least expecting it. Itwas the Squire's custom, when one of the smaller scholars or poorerspellers rose to spell against the master, to give out eight or teneasy words, that they might have some breathing-spell before beingslaughtered, and then to give a poser or two which soon settled them. Helet them run a little, as a cat does a doomed mouse. There was now butone person left on the opposite side, and, as she rose in her bluecalico dress, Ralph recognized Hannah, the bound girl at old JackMeans's. She had not attended school in the district, and had neverspelled in spelling-school before, and was chosen last as an uncertainquantity. The Squire began with easy words of two syllables, from thatpage of Webster, so well known to all who ever thumbed it, as "baker,"from the word that stands at the top of the page. She spelled thesewords in an absent and uninterested manner. As everybody knew that shewould have to go down as soon as this preliminary skirmishing was over,everybody began to get ready to go home, and already there was the buzzof preparation. Young men were timidly asking girls if "they could seethem safe home," which was the approved formula, and were trembling inmortal fear of "the mitten." Presently the Squire, thinking it time toclose the contest, pulled his scalp forward, adjusted his glass eye,which had been examining his nose long enough, and turned over theleaves of the book to the great words at the place known to spellers as"incomprehensibility," and began to give out those "words of eightsyllables with the accent on the sixth." Listless scholars now turnedround, and ceased to whisper, in order to be in at the master's finaltriumph. But to their surprise "ole Miss Meanses' white nigger," as someof them called her in allusion to her slavish life, spelled these greatwords with as perfect ease as the master. Still not doubting the result,the Squire turned from place to place and selected all the hard words hecould find. The school became utterly quiet, the excitement was toogreat for the ordinary buzz. Would "Meanses' Hanner" beat the master?beat the master that had laid out Jim Phillips? Everybody's sympathy wasnow turned to Hannah. Ralph noticed that even Shocky had deserted him,and that his face grew brilliant every time Hannah spelled a word. Infact, Ralph deserted himself. As he saw the fine, timid face of the girlso long oppressed flush and shine with interest; as he looked at therather low but broad and intelligent brow and the fresh, whitecomplexion and saw the rich, womanly nature coming to the surface underthe influence of applause and sympathy--he did not want to beat. If hehad not felt that a victory given would insult her, he would have missedintentionally. The bulldog, the stern, relentless setting of the will,had gone, he knew not whither. And there had come in its place, as helooked in that face, a something which he did not understand. You didnot, gentle reader, the first time it came to you.The Squire was puzzled. He had given out all the hard words in the book.He again pulled the top of his head forward. Then he wiped hisspectacles and put them on. Then out of the depths of his pocket hefished up a list of words just coming into use in those days--words notin the spelling-book. He regarded the paper attentively with his blueright eye. His black left eye meanwhile fixed itself in such a stare onMirandy Means that she shuddered and hid her eyes in her red silkhandkerchief."Daguerreotype," sniffed the Squire. It was Ralph's turn."D-a-u, dau--""Next."And Hannah spelled it right.Such a buzz followed that Betsey Short's giggle could not be heard, butShocky shouted: "Hanner beat! my Hanner spelled down the master!" AndRalph went over and congratulated her.And Dr. Small sat perfectly still in the corner.And then the Squire called them to order, and said: "As our friendHanner Thomson is the only one left on her side, she will have to spellagainst nearly all on t'other side. I shall therefore take the libertyof procrastinating the completion of this interesting and exactingcontest until to-morrow evening. I hope our friend Hanner may againcarry off the cypress crown of glory. There is nothing better for usthan healthful and kindly simulation."Dr. Small, who knew the road to practice, escorted Mirandy, and Bud wenthome with somebody else. The others of the Means family hurried on,while Hannah, the champion, stayed behind a minute to speak to Shocky.Perhaps it was because Ralph saw that Hannah must go alone that hesuddenly remembered having left something which was of no consequence,and resolved to go round by Mr. Means's and get it.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 14: _Peart_ or peert is only another form of the old word_pert_--probably an older form. Bartlett cites an example of _peart_ asfar back as Sir Philip Sidney; and Halliwell finds it in various Englishdialects. Davies, afterward president of Princeton College, describesDr. Lardner, in 1754, as "a little pert old gent." I do not know thatDr. Daries pronounced his _pert_ as though it were _peart_, but he usesit in the sense it has in the text, viz., bright-witted, intelligent.The general sense of _peart_ is lively, either in body or mind.][Footnote 15: Mr. Lowell suggested to me in 1869 that this word _'low_has no kinship with _allow_, but is an independent word for which hegave a Low Latin original of similar sound. I have not been able totrace any such word, but Mr. Lowell had so much linguistic knowledge ofthe out-of-the-way sort that it may be worth while to record hisimpression. Bartlett is wrong in defining this word, as he is usually inhis attempts to explain dialect outside of New England. It does not mean"to declare, assert, maintain," etc. It is nearly the equivalent of_guess_ in the Northern and Middle States, and of _reckon_ in the South.It agrees precisely with the New England _calk'late_. Like all the restof these words it may have a strong sense by irony. When a man says, "I'low that is a purty peart sort of a hoss," he understates for the sakeof emphasis. It is rarely or never _allow_, but simply _'low_. In commonwith _calk'late_, it has sometimes a sense of purpose or expectation, aswhen a man says, "I 'low to go to town to-morry."][Footnote 16: No phrase of the Hoosier and South-western dialect is sucha stumbling-block to the outsider as _right smart_. The writer from theNorth or East will generally use it wrongly. Mrs. Stowe says, "I soldright smart of eggs," but the Hoosier woman as I knew her would havesaid "a right smart lot of eggs" or "a right smart of eggs," using thearticle and understanding the noun. A farmer omitting the prepositionboasts of having "raised right smart corn" this year. No expressioncould have a more vague sense than this. In the early settlement ofMinnesota it was a custom of the land officers to require a residence ofabout ten days on "a claim" in order to the establishment of apre-emption right. One of the receivers at a land office underBuchanan's administration was a German of much intelligence who was verysensitive regarding his knowledge of English. "How long has the claimantlived on his claim?" he demanded of a Hoosier witness. "Oh, a rightsmart while," was the reply. The receiver had not the faintest notion ofthe meaning of the answer, but fearing to betray his ignorance ofEnglish he allowed the land to be entered, though the claimant had spentbut about two hours in residing on his quarter-section.]CHAPTER V.THE WALK HOME.You expect me to describe that walk. You have had enough of the JackMeanses and the Squire Hawkinses, and the Pete Joneses, and the rest.You wish me to tell you now of this true-hearted girl and her lover; ofhow the silvery moonbeams came down in a shower--to use Whittier'sfavorite metaphor--through the maple boughs, flecking the frozen groundwith light and shadow. You would have me tell of the evening star, notyet gone down, which shed its benediction on them. But I shall do nosuch thing. For the moon was not shining, neither did the stars givetheir light. The tall, black trunks of the maples swayed and shook inthe wind, which moaned through their leafless boughs. Novelists alwaysmake lovers walk in the moonlight. But if love is not, as the cynicsbelieve, all moonshine, it can at least make its own light. Moonlight isnever so little needed or heeded, never so much of an impertinence, asin a love-scene. It was at the bottom of the first hollow beyond theschool-house that Ralph overtook the timid girl walking swiftly throughthe dark. He did not ask permission to walk with her. Love does not goby words, and there are times when conventionality is impossible. Thereare people who understand one another at once. When one soul meetsanother, it is not by pass-word, nor by hailing sign, nor by mysteriousgrip that they recognize. The subtlest freemasonry in the world is thisfreemasonry of the spirit.Ralph and Hannah knew and trusted. Ralph had admired and wondered at thequiet drudge. But it was when, in the unaccustomed sunshine of praise,she spread her wings a little, that he loved her. He had seen her awake.You, Miss Amelia, wish me to repeat all their love-talk. I am afraidyou'd find it dull. Love can pipe through any kind of a reed. Ralphtalked love to Hannah when he spoke of the weather, of the crops, of thespelling-school. Weather, crops, and spelling-school--these were whathis words would say if reported. But below all these commonplaces therevibrated something else. One can make love a great deal better when onedoesn't speak of love. Words are so poor! Tones and modulations arebetter. It is an old story that Whitefield could make an audience weepby his way of pronouncing the word Mesopotamia. A lover can sound thewhole gamut of his affection in saying Good-morning. The solemnestengagements ever made have been without the intervention of speech.And you, my Gradgrind friend, you think me sentimental. Two young foolsthey were, walking so slowly though the night was sharp, dallying underthe trees, and dreaming of a heaven they could not have realized if alltheir wishes had been granted. Of course they were fools! Either theywere fools to be so happy, or else some other people are fools not tobe. After all, dear Gradgrind, let them be. There's no harm in it.They'll get trouble enough before morning. Let them enjoy the evening. Iam not sure but these lovers whom we write down fools are the only wisepeople after all. Is it not wise to be happy? Let them alone.For the first time in three years, for the first time since she hadcrossed the threshold of "Old Jack Means" and come under the dominationof Mrs. Old Jack Means, Hannah talked cheerfully, almost gayly. It wassomething to have a companion to talk to. It was something to be thevictor even in a spelling-match, and to be applauded even by Flat Creek.And so, chatting earnestly about the most uninteresting themes, Ralphcourteously helped Hannah over the fence, and they took the usualshort-cut through the "blue-grass pasture." There came up a littleshower, hardly more than a sprinkle, but then It was so nice to have ashower just as they reached the box-elder tree by the spring! It was sothoughtful in Ralph to suggest that the shade of a box-elder is dense,and that Hannah might take cold! And it was so easy for Hannah to yieldto the suggestion! Just as though she had not milked the cows in theopen lot in the worst storms of the last three years! And just as thoughthe house were not within a stone's-throw! Doubtless it was not prudentto stop here. But let us deal gently with them. Who would not stay in anearthy paradise ten minutes longer, even though it did make purgatorythe hotter afterward? And so Hannah stayed."Tell me your circumstances," said Ralph, at last. "I am sure I can helpyou in something.""No, no! you cannot," and Hannah's face was clouded. "No one can helpme. Only time and God. I must go, Mr. Hartsook." And they walked on tothe front gate in silence and in some constraint. But still inhappiness.As they came to the gate, Dr. Small pushed past them in his cool,deliberate way, and mounted his horse. Ralph bade Hannah good-night,having entirely forgotten the errand which had been his excuse tohimself for coming out of his way. He hastened to his new home, thehouse of Mr. Pete Jones, the same who believed in the inseparableness of"lickin' and larnin'.""You're a purty gal, a'n't you? You're a purty gal, a'n't you? _You_air! Yes, you _air_" and Mrs. Means seemed so impressed with Hannah'sprettiness that she choked on it, and could get no further. "A purtygal! you! Yes! you air a mighty purty gal!" and the old woman's voicerose till it could have been heard half a mile. "To be a-santerin' alongthe big road after ten o'clock with the master! Who knows whether he's afit man fer anybody to go with? Arter all I've been and gone and donefer you! That's the way you pay me! Disgrace me! Yes, I say disgrace me!You're a mean, deceitful thing. Stuck up bekase you spelt the masterdown. Ketch _me_ lettin' you got to spellin'-school to-morry night!Ketch ME! Yes, ketch ME, I say!""Looky here, marm," said Bud, "it seems to me you're a-makin' a blamedfurss about nothin'. Don't yell so's they'll hear you three or fourmile. You'll have everybody 'tween here and Clifty waked up." For Mrs.Means had become so excited over the idea of being caught allowingHannah to go to spelling-school that she had raised her last "Ketchme!" to a perfect whoop."That's the way I'm treated," whimpered the old woman, who knew how totake the "injured innocence" dodge as well as anybody. "That's the wayI'm treated. You allers take sides with that air hussy agin your ownflesh and blood. You don't keer how much trouble I have. Not you. Not adog-on'd bit. I may be disgraced by that air ongrateful critter, and youset right here in my own house and sass me about it. A purty fellow youair! An' me a-delvin' and a-drudgin' fer you all my born days. A purtyson, a'n't you?"Bud did not say another word. He sat in the chimney-corner and whistled"Dandy Jim from Caroline." His diversion had produced the effect hesought: for while his tender-hearted mother poured her broadside intohis iron-clad feelings, Hannah had slipped up the stairs to her garretbedroom, and when Mrs. Means turned from the callous Bud to finish herassault upon the sensitive girl, she could only gnash her teeth indisappointment.Stung by the insults to which she could not grow insensible, Hannah layawake until the memory of that walk through the darkness came into hersoul like a benediction. The harsh voice of the scold died out, and thegentle and courteous voice of Hartsook filled her soul. She recalledpiece by piece the whole conversation--all the commonplace remarks aboutthe weather; all the insignificant remarks about the crops; all theunimportant words about the spelling-school. Not for the sake of theremarks. Not for the sake of the weather. Not for the sake of the crops.Not for the sake of the spelling-school. But for the sake of theundertone. And then she traveled back over the three years of herbondage and forward over the three years to come, and fed her heart onthe dim hope of rebuilding in some form the home that had been so happy.And she prayed, with more faith than ever before, for deliverance. Forlove brings faith. Somewhere on in the sleepless night she stood at thewindow. The moon was shining now, and there was the path through thepasture, and there was the fence, and there was the box-elder.She sat there a long time. Then she saw someone come over the fence andwalk to the tree, and then on toward Pete Jones's. Who could it be? Shethought she recognized the figure. But she was chilled and shivering,and she crept back again into bed, and dreamed not of the uncertain daysto come, but of the blessed days that were past--of a father and amother and a brother in a happy home. But somehow the school-master wasthere too.CHAPTER VI.A NIGHT AT PETE JONES'S.When Ralph got to Pete Jones's he found that sinister-looking individualin the act of kicking one of his many dogs out of the house."Come in, stranger, come in. You'll find this 'ere house full of brats,but I guess you kin kick your way around among 'em. Take a cheer. Here,git out! go to thunder with you!" And with these mild imperatives heboxed one of his boys over in one direction and one of his girls over inthe other. "I believe in trainin' up children to mind when they're spoketo," he said to Ralph apologetically. But it seemed to the teacher thathe wanted them to mind just a little before they were spoken to."P'raps you'd like a bed. Well, jest climb up the ladder on the outsideof the house. Takes up a thunderin' sight of room to have a stairsinside, and we ha'n't got no room to spare. You'll find a bed in thefurdest corner. My Pete's already got half of it, and you can taket'other half. Ef Pete goes to takin' his half in the middle, and tryin'to make you take yourn on both sides, jest kick him."In this comfortless bed "in the furdest corner," Ralph found sleep outof the question. Pete took three-fourths of the bed, and Hannah took allof his thoughts. So he lay, and looked out through the cracks in the"clapboards" (as they call rough shingles in the old West) at the stars.For the clouds had now broken away. And he lay thus recounting tohimself, as a miser counts the pieces that compose his hoard, every stepof that road from the time he had overtaken Hannah in the hollow to thefence. Then he imagined again the pleasure of helping her over, and thenhe retraced the ground to the box-elder tree at the spring, and repeatedto himself the conversation until he came to the part in which she saidthat only time and God could help her. What did she mean? What was thehidden part of her life? What was the connection between her and Shocky?Hours wore on, and still the mind of Ralph Hartsook went back andtraveled the same road, over the fence, past the box-elder, up to theinexplicable part of the conversation, and stood bewildered with thesame puzzling questions about the bound girl's life.At last he got up, drew on his clothes, and sat down on the top of theladder, looking down over the blue-grass pasture which lay on the borderbetween the land of Jones and the land of Means. The earth was whitewith moonlight. He could not sleep. Why not walk? It might enable him tosleep. And once determined on walking, he did not hesitate a moment asto the direction in which he should walk. The blue-grass pasture (was itnot like unto the garden of Eden?) lay right before him. That box-elderstood just in sight. To spring over the fence and take the path down thehill and over the brook was as quickly done as decided upon. To standagain under the box-elder, to climb again over the farther fence, and towalk down the road toward the school-house was so easy and so delightfulthat it was done without thought. For Ralph was an eager man--when hesaw no wrong in anything that proposed itself, he was wont to follow hisimpulse without deliberation. And this keeping company with the stars,and the memory of a delightful walk, were so much better than thecommonplace Flat Creek life that he threw himself into his nightexcursion with enthusiasm.At last he stood in the little hollow where he had joined Hannah. It wasthe very spot at which Shocky, too, had met him a few mornings before.He leaned against the fence and tried again to solve the puzzle ofHannah's troubles. For that she had troubles he did not doubt. Neitherdid he doubt that he could help her if he could discover what theywere. But he had no clue. In the midst of This meditations he heard thethud of horses' hoofs coming down the road. Until that moment he had notfelt his own loneliness. He shrank back into the fence-corner. Thehorsemen were galloping. There were three of them, and there was onefigure that seemed familiar to Ralph. But he could not tell who it was.Neither could he remember having seen the horse, which was a sorrel witha white left forefoot and a white nose. The men noticed him and reinedup a little. Why he should have been startled by the presence of thesemen he could not tell, but an indefinable dread seized him. Theygalloped on, and he stood still shivering with a nervous fear. The coldseemed to have got into his bones. He remembered that the region lyingon Flat Creek and Clifty Creek had the reputation of being infested withthieves, who practiced horse-stealing and house-breaking. For ever sincethe day when Murrell's confederate bands were paralyzed by the death oftheir leader, there have still existed gangs of desperadoes in parts ofSouthern Indiana and Illinois, and in Iowa, Missouri, Kentucky, and theSouthwest. It is out of these materials that border ruffianism hasgrown, and the nine members of the Reno band who were hanged two orthree years ago by lynch law[17], were remains of the bad blood thatcame into the West in the days of Daniel Boone. Shall I not say thatthese bands of desperadoes still found among the "poor whitey,dirt-eater" class are the outcroppings of the bad blood sent fromEngland in convict-ships? Ought an old country to sow the fertile soilof a colony with such noxious seed?Before Ralph was able to move, he heard the hoofs of another horsestriking upon the hard ground in an easy pace. The rider was Dr. Small.He checked his horse in a cool way, and stood still a few seconds whilehe scrutinized Ralph. Then he rode on, keeping the same easy gait asbefore, Ralph had a superstitious horror of Henry Small. And, shudderingwith cold, he crept like a thief over the fence, past the tree, throughthe pasture, back to Pete Jones's, never once thinking of the eyes thatlooked out of the window at Means's. Climbing the ladder, he got intobed, and shook as with the ague. He tried to reason himself out of thefoolish terror that possessed him, but he could not.Half an hour later he heard a latch raised. Were the robbers breakinginto the house below? He heard a soft tread upon the floor. Should herise and give the alarm? Something restrained him. He reflected that arobber would be sure to stumble over some of the "brats." So he laystill and finally slumbered, only awakening when the place in which heslept was full of the smoke of frying grease from the room below.At breakfast Pete Jones scowled. He was evidently angry about something.He treated Ralph with a rudeness not to be overlooked, as if he intendedto bring on a quarrel. Hartsook kept cool, and wished he could drivefrom his mind all memory of the past night. Why should men on horsebackhave any significance to him? He was trying to regard things in thisway, and from a general desire to keep on good terms with his host hewent to the stable to offer his services in helping to feed the stock."Don't want no saft-handed help!" was all he got in return for hiswell-meant offer. But just as he turned to leave the stable he saw whatmade him tremble again. There was the same sorrel horse with a whiteleft forefoot and a white nose.To shake off his nervousness, Ralph started to school before the time.But, plague upon plagues! Mirandy Means, who had seen him leave PeteJones's, started just in time to join him where he came into the bigroad. Ralph was not in a good humor after his wakeful night, and to bethus dogged by Mirandy did not help the matter. So he found himselfspeaking crabbedly to the daughter of the leading trustee, in spite ofhimself."Hanner's got a bad cold this mornin' from bein' out last night, and shecan't come to spellin'-school to-night," began Mirandy, in her mostsimpering voice.Ralph had forgotten that there was to be another spelling-school. Itseemed to him an age since the orthographical conflict of the pastnight. This remark of Mirandy's fell upon his ear like an echo from thedistant past. He had lived a lifetime since, and was not sure that hewas the same man who was spelling for dear life against Jim Phillipstwelve hours before. But he was sorry to hear that Hannah had a cold. Itseemed to him, in his depressed state, that he was to blame for it. Infact, it seemed to him that he was to blame for a good many things. Heseemed to have been committing sins in spite of himself. Broken nervesand sleepless nights often result in a morbid conscience. And whatbusiness had he to wander over this very road at two o'clock in themorning, and to see three galloping horsemen, one of them on a horsewith a white left forefoot and a white nose? What business had hewatching Dr. Small as he went home from the bedside of a dying patientnear daylight in the morning? And because he felt guilty he felt crosswith Mirandy, and to her remark about Hannah he only replied that"Hannah was a smart girl.""Yes," said Mirandy, "Bud thinks so.""Does he?" said Ralph."I should say so. What's him and her been a-courtin' fer for a year efhe didn't think she was smart? Marm don't like it; but ef Bud and herdoes, and they seem to, I don't see as it's marm's lookout."When one is wretched, there is a pleasure in being entirely wretched.Ralph felt that he must have committed some unknown crime, and that someNemesis was following him. Was Hannah deceitful? At least, if she werenot, he felt sure that he could supplant Bud. But what right had he tosupplant Bud?"Did you hear the news?" cried Shocky, running out to meet him. "TheDutchman's house was robbed last night."Ralph thought of the three men on horseback, and to save his life hecould not help associating Dr. Small with them. And then he rememberedthe sorrel horse with the left forefoot and muzzle white, and herecalled the sound he had heard as of the lifting of a latch. And itreally seemed to him that in knowing what he did he was in some senseguilty of the robbery.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 17: Written in 1871.]CHAPTER VII.OMINOUS REMARKS OF MR. JONES.The school-master's mind was like ancient Gaul--divided into threeparts. With one part he mechanically performed his school duties. Withanother he asked himself, What shall I do about the robbery? And withthe third he debated about Bud and Hannah. For Bud was not present, andit was clear that he was angry, and there was a storm brewing. In fact,it seemed to Ralph that there was a storm brewing all round the sky. ForPete Jones was evidently angry at the thought of having been watched,and it was fair to suppose that Dr. Small was not in any better humorthan usual. And so, between Bud's jealousy and revenge and the suspicionand resentment of the men engaged in the robbery at "the Dutchman's" (asthe only German in the whole region was called), Ralph's excited nerveshad cause for tremor. At one moment he would resolve to have Hannah atall costs. In the next his conscience would question the rightfulness ofthe conclusion. Then he would make up his mind to tell all he knewabout the robbery. But if he told his suspicions about Small, nobodywould believe him. And if he told about Pete Jones, he really could tellonly enough to bring vengeance upon himself. And how could he explainhis own walk through the pasture and down the road? What business had hebeing out of bed at two o'clock in the morning? The circumstantialevidence was quite as strong against him as against the man on the horsewith the white left forefoot and the white nose. Suspicion might fastenon himself. And then what would be the effect on his prospects? On thepeople at Lewisburg? On Hannah? It is astonishing how much instructionand comfort there is in a bulldog. This slender school-master, who hadbeen all his life repressing the animal and developing the finer nature,now found a need of just what the bulldog had. And so, with the thoughtof how his friend the dog would fight in a desperate strait, hedetermined to take hold of his difficulties as Bull took hold of theraccoon. Moral questions he postponed for careful decision. But for thepresent he set his teeth together in a desperate, bulldog fashion, andhe set his feet down slowly, positively, bulldoggedly. After a wretchedsupper at Pete Jones's he found himself at the spelling-school, which,owing to the absence of Hannah, and the excitement about the burglary,was a dull affair. Half the evening was spent in talking in littleknots. Pete Jones had taken the afflicted "Dutchman" under his ownparticular supervision."I s'pose," said Pete, "that them air fellers what robbed your housemust a come down from Jinkins Run. They're the blamedest set up there Iever see.""Ya-as," said Schroeder, "put how did Yinkins vellers know dat I sell temedder to te Shquire, hey? How tid Yinkins know anyting 'bout theShquire's bayin' me dree huntert in te hard gash--hey?""Some scoundrels down in these 'ere parts is a-layin' in with JinkinsRun, I'll bet a hoss," said Pete. Ralph wondered whether he'd bet theone with the white left forefoot and the white nose. "Now," said Pete,"ef I could find the feller that's a-helpin' them scoundrels rob usfolks, I'd help stretch him to the neardest tree.""So vood I," said Schroeder. "I'd shtretch him dill he baid me my dreehuntert tollars pack, so I vood."And Betsey Short, who had found the whole affair very funny, wastransported with a fit of tittering at poor Schroeder's English. Ralph,fearing that his silence would excite suspicion, tried to talk. But hecould not tell what he knew, and all that he said sounded so hollow andhypocritical that it made him feel guilty. And so he shut his mouth, andmeditated profitably on the subject of bull dogs. And when later heoverheard the garrulous Jones declare that he'd bet a hoss he couldp'int out somebody as know'd a blamed sight more'n they keerd to tell,he made up his mind that if it came to p'inting out he should try to beeven with Jones.CHAPTER VIII.THE STRUGGLE IN THE DARKIt was a long, lonesome, fearful night that the school-master passed,lying with nerves on edge and eyes wide open in that comfortless bed inthe "furdest corner" of the loft of Pete Jones's house, shivering withcold, while the light snow that was falling sifted in upon the raggedpatch-work quilt that covered him. Nerves broken by sleeplessnessimagine many things, and for the first hour Ralph felt sure that Petewould cut his throat before morning.And you, friend Callow, who have blunted your palate by swallowing theCayenne pepper of the penny-dreadfuls, you wish me to make this nightexciting by a hand-to-hand contest between Ralph and a robber. You wouldlike it better if there were a trap-door. There's nothing so convenientas a trap-door, unless it be a subterranean passage. And you'd likesomething of that sort just here. It's so pleasant to have one's hairstand on end, you know, when one is safe from danger to one's self. Butif you want each individual hair to bristle with such a "Struggle inthe Dark," you can buy trap-doors and subterranean passages dirt cheapat the next news-stand. But it was, indeed, a real and terrible"Struggle in the Dark" that Ralph fought out at Pete Jones's.When he had vanquished his fears of personal violence by remindinghimself that it would be folly for Jones to commit murder in his ownhouse, the question of Bud and Hannah took the uppermost place in histhoughts. And as the image of Hannah spelling against the master came upto him, as the memory of the walk, the talk, the box-elder tree, and allthe rest took possession of him, it seemed to Ralph that his very lifedepended upon his securing her love. He would shut his teeth like thejaws of a bulldog, and all Bud's muscles should not prevail over hisresolution and his stratagems.It was easy to persuade himself that this was right. Hannah ought not tothrow herself away on Bud Means. Men of some culture always play theirconceit off against their consciences. To a man of literary habits itusually seems to be a great boon that he confers on a woman when hegives her his love. Reasoning thus, Ralph had fixed his resolution, andif the night had been shorter, or sleep possible, the color of his lifemight have been changed.But some time along in the tedious hours came the memory of hischildhood, the words of his mother, the old Bible stories, theaspiration after nobility of spirit, the solemn resolutions to be trueto his conscience. These angels of the memory came flocking back beforethe animal, the bull-doggedness, had "set," as workers in plaster say.He remembered the story of David and Nathan, and it seemed to him thathe, with all his abilities and ambitions and prospects, was about to robBud of the one ewe-lamb, the only thing he had to rejoice in in hislife. In getting Hannah, he would make himself unworthy of Hannah. Andthen there came to him a vision of the supreme value of a truecharacter; how it was better than success, better than to be loved,better than heaven. And how near he had been to missing it! And howcertain he was, when these thoughts should fade, to miss it! He was asone fighting for a great prize who feels his strength failing and issure of defeat.This was the real, awful "Struggle in the Dark." A human soul fightingwith heaven in sight, but certain of slipping inevitably into hell! Itwas the same old battle. The Image of God fought with the Image of theDevil. It was the same fight that Paul described so dramatically when herepresented the Spirit as contending with the Flesh. Paul also calledthis dreadful something the Old Adam, and I suppose Darwin would call itthe remains of the Wild Beast. But call it what you will, it is thebattle that every well-endowed soul must fight at some point. And toRalph it seemed that the final victory of the Evil, the Old Adam, theFlesh, the Wild Beast, the Devil, was certain. For, was not the pure,unconscious face of Hannah on the Devil's side? And so the battle hadjust as well be given up at once, for it must be lost in the end.But to Ralph, lying there in the still darkness, with his conscience aswide awake as if it were the Day of Doom, there seemed something soterrible in this overflow of the better nature which he knew to beinevitable as soon as the voice of conscience became blunted, that helooked about for help. He did not at first think of God; but there cameinto his thoughts the memory of a travel-worn Galilean peasant, hungry,sleepy, weary, tempted, tried, like other men, but having a strange,divine Victory in him by which everything evil was vanquished at hiscoming. He remembered how He had reached out a Hand to every helplessone, how He was the Helper of every weak one. And out of the depths ofhis soul he cried to the Helper, and found comfort. Not victory, but,what is better, strength. And so, without a thought of the niceties oftheological distinctions, without dreaming that it was the beginning ofa religious experience, he found what he needed, help. And the Helpergave His beloved sleep.CHAPTER IX.HAS GOD FORGOTTEN SHOCKY?"Pap wants to know ef you would spend to-morry and Sunday at our house?"said one of Squire Hawkins's girls, on the very next evening, which wasFriday. The old Squire was thoughtful enough to remember that Ralphwould not find it very pleasant "boarding out" all the time he wasentitled to spend at Pete Jones's. For in view of the fact that Mr. PeteJones sent seven children to the school, the "master" in Flat Creekdistrict was bound to spend two weeks in that comfortable place,sleeping in a preoccupied bed, in the "furdest corner," withinsufficient cover, under an insufficient roof, and eating floatingislands of salt pork fished out of oceans of hot lard. Ralph was notslow to accept the relief offered by the hospitable justice of thepeace, whose principal business seemed to be the adjustment of thepieces of which he was composed. And as Shocky traveled the same road,Ralph took advantage of the opportunity to talk with him. The mastercould not dismiss Hannah wholly from his mind. He would at least readthe mystery of her life, if Shocky could be prevailed on to furnish theclue."Poor old tree!" said Shocky, pointing to a crooked and gnarled elmstanding by itself in the middle of a field. For when the elm, naturallythe most graceful of trees, once gets a "bad set," it can grow to be themost deformed. This solitary tree had not a single straight limb."Why do you say 'poor old tree'?" asked Ralph."'Cause it's lonesome. All its old friends is dead and chopped down, andthere's their stumps a-standin' jes like grave-stones. It _must_ belonesome. Some folks says it don't feel, but I think it does. Everythingseems to think and feel. See it nodding its head to them other trees inthe woods? and a-wantin' to shake hands! But it can't move. I think thattree must a growed in the night.""Why, Shocky?""'Cause it's so crooked," and Shocky laughed at his own conceit; "must agrowed when they was no light so as it could see how to grow."And then they walked on in silence a minute. Presently Shocky beganlooking up into Ralph's eyes to get a smile. "I guess that tree feelsjust like me. Don't you?""Why, how do you feel?""Kind o' bad and lonesome, and like as if I wanted to die, you know.Felt that way ever sence they put my father into the graveyard, and sentmy mother to the poor-house and Hanner to ole Miss Means's. What kind ofa place is a poor-house? Is it a poorer place than Means's? I wish I wasdead and one of them clouds was a-carryin' me and Hanner and mother upto where father's gone, you know! I wonder if God forgets all about poorfolks when their father dies and their mother gits into the poor-house?Do you think He does? Seems so to me. Maybe God lost track of my fatherwhen he come away from England and crossed over the sea. Don't nobody onFlat Creek keer fer God, and I guess God don't keer fer Flat Creek. ButI would, though, ef he'd git my mother out of the poor-house and gitHanner away from Means's, and let me kiss my mother every night, youknow, and sleep on my Hanner's arm, jes like I used to afore fatherdied, you see."Ralph wanted to speak, but he couldn't. And so Shocky, with his eyeslooking straight ahead, and as if forgetting Ralph's presence, told overthe thoughts that he had often talked over to the fence-rails and thetrees. "It was real good in Mr. Pearson to take me, wasn't it? Else I'da been bound out tell I was twenty-one, maybe, to some mean man likeOle Means. And I a'n't but seven. And it would take me fourteen years togit twenty-one, and I never could live with my mother again after Hannergets done her time. 'Cause, you see, Hanner'll be through in three moreyear, and I'll be ten and able to work, and we'll git a little placeabout as big as Granny Sanders's, and--"Ralph did not hear another word of what Shocky said that afternoon. Forthere, right before them, was Granny Sanders's log-cabin, with its rowof lofty sunflower stalks, now dead and dry, in front, with itsrain-water barrel by the side of the low door, and its ash-barrel by thefence. In this cabin lived alone the old and shriveled hag whosehideousness gave her a reputation for almost supernatural knowledge. Shewas at once doctress and newspaper. She collected and disseminatedmedicinal herbs and personal gossip. She was in every regardindispensable to the intellectual life of the neighborhood. In thematter of her medical skill we cannot express an opinion, for her"yarbs" are not to be found in the pharmacopoeia of science.What took Ralph's breath was to find Dr. Small's fine, faultless horsestanding at the door. What did Henry Small want to visit this old quackfor?CHAPTER X.THE DEVIL OF SILENCE.Ralph had reason to fear Small, who was a native of the same village ofLewisburg, and some five years the elder. Some facts in the doctor'slife had come into Ralph's possession in such a way as to confirmlife-long suspicion without giving him power to expose Small, who wasfirmly intrenched in the good graces of the people of the county-seatvillage of Lewisburg, where he had grown up, and of the littlecross-roads village of Clifty, where his "shingle" now hung.Small was no ordinary villain. He was a genius. Your ordinary hypocritetalks cant. Small talked nothing. He was the coolest, the steadiest, themost silent, the most promising boy ever born in Lewisburg. He made nopretensions. He set up no claims. He uttered no professions. He wentright on and lived a life above reproach. Your vulgar hypocrite makeslong prayers in prayer-meeting. Small did nothing of the sort. He satstill in prayer-meeting, and listened to the elders as a modest youngman should. Your commonplace hypocrite boasts. Small never alluded tohimself, and thus a consummate egotist got credit for modesty. It is butan indifferent trick for a hypocrite to make temperance speeches. Dr.Small did not even belong to a temperance society. But he could never bepersuaded to drink even so much as a cup of tea. There was somethingsublime in the quiet voice with which he would say, "Cold water, if youplease," to a lady tempting him with smoking coffee on a cold morning.There was no exultation, no sense of merit in the act. Everything wasdone in a modest and matter-of-course way beautiful to behold. And hisface was a neutral tint. Neither face nor voice expressed anything. Onlya keen reader of character might have asked whether all there was inthat eye could live contented with this cool, austere, self-containedlife; whether there would not be somewhere a volcanic eruption. But ifthere was any sea of molten lava beneath, the world did not discover it.Wild boys were sick of having Small held up to them as the mostimmaculate of men[18].Ralph had failed to get two schools for which he had applied, and hadattributed both failures to certain shrugs of Dr. Small. And now, whenhe found Small at the house of Granny Sanders, the center ofintelligence as well as of ignorance for the neighborhood, he trembled.Not that Small would say anything. He never said anything. He damnedpeople by a silence worse than words.Granny Sanders was not a little flattered by the visit."Why, doctor, howdy, howdy! Come in, take a cheer. I am glad to see you.I 'lowed you'd come. Old Dr. Flounder used to say he larnt lots o'things of me. But most of the doctors sence hez been kinder stuck up,you know. But I know'd you fer a man of intelligence."Meantime, Small, by his grave silence and attention, had almostsmothered the old hag with flattery. "Many's the case I've cured withyarbs and things. Nigh upon twenty year ago they was a man lived over onWild Cat Run as had a breakin'-out on his side. 'Twas the left side, jesbelow the waist. Doctor couldn't do nothin'. 'Twas Doctor Peacham. Henever would have nothin' to do with 'ole woman's cures.' Well, the manwas goin' to die. Everybody seed that. And they come a-drivin' away overhere all the way from the Wild Cat. Think of that air! I never was soflustered. But as soon as I laid eyes on that air man, I says, saysI, that air man, says I, has got the shingles, says I. I know'd theminute I seed it. And if they'd gone clean around, nothing could a savedhim. I says, says I, git me a black cat. So I jist killed a black cat,and let the blood run all over the swellin'. I tell you, doctor, they'snothin' like it. That man was well in a month."[Illustration: MRS. MEANS]"Did you use the blood warm?" asked Small, with a solemnity mostedifying.These were almost the only words he had uttered since he entered thecabin."Laws, yes; I jest let it run right out of the cat's tail onto thebreakin'-out. And fer airesipelus, I don't know nothin' so good as theblood of a black hen.""How old?" asked the doctor."There you showed yer science, doctor! They's no power in a pullet. Theolder the black hen the better. And you know the cure fer rheumatiz?"And here the old woman got down a bottle of grease. "That's ile from ablack dog. Ef it's rendered right, it'll knock the hind sights off ofany rheumatiz you ever see. But it must be rendered in the dark of themoon. Else a black dog's ile a'n't worth no more nor a white one's."And all this time Small was smelling of the uncorked bottle, taking alittle on his finger and feeling of it, and thus feeling his way to theheart--drier than her herbs--of the old witch. And then he went roundthe cabin gravely, lifting each separate bunch of dried yarbs from itsnail, smelling of it, and then, by making an interrogation-point of hissilent face, he managed to get a lecture from her on each article in her_materia medica_> with the most marvelous stories illustrative of theirvirtues. When the Granny had got her fill of his silent flattery, he wasready to carry forward his main purpose.There was something weird about this silent man's ability to turn theconversation as he chose to have it go. Sitting by the Granny'stea-table, nibbling corn-bread while he drank his glass of water, havingdeclined even her sassafras, he ceased to stimulate her medical talk andopened the vein of gossip. Once started, Granny Sanders was sure toallude to the robbery. And once on the robbery the doctor's course wasclear."I 'low somebody not fur away is in this 'ere business!"Not by a word, nor even by a nod, but by some motion of the eyelids,perhaps, Small indicated that he agreed with her."Who d'ye s'pose 'tis?"But Dr. Small was not in the habit of supposing. He moved his head in aquiet way, just the least perceptible bit, but so that the old creatureunderstood that he could give light if he wanted to."I dunno anybody that's been 'bout here long as could be suspected."Another motion of the eyelids indicated Small's agreement with thisremark."They a'n't nobody come in here lately 'ceppin' the master."Small looked vacantly at the wall."But I low he's allers bore a tip-top character."The doctor was too busy looking at his corn-bread to answer this remarkeven by a look."But I think these oversmart young men'll bear looking arter, _I_ do."Dr. Small raised his eyes and let them _shine_ an assent. That was all."Shouldn't wonder ef our master was overly fond of gals."Doctor looks down at his plate."Had plenty of sweethearts afore he walked home with Hanner Thomsont'other night, I'll bet."Did Dr. Small shrug his shoulder? Granny thought she detected a faintmotion of the sort, but she could not be sure."And I think as how that a feller what trifles with gals' hearts andthen runs off ten miles, maybe a'n't no better'n he had orter be. That'swhat I says, says I."To this general remark Dr. Small assented in his invisible--shall I say_intangible_?--way."I allers think, maybe, that some folks has found it best to leave homeand go away. You can't never tell. But when people is a-bein' robbedit's well to lookout. Hey?""I think so," said Small quietly, and, having taken his hat and bowed asolemn and respectful adieu, he departed.He had not spoken twenty words, but he had satisfied the news-monger ofFlat Creek that Ralph was a bad character at home and worthy ofsuspicion of burglary.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 18: The original from which this character was drawn is heredescribed accurately. The author now knows that such people are not tobe put into books. They are not realistic enough.]CHAPTER XIMISS MARTHA HAWKINS."It's very good for the health to dig in the elements. I was quiteemaciated last year at the East, and the doctor told me to dig in theelements. I got me a florial hoe and dug, and it's been most excellentfor me[19]." Time, the Saturday following the Friday on which Ralph keptShocky company as far as the "forks" near Granny Sanders's house. Scene,the Squire's garden. Ralph helping that worthy magistrate perform sundrylittle jobs such as a warm winter day suggests to the farmer. MissMartha Hawkins, the Squire's niece, and his housekeeper in his presentbereaved condition, leaning over the palings--pickets she calledthem--of the garden fence, talking to the master. Miss Hawkins wasrecently from Massachusetts. How many people there are in the mostcultivated communities whose education is partial!"It's very common for school-master to dig in the elements at theEast," proceeded Miss Martha. Like many other people born in thecelestial empires (of which there are three--China, Virginia,Massachusetts), Miss Martha was not averse to reminding outsidebarbarians of her good fortune in this regard. It did her good to speakof the East.Now Ralph was amused with Miss Martha. She really had a good deal ofintelligence despite her affectation, and conversation with her was bothinteresting and diverting. It helped him to forget Hannah, and Bud, andthe robbery, and all the rest, and she was so delighted to find somebodyto make an impression on that she had come out to talk while Ralph wasat work. But just at this moment the school-master was not so muchinterested in her interesting remarks, nor so much amused by her amusingremarks, as he should have been. He saw a man coming down the roadriding one horse and leading another, and he recognized the horses at adistance. It must be Bud who was riding Means's bay mare and leadingBud's roan colt. Bud had been to mill, and as the man who owned thehorse-mill kept but one old blind horse himself, it was necessary thatBud should take two. It required three horses to run the mill; the oldblind one could have ground the grist, but the two others had toovercome the friction of the clumsy machine. But it was not about thehorse-mill that Ralph was thinking nor about the two horses. Since thatWednesday evening on which he escorted Hannah home from thespelling-school he had not seen Bud Means. If he had any lingeringdoubts of the truth of what Mirandy had said, they had been dissipatedby the absence of Bud from school."When I was to Bosting--" Miss Martha was _to_ Boston only once in herlife, but as her visit to that sacred city was the most importantoccurrence of her life, she did not hesitate to air her reminiscences ofit frequently. "When I was to Bosting," she was just saying, when,following the indication of Ralph's eyes, she saw Bud coming up the hillnear Squire Hawkins's house. Bud looked red and sulky, and to Ralph'sand Miss Martha Hawkins's polite recognitions he returned only a surlynod. They both saw that he was angry. Ralph was able to guess themeaning of his wrath.Toward evening Ralph strolled through the Squire's cornfield toward thewoods. The memory of the walk with Hannah was heavy upon the heart ofthe young master, and there was comfort in the very miserableness of thecornstalks with their disheveled blades hanging like tattered bannersand rattling discordantly in the rising wind. Wandering without purpose,Ralph followed the rows of stalks first one way and then the other in azigzag line, turning a right angle every minute or two. At last he cameout in a woods mostly of beech, and he pleased his melancholy fancy bykicking the dry and silky leaves before him in billows, while thesoughing of the wind through the long, vibrant boughs and slender twigsof the beech forest seemed to put the world into the wailing minor keyof his own despair.What a fascination there is in a path come upon suddenly without aknowledge of its termination! Here was one running in easy, irregularcurves through the wood, now turning gently to the right in order toavoid a stump, now swaying suddenly to the left to gain an easierdescent at a steep place, and now turning wantonly to the one side orthe other, as if from very caprice in the man who by idle stepsunconsciously marked the line of the foot-path at first. Ralph could notresist the impulse--who could?--to follow the path and find out itsdestination, and following it he came presently into a lonesome hollow,where a brook gurgled among the heaps of bare limestone rocks thatfilled its bed. Following the path still, he came upon a queer littlecabin built of round logs, in the midst of a small garden-patch inclosedby a brush fence. The stick chimney, daubed with clay and topped witha barrel open at both ends, made this a typical cabin.[Illustration: CAPTAIN PEARSON]It flashed upon Ralph that this place must be Rocky Hollow, and thatthis was the house of old John Pearson, the one-legged basket-maker, andhis rheumatic wife--the house that hospitably sheltered Shocky.Following his impulse, he knocked and was admitted, and was not a littlesurprised to find Miss Martha Hawkins there before him."You here, Miss Hawkins?" he said when he had returned Shocky's greetingand shaken hands with the old couple."Bless you, yes," said the old lady. "That blessed gyirl"--the old ladycalled her a girl by a sort of figure of speech perhaps--"that blessedgyirl's the kindest creetur you ever saw--comes here every day, most, tocheer a body up with somethin' or nuther."Miss Martha blushed, and said "she came because Rocky Hollow looked somuch like a place she used to know at the East. Mr. and Mrs. Pearsonwere the kindest people. They reminded her of people she knew at theEast. When she was to Bosting--"Here the old basket-maker lifted his head from his work, and said:"Pshaw! that talk about kyindness" (he was a Kentuckian and said_kyindness_) "is all humbug. I wonder so smart a woman as you don'tknow better. You come nearder to bein kyind than anybody I know; but,laws a me! we're all selfish akordin' to my tell.""You wasn't selfish when you set up with my father most every night fortwo weeks," said Shocky as he handed the old man a splint."Yes, I was, too!" This in a tone that made Ralph tremble. "Your fatherwas a miserable Britisher. I'd fit red-coats, in the war ofeighteen-twelve, and lost my leg by one of 'em stickin' his dog-on'dbagonet right through it, that night at Lundy's Lane; but my messmatekilled him though which is a satisfaction to think on. And I didn't likeyour father 'cause he was a Britisher. But ef he'd a died right here inthis free country, 'though nobody to give him a drink of water, blamedef I wouldn't a been ashamed to set on the platform at a Fourth of Julybarbecue, and to hold up my wooden leg fer to make the boys cheer! Thatwas the selfishest thing I ever done. We're all selfish akordin' to mytell.""You wasn't selfish when you took me that night, you know," and Shocky'sface beamed with gratitude."Yes, I war, too, you little sass-box! What did I take you fer? Hey?Bekase I didn't like Pete Jones nor Bill Jones. They're thieves, dog-on'em!"Ralph shivered a little. The horse with the white forefoot and whitenose galloped before his eyes again."They're a set of thieves. That's what they air.""Please, Mr. Pearson, be careful. You'll get into trouble, you know, bytalking that way," said Miss Hawkins. "You're just like a man that Iknew at the East.""Why, do you think an old soldier like me, hobbling on a wooden leg, isafraid of them thieves? Didn't I face the Britishers? Didn't I come homelate last Wednesday night? I rather guess I must a took a little toomuch at Welch's grocery, and laid down in the middle of the street torest. The boys thought 'twas funny to crate[20] me. I woke up kind o'cold, 'bout one in the mornin.' 'Bout two o'clock I come up Means'shill, and didn't I see Pete Jones, and them others that robbed theDutchman, and somebody, I dunno who, a-crossin' the blue-grass paster_towards_ Jones's?" (Ralph shivered.) "Don't shake your finger at me,old woman. Tongue is all I've got to fight with now; but I'll fight themthieves tell the sea goes dry, I will. Shocky, gim me a splint.""But you wasn't selfish when you tuck me. Shocky stuck to his point mostpositively."Yes, I was, you little tow-headed fool! I didn't take you kase I wasgood, not a bit of it. I hated Bill Jones what keeps the poor-house, andI knowed him and Pete would get you bound to some of their click, and Ididn't want no more thieves raised; so when your mother hobbled, withyou a-leadin' her, poor blind thing! all the way over here on thatwinter night, and said, 'Mr. Pearson, you're all the friend I've got,and I want you to save my boy,' why, you see I was selfish as ever Icould be in takin' of you. Your mother's cryin' sot me a-cryin' too.We're all selfish in everything, akordin' to my tell. Blamed ef weha'n't, Miss Hawkins, only sometimes I'd think you was real benev'lentef I didn't know we war all selfish."FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 19: Absurd as this speech seems, it is a literal transcript ofwords spoken in the author's presence by a woman who, like Miss Hawkins,was born in Massachusetts.][Footnote 20: When the first edition of this book appeared, the criticwho analyzed the dialect in _The Nation_ confessed that he did not knowwhat to "crate" meant. It was a custom in the days of early Indianabarbarism for the youngsters of a village, on spying a sleepingdrunkard, to hunt up a "queensware crate"--one of the cages of roundwithes in which crockery was shipped. This was turned upside down overthe inebriate, and loaded with logs or any other heavy articles thatwould make escape difficult when the poor wretch should come to himself.It was a sort of rude punishment for inebriety, and it afforded afrog-killing delight to those who executed justice.]CHAPTER XII.THE HARDSHELL PREACHER."They's preachin' down to Bethel Meetin'-house to-day," said the Squireat breakfast. Twenty years In the West could not cure Squire Hawkins ofsaying "to" for "at." "I rather guess as how the old man Bosaw will givepertickeler fits to our folks to-day." For Squire Hawkins, having beenexpelled from the "Hardshell" church of which Mr. Bosaw was pastor, forthe grave offense of joining a temperance society, had become a memberof the "Reformers," the very respectable people who now call themselves"Disciples," but whom the profane will persist in calling"Campbellites." They had a church in the village of Clifty, three milesaway.I know that explanations are always abominable to story readers, as theyare to story writers, but as so many of my readers have never had theinestimable privilege of sitting under the gospel as it is ministered inenlightened neighborhoods like Flat Creek, I find myself under thenecessity--need-cessity the Rev. Mr. Bosaw would call it--of rising toexplain. Some people think the "Hardshells" a myth, and some sensitiveBaptist people at the East resent all allusion to them. But the"Hardshell Baptists," or, as they are otherwise called, the "WhiskyBaptists," and the "Forty-gallon Baptists," exist in all the old Westernand South-western States. They call themselves "Anti-means Baptists"from their Antinomian tenets. Their confession of faith is a caricatureof Calvinism, and is expressed by their preachers about as follows: "Efyou're elected, you'll be saved; ef you a'n't, you'll be damned. God'lltake keer of his elect. It's a sin to run Sunday-schools, or temp'rinces'cieties, or to send missionaries. You let God's business alone. Whatis to be will be, and you can't hender it." This writer has attended aSunday-school, the superintendent of which was solemnly arraigned andexpelled from the Hardshell Church for "meddling with God's business" byholding a Sunday-school. Of course the Hardshells are prodigiouslyilliterate, and often vicious. Some of their preachers are notoriousdrunkards. They sing their sermons out sometimes for three hours at astretch[21].Ralph found that he was to ride the "clay-bank mare," the only one ofthe horses that would "carry double," and that consequently he wouldhave to take Miss Hawkins behind him. If it had been Hannah instead,Ralph might not have objected to this "young Lochinvar" mode of ridingwith a lady on "the croup," but Martha Hawkins was another affair. Hehad only this consolation; his keeping the company of Miss Hawkins mightserve to disarm the resentment of Bud. At all events, he had no choice.What designs the Squire had in this arrangement he could not tell; butthe clay-bank mare carried him to meeting on that December morning,with Martha Hawkins behind. And as Miss Hawkins was not used to thismode of locomotion, she was in a state of delightful fright every timethe horse sank to the knees in the soft, yellow Flat Creek clay."We don't go to church so at the East," she said. "The mud isn't so deepat the East. When I was to Bosting--" but Ralph never heard whathappened when she was to Bosting, for just as she said Bosting the mareput her foot into a deep hole molded by the foot of the Squire's horse,and already full of muddy water.As the mare's foot went twelve inches down into this track, the muddywater spurted higher than Miss Hawkins's head, and mottled her dresswith golden spots of clay. She gave a little shriek, and declared thatshe had never "seen it so at the East."The journey seemed a little long to Ralph, who found that the subjectsupon which he and Miss Hawkins could converse were few; but Miss Marthawas determined to keep things going, and once, when the conversation haddied out entirely, she made a desperate effort to renew it by remarking,as they met a man on horseback, "That horse switches his tail just asthey do at the East. When I was to Bosting I saw horses switch theirtails just that way."What surprised Ralph was to see that Flat Creek went to meeting.Everybody was there--the Meanses, the Joneses, the Bantas, and all therest. Everybody on Flat Creek seemed to be there, except the oldwooden-legged basket-maker. His family was represented by Shocky, whohad come, doubtless, to get a glimpse of Hannah, not to hear Mr. Bosawpreach. In fact, few were thinking of the religious service. They wentto church as a common resort to hear the news, and to find out what wasthe current sensation.On this particular morning there seemed to be some unusual excitement.Ralph perceived it as he rode up. An excited crowd, even though it be ata church-door on Sunday morning, can not conceal its agitation. Ralphdeposited Miss Hawkins on the stile, and then got down himself, and paidher the closest attention to the door. This attention was for Bud'sbenefit. But Bud only stood with his hands in his pockets, scowlingworse than ever. Ralph did not go in at the door. It was not the FlatCreek custom. The men gossiped outside, while the women chatted within.Whatever may have been the cause of the excitement, Ralph could not getat it. When he entered a little knot of people they became embarrassed,the group dissolved, and its component parts joined other companies.What had the current of conversation to do with him? He overheard PeteJones saying that the blamed old wooden leg was in it anyhow. He'd beenseen goin' home at two in the mornin'. And he could name somebody elseef he choosed. But it was best to clean out one at a time. And just thenthere was a murmur: "Meetin's took up." And the masculine element filledthe empty half of the "hewed-log" church.When Ralph saw Hannah looking utterly dejected, his heart smote him, andthe great struggle set in again. Had it not been for the thought of theother battle, and the comforting presence of the Helper, I fear Bud'sinterests would have fared badly. But Ralph, with the spirit of amartyr, resolved to wait until he knew what the result of Bud's suitshould be, and whether, indeed, the young Goliath had prior claims, ashe evidently thought he had. He turned hopefully to the sermon,determined to pick up any crumbs of comfort that might fall from Mr.Bosaw's meager table.In reporting a single specimen passage of Mr. Bosaw's sermon, I shallnot take the liberty which Thucydides and other ancient historians did,of making the sermon and putting it into the hero's mouth, but shallgive that which can be vouched for."You see, my respective hearers," he began--but alas! I can neverpicture to you the rich red nose, the see sawing gestures, the nasalresonance, the sniffle, the melancholy minor key, and all that. "Myrespective hearers-ah, you see-ah as how-ah as my tex'-ah says that theox-ah knoweth his owner-ah, and-ah the ass-ah his master's crib-ah.A-h-h! Now, my respective hearers-ah, they're a mighty sight ofresemblance-ah atwext men-ah and oxen-ah" [Ralph could not helpreflecting that there was a mighty sight of resemblance between some menand asses. But the preacher did not see this analogy. It lay too closeto him], "bekase-ah, you see, men-ah is mighty like oxen-ah. Fer they'sa tremengious defference-ah atwixt defferent oxen-ah, jest as thar isatwext defferent men-ah; fer the ox knoweth-ah his owner-ah, and theass-ah, his master's crib-ah. Now, my respective hearers-ah" [thepreacher's voice here grew mellow, and the succeeding sentences were inthe most pathetic and lugubrious tones], "you all know-ah that yourhumble speaker-ah has got-ah jest the best yoke of steers-ah in thistownship-ah." [Here Betsey Short shook the floor with a suppressedtitter.] "They a'n't no sech steers as them air two of mine-ah in thiswhole kedentry-ah. Them crack oxen over at Clifty-ah ha'n't a patchin'to mine-ah. Fer the ox knoweth his owner-ah and the ass-ah his master'scrib-ah."Now, my respective hearers-ah, they's a right smart sight ofdefference-ah atwext them air two oxen-ah, jest like they is atwextdefferent men-ah. Fer-ah" [here the speaker grew earnest, and sawed theair, from this to the close, in a most frightful way], "fer-ah, yousee-ah, when I go out-ah in the mornin'-ah to yoke-ah up-ah them airsteers-ah, and I says-ah, 'Wo, Berry-ah! _Wo, Berry-ah!_ WO, BERRY-AH',why Berry-ah jest stands stock still-ah and don't hardly breathe-ahwhile I put on the yoke-ah, and put in the bow-ah, and put in thekey-ah, fer, my brethering-ah and sistering-ah, the ox knoweth hisowner-ah, and the ass-ah his master's crib-ah. Hal-le-lu-ger-ah!"But-ah, my hearers-ah, but-ah when I stand at t'other eend of theyoke-ah, and say, 'Come, Buck-ah! _Come, Buck-ah!_ COME, BUCK-AH! COME,BUCK-AH!' why what do you think-ah? Buck-ah, that ornery ole Buck-ah,'stid of comin' right along-ah and puttin' his neck under-ah, acts jestlike some men-ah what is fools-ah. Buck-ah jest kinder sorter standsoff-ah, and kinder sorter puts his head down-ah this 'ere way-ah, andkinder looks mad-ah, and says, Boo-_oo_-OO-OO-ah!"Alas! Hartsook found no spiritual edification there, and he was in nomood to be amused. And so, while the sermon drew on through two drearyhours, he forgot the preacher in noticing a bright green lizard which,having taken up its winter quarters behind the tin candlestick that hungjust back of the preacher's head, had been deceived by the genial warmthcoming from the great box-stove, and now ran out two or three feet fromhis shelter, looking down upon the red-nosed preacher in a mostconfidential and amusing manner. Sometimes he would retreat behind thecandlestick, which was not twelve inches from the preacher's head, andthen rush out again. At each reappearance Betsey Short would stuff herhandkerchief into her mouth and shake in a most distressing way. Shockywondered what the lizard was winking at the preacher about. And MissMartha thought that it reminded her of a lizard that she see at theEast, the time she was to Bosting, in a jar of alcohol in the NaturalHistory Rooms. The Squire was not disappointed in his anticipation thatMr. Bosaw would attack his denomination with some fury. In fact, the oldpreacher outdid himself in his violent indignation at "these people thatfollow Campbell-ah, that thinks-ah that obejience-ah will save 'em-ahand that belongs-ah to temp'rince societies-ah and Sunday-schools-ah,and them air things-ah, that's not ortherized in the Bible-ah, but comesof the devil-ah, and takes folks as belongs to 'em to hell-ah."As they came out the door Ralph rallied enough to remark: "He did attackyour people, Squire.""Oh, yes," said the Squire. "Didn't you see the Sarpent inspirin' him?"But the long, long hours were ended and Ralph got on the clay-bank mareand rode up alongside the stile whence Miss Martha mounted. And as hewent away with a heavy heart, he overheard Pete Jones call out tosomebody:"We'll tend to his case & Christmas." Christmas was two days off.And Miss Martha remarked with much trepidation that poor Pearson wouldhave to leave. She'd always been afraid that would be the end of it. Itreminded her of something she heard at the East, the time she was downto Bosting.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 21: Even the Anti-means Baptists have suffered from the direspirit of the age. They are to-day a very respectable body of peoplecalling themselves "Primitive Baptists." Perhaps the description in thetext never applied to the whole denomination, but only to the Hardshellsof certain localities. Some of these intensely conservative churches, Ihave reason to believe, were always composed of reputable people. Butwhat is said above is not in the least exaggerated as a description ofmany of the churches in Indiana and Illinois. Their opposition to thetemperance reformation was both theoretical and practical. A rather ableminister of the denomination whom I knew as a boy used to lie inbesotted drunkenness by the roadside. I am sorry to confess that he oncerepresented the county in the State legislature. The piece of a sermongiven in this chapter was heard near Cairo, Illinois, in the days beforethe war. Most of the preachers were illiterate farmers. I have heard oneof them hold forth two hours at a stretch. But even in that day therewere men among the Hardshells whose ability and character commandedrespect. This was true, especially in Kentucky, where able men like thetwo Dudleys held to the Antinomian wing of their denomination. But theHardshells are perceptibly less hard than they were. You may march atthe rear of the column among Hunkers and Hardshells if you will, but youare obliged to march. Those who will not go voluntarily, thetime-spirit, walking behind, prods onward with a goad.]CHAPTER XIII.A STRUGGLE FOR THE MASTERYThe school had closed on Monday evening as usual. The boys had beentalking in knots all day. Nothing but the bulldog in the slender,resolute young master had kept down the rising storm. A teacher who haslost moral support at home, can not long govern a school. Ralph hadeffectually lost his popularity in the district, and the worst of it wasthat he could not divine from just what quarter the ill wind came,except that he felt sure of Small's agency in it somewhere. Even Hannahhad slighted him, when he called at Means's on Monday morning to drawthe pittance of pay that was due him.He had expected a petition for a holiday on Christmas day. Such holidaysare deducted from the teacher's time, and it is customary for the boysto "turn out" the teacher who refuses to grant them, by barring him outof the school-house on Christmas and New Year's morning. Ralph hadintended to grant a holiday if it should be asked, but it was notasked. Hank Banta was the ringleader in the disaffection, and he hadmanaged to draw the surly Bud, who was present this morning, into it. Itis but fair to say that Bud was in favor of making a request beforeresorting to extreme measures, but he was overruled. He gave it as hissolemn opinion that the master was mighty peart, and they would be beatanyhow some way, but he would lick the master fer two cents ef he warn'tso slim that he'd feel like he was fighting a baby.And all that day things looked black. Ralph's countenance was cold andhard as stone, and Shocky trembled where he sat. Betsey Short titteredrather more than usual. A riot or a murder would have seemed amusing toher.School was dismissed, and Ralph, instead of returning to the Squire's,set out for the village of Clifty, a few miles away. No one knew what hewent for, and some suggested that he had "sloped."But Bud said "he warn't that air kind. He was one of them air sort asdied in their tracks, was Mr. Hartsook. They'd find him on the groundnex' morning, and he lowed the master war made of that air sort of stuffas would burn the dog-on'd ole school-house to ashes, or blow it intosplinters, but what he'd beat. Howsumdever he'd said he was a-goin' tohelp, and help he would; but all the sinno in Golier wouldn't be noaccount again the cute they was in the head of the master."But Bud, discouraged as he was with the fear of Ralph's "cute," wentlike a martyr to the stake and took his place with the rest in theschool-house at nine o'clock at night. It may have been Ralph'sintention to preoccupy the school-house, for at ten o'clock Hank Bantawas set shaking from head to foot at seeing a face that looked like themaster's at the window. He waked up Bud and told him about it."Well, what are you a-tremblin' about, you coward?" growled Bud. "Hewon't shoot you; but he'll beat you at this game, I'll bet a hoss, andme, too, and make us both as 'shamed of ourselves as dogs withtin-kittles to their tails. You don't know the master, though he didduck you. But he'll larn you a good lesson this time, and me too, likeas not." And Bud soon snored again, but Hank shook with fear every timehe looked at the blackness outside the windows. He was sure he heardfoot-falls. He would have given anything to have been at home.When morning came, the pupils began to gather early. A few boys who werelikely to prove of service in the coming siege were admitted through thewindow, and then everything was made fast, and a "snack" was eaten."How do you 'low he'll get in?" said Hank, trying to hide his fear."How do I 'low?" said Bud. "I don't 'low nothin' about it. You might aswell ax me where I 'low the nex' shootin' star is a-goin' to drap. Mr.Hartsook's mighty onsartin. But he'll git in, though, and tan your hidefer you, you see ef he don't. _Ef_ he don't blow up the school-housewith gunpowder!" This last was thrown in by way of alleviating the fearsof the cowardly Hank, for whom Bud had a great contempt.The time for school had almost come. The boys inside were demoralized bywaiting. They began to hope that the master had "sloped." They dreadedto see him coming."I don't believe he'll come," said Hank, with a cold shiver. "It's pastschool-time.""Yes, he will come, too," said Bud. "And he 'lows to come in here mightyquick. I don't know how. But he'll be a-standin' at that air desk whenit's nine o'clock. I'll bet a thousand dollars on that. _Ef_ he don'ttake it into his head to blow us up!" Hank was now white.Some of the parents came along, accidentally of course, and stopped tosee the fun, sure that Bud would thrash the master if he tried to breakin. Small, on the way to see a patient perhaps, reined up in front ofthe door. Still no Ralph. It was just five minutes before nine. A rumornow gained currency that he had been seen going to Clifty the eveningbefore, and that he had not come back, though in fact Ralph had comeback, and had slept at Squire Hawkins's."There's the master," cried Betsey Short, who stood out in the roadshivering and giggling alternately. For Ralph at that moment emergedfrom the sugar-camp by the school-house, carrying a board."Ho! ho!" laughed Hank, "he thinks he'll smoke us out. I guess he'llfind us ready." The boys had let the fire burn down, and there was nownothing but hot hickory coals on the hearth."I tell you he'll come in. He didn't go to Clifty fer nothing" said Bud,who sat still on one of the benches which leaned against the door. "Idon't know how, but they's lots of ways of killing a cat besides chokin'her with butter. He'll come in--_ef_ he don't blow us all sky-high!"Ralph's voice was now heard, demanding that the door be opened."Let's open her," said Hank, turning livid with fear at the firm,confident tone of the master.Bud straightened himself up. "Hank, you're a coward. I've got a mind tokick you. You got me into this blamed mess, and now you want tocraw-fish. You jest tech one of these 'ere fastenings, and I'll lay youout flat of your back afore you can say Jack Robinson."The teacher was climbing to the roof with the board in hand."That air won't win," laughed Pete Jones outside. He saw that there wasno smoke. Even Bud began to hope that Ralph would fail for once. Themaster was now on the ridge-pole of the school-house. He took a paperfrom his pocket, and deliberately poured the contents down the chimney.Mr. Pete Jones shouted "Gunpowder!" and set off down the road to be outof the way of the explosion. Dr. Small remembered, probably, that hispatient might die while he sat here, and started on.But Ralph emptied the paper, and laid the board over the chimney. What arow there was inside! The benches that were braced against the door werethrown down, and Hank Banta rushed out, rubbing his eyes, coughingfrantically, and sure that he had been blown up. All the rest followed,Bud bringing up the rear sulkily, but coughing and sneezing for dearlife. Such a smell of sulphur as came from that school-house!Betsey had to lean against the fence to giggle.[Illustration: FIRE AND BRIMSTONE]As soon as all were out, Ralph threw the board off the chimney, leapedto the ground, entered the school-house, and opened the windows. Theschool soon followed him, and all was still."Would he thrash?" This was the important question in Hank Banta's mind.And the rest looked for a battle with Bud."It is just nine o'clock," said Ralph, consulting his watch, "and I'mglad to see you all here promptly. I should have given you a holiday ifyou had asked me like gentlemen yesterday. On the whole, I think I shallgive you a holiday, anyhow. The school is dismissed."And Hank felt foolish.And Bud secretly resolved to thrash Hank or the master, he didn't carewhich.And Mirandy looked the love she could not utter.And Betsey giggled.CHAPTER XIV.A CRISIS WITH BUD.Ralph sat still at his desk. The school had gone. All at once he becameconscious that Shocky sat yet in his accustomed place upon the hard,backless bench."Why, Shocky, haven't you gone yet?""No--sir--I was waitin' to see if you warn't a-goin', too--I--""Well?""I thought it would make me feel as if God warn't quite so fur away totalk to you. It did the other day."The master rose and put his hand on Shocky's head. Was it thebrotherhood in affliction that made Shocky's words choke him so? Or, wasit the weird thoughts that he expressed? Or, was it the recollectionthat Shocky was Hannah's brother? Hannah so far, far away from him now!At any rate, Shocky, looking up for the smile on which he fed, saw therelaxing of the master's face, that had been as hard as stone, and feltjust one hot tear on his hand."P'r'aps God's forgot you, too," said Shocky in a sort of halfsoliloquy. "Better get away from Flat Creek. You see God forgetseverybody down here. 'Cause 'most everybody forgets God, 'cept Mr.Bosaw, and I 'low God don't no ways keer to be remembered by sich ashim. Leastways I wouldn't if I was God, you know. I wonder what becomesof folks when God forgets 'em?" And Shocky, seeing that the master hadresumed his seat and was looking absently into the fire, moved slowlyout the door."Shocky!" called the master.The little poet came back and stood before him."Shocky, you mustn't think God has forgotten you. God brings things outright at last." But Ralph's own faith was weak, and his words soundedhollow and hypocritical to himself. Would God indeed bring things outright?He sat musing a good while, trying to convince himself of the truth ofwhat he had just been saying to Shocky--that God would indeed bringthings out right at last. Would it all come out right if Bud marriedHannah? Would it all come out right if he were driven from Flat Creekwith a dark suspicion upon his character? Did God concern himself withthese things? Was there any God? It was the same old struggle betweenDoubt and Faith. And when Ralph looked up, Shocky had departed.In the next hour Ralph fought the old battle of Armageddon. I shall notdescribe it. You will fight it in your own way. No two alike. Theimportant thing is the End. If you come out as he did, with the doubtgone and the trust in God victorious, it matters little just what shapethe battle may take. Since Jacob became Israel there have never been twosuch struggles alike, save in that they all end either in victory or indefeat.It was after twelve o'clock on that Christmas day when Ralph put hishead out the door of the school-house and called out: "Bud, I'd like tosee you."Bud did not care to see the master, for he had inly resolved to "thrashhim" and have done with him. But he couldn't back out, certainly not insight of the others who were passing along the road with him."I don't want the rest of you," said Ralph in a decided way, as he sawthat Hank and one or two others were resolved to come also."Thought maybe you'd want somebody to see far play," said Hank as hewent off sheepishly."If I did, you would be the last one I should ask," said Ralph. "There'sno unfair play in Bud, and there is in you." And he shut the door."Now, looky here, Mr. Ralph Hartsook," said Bud. "You don't come no gumgames over me with your saft sodder and all that. I've made up my mind.You've got to promise to leave these 'ere digging, or I've got to thrashyou.""You'll have to thrash me, then," said Ralph, turning a little pale, butremembering the bulldog. "But you'll tell me what It's all about, won'tyou?""You know well enough. Folks says you know more 'bout the robbery at theDutchman's than you orter. But I don't believe them. Fer them as says itis liars and thieves theirselves. 'Ta'n't fer none of that. And I shan'ttell you what it _is_ fer. So now, if you won't travel, why, take offyour coat and git ready fer a thrashing."The master took off his coat and showed his slender arms. Bud laid hisoff, and showed the physique of a prize-fighter."You a'n't a-goin to fight _me_?" said Bud."Not unless you make me.""Why I could chaw you all up.""I know that.""Well, you're the grittiest feller I ever did see, and ef you'd jest kepoff of my ground I wouldn't a touched you. But I a'n't a-goin' to be cutout by no feller a livin' 'thout thrashin' him in an inch of his life.You see I wanted to git out of this Flat Crick way. We're a low-livedset here in Flat Crick. And I says to myself, I'll try to be somethin'more nor Pete Jones, and dad, and these other triflin', good-fer-nothin'ones 'bout here. And when you come I says, There's one as'll help me.And what do you do with yor book-larnin' and town manners but startright out to git away the gal that I'd picked out, when I'd picked herout kase I thought, not bein' Flat Crick born herself, she might help afeller to do better! Now I won't let nobody cut me out without givin''em the best thrashin' it's in these 'ere arms to give.""But I haven't tried to cut you out.""You can't fool _me_.""Bud, listen to me, and then thrash me if you will. I went with thatgirl once. When I found you had some claims, I gave her up. Not becauseI was afraid of you, for I would rather have taken the worst thrashingyou can give me than give her up. But I haven't spoken to her since thenight of the first spelling-school.""You lie!" said Bud, doubling his fists.Ralph grew red."You was a-waitin' on her last Sunday right afore my eyes, and a-tryin'to ketch my attention too. So when you're ready say so.""Bud, there is some misunderstanding." Hartsook spoke slowly and feltbewildered. "I tell you that I did not speak to Hannah last Sunday, andyou know I didn't.""Hanner!" Bud's eyes grew large. "Hanner!" Here he gasped for breath,and looked around, "Hanner!" He couldn't get any further than the nameat first. "Why, plague take it, who said Hanner?""Mirandy said you were courting Hannah," said Ralph, feeling round in avague way to get his ideas together."Mirandy! Thunder! You believed Mirandy! Well! Now, looky here, Mr.Hartsook, ef you was to say that my sister lied, I'd lick you till yerhide wouldn't hold shucks. But _I_ say, a-twix you and me and thegate-post, don't you never believe nothing that Mirandy Means says. Herand marm has set theirselves like fools to git you. Hanner! Well, she'sa mighty nice gal, but you're welcome to _her_. I never tuck no shinethat air way. But I was out of school last Thursday and Fridaya-shucking corn to take to mill a-Saturday. And when I come past theSquire's and seed you talking to a gal as is a gal, you know"--here Budhesitated and looked foolish--"I felt hoppin' mad."Bud put on his coat.Ralph put on his coat.Then they shook hands and Bud went out. Ralph sat looking into the fire.There was no conscientious difficulty now in the way of his claimingHannah. The dry forestick lying on the rude stone andirons burst into ablaze. The smoldering hope In the heart of Ralph Hartsook did the same.He could have Hannah If he could win her. But there came slowly back therecollection of his lost standing in Flat Creek. There wascircumstantial evidence against him. It was evident that Hannah believedsomething of this. What other stones Small might have put in circulationhe did not know. Would Small try to win Hannah's love to throw it awayagain, as he had done with others? At least he would not spare any painsto turn the heart of the bound girl against Ralph.The bright flame on the forestick, which Ralph had been watching,flickered and burned low.CHAPTER XV.THE CHURCH OF THE BEST LICKS.Just as the flame on the forestick, which Ralph had watched sointensely, flickered and burned low, and just as Ralph with a heavy butnot quite hopeless heart rose to leave, the latch lifted and Budre-entered."I wanted to say something," he stammered, "but you know it's hard tosay it. I ha'n't no book-larnin to speak of, and some things is hard tosay when a man ha'n't got book-words to say 'em with. And they's somethings a man can't hardly ever say anyhow to anybody."Here Bud stopped. But Ralph spoke in such a matter-of-course way inreply that he felt encouraged to go on."You gin up Hanner kase you thought she belonged to me. That's more'nI'd a done by a long shot. Now, arter I left here jest now, I says tomyself, a man what can gin up his gal on account of sech a feeling ferthe rights of a Flat Cricker like me, why, dog-on it, says I, sech a manis the man as can help me do better. I don't know whether you're aHardshell or a Saftshell, or a Methodist, or a Campbellite, or a NewLight, or a United Brother, or a Millerite, or what-not. But I says, theman what can do the clean thing by a ugly feller like me, and stick toit, when I was jest ready to eat him up, is a kind of a man to tie to."Here Bud stopped in fright at his own volubility, for he had run hiswords off like a piece learned by heart, as though afraid that if hestopped he would not have courage to go on.Ralph said that he did not belong to any church, and he was afraid hecouldn't do Bud much good. But his tone was full of sympathy, and, whatis better than sympathy, a yearning for sympathy."You see," said Bud, "I wanted to git out of this low-lived, Flat Crickway of livin'. We're a hard set down here, Mr. Hartsook. And I'm gittin'to be one of the hardest of 'em. But I never could git no good out ofBosaw with his whisky and meanness. And I went to the Mount Tabor churchconcert. I heard a man discussin' baptism, and regeneration, and so on.That didn't seem no cure for me, I went to a revival over at Clifty.Well, 'twarn't no use. First night they was a man that spoke about JesusChrist in sech a way that I wanted to foller him everywhere. But Ididn't feel fit. Next night I come back with my mind made up that I'dtry Jesus Christ, and see ef he'd have me. But laws! they was a big manthat night that preached hell. Not that I don't believe they's a hell.They's plenty not a thousand miles away as deserves it, and I don't knowas I'm too good for it myself. But he pitched it at us, and stuck it inour faces in sech a way that I got mad. And I says, Well, ef God sendsme to hell he can't make me holler 'nough nohow. You see my dander wasup. And when my dander's up, I wouldn't gin up fer the devil his-self.The preacher was so insultin' with his way of doin' it. He seemed to bekind of glad that we was to be damned, and he preached somethin' likesome folks swears. It didn't sound a bit like the Christ the little manpreached about the night afore. So what does me and a lot of fellers dobut slip out and cut off the big preacher's stirrups, and hang 'em on tothe rider of the fence, and then set his hoss loose! And from that day,sometimes I did, and sometimes I didn't, want to be better. And to-dayit seemed to me that you must know somethin' as would help me."Nothing is worse than a religious experience kept ready to be exposed tothe gaze of everybody, whether the time is appropriate or not. But neverwas a religious experience more appropriate than the account whichRalph gave to Bud of his Struggle in the Dark. The confession of hisweakness and wicked selfishness was a great comfort to Bud."Do you think that Jesus Christ would--would--well, do you think he'dhelp a poor, unlarnt Flat Cricker like me?""I think he was a sort of a Flat Creeker himself," said Ralph, slowlyand very earnestly."You don't say?" said Bud, almost getting off his seat."Why, you see the town he lived in was a rough place. It was calledNazareth, which meant 'Bush-town.'""You don't say?""And he was called a Nazarene, which was about the same as'backwoodsman.'"And Ralph read the different passages which he had studied atSunday-school, illustrating the condescension of Jesus, the stories ofthe publicans, the harlots, the poor, who came to him. And he read aboutNathanael, who lived only six miles away, saying, 'Can any good thingcome out of Nazareth?'""Jus' what Clifty folks says about Flat Crick," broke in Bud."Do you think I could begin without being baptized?" he addedpresently."Why not? Let's begin now to do the best we can, by his help.""You mean, then, that I'm to begin now to put in my best licks for JesusChrist, and that he'll help me?"This shocked Ralph's veneration a little. But it was the sincereutterance of an earnest soul. It may not have been an orthodox start,but it was the one start for Bud. And there be those who have repeatedwith the finest aesthetic appreciation the old English liturgies who havenever known religious aspiration so sincere as that of this ignorantyoung Hercules, whose best confession was that he meant hereafter "toput in his best licks for Jesus Christ." And there be those who candefine repentance and faith to the turning of a hair who never made sogenuine a start for the kingdom of Heaven as Bud Means did.Ralph said yes, that he thought that was just it. At least, he guessedif there was something more, the man that was putting in his best lickswould be sure to find it out."Do you think he'd help a feller? Seems to me it would be number one tohave God help you. Not to help you fight other folks, but to help youwhen it comes to fighting the devil inside. But you see I don't belongto no church""Well, let's you and me have one right off. Two people that help oneanother to serve God make a church."I am afraid this ecclesiastical theory will not be considered orthodox.It was Ralph's, and I write it down at the risk of bringing him intocondemnation.But other people before the days of Bud and Ralph have discussed churchorganization when they should have been doing Christian work. For bothof them had forgotten the danger that hung over the old basket-maker,until Shocky burst into the school-house, weeping. Indeed, the poor,nervous little frame was ready to go into convulsions."Miss Hawkins--"Bud started at mention of the name."Miss Hawkins has just been over to say that a crowd is going to tar andfeather Mr. Pearson to-night. And--" here Shocky wept again. "And hewon't run, but he's took up the old flintlock, and he'll die in histracks."CHAPTER XVI.THE CHURCH MILITANT.Bud was doubly enlisted on the side of John Pearson, the basket-maker.In the first place, he knew that this persecution of the unpopular oldman was only a blind to save somebody else; that they were thieves whocried, "Stop thief!" And he felt consequently that this was a chance toput his newly-formed resolutions into practice. The Old Testamentreligious life, which consists in fighting the Lord's enemies, suitedBud's temper and education. It might lead to something better. It wasthe best possible to him, now. But I am afraid I shall have toacknowledge that there was a second motive that moved Bud to thischampionship. The good heart of Martha Hawkins having espoused the causeof the basket-maker, the heart of Bud Means could not help feelingwarmly on the same side. Blessed is that man in whose life the drivingof duty and the drawing of love impel the same way! But why speak of thedriving of duty? For already Bud was learning the better lesson ofserving God for the love of God.The old basket-maker was the most unpopular man in Flat Creek district.He had two great vices. He would go to Clifty and have a "spree" once inthree months. And he would tell the truth in a most unscrupulous manner.A man given to plain speaking was quite as objectionable in Flat Creekas he would have been in France under the Empire, the Commune, or theRepublic, and almost as objectionable as he would be in any refinedcommunity in America. People who live in glass houses have a horror ofpeople who throw stones. And the old basket-maker, having no friends,was a good scape-goat. In driving him off, Pete Jones would get rid of adangerous neighbor and divert attention from himself. The immediatecrime of the basket-maker was that he had happened to see too much."Mr. Hartsook," said Bud, when they got out into the road, "you'd bettergo straight home to the Squire's. Bekase ef this lightnin' strikes asecond time it'll strike awful closte to you. You hadn't better be seenwith us. Which way did you come, Shocky?""Why, I tried to come down the holler, but I met Jones right by the bigroad, and he sweared at me and said he'd kill me ef I didn't go back andstay. And so I went back to the house and then slipped out through thegraveyard. You see I was bound to come ef I got skinned. For Mr.Pearson's, stuck to me and I mean to stick to him, you see."Bud led Shocky through the graveyard. But when they reached the forestpath from the graveyard he thought that perhaps it was not best to "showhis hand," as he expressed it, too soon."Now, Shocky," he said, "do you run ahead and tell the ole man that Iwant to see him right off down by the Spring-in-rock. I'll keep clostebehind you, and ef anybody offers to trouble you, do you let off a yelland I'll be thar in no time."When Ralph left the school-house he felt mean. There were Bud and Shockygone on an errand of mercy, and he, the truant member of the Church ofthe Best Licks, was not with them. The more he thought of it the more heseemed to be a coward, and the more he despised himself; so, yielding asusual to the first brave impulse, he leaped nimbly over the fence andstarted briskly through the forest in a direction intersecting the pathon which were Bud and Shocky. He came in sight just in time to see thefirst conflict of the Church in the Wilderness with her foes.For Shocky's little feet went more swiftly on their eager errand thanBud had anticipated. He got farther out of Bud's reach than the latterintended he should, and he did not discover Pete Jones until Pete, withhis hog-drover's whip, was right upon him.Shocky tried to halloo for Bud, but he was like one in a nightmare. Theyell died into a whisper which could not have been heard ten feet.I shall not repeat Mr. Jones's words. They were frightfully profane. Buthe did not stop at words. He swept his whip round and gave little Shockyone terrible cut. Then the voice was released, and the piercing cry ofpain brought Bud down the path flying."You good-for-nothing scoundrel," growled Bud, "you're a coward and athief to be a-beatin' a little creetur like him!" and with that Budwalked up on Jones, who prudently changed position in such a way as toget the upper side of the hill."Well, I'll gin you the upper side, but come on," cried Bud, "ef youa'n't afeared to fight somebody besides a poor little sickly baby or acrippled soldier. Come on!"[Illustration: Bud Means comes to the rescue of Shocky.]Pete was no insignificant antagonist. He had been a great fighter, andhis well-seasoned arms were like iron. He had not the splendid set ofBud, but he had more skill and experience in the rude tournament offists to which the backwoods is so much given. Now, being out of sightof witnesses and sure that he could lie about the fight afterward, hedid not scruple to take advantages which would have disgraced himforever if he had taken them in a public fight on election day or at amuster. He took the uphill side, and he clubbed his whip-stalk, strikingBud with all his force with the heavy end, which, coward-like, he hadloaded with lead. Bud threw up his strong left arm and parried the blow,which, however, was so fierce that it fractured one of the bones of thearm. Throwing away his whip Pete rushed upon Bud furiously, intending tooverpower him, but Bud slipped quickly to one side and let Jones passdown the hill, and as Jones came up again Means dealt him one crushingblow that sent him full length upon the ground. Nothing but the leavessaved him from a most terrible fall. Jones sprang to his feet more angrythan ever at being whipped by one whom he regarded as a boy, and drew along dirk-knife. But he was blind with rage, and Bud dodged the knife,and this time gave Pete a blow on the nose which marred the homelinessof that feature and doubled the fellow up against a tree ten feet away.Ralph came in sight in time to see the beginning of the fight, and hearrived on the ground just as Pete Jones went down under the well-dealtblow from the only remaining fist of Bud Means.While Ralph examined Bud's disabled left arm Pete picked himself upslowly, and, muttering that he felt "consid'able shuck up like," crawledaway like a whipped puppy. To every one whom he met, Pete, whoseintellect seemed to have weakened in sympathy with his frame, remarkedfeebly that he was consid'able shuck up like, and vouchsafed no otherexplanation. Even to his wife he only said that he felt purtyconsid'able shuck up like, and that the boys would have to get onto-night without him. There are some scoundrels whose very malignity isshaken out of them for the time being by a thorough drubbing."I'm afraid you're going to have trouble with your arm, Bud," said Ralphtenderly."Never mind; I put in my best licks fer _Him_ that air time, Mr.Hartsook." Ralph shivered a little at thought of this, but if it wasright to knock Jones down at all, why might not Bud do it "heartily asunto the Lord?"Gideon did not feel any more honest pleasure in chastising theMidianites than did Bud in sending Pete Jones away purty consid'ableshuck up like.CHAPTER XVII.A COUNCIL OF WAR.Shocky, whose feet had flown as soon as he saw the final fall of PeteJones, told the whole story to the wondering and admiring ears of MissHawkins, who unhappily could not remember anything at the East just likeit; to the frightened ears of the rheumatic old lady who felt sure herole man's talk and stubbornness would be the ruin of him, and to theindignant ears of the old soldier who was hobbling up and down,sentinel-wise, in front of his cabin, standing guard over himself."No, I won't leave," he said to Ralph and Bud. "You see I jest won't.What would Gin'ral Winfield Scott say ef he knew that one of them as fitat Lundy's Lane backed out, retreated, run fer fear of a passel ofthieves? No, sir; me and the old flintlock will live and die together.I'll put a thunderin' charge of buckshot into the first one of themscoundrels as comes up the holler. It'll be another Lundy's Lane. Andyou, Mr. Hartsook, may send Scott word that ole Pearson, as fit atLundy's Lane under him, died a-fightin' thieves on Rocky Branch, inHoopole Kyounty, State of Injeanny."And the old man hobbled faster and faster, taxing his wooden leg to thevery utmost, as if his victory depended on the vehemence with which hewalked his beat.Mrs. Pearson sat wringing her hands and looking appealingly at MarthaHawkins, who stood in the door, in despair, looking appealingly at Bud.Bud was stupefied by the old man's stubbornness and his own pain, and inhis turn appealed mutely to the master, in whose resources he hadboundless confidence. Ralph, seeing that all depended on him, was taxinghis wits to think of some way to get round Pearson's stubbornness.Shocky hung to the old man's coat and pulled away at him with manyentreating words, but the venerable, bare-headed sentinel strode up anddown furiously, with his flintlock on his shoulder and his basket-knifein his belt.Just at this point somebody could be seen indistinctly through thebushes coming up the hollow."Halt!" cried the old hero. "Who goes there?""It's me, Mr. Pearson. Don't shoot me, please."It was the voice of Hannah Thomson. Hearing that the whole neighborhoodwas rising against the benefactor of Shocky and of her family, she hadslipped away from the eyes of her mistress, and run with breathlesshaste to give warning in the cabin on Rocky Branch. Seeing Ralph, sheblushed, and went into the cabin."Well," said Ralph, "the enemy is not coming yet. Let us hold a councilof war."This thought came to Ralph like an inspiration. It pleased the old man'swhim, and he sat down on the door-step."Now, I suppose," said Ralph, "that General Winfield Scott always lookedinto things a little before he went into a fight. Didn't he?""_To_ be sure," assented the old man."Well," said Ralph. "What is the condition of the enemy? I suppose thewhole neighborhood's against us.""_To_ be sure," said the old man. The rest were silent, but all felt thestatement to be about true."Next," said Ralph, "I suppose General Winfield Scott would alwaysinquire into the condition of his own troops. Now let us see. CaptainPearson has Bud, who is the right wing, badly crippled by having his armbroken in the first battle." (Miss Hawkins looked pale.)"_To_ be sure," said the old man."And I am the left wing, pretty good at giving advice, but very slenderin a fight.""_To_ be sure," said the old man."And Shocky and Miss Martha and Hannah good aids, but nothing in abattle.""_To_ be sure," said the basket-maker, a little doubtfully."Now let's look at the arms and accouterments, I think you call them.Well, this old musket has been loaded--""This ten year," said the old lady."And the lock is so rusty that you could not cock it when you wanted totake aim at Hannah."The old man looked foolish, and muttered "_To_ be sure.""And there isn't another round of ammunition in the house."The old man was silent."Now let us look at the incumbrances. Here's the old lady and Shocky. Ifyou fight, the enemy will be pleased. It will give them a chance to killyou. And then the old lady will die and they will do with Shocky as theyplease.""_To_ be sure," said the old man reflectively."Now," said Ralph, "General Winfield Scott, under such circumstances,would retreat in good order. Then, when he could muster his forcesrightly, he would drive the enemy from his ground.""To be sure," said the old man. "What ort I to do?""Have you any friends?""Well, yes; ther's my brother over in Jackson Kyounty. I mout go there.""Well," said Bud, "do you just go down to Spring-in-rock and stay there.Them folks won't be here tell midnight. I'll come fer you at nine withmy roan colt, and I'll set you down over on the big road on Buckeye Run.Then you can git on the mail-wagon that passes there about five o'clockin the mornin', and go over to Jackson County and keep shady till wewant you to face the enemy and to swear agin some folks. And then wellsend fer you.""To be sure," said the old man in a broken voice. "I reckon GeneralWinfield Scott wouldn't disapprove of such a maneuver as that thar."Miss Martha beamed on Bud to his evident delight, for he carried hispainful arm part of the way home with her. Ralph noticed that Hannahlooked at _him_ with a look full of contending emotions. He readadmiration, gratitude, and doubt in the expression of her face, as sheturned toward home."Well, good-by, ole woman," said Pearson, as he took up his littlehandkerchief full of things and started for his hiding-place; "good-by.I didn't never think I'd desart you, and ef the old flintlock hadn't abeen rusty, I'd a staid and died right here by the ole cabin. But Ireckon 'ta'n't best to be brash[22]." And Shocky looked after him, as hehobbled away over the stones, more than ever convinced that God hadforgotten all about things on Flat Creek. He gravely expressed hisopinion to the master the next day.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 22: The elaborate etymological treatment of this word in itsvarious forms in our best dictionary is a fine illustration of the factthat something more than scholarship is needed for penetrating themysteries of current folk-speech. _Brash_--often _bresh_--in the senseof refuse boughs of trees, is only another form of _brush_; the two areused as one word by the people. _Brash_ in the sense of brittle has noconscious connection with the noun in popular usage, but it is accountedby the people the same word as _brash_ in the sense of rash orimpetuous. The suggestion in the Century Dictionary that the wordsspelled _brash_ are of modern formation violates the soundest canon ofantiquarian research, which is that a word phrase or custom widelydiffused among plain or rustic people is of necessity of ancient origin.Now _brash_, the adjective, exists in both senses in two or three of themost widely separated dialects of the United States, and hence must havecome from England. Indeed, it appears in Wright's Dictionary ofProvincial English in precisely the sense it has in the text.]CHAPTER XVIII.ODDS AND ENDS.The Spring-in-rock, or, as it was sometimes, by a curious perversion,called, the "rock-in-spring," was a spring running out of a cave-likefissure in a high limestone cliff. Here the old man sheltered himself onthat dreary Christmas evening, until Bud brought his roan colt to thetop of the cliff above, and he and Ralph helped the old man up the cliffand into the saddle. Ralph went back to bed, but Bud, who was only tooeager to put in his best licks, walked by the side of old John Pearsonthe six miles over to Buckeye Run, and at last, after eleven o'clock, hedeposited him in a hollow sycamore by the road, there to wait the comingof the mail-wagon that would carry him into Jackson County."Good-by," said the basket-maker, as Bud mounted the colt to return. "EfI'm wanted jest send me word, and I'll make a forrard movement any time.I don't like this 'ere thing of running off in the night-time. But Ireckon General Winfield Scott would a ordered a retreat ef he'd a beenin my shoes. I'm lots obleeged to you. Akordin' to my tell, we're allof us selfish in everything; but I'll be dog-on'd ef I don't believe youand one or two more is exceptions."Whether it was that the fact that Pete Jones had got consid'able shuckup demoralized his followers, or whether it was that the old man'sflight was suspected, the mob did not turn out in very great force, andthe tarring was postponed indefinitely, for by the time they cametogether it became known somehow that the man with a wooden leg hadoutrun them all. But the escape of one devoted victim did not mollifythe feelings of the people toward the next one.By the time Bud returned his arm was very painful, and the next day hewent under Dr. Small's treatment to reduce the fracture. Whateversuspicions Bud might have of Pete Jones, he was not afflicted withRalph's dread of the silent young doctor. And if there was anythingSmall admired it was physical strength and courage. Small wanted Bud onhis side, and least of all did he want him to be Ralph's champion. Sothat the silent, cool, and skillful doctor went to work to make animpression on Bud Means.Other influences were at work upon him also. Mrs. Means volleyed andthundered in her usual style about his "takin' up with a one-leggedthief, and runnin' arter that master that was a mighty suspicious kindof a customer, akordin' to her tell. She'd allers said so. Ef she'd abeen consulted he wouldn't a been hired. He warn't fit company fernobody."And old Jack Means 'lowed Bud must want to have _their_ barns burnt likesome other folkses had been. Fer his part, he had sense enough to knowthey was some people as it wouldn't do to set a body's self agin. And asfer him, he didn't butt his brains out agin a buckeye-tree. Not when hewas sober. And so they managed, during Bud's confinement to the house,to keep him well supplied with all the ordinary discomforts of life.But one visit from Martha Hawkins, ten words of kindly inquiry from her,and the remark that his broken arm reminded her of something she hadseen at the East and something somebody said the time she was toBosting, were enough to repay the champion a thousand fold for all thathe suffered. Indeed, that visit, and the recollection of Ralph's sayingthat Jesus Christ was a sort of a Flat Creeker himself, were manna inthe wilderness to Bud.Poor Shocky was sick. The excitement had been too much for him, andthough his fever was very slight it was enough to produce just a littledelirium. Either Ralph or Miss Martha was generally at the cabin."They're coming," said Shocky to Ralph, "they're coming. Pete Jones isa-going to bind me out for a hundred years. I wish Hanner would hold meso's he couldn't. God's forgot all about us here in Flat Creek, andthere's nobody to help it."And he shivered at every sudden sound. He was never free from thisdelirious fright except when the master held him tight in his arms. Hestaggered around the floor, the very shadow of Shocky, and was soterrified by the approach of darkness that Ralph staid in the cabin onWednesday night and Miss Hawkins staid on Thursday night. On Friday, Budsent a note to Ralph, askin him to come and see him."You see, Mr. Hartsook, I ha'n't forgot what was said about puttin' inour best licks for Jesus Christ. I've been a-trying to read some abouthim while I set here. And I read where he said somethin about doing ferthe least of his brethren being as the same like as if it was done ferJesus Christ his-self. Now there's Shocky. I reckon, p'r'aps, as anybodyis a little brother of Jesus Christ, it is that Shocky. Pete Jones andhis brother Bill is determined to have him back there to-morry. Bekaseyou see, Pete's one of the County Commissioners and to-morry's the daythat they bind out. He wants to bind out that boy jes' to spite olePearson and you and me. You see, the ole woman's been helped by theneighbors, and he'll claim Shocky to be a pauper, and they a'n't nohuman soul here as dares to do a thing con_tra_ry to Pete. Couldn't yougit him over to Lewisburg? I'll lend you my roan colt."Ralph thought a minute. He dared not take Shocky to the uncle's where hefound his only home. But there was Miss Nancy Sawyer, the old maid whowas everybody's blessing. He could ask her to keep him. And, at anyrate, he would save Shocky somehow.As he went out in the dusk, he met Hannah in the lane.CHAPTER XIX.FACE TO FACE.In the lane, in the dark, under the shadow of the barn, Ralph met Hannahcarrying her bucket of milk (they have no pails in Indiana)[23]. Hecould see only the white foam on the milk, and Hannah's white face.Perhaps it was well that he could not see how white Hannah's face was atthat moment when a sudden trembling made her set down the heavy bucket.At first neither spoke. The recollection of all the joy of that walktogether in the night came upon them both. And a great sense of lossmade the night seem supernaturally dark to Ralph. Nor was it any lighterin the hopeless heart of the bound girl. The presence of Ralph did notnow, as before, make the darkness of her life light."Hannah--" said Ralph presently, and stopped. For he could not finishthe sentence. With a rush there came upon him a consciousness of thesuspicions that filled Hannah's mind. And with it there came a feelingof guilt. He saw himself from her stand-point, and felt a remorse almostas keen as it could have been had he been a criminal. And this suddenand morbid sense of his guilt as it appeared to Hannah paralyzed him.But when Hannah lifted her bucket with her hand, and the world with herheavy heart, and essayed to pass him, Ralph rallied and said:"_You_ don't believe all these lies that are told about me.""I don't believe anything, Mr. Hartsook; that is, I don't want tobelieve anything against you. And I wouldn't mind anything they say ifit wasn't for two things"--here she stammered and looked down."If it wasn't for what?" said Ralph with a spice of indignant denial inhis voice.Hannah hesitated, but Ralph pressed the question with eagerness."I saw you cross that blue-grass pasture the night--the night that youwalked home with me." She would have said the night of the robbery, buther heart smote her, and she adopted the more kindly form of thesentence.Ralph would have explained, but how?"I did cross the pasture," he began, "but--"Just here it occurred to Ralph that there was no reason for his nightexcursion across the pasture. Hannah again took up her bucket, but hesaid:"Tell me what else you have against me.""I haven't anything against you. Only I am poor and friendless, and yououghtn't to make my life any heavier. They say that you have paidattention to a great many girls. I don't know why you should want totrifle with me."Ralph answered her this time. He spoke low. He spoke as though he werespeaking to God. "If any man says that I ever trifled with any woman, helies. I have never loved but one, and you know who that is. And Godknows.""I don't know what to say, Mr. Hartsook." Hannah's voice was broken.These solemn words of love were like a river in the desert, and she waslike a wanderer dying of thirst. "I don't know, Mr. Hartsook. If I wasalone, it wouldn't matter. But I've got my blind mother and my poorShocky to look after. And I don't want to make mistakes. And the worldis so full of lies I don't know what to believe. Somehow I can't helpbelieving what you say. You seem to speak so true. But--""But what?" said Ralph."But you know how I saw you just as kind to Martha Hawkins on Sundayas--as--""Han--ner!" It was the melodious voice of the angry Mrs. Means, andHannah lifted her pail and disappeared.Standing in the shadow of his own despair, Ralph felt how dark a nightcould be when it had no promise of morning.And Dr. Small, who had been stabling his horse just inside the barn,came out and moved quietly into the house just as though he had notlistened intently to every word of the conversation.As Ralph walked away he tried to comfort himself by calling to his aidthe bulldog in his character. But somehow it did not do him any good.For what is a bulldog but a stoic philosopher? Stoicism has its value,but Ralph had come to a place where stoicism was of no account. Thememory of the Helper, of his sorrow, his brave and victorious endurance,came when stoicism failed. Happiness might go out of life, but in thelight of Christ's life happiness seemed but a small element anyhow. Thelove of woman might be denied him, but there still remained what wasinfinitely more precious and holy, the love of God. There still remainedthe possibility of heroic living. Working, suffering, and enduring stillremained. And he who can work for God and endure for God, surely hasyet the best of life left. And, like the knights who could find the HolyGrail only in losing themselves, Hartsook, in throwing his happiness outof the count, found the purest happiness, a sense of the victory of thesoul over the tribulations of life. The man who knows this victoryscarcely needs the encouragement of the hope of future happiness. Thereis a real heaven in bravely lifting the load of one's own sorrow andwork.And it was a good thing for Ralph that the danger hanging over Shockymade immediate action necessary.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 23: The total absence of the word _pail_ not only from thedialect, but even from cultivated speech in the Southern and BorderStates until very recently, is a fact I leave to be explained on furtherinvestigation. The word is an old one and a good one, but I fancy thatits use in England could not have been generally diffused in theseventeenth century. So a Hoosier or a Kentuckian never _pared_ anapple, but _peeled_ it. Much light might be thrown on the origin andhistory of our dialects by investigating their deficiencies.]CHAPTER XX.GOD REMEMBERS SHOCKY.At four o'clock the next morning, in the midst of a driving snow, Ralphwent timidly up the lane toward the homely castle of the Meanses. Hewent timidly, for he was afraid of Bull. But he found Bud waiting forhim, with the roan colt bridled and saddled. The roan colt was really alarge three-year-old, full of the finest sort of animal life, andhaving, as Bud declared, "a mighty sight of hoss sense fer his age." Heseemed to understand at once that there was something extraordinary onhand when he was brought out of his comfortable quarters at four in themorning in the midst of a snow-storm. Bud was sure that the roan coltfelt his responsibility.In the days that followed, Ralph often had occasion to remember thisinterview with Bud, who had risked much in bringing his fractured armout into the cold, damp air. Jonathan never clave to David moreearnestly than did Bud this December morning to Ralph."You see, Mr. Hartsook," said Bud, "I wish I was well myself. It's hardto set still. But it's a-doing me a heap of good. I'm like a boy atschool. And I'm a-findin' out that doing one's best licks fer othersain't all they is of it, though it's a good part. I feel like as if Imust git Him, you know, to do lots for me. They's always some sums toohard fer a feller, and he has to ax the master to do 'em, you know. Butsee, the roan's a-stomping round. He wants to be off. Do you know Ithink that hoss knows something's up? I think he puts in his best licksfer me a good deal better than I do fer Him."Ralph pressed Bud's right hand. Bud rubbed his face against the colt'snose and said: "Put in your best licks, old fellow." And the coltwhinnied. How a horse must want to speak! For Bud was right. Men aregods to horses, and they serve their deities with a faithfulness thatshames us.Then Ralph sprang into the saddle, and the roan, as if wishing to showBud his willingness, broke into a swinging gallop, and was soon lost tothe sight of his master in the darkness and the snow. When Bud could nomore hear the sound of the roan's footsteps he returned to the house, tolie awake picturing to himself the journey of Ralph with Shocky and theroan colt. It was a great comfort to Bud that the roan, which was almosta part of himself, represented him in this ride. And he knew the roanwell enough to feel sure that he would do credit to his master. "He'llput in his best licks," Bud whispered to himself many a time beforedaybreak.The ground was but little frozen, and the snow made the roads moreslippery than ever. But the rough-shod roan handled his feet dexterouslyand with a playful and somewhat self-righteous air, as though he said:"Didn't I do it handsomely that time?" Down slippery hills, through deepmud-holes covered with a slender film of ice he trod with perfectassurance. And then up over the rough stones of Rocky Hollow, wherethere was no road at all, he picked his way through the darkness andsnow. Ralph could not tell where he was at last, but gave the reins tothe roan, who did his duty bravely, and not without a little flourish,to show that he had yet plenty of spare power.A feeble candle-ray, making the dense snow-fall visible, marked forRalph the site of the basket-maker's cabin. Miss Martha had beenadmitted to the secret, and had joined in the conspiracy heartily,without being able to recall anything of the kind having occurred at theEast, and not remembering having seen or heard of anything of the sortthe time she was to Bosting. She had Shocky all ready, having used someof her own capes and shawls to make him warm.Miss Martha came out to meet Ralph when she heard the feet of the roanbefore the door."O Mr. Hartsook! is that you? What a storm. This is jest the way itsnows at the East. Shocky's all ready. He didn't know a thing about ittell I waked him this morning. Ever since that he's been saying that Godhasn't forgot, after all. It's made me cry more'n once." And Shockykissed Mrs. Pearson, and told her that when he got away from Flat Creekhe'd tell God all about it, and God would bring Mr. Pearson back again.And then Martha Hawkins lifted the frail little form, bundled in shawls,in her arms, and brought him out into the storm; and before she handedhim up he embraced her, and said: "O Miss Hawkins! God ha'n't forgot me,after all. Tell Hanner that He ha'n't forgot. I'm going to ask him togit her away from Means's and mother out of the poor-house. I'll ask himjust as soon as I get to Lewisburg."Ralph lifted the trembling form into his arms, and the little fellowonly looked up in the face of the master and said: "You see, Mr.Hartsook, I thought God had forgot. But he ha'n't."And the words of the little boy comforted the master also. God had notforgotten him, either!From the moment that Ralph took Shocky into his arms, the conduct of theroan colt underwent an entire revolution. Before that he had gone over abad place with a rush, as though he were ambitious of distinguishinghimself by his brilliant execution. Now he trod none the less surely,but he trod tenderly. The neck was no longer arched. He set himself tohis work as steadily as though he were twenty years old. For miles hetraveled on in a long, swinging walk, putting his feet down carefullyand firmly. And Ralph found the spirit of the colt entering intohimself. He cut the snow-storm with his face, and felt a sense oftriumph over all his difficulties. The bulldog's jaws had been histeacher, and now the steady, strong, and conscientious legs of the roaninspired him.Shocky had not spoken. He lay listening to the pattering music of thehorse's feet, doubtless framing the footsteps of the roan colt into ananthem of praise to the God who had not forgot. But as the dawn came on,making the snow whiter, he raised himself and said half-aloud, as hewatched the flakes chasing one another in whirling eddies, that the snowseemed to be having a good time of it. Then he leaned down again on themaster's bosom, full of a still joy, and only roused himself from hishappy reverie to ask what that big, ugly-looking house was."See, Mr. Hartsook, how big it is, and how little and ugly the windowsis! And the boards is peeling off all over it, and the hogs is right inthe front yard. It don't look just like a house. It looks dreadful. Whatis it?"Ralph had dreaded this question. He did not answer it, but asked Shockyto change his position a little, and then he quickened the pace of thehorse. But Shocky was a poet, and a poet understands silence morequickly than he does speech. The little fellow shivered as the truthcame to him."Is that the poor-house?" he said, catching his breath. "Is my mother inthat place? _Won't_ you take me in there, so as I can just kiss heronce? 'Cause she can't see much, you know. And one kiss from me willmake her feel so good. And I'll tell her that God ha'n't forgot." He hadraised up and caught hold of Ralph's coat.Ralph had great difficulty in quieting him. He told him that if he wentin there Bill Jones might claim that he was a runaway and belongedthere. And poor Shocky only shivered and said he was cold. A minutelater, Ralph found that he was shaking with a chill, and a horribledread came over him. What if Shocky should die? It was only a minute'swork to get down, take the warm horse-blanket from under the saddle, andwrap it about the boy, then to strip off his own overcoat and add thatto it. It was now daylight, and finding, after he had mounted, thatShocky continued to shiver, he put the roan to his best speed for therest of the way, trotting up and down the slippery hills, and gallopingaway on the level ground. How bravely the roan laid himself to his work,making the fence-corners fly past in a long procession! But poor littleShocky was too cold to notice them, and Ralph shuddered lest Shockyshould never be warm again, and spoke to the roan, and the roanstretched out his head, and dropped one ear back to hear the first wordof command, and stretched the other forward to listen for danger, andthen flew with a splendid speed down the road, past the patches ofblackberry briars, past the elderberry bushes, past the familiar red-hawtree in the fence-corner, over the bridge without regard to the threatof a five-dollar fine, and at last up the long lane into the village,where the smoke from the chimneys was caught and whirled round with thesnow.CHAPTER XXI.MISS NANCY SAWYER.In a little old cottage in Lewisburg, on one of the streets which wasnever traveled except by a solitary cow seeking pasture or a countrymanbringing wood to some one of the half-dozen families living in it, andwhich in summer was decked with a profusion of the yellow and whiteblossoms of the dog-fennel--in this unfrequented street, so generouslyand unnecessarily broad, lived Miss Nancy Sawyer and her younger sisterSemantha. Miss Nancy was a providence, one of those old maids that arebenedictions to the whole town; one of those in whom the mother-love,wanting the natural objects on which to spend itself, overflows allbounds and lavishes itself on every needy thing, and grows richer andmore abundant with the spending, a fountain of inexhaustible blessing.There is no nobler life possible to any one than to an unmarried woman.The more shame that some choose a selfish one, and thus turn to gall allthe affection with which they are endowed. Miss Nancy Sawyer had beenRalph's Sunday-school teacher, and it was precious little, so far asinformation went, that he learned from her; for she never could conceiveof Jerusalem as a place in any essential regard very different fromLewisburg, where she had spent her life. But Ralph learned from her whatmost Sunday-school teachers fail to teach, the great lesson ofChristianity, by the side of which all antiquities and geographies andchronologies and exegetics and other niceties are as nothing.And now he turned the head of the roan toward the cottage of Miss NancySawyer as naturally as the roan would have gone to his own stall in thestable at home. The snow had gradually ceased to fall, and was eddyinground the house, when Ralph dismounted from his foaming horse, and,carrying the still form of Shocky as reverently as though it had beensomething heavenly, knocked at Miss Nancy Sawyer's door.With natural feminine instinct that lady started back when she sawHartsook, for she had just built a fire in the stove, and she now stoodat the door with unwashed face and uncombed hair."Why, Ralph Hartsook, where did you drop down from--and what have yougot?""I came from Flat Creek this morning, and I brought you a little angelwho has got out of heaven, and needs some of your motherly care."Shocky was brought in. The chill shook him now by fits only, for a feverhad spotted his cheeks already."Who are you?" said Miss Nancy, as she unwrapped him."I'm Shocky, a little boy as God forgot, and then thought of again."CHAPTER XXII.PANCAKES.Half an hour later, Ralph, having seen Miss Nancy Sawyer's machinery ofwarm baths and simple remedies safely in operation, and having seen theroan colt comfortably stabled, and rewarded for his faithfulness by abountiful supply of the best hay and the promise of oats when he wascool--half an hour later Ralph was doing the most ample, satisfactory,and amazing justice to his Aunt Matilda's hot buckwheat-cakes and warmcoffee. And after his life in Flat Creek, Aunt Matilda's house did looklike paradise. How white the table-cloth, how bright the coffee-pot, howclean the wood-work, how glistening the brass door-knobs, how spotlesseverything that came under the sovereign sway of Mrs. Matilda White! Forin every Indiana village as large as Lewisburg, there are generally ahalf-dozen women who are admitted to be the best housekeepers. Allothers are only imitators. And the strife is between these for thepre-eminence. It is at least safe to say that no other in Lewisburgstood so high as an enemy to dirt, and as a "rat, roach, and mouseexterminator," as did Mrs. Matilda White, the wife of Ralph's maternaluncle, Robert White, Esq., a lawyer in successful practice. Of course nomember of Mrs. White's family ever stayed at home longer than wasnecessary. Her husband found his office--which he kept in as bad a stateas possible in order to maintain an equilibrium in his life--much morecomfortable than the stiffly clean house at home. From the time thatRalph had come to live as a chore-boy at his uncle's, he had evercrossed the threshold of Aunt Matilda's temple of cleanliness with ahorrible sense of awe. And Walter Johnson, her son by a former marriage,had--poor, weak-willed fellow!--been driven into bad company and badhabits by the wretchedness of extreme civilization. And yet he showedthe hereditary trait, for all the genius which Mrs. White consecrated tothe glorious work of making her house too neat to be habitable, her sonWalter gave to tying exquisite knots in his colored cravats and combinghis oiled locks so as to look like a dandy barber. And she had no otherchildren. The kind Providence that watches over the destiny of childrentakes care that very few of them are lodged in these terribly cleanhouses.But Walter was not at the table, and Ralph had so much anxiety lest hisabsence should be significant of evil, that he did not venture toinquire after him as he sat there between Mr. and Mrs. White disposingof Aunt Matilda's cakes with an appetite only justified by his longmorning's ride and the excellence of the brown cakes, the golden honey,and the coffee, enriched, as Aunt Matilda's always was, with the mostgenerous cream. Aunt Matilda was so absorbed in telling of the doings ofthe Dorcas Society that she entirely forgot to be surprised at the earlyhour of Ralph's arrival. When she had described the number of thegarments finished to be sent to the Five Points Mission, or the Home forthe Friendless, or the South Sea Islands, I forget which, Ralph thoughthe saw his chance, while Aunt Matilda was in a benevolent mood, tobroach a plan he had been revolving for some time. But when he looked atAunt Matilda's immaculate--horribly immaculate--housekeeping, his heartfailed him, and he would have said nothing had she not inadvertentlyopened the door herself."How did you get here so early, Ralph?" and Aunt Matilda's face wasshadowed with a coming rebuke."By early rising," said Ralph. But, seeing the gathering frown on hisaunt's brow, he hastened to tell the story of Shocky as well as hecould. Mrs. White did not give way to any impulse toward sympathy untilshe learned that Shocky was safely housed with Miss Nancy Sawyer."Yes, Sister Sawyer has no family cares," she said by way of smoothingher slightly ruffled complacency, "she has no family cares, and she cando those things. Sometimes I think she lets people impose on her andkeep her away from the means of grace, and I spoke to our new preacherabout it the last time he was here, and asked him to speak to SisterSawyer about staying away from the ordinances to wait on everybody, buthe is a queer man, and he only said that he supposed Sister Sawyerneglected the inferior ordinances that she might attend to higher ones.But I don't see any sense in a minister of the gospel callingprayer-meeting a lower ordinance than feeding catnip-tea to Mrs. Brown'slast baby. But hasn't this little boy--Shocking, or what do you callhim?--got any mother?""Yes," said Ralph, "and that was just what I was going to say." And heproceeded to tell how anxious Shocky was to see his half-blind mother,and actually ventured to wind up his remarks by suggesting that Shocky'smother be invited to stay over Sunday in Aunt Matilda's house."Bless my stars!" said that astounded saint, "fetch a pauper here? Whatcrazy notions you have got! Fetch her here out of the poor-house? Why,she wouldn't be fit to sleep in my--" here Aunt Matilda choked. The barethought of having a pauper in her billowy beds, whose snowy whitenesswas frightful to any ordinary mortal, the bare thought of the contagionof the poor-house taking possession of one of her beds, smothered her."And then you know sore eyes are very catching."Ralph boiled a little. "Aunt Matilda, do you think Dorcas was afraid ofsore eyes?"It was a center shot, and the lawyer-uncle, lawyerlike, enjoyed a goodhit. And he enjoyed a good hit at his wife best of all, for he neverventured on one himself. But Aunt Matilda felt that a direct reply wasimpossible. She was not a lawyer but a woman, and so dodged the questionby making a counter-charge."It seems to me, Ralph, that you have picked up some very lowassociates. And you go around at night, I am told. You get over here bydaylight, and I hear that you have made common cause with a lame soldierwho acts as a spy for thieves, and that your running about of night islikely to get you into trouble."Ralph was hit this time. "I suppose," he said, "that you've beenlistening to some of Henry Small's lies.""Why, Ralph, how you talk! The worst sign of all is that you abuse sucha young man as Dr. Small, the most exemplary Christian young man in thecounty. And he is a great friend of yours, for when he was here lastweek he did not say a word against you, but looked so sorry when yourbeing in trouble was mentioned. Didn't he, Mr. White?"Mr. White, as in duty bound, said yes, but he said yes in a cool,lawyerlike way, which showed that he did not take quite so much stock inDr. Small as his wife did. This was a comfort to Ralph, who satpicturing to himself the silent flattery which Dr. Small's eyes paid tohis Aunt Matilda, and the quiet expression of pain that would flitacross his face when Ralph's name was mentioned. And never until thatmoment had Hartsook understood how masterful Small's artifices were. Hehad managed to elevate himself in Mrs. White's estimation and to destroyRalph at the same time, and had managed to do both by a contraction ofthe eyebrows!But the silence was growing painful and Ralph thought to break it andturn the current of talk from himself by asking after Mrs. White's son."Where is Walter?""Oh! Walter's doing well. He went down to Clifty three weeks ago tostudy medicine with Henry Small. He seems so fond of the doctor, and thedoctor is such an excellent man, you know, and I have strong hopes thatWallie will be led to see the error of his ways by his association withHenry. I suppose he would have gone to see you but for the unfavorablereports that he heard. I hope, Ralph, you too will make the friendshipof Dr. Small. And for the sake of your poor, dead mother"--here AuntMatilda endeavored to show some emotion--"for the sake of your poor deadmother--"But Ralph heard no more. The buckwheat-cakes had lost their flavor. Heremembered that the colt had not yet had his oats, and so, in the verymidst of Aunt Matilda's affecting allusion to his mother, like astiff-necked reprobate that he was, Ralph Hartsook rose abruptly fromthe table, put on his hat, and went out toward the stable."I declare," said Mrs. White, descending suddenly from her high moralstand-point, "I declare that boy has stepped right on the threshold ofthe back-door," and she stuffed her white handkerchief into her pocket,and took down the floor-cloth to wipe off the imperceptible blemish leftby Ralph's boot-heels. And Mr. White followed his nephew to the stableto request that he would be a little careful what he did about anybodyin the poor-house, as any trouble with the Joneses might defeat Mr.White's nomination to the judgeship of the Court of Common Pleas.CHAPTER XXIII.A CHARITABLE INSTITUTION.When Ralph got back to Miss Nancy Sawyer's, Shocky was sitting up in bedtalking to Miss Nancy and Miss Semantha. His cheeks were a littleflushed with fever and the excitement of telling his story; theirs werewet with tears. "Ralph," whispered Miss Nancy, as she drew him into thekitchen, "I want you to get a buggy or a sleigh, and go right over tothe poor-house and fetch that boy's mother over here. It'll do me moregood than any sermon I ever heard to see that boy in his mother's armsto-morrow. We can keep the old lady over Sunday."Ralph was delighted, so delighted that he came near kissing good MissNancy Sawyer, whose plain face was glorified by her generosity.But he did not go to the poor-house immediately. He waited until he sawBill Jones, the Superintendent of the Poor-House, and Pete Jones, theCounty Commissioner, who was still somewhat shuck up, ride up to thecourt-house. Then he drove out of the village, and presently hitched hishorse to the poor-house fence, and took a survey of the outside. Fortyhogs, nearly ready for slaughter, wallowed in a pen in front of theforlorn and dilapidated house; for though the commissioners allowed aclaim for repairs at every meeting, the repairs were never made, and itwould not do to scrutinize Mr. Jones's bills too closely, unless yougave up all hope of renomination to office. One curious effect ofpolitical aspirations in Hoopole County, was to shut the eyes that theycould not see, to close the ears that they could not hear, and todestroy the sense of smell. But Ralph, not being a politician, smelledthe hog-pen without and the stench within, and saw everywhere thetransparent fraud, and heard the echo of Jones's cruelty.A weak-eyed girl admitted him, and as he did not wish to make hisbusiness known at once, he affected a sort of idle interest in theplace, and asked to be allowed to look round. The weak-eyed girl watchedhim. He found that all the women with children, twenty persons in all,were obliged to sleep in one room, which, owing to the hill-slope, waspartly under ground, and which had but half a window for light, and noventilation, except the chance draft from the door. Jones had declaredthat the women with children must stay there--"he warn't goin' to havebrats a-runnin' over the whole house." Here were vicious women and goodwomen, with their children, crowded like chickens in a coop for market.And there were, as usual in such places, helpless, idiotic women withillegitimate children. Of course this room was the scene of perpetualquarreling and occasional fighting.In the quarters devoted to the insane, people slightly demented andraving maniacs were in the same rooms, while there were also those utterwrecks which sat in heaps on the floor, mumbling and mutteringunintelligible words, the whole current of their thoughts hopelesslymuddled, turning around upon itself in eddies never ending."That air woman," said the weak-eyed girl, "used to holler a heap whenshe was brought in here. But Pap knows how to subjue 'em. He slapped herin the mouth every time she hollered. She don't make no furss now, butjist sets down that way all day, and keeps a-whisperin'."Ralph understood it. When she came in she was the victim of mania; butshe had been beaten into hopeless idiocy. Indeed this state of incurableimbecility seemed the end toward which all traveled. Shut in these barerooms, with no treatment, no exercise, no variety, and meager food,cases of slight derangement soon grew into chronic lunacy.One young woman, called Phil, a sweet-faced person, apparently afarmer's wife, came up to Ralph and looked at him kindly, playing withthe buttons on his coat in a childlike simplicity. Her blue-drillingdress was sewed all over with patches of white, representing ornamentalbuttons. The womanly instinct toward adornment had in her taken thischildish turn."Don't you think they ought to let me go home?" she said with asweetness and a wistful, longing, home-sick look, that touched Ralph tothe heart. He looked at her, and then at the muttering crones, and hecould see no hope of any better fate for her. She followed him round thebarn-like rooms, returning every now and then to her question. "Don'tyou think I might go home now?"The weak-eyed girl had been called away for a moment, and Ralph stoodlooking into a cell, where there was a man with a gay red plume in hishat and a strip of red flannel about his waist. He strutted up and downlike a drill-sergeant."I am General Andrew Jackson," he began. "People don't believe it, but Iam. I had my head shot off at Bueny Visty, and the new one that growedon isn't nigh so good as the old one; it's tater on one side[24]. That'swhy they take advantage of me to shut me up. But I know some things. Myhead is tater on one side, but it's all right on t'other. And when Iknow a thing in the left side of my head, I know it. Lean down here. Letme tell you something out of the left side. Not out of the tater side,mind ye. I wouldn't a told you if he hadn't locked me up fer nothing._Bill Jones is a thief_! He sells the bodies of the dead paupers, andthen sells the empty coffins back to the county agin. But that a'n'tall--"Just then the weak-eyed girl came back, and, as Ralph moved away,General Jackson called out: "That a'n't all. I'll tell the rest anothertime. And that a'n't out of the tater side, you can depend on that.That's out of the left side. Sound as a nut on that side!"But Ralph began to wonder where he should find Hannah's mother."Don't go in there," cried the weak-eyed girl, as Ralph was opening adoor. "Ole Mowley's in there, and she'll cuss you.""Oh! well, if that's all, her curses won't hurt," said Hartsook,pushing open the door. But the volley of blasphemy and vile languagethat he received made him stagger. The old hag paced the floor, abusingeverybody that came in her way. And by the window, in the same room,feeling the light that struggled through the dusty glass upon her face,sat a sorrowful, intelligent Englishwoman. Ralph noticed at once thatshe was English, and in a few moments he discovered that her sight wasdefective. Could it be that Hannah's mother was the room-mate of thisloathsome creature, whose profanity and obscenity did not intermit for amoment?Happily the weak-eyed girl had not dared to brave the curses of Mowley.Ralph stepped forward to the woman by the window, and greeted her."Is this Mrs. Thomson?""That is my name, sir," she said, turning her face toward Ralph, whocould not but remark the contrast between the thorough refinement of hermanner and her coarse, scant, unshaped pauper-frock of blue drilling."I saw your daughter yesterday.""Did you see my boy?"There was a tremulousness in her voice and an agitation in her mannerwhich disclosed the emotion she strove in vain to conceal. For only theday before Bill Jones had informed her that Shocky would be bound out onSaturday, and that she would find that goin' agin him warn't a payin'business, so much as some others he mout mention.Ralph told her about Shocky's safety. _I_ shall not write down theconversation here. Critics would say that it was an overwrought scene.As if all the world were as cold as they! All I can tell is that thisrefined woman had all she could do to control herself in her eagernessto get out of her prison-house, away from the blasphemies of Mowley,away from the insults of Jones, away from the sights and sounds andsmells of the place, and, above all, her eagerness to fly to the littleshocky-head from whom she had been banished for two years. It seemed toher that she could gladly die now, if she could die with that flaxenhead upon her bosom.And so, in spite of the opposition of Bill Jones's son, who threatenedher with every sort of evil if she left, Ralph wrapped Mrs. Thomson'sblue drilling in Nancy Sawyer's shawl, and bore the feeble woman off toLewisburg. And as they drove away, a sad, childlike voice cried from thegratings of the upper window, "Good-by! good-by!" Ralph turned and sawthat it was Phil, poor Phil, for whom there was no deliverance[25]. Andall the way back Ralph pronounced mental maledictions on the DorcasSociety, not for sending garments to the Five Points or the South SeaIslands, whichever it was, but for being so blind to the sorrow andpoverty within its reach. He did not know, for he had not read thereports of the Boards of State Charities, that nearly all alms-housesare very much like this, and that the State of New York is not better inthis regard than Indiana. And he did not know that it is true in almostall other counties, as it was in his own, that "Christian" people do notthink enough of Christ to look for him in these lazar-houses.And while Ralph denounced the Dorcas Society, the eager, hungry heart ofthe mother ran, flew toward the little white-headed boy.No, I can not do it; I can not tell you about that meeting. I am surethat Miss Nancy Sawyer's tea tasted exceedingly good to the pauper, whohad known nothing but cold water for years, and that the bread andbutter were delicious to a palate that had eaten poor-house soup fordinner, and coarse poor-house bread and vile molasses for supper, andthat without change for three years. But I can not tell you how itseemed that evening to Miss Nancy Sawyer, as the poor English lady satin speechless ecstacy, rocking in the old splint-bottomed rocking-chairin the fire-light, while she pressed to her bosom with all the might ofher enfeebled arms, the form of the little Shocky, who half-sobbed andhalf-sang, over and over again, "God ha'n't forgot us, mother; Godha'n't forgot us."FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 24: Some time after this book appeared Dr. Brown-Sequardannounced his theory of the dual brain. A writer in an English magazinecalled attention to the fact that the discovery had been anticipated byan imaginative writer, and cited the passage in the text as proving thatthe author of "The Hoosier School-Master" had outrun Dr. Brown-Sequardin perceiving the duality of the brain. It is a matter for surprise thatan author, even an "imaginative" one, should have made so great adiscovery without suspecting its meaning until it was explained by someone else.][Footnote 25: The reader may be interested to know that "Phil" was drawnfrom the life, as was old Mowley and in part "General Jackson" also.Between 1867 and 1870, I visited many jails and poor-houses withphilanthropic purpose, publishing the results of my examination in somecases in _The Chicago Tribune_. Some of the abuses pointed out werereformed, others linger till this day, I believe.]CHAPTER XXIV.THE GOOD SAMARITAN.The Methodist church to which Mrs. Matilda White and Miss Nancy Sawyerbelonged was the leading one in Lewisburg, as it was in most county-seatvillages in Indiana. If I may be permitted to express my candid andcharitable opinion of the difference between the two women, I shall haveto use the old Quaker locution, and say that Miss Sawyer was a Methodistand likewise a Christian; Mrs. White was a Methodist, but I fear she wasnot likewise.As to the first part of this assertion, there was no room to doubt MissNancy's piety. She could get happy in class-meeting (for who had abetter right?), and could witness a good experience in the quarterlylove-feast. But it is not upon these grounds that I base my opinion ofMiss Nancy. Do not even the Pharisees the same? She never dreamed thatshe had any right to speak of "Christian Perfection" (which, as Mrs.Partington said of total depravity, is an excellent doctrine if it islived up to); but when a woman's heart is full of devout affections andgood purposes, when her head devises liberal and Christlike things, whenher hands are always open to the poor and always busy with acts of loveand self-denial, and when her feet are ever eager to run upon errands ofmercy, why, if there be anything worthy of being called ChristianPerfection in this world of imperfection, I do not know why such an onedoes not possess it. What need of analyzing her experiences _in vacuo_to find out the state of her soul?How Miss Nancy managed to live on her slender income and be so generouswas a perpetual source of perplexity to the gossips of Lewisburg. Andnow that she declared that Mrs. Thomson and Shocky should not return tothe poor-house there was a general outcry from the whole Committee ofIntermeddlers that she would bring herself to the poor-house before shedied. But Nancy Sawyer was the richest woman in Lewisburg, though nobodyknew it, and though she herself did not once suspect it.How Miss Nancy and the preacher conspired together, and how they managedto bring Mrs. Thomson's case up at the time of the "Sacramental Service"in the afternoon of that Sunday in Lewisburg, and how the preacher madea touching statement of it just before the regular "Collection for thePoor" was taken, and how the warm-hearted Methodists put in dollarsinstead of dimes while the Presiding Elder read those passages aboutZaccheus and other liberal people, and how the congregation sang     "He dies, the Friend of sinners dies"more lustily than ever, after having performed this Christian act--howall this happened I can not take up the reader's time to tell. But I canassure him that the nearly blind English woman did not room withblasphemous old Mowley any more, and that the blue-drilling pauper frockgave way to something better, and that grave little Shocky even dancedwith delight, and declared that God hadn't forgot, though he'd thoughtthat He had. And Mrs. Matilda White remarked that it was a shame thatthe collection for the poor at a Methodist sacramental service should begiven to a woman who was a member of the Church of England, and like asnot never soundly converted!And Shocky slept in his mother's arms and prayed God not to forgetHannah, while Shocky's mother knit stockings for the store day andnight, and day and night she prayed and hoped.CHAPTER XXV.BUD WOOING.The Sunday that Ralph spent in Lewisburg, the Sunday that Shocky spentin an earthly paradise, the Sunday that Mrs. Thomson spent with Shockyinstead of old Mowley, the Sunday that Miss Nancy thought was "just likeheaven," was also an eventful Sunday with Bud Means. He had long adoredMiss Martha in his secret heart, but, like many other giants, whilebrave enough to face and fight dragons, he was a coward in the presenceof the woman that he loved. Let us honor him for it. The man who loves awoman truly, reverences her profoundly and feels abashed in herpresence. The man who is never abashed in the presence of womanhood, theman who tells his love without a tremor, is a shallow egotist. Bud'snature was not fine. But it was deep, true, and manly. To him MarthaHawkins was the chief of women. What was he that he should aspire topossess her? And yet on that Sunday, with his crippled arm carefullybound up, with his cleanest shirt, and with his heavy boots freshlyoiled with the fat of the raccoon, he started hopefully through fieldswhite with snow to the house of Squire Hawkins. When he started hisspirits were high, but they descended exactly in proportion to hisproximity to the object of his love. He thought himself not dressed wellenough He wished his shoulders were not so square, and his arms not sostout. He wished that he had book-larnin' enough to court in nice, bigwords. And so, by recounting his own deficiencies, he succeeded inmaking himself feel weak, and awkward, and generally good-for-nothing,by the time he walked up between the rows of dead hollyhocks to theSquire's front door, to tap at which took all his remaining strength.Miss Martha received her perspiring lover most graciously, but this onlyconvinced Bud more than ever that she was a superior being. If she hadslighted him a bit, so as to awaken his combativeness, his bashfulnessmight have disappeared.It was in vain that Martha inquired about his arm and complimented hiscourage. Bud could only think of his big feet, his clumsy hands, and hisslow tongue. He answered in monosyllables, using his red silkhandkerchief diligently."Is your arm improving?" asked Miss Hawkins."Yes, I think it is," said Bud, hastily crossing his right leg over hisleft, and trying to get his fists out of sight."Have you heard from Mr. Pearson?""No, I ha'n't," answered Bud, removing his right foot to the flooragain, because it looked so big, and trying to push his left hand intohis pocket."Beautiful sunshine, isn't it?" said Martha."Yes, 'tis," answered Bud, sticking his right foot up on the rung of thechair and putting his right hand behind him."This snow looks like the snow we have at the East," said Martha. "Itsnowed that way the time I was to Bosting.""Did it?" said Bud, not thinking of the snow at all nor of Boston, butthinking how much better he would have appeared had he left his arms andlegs at home."I suppose Mr. Hartsook rode your horse to Lewisburg?""Yes, he did;" and Bud hung both hands at his side."You were very kind."This set Bud's heart a-going so that he could not say anything, but helooked eloquently at Miss Hawkins, drew both feet under the chair, andrammed his hands into his pockets. Then, suddenly remembering howawkward he must look, he immediately pulled his hands out again, andcrossed his legs. There was a silence of a few minutes, during which Budmade up his mind to do the most desperate thing he could think of--todeclare his love and take the consequences."You see, Miss Hawkins," he began, forgetting boots and fists in hisagony, "I thought as how I'd come over here to-day, and"--but here hisheart failed him utterly--"and--see--you.""I'm glad to see you, Mr. Means.""And I thought I'd tell you"--Martha was sure it was coming now, for Budwas in dead earnest--"and I thought I'd just like to tell you, ef I onlyknow'd jest how to tell it right"--here Bud got frightened, and did notdare close the sentence as he had intended--"I thought as how you mightlike to know--or ruther I wanted to tell you--that--the--that I--thatwe--all of us--think--that--I--that we are going to have aspellin'-school a Chewsday night.""I'm real glad to hear it," said the bland but disappointed Martha. "Weused to have spelling-schools at the East." But Miss Martha could notremember that they had them "to Bosting."Hard as it is for a bashful man to talk, it is still more difficult forhim to close the conversation. Most men like to leave a favorableimpression, and a bashful man is always waiting with the forlorn hopethat some favorable turn in the talk may let him out without absolutediscomfiture. And so Bud stayed a long time, and how he ever did getaway he never could tell.CHAPTER XXVI.A LETTER AND ITS CONSEQUENCES."SQUAR HAUKINS"this is too Lett u no that u beter be Keerful hoo yoo an yore famillytacks cides with fer peepl wont Stan it too hev the Men wat's sportinthe wuns wat's robin us, sported bi yor Fokes kepin kumpne with 'em, ubeen a ossifer ov the Lau, yor Ha wil bern as qick as to an yor Barn tu,so Tak kere. No mor ad pressnt."This letter accomplished its purpose. The Squire's spectacles slippedoff several times while he read it. His wig had to be adjusted. If hehad been threatened personally he would not have minded it so much. Butthe hay stacks were dearer to him than the apple of his glass eye. Thebarn was more precious than his wig. And those who hoped to touch Bud ina tender place through this letter knew the Squire's weakness far betterthan they knew the spelling-book. To see his new red barn with its large"Mormon" hay-press inside, and the mounted Indian on the vane,consumed, was too much for the Hawkins heart to stand. Evidently thedanger was on the side of his niece. But how should he influence Marthato give up Bud? Martha did not value the hay-stacks half so highly asshe did her lover. Martha did not think the new red barn, with the greatMormon press inside and the galloping Indian on the vane, worth half somuch as a moral principle or a kind-hearted action. Martha, bless her!would have sacrificed anything rather than forsake the poor. But SquireHawkins's lips shut tight over his false teeth in a way that suggestedastringent purse-strings, and Squire Hawkins could not sleep at night ifthe new red barn, with the galloping Indian on the vane, were in danger.Martha must be reached somehow.So, with many adjustings of that most adjustable wig? with many turningsof that reversible glass eye? the Squire managed to frighten Martha bythe intimation that he had been threatened, and to make her understand,what it cost her much to understand, that she must turn the coldshoulder to chivalrous, awkward Bud, whom she loved most tenderly,partly, perhaps, because he did not remind her of anybody she had everknown at the East.Tuesday evening was the fatal time. Spelling-school was the fataloccasion. Bud was the victim. Pete Jones had his revenge. For Bud hadbeen all the evening trying to muster courage enough to offer himself asMartha's escort. He was not encouraged by the fact that he had spelledeven worse than usual, while Martha had distinguished herself by holdingher ground against Jeems Phillips for half an hour. But he screwed hiscourage to the sticking place, not by quoting to himself the adage,"Faint heart never won fair lady," which, indeed, he had never heard,but by reminding himself that "ef you don't resk notin' you'll never gitnothin'." So, when the spelling-school had adjourned, he sidled up toher, and, looking dreadfully solemn and a little foolish, he said:"Kin I see you safe home?"And she, with a feeling that her uncle's life was in danger, and thathis salvation depended upon her resolution--she, with a feeling that shewas pronouncing sentence of death on her own great hope, answeredhuskily:"No, I thank you."If she had only known that it was the red barn with the Indian on topthat was in danger, she would probably have let the galloping brave takecare of himself.It seemed to Bud, as he walked home mortified, disgraced, disappointed,hopeless, that all the world had gone down in a whirlpool of despair."Might a knowed it," he said to himself. "Of course, a smart gal likeMartha a'n't agoin' to take a big, blunderin' fool that can't spell intwo syllables. What's the use of tryin'? A Flat Cricker Is a FlatCricker. You can't make nothin' else of him, no more nor you can make aChiny hog into a Berkshire."CHAPTER XXVII.A LOSS AND A GAIN.Dr. Small, silent, attentive, assiduous Dr. Small, set himself to workto bind up the wounded heart of Bud Means, even as he had bound up hisbroken arm. The flattery of his fine eyes, which looked at Bud's musclesso admiringly, which gave attention to his lightest remark, was not loston the young Flat Creek Hercules. Outwardly at least Pete Jones showedno inclination to revenge himself on Bud. Was it respect for muscle, orwas it the influence of Small? At any rate, the concentrated extract ofthe resentment of Pete Jones and his clique was now ready to emptyitself upon the head of Hartsook. And Ralph found himself in his direextremity without even the support of Bud, whose good resolutions seemedto give way all at once. There have been many men of culture and morefavorable surroundings who have thrown themselves away with lessprovocation. As it was, Bud quit school, avoided Ralph, and seemed morethan ever under the influence of Dr. Small, besides becoming theintimate of Walter Johnson, Small's student and Mrs. Matilda White'sson. They made a strange pair--Bud with his firm jaw and silent,cautious manner, and Walter Johnson with his weak chin, his niceneck-ties, and general dandy appearance.To be thus deserted in his darkest hour by his only friend was thebitterest ingredient in Ralph's cup. In vain he sought an interview. Budalways eluded him. While by all the faces about him Ralph learned thatthe storm was getting nearer and nearer to himself. It might delay. Ifit had been Pete Jones alone, it might blow over. But Ralph felt surethat the relentless hand of Dr. Small was present in all his troubles.And he had only to look into Small's eye to know how inextinguishablewas a malignity that burned so steadily and so quietly.But there is no cup of unmixed bitterness. With an innocent man there isno night so dark that some star does not shine. Ralph had one strongsheet-anchor. On his return from Lewisburg on Monday Bud had handed hima note, written on common blue foolscap, in round, old-fashioned hand.It ran:     "Dear Sir: Anybody who can do so good a thing as you did for our     Shocky, can not be bad. I hope you will forgive me. All the     appearances in the world, and all that anybody says, can not make     me think you anything else but a good man. I hope God will reward     you. You must not answer this, and you hadn't better see me again,     or think any more of what you spoke about the other night. I shall     be a slave for three years more, and then I must work for my mother     and Shocky; but I felt so bad to think that I had spoken so hard to     you, that I could not help writing this. Respectfully,     "HANNAH THOMSON.     "To MR. R. HARTSOOK, ESQ."Ralph read it over and over. What else he did with it I shall not tell.You want to know whether he kissed it, and put it into his bosom. Many aman as intelligent and manly as Hartsook has done quite as foolish athing as that. You have been a little silly perhaps--if it is silly--andyou have acted in a sentimental sort of a way over such things. But itwould never do for me to tell you what Ralph did. Whether he put theletter into his bosom or not, he put the words into his heart, and,metaphorically speaking, he shook that little blue billet, written oncoarse foolscap paper--he shook that little letter full of confidence,in the face and eyes of all the calamities that haunted him. If Hannahbelieved in him, the whole world might distrust him. When Hannah was inone scale and the whole world in the other, of what account was theworld? Justice may be blind, but all the pictures of blind cupids in theworld can not make Love blind. And it was well that Ralph weighed thingsin this way. For the time was come in which he needed all the couragethe blue billet could give him.CHAPTER XXVIII.THE FLIGHT.About ten days after Ralph's return to Flat Creek things came to acrisis.The master was rather relieved at first to have the crisis come. He hadbeen holding juvenile Flat Creek under his feet by sheer force of will.And such an exercise of "psychic power" is very exhausting. In racing onthe Ohio the engineer sometimes sends the largest of the firemen to holdthe safety valve down, and this he does by hanging himself to the leverby his hands. Ralph felt that he had been holding the safety-valve down,and that he was so weary of the operation that an explosion would be areal relief. He was a little tired of having everybody look on him as athief. It was a little irksome to know that new bolts were put on thedoors of the houses in which he had staid. And now that Shocky was gone,and Bud had turned against him, and Aunt Matilda suspected him, and evenpoor, weak, exquisite Walter Johnson would not associate with him, hefelt himself an outlaw indeed. He would have gone away to Texas or thenew gold fields in California had It not been for one thing. Thatletter on blue foolscap paper kept a little warmth in his heart.His course from school on the evening that something happened laythrough the sugar-camp. Among the dark trunks of the maples, solemn andlofty pillars, he debated the case. To stay, or to flee? The worn nervescould not keep their present tension much longer.It was just by the brook, or, as they say in Indiana, the "branch[26],"that something happened which brought him to a sudden decision. Ralphnever afterward could forget that brook. It was a swift-running littlestream, that did not babble blatantly over the stones. It ran through athicket of willows, through the sugar-camp, and out into Means'spasture. Ralph had just passed through the thicket, had just crossed thebrook on the half-decayed log that spanned it, when, as he emerged fromthe water-willows on the other side, he started with a sudden shock. Forthere was Hannah, with a white, white face, holding out a little notefolded like an old-fashioned thumb-paper."Go quick!" she stammered as she slipped it Into Ralph's hand,inadvertently touching his fingers with her own--a touch that wenttingling through the school-master's nerves. But she had hardly said thewords until she was gone down the brookside path and over into thepasture. A few minutes afterward she drove the cows up into the lot andmeekly took her scolding from Mrs. Means for being gone sech an awfullong time, like a lazy, good-fer-nothin piece of goods that she was.Ralph opened the thumb-paper note, written on a page torn from an oldcopy-book, in Bud's "hand-write" and running:     "Mr. Heartsook     "deer Sur:"I Put in my best licks, taint no use. Run fer yore life. A plans onfoot to tar an fether or wuss to-night. Go rite off. Things is awfuljuberous[27].     "BUD."The first question with Ralph was whether he could depend on Bud. But hesoon made up his mind that treachery of any sort was not one of histraits. He had mourned over the destruction of Bud's good resolutions byMartha Hawkins's refusal, and being a disinterested party he could havecomforted Bud by explaining Martha's "mitten." But he felt sure that Budwas not treacherous. It was a relief, then, as he stood there to knowthat the false truce was over, and worst had come to worst.His first impulse was to stay and fight. But his nerves were not strongenough to execute so foolhardy a resolution. He seemed to see a manbehind every maple-trunk. Darkness was fast coming on, and he knew thathis absence from supper at his boarding-place could not fail to excitesuspicion. There was no time to be lost. So he started.Once run from a danger, and panic is apt to ensue. The forest; thestalk-fields, the dark hollows through which he passed, seemed to bepeopled with terrors. He knew Small and Jones well enough to know thatevery avenue of escape would be carefully picketed. So there was nothingto do but to take the shortest path to the old trysting place, theSpring-in-rock.Here he sat and shook with terror. Angry with himself, he inly denouncedhimself for a coward. But the effect was really a physical one. Thechill and panic now were the reaction from the previous strain.For when the sound of his pursuers' voices broke upon his ears early inthe evening, Ralph shook no more; the warm blood set back again towardthe extremities, and his self-control returned when he needed it. Hegathered some stones about him, as the only weapons of defense at hand.The mob was on the cliff above. But he thought that he heard footstepsin the bed of the creek below. If this were so, there could be no doubtthat his hiding-place was suspected."O Hank!" shouted Bud from the top of the cliff to some one in the creekbelow, "be sure to look at the Spring-in-rock--I think he's there."This hint was not lost on Ralph, who speedily changed his quarters byclimbing up to a secluded, shelf-like ledge above the spring. He wasnone too soon, for Pete Jones and Hank Banta were soon looking allaround the spring for him, while he held a twenty-pound stone overtheir heads ready to drop upon them in case they should think of lookingon the ledge above.When the crowd were gone Ralph knew that one road was open to him. Hecould follow down the creek to Clifty, and thence he might escape. But,traveling down to Clifty, he debated whether it was best to escape. Toflee was to confess his guilt, to make himself an outlaw, to put aninsurmountable barrier between himself and Hannah, whose terror-strickenand anxious face as she stood by the brook-willows haunted him now, andwas an involuntary witness to her love.Long before he reached Clifty his mind was made up not to flee anothermile. He knocked at the door of Squire Underwood. But Squire Underwoodwas also a doctor, and had been called away. He knocked at the door ofSquire Doolittle. But Squire Doolittle had gone to Lewisburg. He wasabout to give up all hope of being able to surrender himself to the lawwhen he met Squire Hawkins, who had come over to Clifty to avoidresponsibility for the ill-deeds of his neighbors which he was powerlessto prevent."Is that you, Mr. Hartsook?""Yes, and I want you to arrest me and try me here in Clifty."FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 26: I have already mentioned the absence of _pail_ and _pare_from the ancient Hoosier folk-speech. _Brook_ is likewise absent. Theilliterate Indiana countryman before the Civil War, let us say, had nopails, pared no apples, husked no corn, crossed no brooks. The same istrue, I believe, of the South generally. As the first settlers on theSouthern coast entered the land by the rivers, each smaller stream wasregarded as a branch of the larger one. A small stream was thereforecalled a _branch_. The word brook was probably lost in the firstgeneration. But a small stream is often called a _run_ in the Middle andSouthern belt. Halliwell gives _rundel_ as used with the samesignification in England, and he gives _ryn_ in the same sense from anold manuscript.][Footnote 27: _Juberous_ is in none of the vocabularies that I haveseen. I once treated this word in print as an undoubted corruption of_dubious_, and when used subjectively it apparently feels the influenceof dubious, as where one says: "I feel mighty juberous about it." But itis much oftener applied as in the text to the object of fear, as "Thebridge looks kind o' juberous." Halliwell gives the verb _juberd_ anddefines it as "to jeopard or endanger." It is clearly a dialect form of_jeopard_, and I make no doubt that _juberous_ is a dialect variation of_jeopardous_, occasionally used as a form of _dubious_.]CHAPTER XXIX.THE TRIAL.The "prosecuting attorney" (for so the State's attorney is called inIndiana) had been sent for the night before. Ralph refused all legalhelp. It was not wise to reject counsel, but all his blood was up, andhe declared that he would not be cleared by legal quibbles. If hisinnocence were not made evident to everybody, he would rather not beacquitted on a preliminary examination. He would go over to the circuitcourt and have the matter sifted to the bottom. But he would have beenpleased had his uncle offered his counsel, though he would have declinedit. He would have felt better to have had a letter from home somewhatdifferent from the one he received from his Aunt Matilda by the hand ofthe prosecuting attorney. It was not very encouraging or verysympathetic, though it was very characteristic."Dear Ralph:"This is what I have always been afraid of. I warned you faithfully thelast time I saw you. My skirts are clear of your blood, I can notconsent for your uncle to appear as your counsel or to go your bail. Youknow how much it would injure him in the county, and he has no right tosuffer for your evil acts. O my dear nephew! for the sake of your poor,dead mother--"We never shall know what the rest of that letter was. Whenever AuntMatilda got to Ralph's poor, dead mother in her conversation Ralph ranout of the house. And now that his poor, dead mother was again made todo service in his aunt's pious rhetoric, he landed the letter on the hotcoals before him, and watched it vanish into smoke with a grimsatisfaction.Ralph was a little afraid of a mob. But Clifty was better than FlatCreek, and Squire Hawkins, with all his faults, loved justice, and had aprofound respect for the majesty of the law, and a profound respect forhis own majesty when sitting as a court representing the law. Whatevermaneuvers he might resort to in business affairs in order to avoid aconflict with his lawless neighbors, he was courageous and inflexible onthe bench. The Squire was the better part of him. With the co-operationof the constable, he had organized a _posse_ of men who could bedepended on to enforce the law against a mob.By the time the trial opened in the large school-house in Clifty ateleven o'clock, all the surrounding country had emptied its populationinto Clifty, and all Flat Creek was on hand ready to testify tosomething. Those who knew the least appeared to know the most, and wereprodigal of their significant winks and nods. Mrs. Means had alwayssuspected him. She seed some mighty suspicious things about him from theword go. She'd allers had her doubts whether he was jist the thing, andef her ole man had axed her, liker-n not he never'd a been hired. She'dseed things with her own livin' eyes that beat all she ever seed in allher born days. And Pete Jones said he'd allers knowed ther warn't nogood in sech a feller. Couldn't stay abed when he got there. And GrannySanders said, Law's sakes! nobody'd ever a found him out ef it hadn'tbeen fer her. Didn't she go all over the neighborhood a-warnin' people?Fer her part, she seed straight through that piece of goods. He was fondof the gals, too! Nothing was so great a crime in her eyes as to be fondof the gals.The constable paid unwitting tribute to William the Conquerer by cryingSquire Hawkins's court open with an Oyez! or, as he said, "O yes!" andthe Squire asked Squire Underwood, who came in at that minute, to sitwith him. From the start, it was evident to Ralph that the prosecutingattorney had been thoroughly posted by Small, though, looking at thatworthy's face, one would have thought him the most disinterested andphilosophical spectator in the court-room.Bronson, the prosecutor, was a young man, and this was his first casesince his election. He was very ambitious to distinguish himself, veryanxious to have Flat Creek influence on his side in politics; and,consequently, he was very determined to send Ralph Hartsook to Stateprison, justly or unjustly, by fair means or foul. To his professionaleyes this was not a question of right and wrong, not a question of lifeor death to such a man as Ralph. It was George H. Bronson's opportunityto distinguish himself. And so, with many knowing and confident nods andhints, and with much deference to the two squires, he opened the case,affecting great indignation at Ralph's wickedness, and uttering Delphichints about striped pants and shaven head, and the grating ofprison-doors at Jeffersonville."And, now, if the court please, I am about to call a witness whosetestimony is very important indeed. Mrs. Sarah Jane Means will pleasestep forward and be sworn."This Mrs. Means did with alacrity. She had met the prosecutor, andimpressed him with her dark hints. She was sworn."Now, Mrs. Means, have the goodness to tell us what you know of therobbery at the house of Peter Schroeder, and the part defendant had init.""Well, you see, I allers suspected that air young man--"Here Squire Underwood stopped her, and told her that she must not tellher suspicions, but facts."Well, it's facts I am a-going to tell," she sniffed indignantly. "It'sfacts that I mean to tell." Here her voice rose to a keen pitch, and shebegan to abuse the defendant. Again and again the court insisted thatshe must tell what there was suspicious about the school-master. At lastshe got it out."Well, fer one thing, what kind of gals did he go with? Hey? Why, withmy bound gal, Hanner, a-loafin' along through the blue-grass paster atten o'clock, and keepin' that gal that's got no protector but me outthat a-way, and destroyin' her character by his company, that a'n't fitfer nobody."Here Bronson saw that he had caught a tartar. He said he had no morequestions to ask of Mrs. Means, and that, unless the defendant wished tocross-question her, she could stand aside. Ralph said he would like toask her one question."Did I ever go with your daughter Miranda?""No, you didn't," answered the witness, with a tone and a toss of thehead that let the cat out, and set the court-room in a giggle. Bronsonsaw that he was gaining nothing, and now resolved to follow the linewhich Small had indicated.Pete Jones was called, and swore point-blank that he heard Ralph go outof the house soon after he went to bed, and that he heard him return attwo in the morning. This testimony was given without hesitation, andmade a great impression against Ralph in the minds of the justices. Mrs.Jones, a poor, brow-beaten woman, came on the stand in a frightened way,and swore to the same lies as her husband. Ralph cross-questioned her,but her part had been well learned.There, seemed now little hope for Ralph. But just at this moment whoshould stride into the school-house but Pearson, the one-legged oldsoldier basket-maker? He had crept home the night before, "to see ef theole woman didn't want somethin'," and hearing of Ralph's arrest, heconcluded that the time for him to make "a forrard movement" had come,and so he determined to face the foe."Looky here, Squar," he said, wiping the perspiration from his brow,"looky here. I jes want to say that I kin tell as much about this caseas anybody.""Let us hear it, then," said Bronson, who thought he would nail Ralphnow for certain.So, with many allusions to the time he fit at Lundy's Lane, and someindignant remarks about the pack of thieves that driv him off, and apassing tribute to Miss Martha Hawkins, and sundry other digressions, inwhich he had to be checked, the old man told how he'd drunk whisky atWelch's store that night, and how Welch's whisky was all-fired mean, andhow it allers went straight to his head, and how he had got a leetle toomuch, and how he had felt kyinder gin aout by the time he got to theblacksmith's shop, and how he had laid down to rest, and how as hes'posed the boys had crated him, and how he thought it war all-firedmean to crate a old soldier what fit the Britishers, and lost his leg byone of the blamed critters a-punchin' his bagonet[28] through it; andhow when he woke up it was all-fired cold, and how he rolled off thecrate and went on to_wurds_ home, and how when he got up to the top ofMeans's hill he met Pete Jones and Bill Jones, and a slim sort of ayoung man, a-ridin'; and how he know'd the Joneses by ther hosses, andsome more things of that kyind about 'em; but he didn't know the slimyoung man, tho' he tho't he might tell him ef he seed him agin kase hewas dressed up so slick and town-like. But blamed ef he didn't think ithard that a passel o thieves sech as the Joneses should try to put thermean things on to a man like the master, that was so kyind to him and toShocky, tho', fer that matter, blamed ef he didn't think we was allselfish, akordin' to his tell. Had seed somebody that night a-crossin'over the blue-grass paster. Didn't know who in thunder 'twas, but it wassomebody a-makin' straight fer Pete Jones's. Hadn't seed nobody else,'ceptin' Dr. Small, a short ways behind the Joneses.Hannah was now brought on the stand. She was greatly agitated, andanswered with much reluctance. Lived at Mr. Means's. Was eighteen yearsof age in October. Had been bound to Mrs. Means three years ago. Hadwalked home with Mr. Hartsook that evening, and, happening to look outof the window toward morning, she saw some one cross the pasture. Didnot know who it was. Thought it was Mr. Hartsook. Here Mr. Bronson(evidently prompted by a suggestion that came from what Small hadoverheard when he listened in the barn) asked her if Mr. Hartsook hadever said anything to her about the matter afterward. After somehesitation, Hannah said that he had said that he crossed the pasture. Ofhis own accord? No, she spoke of it first. Had Mr. Hartsook offered anyexplanations? No, he hadn't. Had he ever paid her any attentionafterward? No. Ralph declined to cross-question Hannah. To him she neverseemed so fair as when telling the truth so sublimely.Bronson now informed the court that this little trick of having the oldsoldier happen in, in the flick of time, wouldn't save the prisoner atthe bar from the just punishment which an outraged law visited upon suchcrimes as his. He regretted that his duty as a public prosecutor causedit to fall to his lot to marshal the evidence that was to blight theprospects and blast the character, and annihilate for ever, so able andpromising a young man, but that the law knew no difference between theeducated and the uneducated, and that for his part he thought Hartsook amost dangerous foe to the peace of society. The evidence already givenfastened suspicion upon him. The prisoner had not yet been able to breakits force at all. The prisoner had not even dared to try to explain toa young lady the reason for his being out at night. He would nowconclude by giving the last touch to the dark evidence that would sinkthe once fair name of Ralph Hartsook in a hundred fathoms of infamy. Hewould ask that Henry Banta be called.Hank came forward sheepishly, and was sworn. Lived about a hundred yardsfrom the house that was robbed. He seen ole man Pearson and the masterand one other feller that he didn't know come away from there togetherabout one o'clock. He heerd the horses kickin', and went out to thestable to see about them. He seed two men come out of Schroeder's backdoor and meet one man standing at the gate. When they got closter heknowed Pearson by his wooden leg and the master by his hat. Oncross-examination he was a little confused when asked why he hadn't toldof it before, but said that he was afraid to say much, bekase the folkswas a-talkin' about hanging the master, and he didn't want no lynchin'.The prosecution here rested, Bronson maintaining that there was enoughevidence to justify Ralph's committal to await trial. But the courtthought that as the defendant had no counsel and offered no rebuttingtestimony, it would be only fair to hear what the prisoner had to sayin his own defense.All this while poor Ralph was looking about the room for Bud. Bud'sactions had of late been strangely contradictory. But had he turnedcoward and deserted his friend? Why else did he avoid the session of thecourt? After asking himself such questions as these, Ralph would wonderat his own folly. What could Bud do if he were there? There was no humanpower that could prevent the victim of so vile a conspiracy as this,lodging in that worst of State prisons at Jeffersonville, a place toobad for criminals. But when there is no human power to help, hownaturally does the human mind look for some divine intervention on theside of Right! And Ralph's faith in Providence looked in the directionof Bud. But since no Bud came, he shut down the valves and rose to hisfeet, proudly, defiantly, fiercely calm."It's of no use for me to say anything. Peter Jones has sworn to adeliberate falsehood, and he knows it. He has made his wife perjure herpoor soul that she dare not call her own." Here Pete's fists clenched,but Ralph in his present humor did not care for mobs. The spirit of thebulldog had complete possession of him. "It is of no use for me to tellyou that Henry Banta has sworn to a lie, partly to revenge himself onme for punishments I have given him, and partly, perhaps, for money. Thereal thieves are in this court-room. I could put my finger on them.""_To_ be sure," responded the old basket-maker. Ralph looked at PeteJones, then at Small. The fiercely calm look attracted the attention ofthe people. He knew that this look would probably cost him his lifebefore the next morning. But he did not care for life. "The testimony ofMiss Hannah Thomson is every word true, I believe that of Mr. Pearson tobe true. The rest is false. But I can not prove it. I know the men Ihave to deal with. I shall not escape with State prison. They will notspare my life. But the people of Clifty will one day find out who arethe thieves." Ralph then proceeded to tell how he had left Pete Jones's,Mr. Jones's bed being uncomfortable; how he had walked through thepasture; how he had seen three men on horseback: how he had noticed thesorrel with the white left forefoot and white nose; how he had seen Dr.Small; how, after his return, he had heard some one enter the house, andhow he had recognized the horse the next morning. "There," said Ralphdesperately, leveling his finger at Pete, "there is a man who will yetsee the inside of a penitentiary, I shall not live to see it, but therest of you will." Pete quailed. Ralph's speech could not of coursebreak the force of the testimony against him. But it had its effect, andit had effect enough to alarm Bronson, who rose and said:"I should like to ask the prisoner at the bar one question.""Ask me a dozen," said Hartsook, looking more like a king than acriminal."Well, then, Mr. Hartsook. You need not answer unless you choose; butwhat prompted you to take the direction you did in your walk on thatevening?"This shot brought Ralph down. To answer this question truly would attachto friendless Hannah Thomson some of the disgrace that now belonged tohim."I decline to answer," said Ralph."Of course, I do not want the prisoner to criminate himself," saidBronson significantly.During this last passage Bud had come in, but, to Ralph's disappointmenthe remained near the door, talking to Walter Johnson, who had come withhim. The magistrates put their heads together to fix the amount of bail,and, as they differed, talked for some minutes. Small now for the firsttime thought best to make a move in his own proper person. He couldhardly have been afraid of Ralph's acquittal. He may have been a littleanxious at the manner in which he had been mentioned, and at thesignificant look of Ralph, and he probably meant to excite indignationenough against the school-master to break the force of his speech, andsecure the lynching of the prisoner, chiefly by people outside his gang.He rose and asked the court in gentlest tones to hear him. He had nopersonal interest in this trial, except his interest in the welfare ofhis old schoolmate, Mr. Hartsook. He was grieved and disappointed tofind the evidence against him so damaging and he would not for the worldadd a feather to it, if it were not that his own name had been twicealluded to by the defendant, and by his friend, and perhaps hisconfederate, John Pearson. He was prepared to swear that he was not overin Flat Creek the night of the robbery later than ten o'clock, and whilethe statements of the two persons alluded to, whether maliciouslyintended or not, could not implicate him at all, he thought perhaps thislack of veracity in their statements might be of weight in determiningsome other points. He therefore suggested--he could only suggest, as hewas not a party to the case in any way--that his student, Mr. WalterJohnson, be called to testify as to his--Dr. Small's--exact whereaboutson the night in question. They were together in his office until two,when he went to the tavern and went to bed.Squire Hawkins, having adjusted his teeth, his wig, and his glass eye,thanked Dr. Small for a suggestion so valuable, and thought best to putJohn Pearson under arrest before proceeding further. Mr. Pearson wastherefore arrested, and was heard to mutter something about a "passel ofthieves," when the court warned him to be quiet.Walter Johnson was then called. But before giving his testimony, I mustcrave the reader's patience while I go back to some things whichhappened nearly a week before and which will serve to make itintelligible.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 28: This form, _bagonet_, is not in the vocabularies, but itwas spoken as I have written it. The Century Dictionary gives _bagnet_,and Halliwell and Wright both give _baginet_ with the _g_ softapparently, though neither the one nor the other is very explicit indistinguishing transcriptions from old authors from phonetic spellingsof dialect forms. I fancy that this _bagonet_ is impossible as acorruption of _bayonet_, and that it points to some other derivation ofthat word than the doubtful one from _Bayonne_.]CHAPTER XXX."BROTHER SODOM."In order to explain Walter Johnson's testimony and his state of mind, Imust carry the reader back nearly a week. The scene was Dr. Small'soffice. Bud and Walter Johnson had been having some confidentialconversation that evening, and Bud had got more out of his companionthan that exquisite but weak young man had intended. He looked round ina frightened way."You see," said Walter, "if Small knew I had told you that, I'd get abullet some night from somebody. But when you're initiated it'll be allright. Sometimes I wish I was out of it. But, you know, Small's thiskind of a man. He sees through you. He can look through a door"--andthere he shivered, and his voice broke down into a whisper. But Bud wasperfectly cool, and doubtless it was the strong coolness of Bud thatmade Walter, who shuddered at a shadow, come to him for sympathy andunbosom himself of one of his guilty secrets."Let's go and hear Brother Sodom preach to-night," said Bud."No, I don't like to.""He don't scare you?" There was just a touch of ridicule in Bud's voice.He knew Walter, and he had not counted amiss when he used this littlegoad to prick a skin so sensitive. "Brother Sodom" was the nicknamegiven by scoffers to the preacher--Mr. Soden--whose manner of preachinghad so aroused Bud's combativeness, and whose saddle-stirrups Bud hadhelped to amputate. For reasons of his own, Bud thought best to subjectyoung Johnson to the heat of Mr. Soden's furnace.Peter Cartwright boasts that, on a certain occasion, he "shook hisbrimstone wallet" over the people. Mr. Soden could never preach withouthis brimstone wallet. There are those of refinement so attenuated thatthey will not admit that fear can have any place in religion. But areligion without fear could never have evangelized or civilized theWest, which at one time bade fair to become a perdition as bad as anythat Brother Sodom ever depicted. And against these on the one side, andthe Brother Sodoms on the other, I shall interrupt my story to put thischapter under shelter of that wise remark of the great Dr. Adam Clark,who says "The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom, the terror of Godconfounds the soul;" and that other saying of his: "With the _fear_ ofGod the love of God is ever consistent; but where the _terror_ of theLord reigns, there can neither be _fear, faith_, nor _love_; nay, nor_hope_ either." And yet I am not sure that even the Brother Sodoms weremade in vain.On this evening Mr. Soden was as terrible as usual. Bud heard himwithout flinching. Small, who sat farther forward, listened with piousapproval. Mr. Soden, out of distorted figures pieced together fromdifferent passages of Scripture, built a hell, not quite, Miltonic, noryet Dantean, but as Miltonic and Dantean as his unrefined imaginationcould make it. As he rose toward his climax of hideous description,Walter Johnson trembled from head to foot and sat close to Bud. Then, asburly Mr. Soden, with great gusto, depicted materialistic tortures thatstartled the nerves of everybody except Bud, Walter wanted to leave, butBud would not let him. For some reason he wished to keep his companionin the crucible as long as possible."Young man!" cried Mr. Soden, and the explosive voice seemed to comefrom the hell that he had created--"young man! you who have followed thecounsel of evil companions"--here he paused and looked about, as iftrying to find the man he wanted, while Walter crept up close to Budand shaded his face--"I mean you who have chosen evil pursuits and whocan not get free from bad habits and associations that are dragging youdown to hell! You are standing on the very crumbling brink of hellto-night. The smell of the brimstone is on your garments; the hot breathof hell is in your face! The devils are waiting for you! Delay and youare damned! You may die before daylight! You may never get out thatdoor! The awful angel of death is just ready to strike you down!" Heresome shrieked with terror, others sobbed, and Brother Sodom looked withapproval on the storm he had awakened. The very harshness of his tone,his lofty egotism of manner, that which had roused all Bud'scombativeness, shook poor Walter as a wind would shake a reed. In themidst of the general excitement he seized his hat and hastened out thedoor. Bud followed, while Soden shot his lightnings after them,declaring that "young men who ran away from the truth would dwell intorments forever."Bud had not counted amiss when he thought that Mr. Soden's preachingwould be likely to arouse so mean-spirited a fellow as Walter. So vividwas the impression that Johnson begged Bud to return to the office withhim. He felt sick, and was afraid that he should die before morning. Heinsisted that Bud should stay with him all night. To this Means readilyconsented, and by morning he had heard all that the frightened Walterhad to tell.And now let us return to the trial, where Ralph sits waiting thetestimony of Walter Johnson, which is to prove his statement false.CHAPTER XXXI.THE TRIAL CONCLUDED.I do not know how much interest the "gentle reader" may feel in Bud. ButI venture to hope that there are some Buddhists among my readers whowill wish the contradictoriness of his actions explained. The first dashof disappointment had well-nigh upset him. And when a man concludes tothrow overboard his good resolutions, he always seeks to avoid thewitness of those resolutions. Hence Bud, after that distressful Tuesdayevening on which Miss Martha had given him "the sack," wished to seeRalph less than any one else. And yet when he came to suspect Small'svillainy, his whole nature revolted at it. But having broken with Ralph,he thought it best to maintain an attitude of apparent hostility, thathe might act as a detective, and, perhaps, save his friend from themischief that threatened him. As soon as he heard of Ralph's arrest hedetermined to make Walter Johnson tell his own secret in court, becausehe knew that it would be best for Ralph that Walter should tell it.Bud's telling at second-hand would not be conclusive. And he sincerelydesired to save Walter from prison. For Walter Johnson was the victim ofDr. Small, or of Dr. Small and such novels as "The Pirate's Bride,""Claude Duval," "The Wild Rover of the West Indies," and the cheapbiographies of such men as Murrell. Small found him with his imaginationinflamed by the history of such heroes, and opened to him the path toglory for which he longed.The whole morning after Ralph's arrest Bud was working on Walter'sconscience and his fears. The poor fellow, unable to act for himself,was torn asunder between the old ascendency of Small and the newascendency of Bud Means. Bud finally frightened him, by the fear of thepenitentiary, into going to the place of trial. But once inside thedoor, and once in sight of Small, who was more to him than God, or,rather, more to him than the devil--for the devil was Walter's God, or,perhaps, I should say, Walter's God was a devil--once in sight of Small,he refused to move an inch farther. And Bud, after all his perseverance,was about to give up in sheer despair.Fortunately, just at that moment Small's desire to relieve himself fromthe taint of suspicion and to crush Ralph as completely as possible,made him overshoot the mark by asking that Walter be called to thestand, as we have before recounted. He knew that he had no tool sosupple as the cowardly Walter. In the very language of the request, hehad given Walter an intimation of what he wanted him to swear to. Walterlistened to Small's words as to his doom. He felt that he should die ofindecision. The perdition of a man of his stamp is to have to make uphis mind. Such men generally fall back on some one more positive, andtake all their resolutions ready-made. But here Walter must decide forhimself. For the constable was already calling his name; the court, thespectators, and, most of all, Dr. Small, were waiting for him. He movedforward mechanically through the dense crowd, Bud following part of theway to whisper, "Tell the truth or go to penitentiary." Walter shook andshivered at this. The witness with difficulty held up his hand longenough to be sworn."Please tell the court," said Bronson, "whether you know anything of thewhereabouts of Dr. Small on the night of the robbery at PeterSchroeder's."Small had detected Walter's agitation, and, taking alarm, had edged hisway around so as to stand full in Walter's sight, and there, with keen,magnetic eye on the weak orbs of the young man, he was able to assumehis old position, and sway the fellow absolutely."On the night of the robbery"--Walter's voice was weak, but he seemed tobe reading his answer out of Small's eyes--"on the night of the robberyDr. Small came home before--" here the witness stopped and shook andshivered again. For Bud, detecting the effect of Small's gaze, hadpushed his great hulk in front of Small, and had fastened his eyes onWalter with a look that said, "Tell the truth or go to penitentiary.""I can't, I can't. O God! What shall I do?" the witness exclaimed,answering the look of Bud. For it seemed to him that Bud had spoken. Tothe people and the court this agitation was inexplicable. SquireHawkins's wig got awry, his glass eye turned in toward his nose, and hehad great difficulty in keeping his teeth from falling out. Theexcitement became painfully intense. Ralph was on his feet, looking atthe witness, and feeling that somehow Bud and Dr. Small--his good angeland his demon--were playing an awful game, or which he was the stake.The crowd swayed to and fro, but remained utterly silent, waiting tohear the least whisper from the witness, who stood trembling a momentwith his hands over his face, and then fainted.The fainting of a person in a crowd is a signal for everybody else tomake fools of themselves. There was a rush toward the fainting man,there was a cry for water. Everybody asked everybody else to open thewindow, and everybody wished everybody else to stand back and give himair. But nobody opened the window, and nobody stood back. The onlyperfectly cool man in the room was Small. With a quiet air ofprofessional authority he pushed forward and felt the patient's pulse,remarking to the court that he thought it was a sudden attack of feverwith delirium. When Walter revived, Dr. Small would have removed him,but Ralph insisted that his testimony should be heard. Under pretense ofwatching his patient, Small kept close to him. And Walter began the sameold story about Dr. Small's having arrived at the office before eleveno'clock, when Bud came up behind the doctor and fastened his eyes on thewitness with the same significant look, and Walter, with visions of thepenitentiary before him halted, stammered, and seemed about to faintagain."If the court please," said Bronson, "this witness is evidentlyintimidated by that stout young man," pointing to Bud. "I have seen himtwice interrupt witness's testimony by casting threatening looks athim, I trust the court will have him removed from the court-room."After a few moments' consultation, during which Squire Hawkins held hiswig in place with one hand and alternately adjusted his eye and hisspectacles with the other, the magistrates, who were utterly bewilderedby the turn things were taking, decided that It could do no harm, andthat it was best to try the experiment of removing Bud. Perhaps Johnsonwould then be able to get through with his testimony. The constabletherefore asked Bud if he would please leave the room. Bud cast one lastlook at the witness and walked out like a captive bear.Ralph stood watching the receding form of Bud. The emergency had madehim as cool as Small ever was. Bud stopped at the door, where he wascompletely out of sight of the witness, concealed by the excitedspectators, who stood on the benches to see what was going on in front."The witness will please proceed," said Bronson."If the court please"--it was Ralph who spoke--"I believe I have as muchat stake in this trial as any one. That witness is evidentlyintimidated. But not by Mr. Means. I ask that Dr. Small be removed outof sight of the witness.""A most extraordinary request, truly." This was what Small's blandcountenance said; he did not open his lips."It's no more than fair," said Squire Hawkins, adjusting his wig, "thatthe witness be relieved of everything that anybody might think affectshis veracity in this matter."Dr. Small, giving Walter one friendly, appealing look, moved back by thedoor, and stood alongside Bud, as meek, quiet, and disinterested as anyman in the house."The witness will now proceed with his testimony." This time it wasSquire Hawkins who spoke. Bronson had been attacked with a suspicionthat this witness was not just what he wanted, and had relapsed intosilence.Walter's struggle was by no means ended by the disappearance of Smalland Bud. There came the recollection of his mother's stern face--a facewhich had never been a motive toward the right, but only a goad todeception. What would she say if he should confess? Just as he hadrecovered himself, and was about to repeat the old lie which had twicedied upon his lips at the sight of Bud's look, he caught sight ofanother face, which made him tremble again. It was the lofty andterrible countenance of Mr. Soden. One might have thought, from theexpression it wore, that the seven last vials were in his hands, theseven apocalyptic trumpets waiting for his lips, and the seven thunderssitting upon his eyebrows. The moment that Walter saw him he smelled thebrimstone on his own garments, he felt himself upon the crumbling brinkof the precipice, with perdition below him. Now I am sure that "BrotherSodoms" were not made wholly in vain. There are plenty of mean-spiritedmen like Walter Johnson, whose feeble consciences need all the supportthey can get from the fear of perdition, and who are incapable of anyother conception of it than a coarse and materialistic ones Let us setit down to the credit of Brother Sodom, with his stiff stock, histhunderous face, and his awful walk, that his influence over Walter wason the side of truth."Please proceed," said Squire Hawkins to Walter. The Squire's wig lay onone side, he had forgotten to adjust his eye, and he leaned forward,tremulous with interest."Well, then," said Walter, looking not at the court nor at Bronson norat the prisoner, but furtively at Mr. Soden--"well, then, if Imust"--and Mr. Soden's awful face seemed to answer that he surelymust--"well, then, I hope you won't send me to prison"--this to SquireHawkins, whose face reassured him--"but, oh! I don't see how I can!"But one look at Mr. Soden assured him that he could and that he must,and so, with an agony painful to the spectators, he told the story indriblets. How, while yet in Lewisburg, he had been made a member of agang of which Small was chief; how they concealed from him the names ofall the band except six, of whom the Joneses and Small were three.Here there was a scuffle at the door. The court demanded silence."Dr. Small's trying to git out, plague take him," said Bud, who stoodwith his back planted against the door. "I'd like the court to send andgit his trunk afore he has a chance to burn up all the papers that's init.""Constable, you will arrest Dr. Small, Peter Jones, and William Jones.Send two deputies to bring Small's trunk into court," said SquireUnderwood.The prosecuting attorney was silent.Walter then told of the robbery at Schroeder's, told where he and Smallhad whittled the fence while the Joneses entered the house, andconfirmed Ralph's story by telling how they had seen Ralph in afence-corner, and how they had met the basket-maker on the hill."_To_ be sure," said the old man, who had not ventured to hold up hishead, after he was arrested, until Walter began his testimony.Walter felt inclined to stop, but he could not do it, for there stoodMr. Soden, looking to him like a messenger from the skies, or thebottomless pit, sent to extort the last word from his guilty soul Hefelt that he was making a clean breast of it--at the risk of perdition,with the penitentiary thrown in, if he faltered. And so he told thewhole thing as though it had been the day of doom, and by the time hewas through, Small's trunk was in court.Here a new hubbub took place at the door. It was none other than thecrazy pauper, Tom Bifield, who personated General Andrew Jackson in thepoor-house. He had caught some inkling of the trial, and had escaped inBill Jones's absence. His red plume was flying, and in his tattered andfilthy garb he was indeed a picturesque figure."Squar," said he, elbowing his way through the crowd, "I kin tell yousornethin'. I'm Gineral Andrew Jackson. Lost my head at Bueny Visty.This head growed on. It a'n't good fer much. One side's tater. Butt'other's sound as a nut. Now, I kind give you information."Bronson, with the quick perceptions of a politician, had begun to seewhich way future winds would probably blow. "If the court please," hesaid, "this man is not wholly sane, but we might get valuableinformation out of him. I suggest that his testimony be taken for whatit is worth.""No, you don't swar me," broke in the lunatic. "Not if I knows myself.You see, when a feller's got one side of his head tater, he's mightyonsartain like. You don't swar me, fer I can't tell what minute thetater side'll begin to talk. I'm talkin' out of the lef' side now, andI'm all right. But you don't swar me. But ef you'll send some of yourconstables out to the barn at the pore-house and look under the hay-mowin the north-east corner, you'll find some things maybe as has beena-missin' fer some time. And that a'n't out of the tater side, nuther."Meantime Bud did not rest. Hearing the nature of the testimony given byHank Banta before he entered, he attacked Hank and vowed he'd send himto prison if he didn't make a clean breast. Hank was a thorough coward,and, now that his friends were prisoners, was ready enough to tell thetruth if he could be protected from prosecution. Seeing the dispositionof the prosecuting attorney, Bud got from him a promise that he would dowhat he could to protect Hank. That worthy then took the stand,confessed his lie, and even told the inducement which Mr. Pete Joneshad offered him to perjure himself."_To_ be sure," said Pearson.Squire Hawkins, turning his right eye upon him, while the left looked atthe ceiling, said: "Be careful, Mr. Pearson, or I shall have to punishyou for contempt.""Why, Squar, I didn't know 'twas any sin to hev a healthy contemp' fersech a thief as Jones!"The Squire looked at Mr. Pearson severely, and the latter, feeling thathe had committed some offense without knowing it, subsided into silence.Bronson now had a keen sense of the direction of the gale."If the court please," said he, "I have tried to do my duty in thiscase. It was my duty to prosecute Mr. Hartsook, however much I mightfeel assured that he was innocent, and that he would be able to provehis innocence. I now enter a _nolle_ in his case and that of JohnPearson, and I ask that this court adjourn until to-morrow, in order togive me time to examine the evidence in the case of the other partiesunder arrest. I am proud to think that my efforts have been the means ofsifting the matter to the bottom, of freeing Mr. Hartsook fromsuspicion, and of detecting the real criminals.""Ugh!" said Mr. Pearson, who conceived a great dislike to Bronson."The court," said Squire Hawkins, "congratulates Mr. Hartsook on histriumphant acquittal. He is discharged from the bar of this court, andfrom the bar of public sentiment, without a suspicion of guilt.Constable, discharge Ralph Hartsook and John Pearson."Old Jack Means, who had always had a warm side for the master, nowproposed three cheers for Mr. Hartsook, and they were given with a willby the people who would have hanged him an hour before.Mrs. Means gave it as her opinion that "Jack Means allers wuz a fool!""This court," said Dr. Underwood, "has one other duty to perform beforeadjourning for the day. Recall Hannah Thomson.""I jist started her on ahead to git supper and milk the cows," said Mrs.Means. "A'n't a-goin' to have her loafin' here all day.""Constable, recall her. This court can not adjourn until she returns!"Hannah had gone but a little way, and was soon in the presence of thecourt, trembling for fear of some new calamity."Hannah Thomson"--it was Squire Underwood who spoke--"Hannah Thomson,this court wishes to ask you one or two questions.""Yes, sir," but her voice died to a whisper."How old did you say you were?"Eighteen, sir, last October.""Can you prove your age?""Yes, sir--by my mother.""For how long are you bound to Mr. Means?""Till I'm twenty-one.""This court feels in duty bound to inform you that, according to thelaws of Indiana, a woman is of age at eighteen, and as no indenturecould be made binding after you had reached your majority, you are thevictim of a deception. You are free, and if it can be proven that youhave been defrauded by a willful deception, a suit for damages willlie.""Ugh!" said Mrs. Means. "You're a purty court, a'n't you, Dr.Underwood?""Be careful, Mrs. Means, or I shall have to fine you for contempt ofcourt."But the people, who were in the cheering humor, cheered Hannah and thejustices, and then cheered Ralph again. Granny Sanders shook hands withhim, and allers knowed he'd come out right. It allers 'peared like as ifDr. Small warn't jist the sort to tie to, you know. And old John Pearsonwent home, after drinking two or three glasses of Welch's whisky,keeping time to an imaginary triumphal march, and feeling prouder thanhe had ever felt since he fit the Britishers under Scott at Lundy'sLane. He told his wife that the master had jist knocked the hind-sightsoffen that air young lawyer from Lewisburg.Walter was held to bail that he might appear as a witness, and Ralphmight have sent his aunt a Roland for an Oliver. But he only sent a noteto his uncle, asking him to go Walter's bail. If he had been resentful,he could not have wished for a more complete revenge than the day hadbrought.CHAPTER XXXII.AFTER THE BATTLE.Nothing can be more demoralizing in the long run than lynch law. And yetlynch law often originates in a burst of generous indignation which isnot willing to suffer a bold oppressor to escape by means of corrupt andcowardly courts. It is oftener born of fear. Both motives powerfullyagitated the people of the region round about Clifty as night drew onafter Ralph's acquittal. They were justly indignant that Ralph had beenmade the victim of such a conspiracy, and they were frightened at theunseen danger to the community from such a band as that of Small's. Itwas certain that they did not know the full extent of the danger as yet.And what Small might do with a jury, or what Pete Jones might do with asheriff, was a question. I must not detain the reader to tell how themob rose. Nobody knows how such things come about. Their origin is asinexplicable as that of an earthquake. But, at any rate, a rope wastwice put round Small's neck during that night, and both times Smallwas saved only by the nerve and address of Ralph, who had learned howunjust mob law may be. As for Small, he neither trembled when they wereready to hang him, nor looked relieved when he was saved, nor showed theslightest flush of penitence or gratitude. He bore himself in a quiet,gentlemanly way throughout, like the admirable villain that he was.He waived a preliminary examination the next day; his father went hisbail, and he forfeited bail and disappeared from the county and from thehorizon of my story. Two reports concerning Small have been incirculation--one that he was running a faro-bank in San Francisco, theother that he was curing consumption in New York by some quack process.If this latter were true, it would leave it an open question whetherRalph did well to save him from the gallows. Pete Jones and Bill, asusually happens to the rougher villains, went to prison, and when theirterms had expired moved to Pike County, Missouri.But it is about Hannah that you wish to hear, and that I wish to tell.She went straight from the court room to Flat Creek, climbed to herchamber, packed in a handkerchief all her earthly goods, consistingchiefly of a few family relics, and turned her back on the house ofMeans forever. At the gate she met the old woman, who shook her fist inthe girl's face and gave her a parting benediction in the words: "Youmis'able, ongrateful critter you, go 'long. I'm glad to be shed of you!"At the barn she met Bud, and he told her good-by with a little huskinessin his voice, while a tear glistened in her eyes. Bud had been a friendin need, and such a friend one does not leave without a pang."Where are you going? Can I--""No, no!" And with that she hastened on, afraid that Bud would offer tohitch up the roan colt. And she did not want to add to his domesticunhappiness by compromising him in that way.It was dusk and was raining when she left. The hours were long, the roadwas lonely, and after the revelations of that day it did not seem whollysafe. But from the moment that she found herself free, her heart hadbeen ready to break with an impatient homesickness. What though theremight be robbers in the woods? What though there were ten rough miles totravel? What though the rain was in her face? What though she had nottasted food since the morning of that exciting day? Flat Creek andbondage were behind; freedom, mother, Shocky, and home were before her,and her feet grew lighter with the thought. And if she needed any otherjoy, it was to know that the master was clear. And he would come? Andso she traversed the weary distance, and so she inquired and found thehouse, the beautiful, homely old house of beautiful, homely old NancySawyer, and knocked, and was admitted, and fell down, faint and weary,at her blind mother's feet, and laid her tired head in her mother's lapand wept and wept like a child, and said, "O mother! I'm free! I'mfree!" while the mother's tears baptized her face, and the mother'strembling fingers combed out her tresses. And Shocky stood by her andcried: "I knowed God wouldn't forget you, Hanner!"Hannah was ready now to do anything by which she could support hermother and Shocky. She was strong, and inured to toil. She was willingand cheerful, and she would gladly have gone to service if by that meansshe could have supported the family. And, for that matter her mother wasalready able nearly to support herself by her knitting. But Hannah hadbeen carefully educated when young, and at that moment the old publicschools were being organized into a graded school, and the goodminister, who shall be nameless, because he is, perhaps, stillliving in Indiana, and who in Methodist parlance was called "thepreacher-in-charge of Lewisburg Station"--this good minister and MissNancy Sawyer got Hannah a place as teacher in the primary department.And then a little house with four rooms was rented, and a little, a verylittle furniture was put into it, and the old sweet home was establishedagain. The father was gone, never to come back again. But the rest werehere. And somehow Hannah kept waiting for somebody else to come.CHAPTER XXXIII.INTO THE LIGHT.For two weeks longer Ralph taught at the Flat Creek school-house. He waseverybody's hero. And he was Bud's idol. He did what he could to get Budand Martha together, and though Bud always "saw her safe home" afterthis, and called on her every Sunday evening, yet, to save his life, hecould not forget his big fists and his big feet long enough to say whathe most wanted to say, and what Martha most wanted him to say.At the end of two weeks Ralph found himself exceedingly weary of FlatCreek, and exceedingly glad to hear from Mr. Means that the school-moneyhad "gin out." It gave him a good excuse to return to Lewisburg, wherehis heart and his treasure were. A certain sense of delicacy had kepthim from writing to Hannah just yet.When he got to Lewisburg he had good news. His uncle, ashamed of hisprevious neglect, and perhaps with an eye to his nephew's growingpopularity, had got him the charge of the grammar department in the newgraded school in the village. So he quietly arranged to board at aboarding-house. His aunt could not have him about, of which fact he wasvery glad. She could not but feel, she said, that he might have takenbetter care of Walter than he did, when they were only four miles apart.He did not hasten to call on Hannah. Why should he? He sent her amessage, of no consequence in itself, by Nancy Sawyer. Then he tookpossession of his school; and then, on the evening of the first day ofschool, he went, as he had appointed to himself, to see Hannah Thomson.And she, with some sweet presentiment, had got things ready by fixing upthe scantily-furnished room as well as she could. And Miss Nancy Sawyer,who had seen Ralph that afternoon, had guessed that he was going to seeHannah. It's wonderful how much enjoyment a generous heart can get outof the happiness of others. Is not that what He meant when he said ofsuch as Miss Sawyer that they should have a hundred-fold in this lifefor all their sacrifices? Did not Miss Nancy enjoy a hundred weddingsand have the love of five hundred children? And so Miss Nancy justhappened over at Mrs. Thomson's humble home, and, just in the mostmatter-of-course way, asked that lady and Shocky to come over to herhouse. Shocky wanted Hannah to come too. But Hannah blushed a little,and said that she would rather not.And when she was left alone, Hannah fixed her hair two or three times,and swept the hearth, and moved the chairs first one way and thenanother, and did a good many other needless things. Needless: for alover, if he be a lover, does not see furniture or dress.And then she sat down by the fire, and tried to sew, and tried to lookunconcerned, and tried to feel unconcerned, and tried not to expectanybody, and tried to make her heart keep still. And tried in vain. Fora gentle rap at the door sent her pulse up twenty beats a minute andmade her face burn. And Hartsook was for the first time, abashed in thepresence of Hannah. For the oppressed girl had, in two weeks, blossomedout into the full-blown woman.And Ralph sat down by the fire, and talked of his school and her school,and everything else but what he wanted to talk about. And then theconversation drifted back to Flat Creek, and to the walk through thepasture, and to the box-elder tree, and to the painful talk in the lane.And Hannah begged to be forgiven, and Ralph laughed at the idea that shehad done anything wrong. And she praised his goodness to Shocky, and hedrew her little note out of--But I agreed not tell you where he kept it.And then she blushed, and he told how the note had sustained him, andhow her white face kept up his courage in his flight down the bed ofClifty Creek. And he sat a little nearer, to show her the note that hehad carried in his bosom--I have told it! And--but I must not proceed. Alove-scene, ever so beautiful in itself, will not bear telling. And so Ishall leave a little gap just here, which you may fill up as you please.. . . Somehow, they never knew how, they got to talking about the futureinstead of the past, after that, and to planning their two lives as onelife. And . . . And when Miss Nancy and Mrs. Thomson returned later inthe evening, Ralph was standing by the mantel-piece, but Shocky noticedthat his chair was close to Hannah's. And good Miss Nancy Sawyer lookedin Hannah's face and was happy.CHAPTER XXXIV."HOW IT CAME OUT"We are all children in reading stories. We want more than all else toknow how it all came out at the end, and, if our taste is not perverted,we like it to come out well. For my part, ever since I began to writethis story, I have been anxious to know how it was going to come out.Well, there were very few invited. It took place at ten in the morning.The "preacher-in-charge" came, of course. Miss Nancy Sawyer was there.But Ralph's uncle was away, and Aunt Matilda had a sore throat andcouldn't come. Perhaps the memory of the fact that she had refused Mrs.Thomson, the pauper, a bed for two nights, affected her throat. But MissNancy and her sister were there, and the preacher. And that was all,besides the family, and Bud and Martha. Of course Bud and Martha came.And driving Martha to a wedding in a "jumper" was the one opportunityBud needed. His hands were busy, his big boots were out of sight, and itwas so easy to slip from Ralph's love affair to his own, that Budsomehow, in pulling Martha Hawkins's shawl about her, stammered out halfa proposal, which Martha, generous soul, took for the whole ceremony,and accepted. And Bud was so happy that Ralph guessed from his face andvoice that the agony was over, and Bud was betrothed at last to the"gal as was a gal."And after Ralph and Hannah were married--there was no trip, Ralph onlychanged his boarding-place and became head of the house at Mrs.Thomson's thereafter--after it was all over, Bud came to Mr. Hartsook,and, snickering just a little, said as how as him and Martha had fixedit all up, and now they wanted to ax his advice; and Martha proud butblushing, came up and nodded assent. Bud said as how as he hadn't got nobook-larnin' nor nothin', and as how as he wanted to be somethin', andput in his best licks fer Him, you know'. And that Marthy, she was ofthe same way of thinkin', and that was a blessin'. And the Squire wasa-goin' to marry agin', and Marthy would ruther vacate. And his motherand Mirandy was sech as he wouldn't take no wife to. And he thought ashow Mr. Hartsook might think of some way or some place where he andMarthy mout make a livin' fer the present, and put in their best licksfer Him, you know.Ralph thought a moment. He was about to make an allusion to Hercules andthe Augean stables, but he remembered that Bud would not understand it,though it might remind Martha of something she had seen at the East, thetime she was to Bosting."Bud, my dear friend," said Ralph, "it looks a little hard to ask you totake a new wife"--here Bud looked admiringly at Martha--"to thepoor-house. But I don't know anywhere where you can do so much good forChrist as by taking charge of that place, and I can get the appointmentfor you. The new commissioners want just such a man.""What d'ye say, Marthy?" said Bud."Why, somebody ought to do for the poor, and I should like to do it."And so Hercules cleaned the Augean stables.And so my humble, homely Hoosier story of twenty years ago[29] draws toa close, and not without regret I take leave of Ralph and Hannah; andShocky, and Bud, and Martha, and Miss Nancy, and of my readers.       *       *       *       *       *P.S.--A copy of the Lewisburg _Jeffersonian_ came into my hands to-day,and I see by its columns that Ralph Hartsook is principal of theLewisburg Academy. It took me some time, however, to make out that thesheriff of the county, Mr. Israel W. Means, was none other than my oldfriend Bud, of the Church of the Best Licks. I was almost as muchpuzzled over his name as I was when I saw an article in a city paper, byProf. W.J. Thomson, on Poor-Houses. I should not have recognized thewriter as Shocky, had I not known that Shocky has given his spare timeto making outcasts feel that God has not forgot.FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 29: Written in 1871.]THE ENDEnd of Project Gutenberg's The Hoosier Schoolmaster, by Edward Eggleston*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE HOOSIER SCHOOLMASTER ******** This file should be named 15099.txt or 15099.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/5/0/9/15099/Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Charlie Kirschner and the PG OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team.Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Lives of the Poets of Great Britain andIreland (1753),Vol. V., by Theophilus CibberThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Lives of the Poets of Great Britain and Ireland (1753),Vol. V.Author: Theophilus CibberRelease Date: April 20, 2004 [EBook #12090]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LIVES OF THE POETS ***Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Carol David and PG Distributed ProofreadersTHELIVESOF THEPOETSOF_Great-Britain_ and _Ireland._By Mr. CIBBER, and other Hands.VOL. V.M DCC LIIICONTENTS          A                                        Vol._Aaron Hill_                                        V_Addison_                                         III_Amhurst_                                           V_Anne_, Countess of _Winchelsea_                  III          B_Bancks_                                          III_Banks_                                             V_Barclay_                                           I_Barton Booth_                                     IV_Beaumont_                                          I_Behn, Aphra_                                     III_Betterton_                                       III_Birkenhead_                                       II_Blackmore_                                         V_Booth_, Vid. _Barton Boyce_                        V_Boyle_, E. _Orrery_                               II_Brady_                                            IV_Brewer_                                           II_Brooke_, Sir _Fulk Greville_                       I_Brown, Tom_                                      III_Buckingham_, Duke of                              II_Budgell_                                           V_Butler_                                           II          C_Carew_                                             I_Cartwright_                                        I_Centlivre_, Mrs.                                  IV_Chandler_, Mrs.                                    V_Chapman_                                           I_Chaucer_                                           I_Chudleigh_, Lady                                 III_Churchyard_                                        I_Cleveland_                                        II_Cockaine_                                         II_Cockburne_, Mrs.                                   V_Codrington_                                       IV_Concanen_                                          V_Congreve_                                         IV_Corbet_                                            I_Cotton_                                          III_Cowley_                                           II_Crashaw_                                           I_Creech_                                          III_Crowne_                                          III_Croxal_                                            V          D_Daniel_                                            I_Davenant_                                         II_Davies_                                            I_Dawes_, Arch. of _York_                           IV_Day_                                               I_Decker_                                            I_De Foe_                                           IV_Denham_                                           IV_Dennis_                                           IV_Donne_                                             I_Dorset_, Earl of                                   I_Dorset_, Earl of                                 III_Drayton_                                           I_Drummond_                                          I_Dryden_                                          III_D'Urfey_                                         III          E_Eachard_                                          IV_Etheredge_                                       III_Eusden_                                            V_Eustace Budgel_                                    V          F_Fairfax_                                           I_Fanshaw_                                          II_Farquhar_                                          I_Faulkland_                                         I_Fenton_                                           IV_Ferrars_                                           I_Flecknoe_                                        III_Fletcher_                                          I_Ford_                                              I_Frowde_                                            V          G_Garth_                                           III_Gay_                                              IV_Gildon_                                          III_Goff_                                              I_Goldsmith_                                        II_Gower_                                             I_Granville_, Lord _Landsdown_                      IV_Green_                                             I_Greville_, Lord _Brooke_                           I_Grierson_                                          V          H_Harrington_                                       II_Hall_, Bishop                                      I_Hammond_                                           V_Hammond_, Esq;                                    IV_Harding_                                           I_Harrington_                                        I_Hausted_                                           I_Head_                                             II_Haywood, John_                                     I_Haywood, Jasper_                                   I_Haywood, Thomas_                                   I_Hill_                                              V_Hinchliffe_                                        V_Hobbs_                                            II_Holliday_                                         II_Howard, Esq_;                                    III_Howard_, Sir _Robert_                            III_Howel_                                            II_Hughes_                                           IV          I_Johnson, Ben_                                       I_Johnson, Charles_                                  V          K_Killegrew, Anne_                                  II_Killegrew, Thomas_                               III_Killegrew, William_                              III_King_, Bishop of _Chichester_                     II_King_, Dr. _William_                             III          L_Lauderdale_, Earl of                               V_Langland_                                          I_Lansdown_, Lord _Granville_                       IV_Lee_                                              II_L'Estrange_                                       IV_Lillo_                                             V_Lilly_                                             I_Lodge_                                             I_Lydgate_                                         III          M_Main_                                             II_Manley_, Mrs.                                     IV_Markham_                                           I_Marloe_                                            I_Marston_                                           I_Marvel_                                           IV_Massinger_                                        II_May_                                              II_Maynwaring_                                      III_Miller_                                            V_Middleton_                                         I_Milton_                                           II_Mitchel_                                          IV_Monk_, the Hon. Mrs.                             III_Montague_, Earl of _Hallifax_                    III_More_, Sir _Thomas_                                I_More, Smyth_                                     IV_Motteaux_                                         IV_Mountford_                                       III          N_Nabbes_                                           II_Nash_                                              I_Needler_                                          IV_Newcastle_, Duchess of                            II_Newcastle_, Duke of                               II          O_Ogilby_                                           II_Oldham_                                           II_Oldmixon_                                         IV_Orrery, Boyle_, Earl of                           II_Otway_                                            II_Overbury_                                          I_Ozell_                                            IV          P_Pack_                                             IV_Phillips_, Mrs. _Katherine_                       II_Phillips, John_                                  III_Phillips, Ambrose_                                 V_Pilkington_                                        V_Pit_                                               V_Pomfret_                                         III_Pope_                                              V_Prior_                                            IV          R_Raleigh_                                           I_Randolph_                                          I_Ravenscroft_                                     III_Rochester_                                        II_Roscommon_, Earl of                              III_Rowe, Nicholas_                                  III_Rowe_, Mrs.                                       IV_Rowley_                                            I          S_Sackville_, E. of _Dorset_                         I_Sandys_                                            I_Savage_                                            V_Sedley_                                          III_Settle_                                          III_Sewel_                                            IV_Shadwell_                                        III_Shakespear_                                        I_Sheffield_, Duke of Buckingham                   III_Sheridan_                                          V_Shirley_                                          II_Sidney_                                            I_Skelton_                                           I_Smith, Matthew_                                   II_Smith, Edmund_                                    IV_Smyth, More_                                      IV_Southern_                                          V_Spenser_                                           I_Sprat_                                           III_Stapleton_                                        II_Steele_                                           IV_Stepney_                                          IV_Stirling_, Earl of                                 I_Suckling_                                          I_Surry_, Earl of                                    I_Swift_                                             V_Sylvester_                                         I          T_Tate_                                            III_Taylor_                                           II_Theobald_                                          V_Thomas_, Mrs.                                     IV_Thompson_                                          V_Tickell_                                           V_Trap_                                              V          V_Vanbrugh_                                         IV          W_Waller_                                           II_Walsh_                                           III_Ward_                                             IV_Welsted_                                          IV_Wharton_                                          II_Wharton, Philip_ Duke of                          IV_Wycherley_                                       III_Winchelsea, Anne_, Countess of                   III_Wotton_                                            I_Wyatt_                                             I          Y_Yalden_                                           IVTHELIVESOF THEPOETS       *       *       *       *       *EUSTACE BUDGELL, Esq;was the eldest son of Gilbert Budgell, D.D. of St. Thomas near Exeter,by his first wife Mary, the only daughter of Dr. William Gulston, bishopof Bristol; whose sister Jane married dean Addison, and was mother tothe famous Mr. Addison the secretary of state. This family of Budgell isvery old, and has been settled, and known in Devonshire above 200years[1].Eustace was born about the year 1685, and distinguished himself verysoon at school, from whence he was removed early to Christ's ChurchCollege in Oxford, where he was entered a gentleman commoner. He staidsome years in that university, and afterwards went to London, where, byhis father's directions, he was entered of the Inner-Temple, in order tobe bred to the Bar, for which his father had always intended him: butinstead of the Law, he followed his own inclinations, which carried himto the study of polite literature, and to the company of the genteelestpeople in town. This proved unlucky; for the father, by degrees, grewuneasy at his son's not getting himself called to the Bar, nor properlyapplying to the Law, according to his reiterated directions and request;and the son complained of the strictness and insufficiency of hisfather's allowance, and constantly urged the necessity of his livinglike a gentleman, and of his spending a great deal of money. During thisslay, however, at the Temple, Mr. Budgell made a strict intimacy andfriendship with Mr. Addison, who was first cousin to his mother; andthis last gentleman being appointed, in the year 1710, secretary to lordWharton, the lord lieutenant of Ireland, he made an offer to his friendEustace of going with him as one of the clerks in his office. Theproposal being advantageous, and Mr. Budgell being then on bad termswith his father, and absolutely unqualified for the practice of the Law,it was readily accepted. Nevertheless, for fear of his father'sdisapprobation of it, he never communicated his design to him 'till thevery night of his setting out for Ireland, when he wrote him a letterto inform him at once of his resolution and journey. This was in thebeginning of April 1710, when he was about twenty five years of age. Hehad by this time read the classics, the most reputed historians, and allthe best French, English, or Italian writers. His apprehension wasquick, his imagination fine, and his memory remarkably strong; thoughhis greatest commendations were a very genteel address, a ready wit andan excellent elocution, which shewed him to advantage wherever he went.There was, notwithstanding, one principal defect in his disposition, andthis was an infinite vanity, which gave him so insufferable apresumption, as led him to think that nothing was too much for hiscapacity, nor any preferment, or favour, beyond his deserts. Mr.Addison's fondness for him perhaps increased this disposition, as henaturally introduced him into all the company he kept, which at thattime was the best, and most ingenious in the two kingdoms. In short,they lived and lodged together, and constantly followed the lordlieutenant into England at the same time.It was now that Mr. Budgell commenced author, and was partly concernedwith Sir Richard Steele and Mr. Addison in writing the Tatler. TheSpectators being set on foot in 1710-11, Mr. Budgell had likewise ashare in them, as all the papers marked with an X may easily inform thereader, and indeed the eighth volume was composed by Mr. Addison andhimself[2], without the assistance of Sir Richard Steele. Thespeculations of our author were generally liked, and Mr. Addison wasfrequently complimented upon the ingenuity of his kinsman. About thesame time he wrote an epilogue to the Distress'd Mother[3], which had agreater run than any thing of that kind ever had before, and has hadthis peculiar regard shewn to it since, that now, above thirty yearsafterwards, it is generally spoke at the representation of that play.Several little epigrams and songs, which have a good deal of wit inthem, were also written by Mr. Budgell near this period of time, allwhich, together with the known affection of Mr. Addison for him, raisedhis character so much, as to make him be very generally known and talkedof.His father's death in 1711 threw into his hands all the estates of thefamily, which were about 950 l. a year, although they were leftincumbered with some debts, as his father was a man of pride and spirit,kept a coach and six, and always lived beyond his income,notwithstanding his spiritual preferments, and the money he had receivedwith his wives. Dr. Budgell had been twice married, and by his firstlady left five children living after him, three of whom were sons,Eustace, our author, Gilbert, a Clergyman, and William, the fellow ofNew College in Oxford. By his last wife (who was Mrs. Fortescue, motherto the late master of the rolls, and who survived him) he had no issue.Notwithstanding this access of fortune, Mr. Budgell in no wise alteredhis manner of living; he was at small expence about his person, stuckvery close to business, and gave general satisfaction in the dischargeof his office.Upon the laying down of the Spectator, the Guardian was set up, and inthis work our author had a hand along with Mr. Addison and Sir RichardSteele. In the preface it is said, those papers marked with an asteriskare by Mr. Budgell.In the year 1713 he published a very elegant translation ofTheophrastus's Characters, which Mr. Addison in the Lover says, 'is thebest version extant of any ancient author in the English language.' Itwas dedicated to the lord Hallifax, who was the greatest patron ourauthor ever had, and with whom he always lived in the greatest intimacy.Mr. Budgell having regularly made his progress in the secretary ofState's office in Ireland; upon the arrival of his late Majesty inEngland, was appointed under secretary to Mr. Addison, and chiefsecretary to the Lords Justices of Ireland. He was made likewise deputyclerk of the council in that kingdom, and soon after chose member of theIrish parliament, where he became a very good speaker. The post of undersecretary is reckoned worth 1500 l. a year, and that of deputy clerk tothe council 250 l. a year. Mr. Budgell set out for Ireland the 8th ofOctober, 1714, officiated in his place in the privy council the 14th,took possession of the secretary's office, and was immediately admittedsecretary to the Lords Justices. In the same year at a publicentertainment at the Inns of Court in Dublin, he, with many people ofdistinction, was made an honorary bencher. At his first entering uponthe secretary's place, after the removal of the tories on the accessionof his late Majesty, he lay under very great difficulties; all theformer clerks of his office refusing to serve, all the books with theform of business being secreted, and every thing thrown into the utmostconfusion; yet he surmounted these difficulties with very uncommonresolution, assiduity, and ability, to his great honour and applause.Within a twelvemonth of his entering upon his employments, the rebellionbroke out, and as, for several years (during all the absences of thelord lieutenant) he had discharged the office of secretary of state, andas no transport office at that time subsisted, he was extraordinarilycharged with the care of the embarkation, and the providing of shipping(which is generally the province of a field-officer) for all the troopsto be transported to Scotland. However, he went through this extensiveand unusual complication of business, with great exactness and ability,and with very singular disinterestedness, for he took no extraordinaryservice money on this account, nor any gratuity, or fees for any of thecommissions which passed through his office for the colonels andofficers of militia then raising in Ireland. The Lords Justices pressedhim to draw up a warrant for a very handsome present, on account of hisgreat zeal, and late extraordinary pains (for he had often sat up wholenights in his office) but he very genteely and firmly refused it.Mr. Addison, upon becoming principal secretary of state in England in1717, procured the place of accomptant and comptroller general of therevenue in Ireland for Mr. Budgell, which is worth 400 l. a year, andmight have had him for his under secretary, but it was thought moreexpedient for his Majesty's service, that Mr. Budgell should continuewhere he was. Our author held these several places until the year 1718,at which time the duke of Bolton was appointed lord lieutenant. Hisgrace carried one Mr. Edward Webster over with him (who had been anunder clerk in the Treasury) and made him a privy counsellor and hissecretary. This gentleman, 'twas said, insisted upon the quartering afriend on the under secretary, which produced a misunderstanding betweenthem; for Mr. Budgell positively declared, he would never submit to anysuch condition whilst he executed the office, and affected to treat Mr.Webster himself, his education, abilities, and family, with the utmostcontempt. He was indiscreet enough, prior to this, to write a lampoon,in which the lord lieutenant was not spared: he would publish it (sofond was he of this brat of his brain) in opposition to Mr. Addison'sopinion, who strongly persuaded him to suppress it; as the publication,Mr. Addison said, could neither serve his interest, or reputation. Hencemany discontents arose between them, 'till at length the lordlieutenant, in support of his secretary, superseded Mr. Budgell, andvery soon after got him removed from the place of accomptant-general.However, upon the first of these removals taking place, and upon somehints being given by his private secretary, captain Guy Dickens (now ourminister at Stockholm) that it would not probably be safe for him toremain any longer in Ireland, he immediately entrusted his papers andprivate concerns to the hands of his brother William, then a clerk inhis office, and set out for England. Soon after his arrival he publisheda pamphlet representing his case, intituled, A Letter to the Lord----from Eustace Budgell, Esq; Accomptant General of Ireland, and lateSecretary to their Excellencies the Lords Justices of that Kingdom;eleven hundred copies of which were sold off in one day, so great wasthe curiosity of the public in that particular. Afterwards too in thePost-Boy of January 17, 1718-19, he published an Advertisement tojustify his character against a report that had been spread to hisdisadvantage: and he did not scruple to declare in all companies thathis life was attempted by his enemies, or otherwise he should haveattended his feat in the Irish Parliament. His behaviour, about thistime, made many of his friends judge he was become delirious; hispassions were certainly exceeding strong, nor were his vanity andjealousy less. Upon his coming to England he had lost no time in waitingupon Mr. Addison, who had resigned the seals, and was retired into thecountry for the sake of his health; but Mr. Addison found it impossibleto stem the tide of opposition, which was every where running againsthis kinsman, through the influence and power of the duke of Bolton. Hetherefore disswaded him in the strongest manner from publishing hiscase, but to no manner of purpose, which made him tell a friend in greatanxiety, 'Mr. Budgell was wiser than any man he ever knew, and yet hesupposed the world would hardly believe he acted contrary to hisadvice.' Our author's great and noble friend the lord Hallifax was dead,and my lord Orrery, who held him in the highest esteem, had it not inhis power to procure him any redress. However, Mr. Addison had got apromise from lord Sunderland, that as soon as the present clamour was alittle abated, he would do something for him.Mr. Budgell had held the considerable places of under secretary to theLord Lieutenant, and secretary to the Lords Justices for four years,during which time he had never been absent four days from his office,nor ten miles from Dublin. His application was indefatigable, and hisnatural spirits capable of carrying him through any difficulty. He hadlived always genteelly, but frugally, and had saved a large sum ofmoney, which he now engaged in the South-Sea scheme. During his abode inIreland, he had collected materials for writing a History of thatkingdom, for which he had great advantages, by having an easy recourseto all the public offices; but what is become of it, and whether he everfinished it, we are not certainly informed. It is undoubtedly aconsiderable loss, because there is no tolerable history of that nation,and because we might have expected a satisfactory account from sopleasing a writer.He wrote a pamphlet, after he came to England, against the famousPeerage Bill, which was very well received by the public, but highlyoffended the earl of Sunderland. It was exceedingly cried up by theopposition, and produced some overtures of friendship at the time, fromMr. Robert Walpole, to our author. Mr. Addison's death, in the year1719, put an end, however, to all his hopes of succeeding at court,where he continued, nevertheless, to make several attempts, but wasconstantly kept down by the weight of the duke of Bolton. In theSeptember of that year he went into France, through all the strongplaces in Flanders and Brabant, and all the considerable towns inHolland, and then went to Hanover, from whence he returned with hisMajesty's retinue the November following.But the fatal year of the South-Sea, 1720, ruined our author entirely,for he lost above 20,000 l. in it; however he was very active on thatoccasion, and made many speeches at the general courts of the South-SeaCompany in Merchant-Taylors Hall, and one in particular, which wasafterwards printed both in French and English, and run to a thirdedition. And in 1721 he published a pamphlet with success, called, ALetter to a Friend in the Country, occasioned by a Report that there isa Design still forming by the late Directors of the South-Sea Company,their Agents and Associates, to issue the Receipts of the 3d and 4thSubscriptions at 1000 l. per Cent. and to extort about 10 Millions morefrom the miserable People of Great Britain; with some Observations onthe present State of Affairs both at Home and Abroad. In the same yearhe published A Letter to Mr. Law upon his Arrival in Great Britain,which run through seven editions very soon. Not long afterwards the dukeof Portland, whose fortune had been likewise destroyed by the South-Sea,was appointed governor of Jamaica, upon which he immediately told Mr.Budgell he should go with him as his secretary, and should always livein the same manner with himself, and that he would contrive every methodof making the employment profitable and agreeable to him: but his gracedid not know how obnoxious our author had rendered himself; for within afew days after this offer's taking air, he was acquainted in form by asecretary of state, that if he thought of Mr. Budgell, the governmentwould appoint another governor in his room.After being deprived of this last resource, he tried to get into thenext parliament at several places, and spent near 5000 l. inunsuccessful attempts, which compleated his ruin. And from this periodhe began to behave and live in a very different manner from what he hadever done before; wrote libellous pamphlets against Sir Robert Walpoleand the ministry; and did many unjust things with respect to hisrelations; being distracted in his own private fortune, as, indeed, hewas judged to be, in his senses; torturing his invention to find outways of subsisting and eluding his ill-stars, his pride at the same timeworking him up to the highest pitches of resentment and indignationagainst all courts and courtiers.His younger brother, the fellow of New-College, who had more weight withhim than any body, had been a clerk under him in Ireland, and continuedstill in the office, and who bad fair for rising in it, died in the year1723, and after that our author seemed to pay no regard to any person.Mr. William Budgell was a man of very good sense, extremely steady inhis conduct, and an adept in all calculations and mathematicalquestions; and had besides great good-nature and easiness of temper.Our author as I before observed, perplexed his private affairs from thistime as much as possible, and engaged in numberless law-suits, whichbrought him into distresses that attended him to the end of his life.In 1727 Mr. Budgell had a 1000 l. given him by the late Sarah, duchessdowager of Marlborough, to whose husband (the famous duke ofMarlborough) he was a relation by his mother's side, with a view to hisgetting into parliament. She knew he had a talent for speaking inpublic, and that he was acquainted with business, and would probably runany lengths against the ministry. However this scheme failed, for hecould never get chosen.In the year 1730 and about that time, he closed in with the writersagainst the administration, and wrote many papers in the Craftsman. Helikewise published a pamphlet, intitled, A Letter to the Craftsman,from E. Budgell, Esq; occasioned by his late presenting an humblecomplaint against the right honourable Sir Robert Walpole, with aPost-script. This ran to a ninth edition. Near the same time too hewrote a Letter to Cleomenes King of Sparta, from E. Budgell, Esq; beingan Answer Paragraph by Paragraph to his Spartan Majesty's Royal Epistle,published some time since in the Daily Courant, with some Account of theManners and Government of the Antient Greeks and Romans, and PoliticalReflections thereon. And not long after there came out A State of one ofthe Author's Cases before the House of Lords, which is generally printedwith the Letter to Cleomenes: He likewise published on the same occasiona pamphlet, which he calls Liberty and Property, by E. Budgell, Esq;wherein he complains of the seizure and loss of many valuable papers,and particularly a collection of Letters from Mr. Addison, lordHallifax, Sir Richard Steele, and other people, which he designed topublish; and soon after he printed a sequel or second part, under thesame title.The same year he also published his Poem upon his Majesty's Journey toCambridge and New-market, and dedicated it to the Queen. Another of hisperformances is a poetical piece, intitled A Letter to his ExcellencyUlrick D'Ypres, and C----, in Answer to his excellency's two Epistles inthe Daily Courant; with a Word or Two to Mr. Osborn the Hyp Doctor, andC----. These several performances were very well received by the public.In the year 1733 he began a weekly pamphlet (in the nature of aMagazine, though more judiciously composed) called The Bee, which hecontinued for about 100 Numbers, that bind into eight Volumes Octavo,but at last by quarrelling with his booksellers, and filling hispamphlet with things entirely relating to himself, he was obliged todrop it. During the progress of this work, Dr. Tindall's death happened,by whose will Mr. Budgell had 2000 l. left him; and the world beingsurprised at such a gift, immediately imputed it to his making the willhimself. This produced a paper-war between him and Mr. Tindall, thecontinuator of Rapin, by which Mr. Budgell's character considerablysuffered; and this occasioned his Bee's being turned into a meervindication of himself.It is thought he had some hand in publishing Dr. Tindall's Christianityas old as the Creation; and he often talked of another additional volumeon the same subject, but never published it. However he used to enquirevery frequently after Dr. Conybear's health (who had been employed byher late majesty to answer the first, and had been rewarded with thedeanery of Christ-Church for his pains) saying he hoped Mr. Dean wouldlive a little while longer, that he might have the pleasure of makinghim a bishop, for he intended very soon to publish the other volume ofTindall which would do the business. Mr. Budgell promised likewise avolume of several curious pieces of Tindall's, that had been committedto his charge, with the life of the doctor; but never fulfilled hispromise[4].During the publication of the Bee a smart pamphlet came out, called AShort History of Prime Ministers, which was generally believed to bewritten by our author; and in the same year he published A Letter to theMerchants and Tradesmen of London and Bristol, upon their late gloriousbehaviour against the Excise Law.After the extinction of the Bee, our author became so involved withlaw-suits, and so incapable of living in the manner he wished andaffected to do, that he was reduced to a very unhappy situation. He gothimself call'd to the bar, and attended for some time in the courts oflaw; but finding it was too late to begin that profession, and toodifficult for a man not regularly trained to it, to get into business,he soon quitted it. And at last, after being cast in several of his ownsuits, and being distressed to the utmost, he determined to make awaywith himself. He had always thought very loosely of revelation, andlatterly became an avowed deist; which, added to his pride, greatlydisposed him to this resolution.Accordingly within a few days after the loss of his great cause, and hisestates being decreed for the satisfaction of his creditors, in the year1736 he took boat at Somerset-Stairs (after filling his pockets withstones upon the beach) ordered the waterman to shoot the bridge, andwhilst the boat was going under it threw himself over-board. Severaldays before he had been visibly distracted in his mind, and almost mad,which makes such an action the less wonderful.He was never married, but left one natural daughter behind him, whoafterwards took his name, and was lately an actress at Drury-Lane.It has been said, Mr. Budgell was of opinion, that when life becomesuneasy to support, and is overwhelmed with clouds, and sorrows, that aman has a natural right to take it away, as it is better not to live,than live in pain. The morning before he carried his notion ofself-murder into execution, he endeavoured to persuade his daughter toaccompany him, which she very wisely refused. His argument to induce herwas; life is not worth the holding.--Upon Mr. Budgell's beauroe wasfound a slip of paper; in which were written these words.  What Cato did, and Addison approv'd[5],  Cannot be wrong.--Mr. Budgell had undoubtedly strong natural parts, an excellenteducation, and set out in life with every advantage that a man couldwish, being settled in very great and profitable employments, at a veryearly age, by Mr. Addison: But by excessive vanity and indiscretion,proceeding from a false estimation of his own weight and consequence, heover-stretched himself, and ruined his interest at court, and by thesucceeding loss of his fortune in the South-Sea, was reduced too low tomake any other head against his enemies. The unjustifiable anddishonourable law-suits he kept alive, in the remaining part of hislife, seem to be intirely owing to the same disposition, which couldnever submit to the living beneath what he had once done, and from thatprinciple he kept a chariot and house in London to the very last.His end was like that of many other people of spirit, reduced to greatstreights; for some of the greatest, as well as some of the mostinfamous men have laid violent hands upon themselves. As an author wherehe does not speak of himself, and does not give a loose to his vanity,he is a very agreeable and deserving writer; not argumentative or deep,but very ingenious and entertaining, and his stile is peculiarlyelegant, so as to deserve being ranked in that respect with Addison's,and is superior to most of the other English writers. His Memoirs of theOrrery Family and the Boyle's, is the most indifferent of hisperformances; though the translations of Phalaris's Epistles in thatwork are done with great spirit and beauty.As to his brothers, the second, Gilbert, was thought a man of deeperlearning and better judgment when he was young than our author, but wascertainly inferior to him in his appearance in life; and, 'tis thought,greatly inferior to him in every respect. He was author of a pretty Copyof Verses in the VIIIth Vol. of the Spectators, Numb, 591, which beginsthus,  Conceal, fond man, conceal the mighty smart,  Nor tell Corinna she has fir'd thy heart.And it is said that it was a repulse from a lady of great fortune, withwhom he was desperately in love whilst at Oxford, and to whom he hadaddressed these lines, that made him disregard himself ever after,neglect his studies, and fall into a habit of drinking. Whatever was theoccasion of this last vice it ruined him. A lady had commended anddesired to have a copy of his Verses once, and he sent them, with theselines on the first leaf--  Lucretius hence thy maxim I abjure  Nought comes from nought, nothing can nought procure.  If to these lines your approbation's join'd,  Something I'm sure from nothing has been coin'd.This gentleman died unmarried, a little after his brother Eustace, atExeter; having lived in a very disreputable manner for some time, andhaving degenerated into such excessive indolence, that he usually pickedup some boy in the streets, and carried him into the coffee-house toread the news-papers to him. He had taken deacon's orders some yearsbefore his death, but had always been averse to that kind of life; andtherefore became it very ill, and could never be prevailed upon to be apriest.The third brother William, fellow of New-College in Oxford, died (as Imentioned before) one of the clerks in the Irish secretary of state'soffice, very young. He had been deputy accomptant general, both to hisbrother and his successor; and likewise deputy to Mr. Addison, as keeperof the records in Birmingham-Tower. Had he lived, 'tis probable he wouldhave made a considerable figure, being a man of sound sense andlearning, with great prudence and honour. His cousin Dr. Downes, thenbishop of London-Derry, was his zealous friend, and Dr. Lavington thepresent bishop of Exeter, his fellow-collegian, was his intimatecorrespondent. Of the two sisters, the eldest married captain Graves ofThanks, near Saltash in Cornwall, a sea-officer, and died in 1738,leaving some children behind her; and the other is still alive,unmarried. The father Dr. Gilbert Budgell, was esteemed a sensible man,and has published a discourse upon Prayer, and some Sermons[6].FOOTNOTES:[1] See Budgell's Letter to Cleomenes. Appendix p. 79.[2] See The Bee, vol. ii. p. 854.[3] 'Till then it was usual to discontinue an epilogue after the sixth    night. But this was called for by the audience, and continued for    the whole run of this play: Budgell did not scruple to sit in the    it, and call for it himself.[4] Vide Bee, Vol. II. page 1105.[5] Alluding to Cato's destroying himself.[6] There is an Epigram of our author's, which I don't remember to have    seen published any where, written upon the death of a very fine    young lady.  She was, she is,  (What can theremore be said)  On Earth [the] first,  In Heav'n the second Maid.[Transcriber's note: Print unclear, word in square bracket assumed.]    See a Song of our author's in Steele's Miscellanies, published in    1714. Page 210.    There is an Epigram of his printed in the same book and in many    collections, Upon a Company of bad Dancers to good Music.  How ill the motion with the music suits!  So fiddled Orpheus--and so danc'd the Brutes.       *       *       *       *       *THOMAS TICKELL, Esq.This Gentleman, well known, to the world by the friendship and intimacywhich subsisted between him and Mr. Addison, was the son of the revd.Mr. Richard Tickell, who enjoy'd a considerable preferment in the Northof England. Our poet received his education at Queen's-College inOxford, of which he was a fellow.While he was at that university, he wrote a beautiful copy of versesaddressed to Mr. Addison, on his Opera of Rosamond. These versescontained many elegant compliments to the author, in which he compareshis softness to Corelli, and his strength to Virgil[1].  The Opera first Italian masters taught,  Enrich'd with songs, but innocent of thought;  Britannia's learned theatre disdains  Melodious trifles, and enervate strains;  And blushes on her injur'd stage to see,  Nonsense well tun'd with sweet stupidity.  No charms are wanting to thy artful song  Soft as Corelli, and as Virgil strong.These complimentary lines, a few of which we have now quoted, soeffectually recommended him to Mr. Addison, that he held him in esteemever afterwards; and when he himself was raised to the dignity ofsecretary of state, he appointed Mr. Tickell his under-secretary. Mr.Addison being obliged to resign on account of his ill-state of health,Mr. Craggs who succeeded him, continued Mr. Tickell in his place, whichhe held till that gentleman's death. When Mr. Addison was appointedsecretary, being a diffident man, he consulted with his friends aboutdisposing such places as were immediately dependent on him. Hecommunicated to Sir Richard Steele, his design of preferring Mr. Tickellto be his under-secretary, which Sir Richard, who considered him as apetulant man, warmly opposed. He observed that Mr. Tickell was of atemper too enterprising to be governed, and as he had no opinion of hishonour, he did not know what might be the consequence, if by insinuationand flattery, or by bolder means, he ever had an opportunity of raisinghimself. It holds pretty generally true, that diffident people under theappearance of distrusting their own opinions, are frequently positive,and though they pursue their resolutions with trembling, they never failto pursue them. Mr. Addison had a little of this temper in him. He couldnot be persuaded to set aside Mr. Tickell, nor even had secrecy enoughto conceal from him Sir Richard's opinion. This produced a greatanimosity between Sir Richard and Mr. Tickell, which subsisted duringtheir lives.Mr. Tickell in his life of Addison, prefixed to his own edition of thatgreat man's works, throws out some unmannerly reflexions against SirRichard, who was at that time in Scotland, as one of the commissionerson the forfeited estates. Upon Sir Richard's return to London, hededicates to Mr. Congreve, Addison's Comedy, called the Drummer, inwhich he takes occasion very smartly to retort upon Tickell, and clearshimself of the imputation laid to his charge, namely that of valuinghimself upon Mr. Addison's papers in the Spectator.In June 1724 Mr. Tickell was appointed secretary to the Lords Justicesin Ireland, a place says Mr. Coxeter, which he held till his death,which happened in the year 1740.It does not appear that Mr. Tickell was in any respect ungrateful to Mr.Addison, to whom he owed his promotion; on the other hand we find himtake every opportunity to celebrate him, which he always performs withso much zeal, and earnestness, that he seems to have retained the mostlasting sense of his patron's favours. His poem to the earl of Warwickon the death of Mr. Addison, is very pathetic. He begins it thus,  If dumb too long, the drooping Muse hath stray'd,  And left her debt to Addison unpaid,  Blame not her silence, Warwick, but bemoan,  And judge, O judge, my bosom by your own.  What mourner ever felt poetic fires!  Slow comes the verse, that real woe inspires:  Grief unaffected suits but ill with art,  Or flowing numbers with a bleeding heart.Mr. Tickell's works are printed in the second volume of the Minor Poets,and he is by far the most considerable writer amongst them. He has avery happy talent in versification, which much exceeds Addison's, and isinferior to few of the English Poets, Mr. Dryden and Pope excepted. Thefirst poem in this collection is addressed to the supposed author of theSpectator.In the year 1713 Mr. Tickell wrote a poem, called The Prospect of Peace,addressed to his excellency the lord privy-seal; which met with sofavourable a reception from the public, as to go thro' six editions. Thesentiments in this poem are natural, and obvious, but no wayextraordinary. It is an assemblage of pretty notions, poeticallyexpressed; but conducted with no kind of art, and altogether without aplan. The following exordium is one of the most shining parts of thepoem.  Far hence be driv'n to Scythia's stormy shore  The drum's harsh music, and the cannon's roar;  Let grim Bellona haunt the lawless plain,  Where Tartar clans, and grizly Cossacks reign;  Let the steel'd Turk be deaf to Matrons cries,  See virgins ravish'd, with relentless eyes,  To death, grey heads, and smiling infants doom.  Nor spare the promise of the pregnant womb:  O'er wafted kingdoms spread his wide command.  The savage lord of an unpeopled land.  Her guiltless glory just Britannia draws  From pure religion, and impartial laws,  To Europe's wounds a mother's aid she brings,  And holds in equal scales the rival kings:  Her gen'rous sons in choicest gifts abound,  Alike in arms, alike in arts renown'd.The Royal Progress. This poem is mentioned in the Spectator, inopposition to such performances, as are generally written in a swellingstile, and in which the bombast is mistaken for the sublime. It is meantas a compliment to his late majesty, on his arrival in his Britishdominions.An imitation of the Prophesy of Nereus. Horace, Book I. Ode XV.--Thiswas written about the year 1715, and intended as a ridicule upon theenterprize of the earl of Marr; which he prophesies will be crushed bythe duke of Argyle.An Epistle from a Lady in England, to a gentleman at Avignon. Of thispiece five editions were sold; it is written in the manner of a Lady toa Gentleman, whose principles obliged him to be an exile with the RoyalWanderer. The great propension of the Jacobites to place confidence inimaginary means; and to construe all extraordinary appearances, intoominous signs of the restoration of their king is very well touched.  Was it for this the sun's whole lustre fail'd,  And sudden midnight o'er the Moon prevail'd!  For this did Heav'n display to mortal eyes  Aerial knights, and combats in the skies!  Was it for this Northumbrian streams look'd red!  And Thames driv'n backwards shew'd his secret bed!  False Auguries! th'insulting victors scorn!  Ev'n our own prodigies against us turn!  O portents constru'd, on our side in vain!  Let never Tory trust eclipse again!  Run clear, ye fountains! be at peace, ye skies;  And Thames, henceforth to thy green borders rise!An Ode, occasioned by his excellency the earl of Stanhope's Voyage toFrance.A Prologue to the University of Oxford.Thoughts occasioned by the sight of an originalpicture of King Charles the 1st, taken at the time ofhis Trial.A Fragment of a Poem, on Hunting.A Description of the Phoenix, from Claudian.To a Lady; with the Description of the Phoenix.Part of the Fourth Book of Lucan translated.The First Book of Homer's Iliad.Kensington-Gardens.Several Epistles and Odes.This translation was published much about the same time with Mr. Pope's.But it will not bear a comparison; and Mr. Tickell cannot receive agreater injury, than to have his verses placed in contradistinction toPope's. Mr. Melmoth, in his Letters, published under the name of FitzOsborne, has produced some parallel passages, little to the advantage ofMr. Tickell, who if he fell greatly short of the elegance and beauty ofPope, has yet much exceeded Mr. Congreve, in what he has attempted ofHomer.In the life of Addison, some farther particulars concerning thistranslation are related; and Sir Richard Steele, in his dedication ofthe Drummer to Mr. Congreve, gives it as his opinion, that Addison washimself the author.These translations, published at the same time, were certainly meant asrivals to one another. We cannot convey a more adequate idea of this,than in the words of Mr. Pope, in a Letter to James Craggs, Esq.; datedJuly the 15th, 1715.'Sir,'They tell me, the busy part of the nation are not more busy about Whigand Tory; than these idle-fellows of the feather, about Mr. Tickell'sand my translation. I (like the Tories) have the town in general, thatis, the mob on my side; but it is usual with the smaller part to make upin industry, what they want in number; and that is the case with thelittle senate of Cato. However, if our principles be well considered, Imust appear a brave Whig, and Mr. Tickell a rank Tory. I translatedHomer, for the public in general, he to gratify the inordinate desiresof one man only. We have, it seems, a great Turk in poetry, who cannever bear a brother on the throne; and has his Mutes too, a set ofMedlers, Winkers, and Whisperers, whose business 'tis to strangle allother offsprings of wit in their birth. The new translator of Homer, isthe humblest slave he has, that is to say, his first minister; let himreceive the honours he gives me, but receive them with fear andtrembling; let him be proud of the approbation of his absolute lord, Iappeal to the people, as my rightful judges, and masters; and if theyare not inclined to condemn me, I fear no arbitrary high-flyingproceeding, from the Court faction at Button's. But after all I havesaid of this great man, there is no rupture between us. We are each ofus so civil, and obliging, that neither thinks he's obliged: And I formy part, treat with him, as we do with the Grand Monarch; who has toomany great qualities, not to be respected, though we know he watches anyoccasion to oppress us.'Thus we have endeavoured to exhibit an Idea of the writings of Mr.Tickell, a man of a very elegant genius: As there appears no greatinvention in his works, if he cannot be placed in the first rank ofPoets; yet from the beauty of his numbers, and the real poetry whichenriched his imagination, he has, at least, an unexceptionable claim tothe second.FOOTNOTE:[1] Jacob.       *       *       *       *       *Mr. WILLIAM HINCHLIFFE,was the son of a reputable tradesman of St. Olave's in Southwark, andwas born there May 12, 1692; was educated at a private grammar schoolwith his intimate and ingenious friend Mr. Henry Needler. He made aconsiderable progress in classical learning, and had a poetical genius.He served an apprenticeship to Mr. Arthur Bettesworth, Bookseller inLondon, and afterwards followed that business himself near thirty years,under the Royal Exchange, with reputation and credit, having the esteemand friendship of many eminent merchants and gentlemen. In 1718 hemarried Jane, one of the daughters of Mr. William Leigh, an eminentcitizen. Mrs. Hinchliffe was sister of William Leigh, esq; one of hisMajesty's justices of the peace for the county of Surry, and of therevd. Thomas Leigh, late rector of Heyford in Oxfordshire, by whom hehad two sons and three daughters, of which only one son and one daughterare now living. He died September 20, 1742, and was buried in the parishchurch of St. Margaret's Lothbury, London.In 1714 he had the honour to present an Ode to King George I. on hisArrival at Greenwich, which is printed in a Collection of Poems,Amorous, Moral, and Divine, which he published in octavo, 1718, anddedicated them to his friend Mr. Needler.He published a History of the Rebellion of 1715, and dedicated it to thelate Duke of Argyle.He made himself master of the French tongue by his own application andstudy; and in 1734 published a Translation of Boulainvillers's Life ofMahomet, which is well esteemed, and dedicated it to his intimate andworthy friend Mr. William Duncombe, Esq;He was concerned, with others, in the publishing several other ingeniousperformances, and has left behind him in manuscript, a Translation ofthe nine first Books of Telemachus in blank Verse, which cost him greatlabour, but he did not live to finish the remainder.He is the author of a volume of poems in 8vo, many of which are writtenwith a true poetical spirit.The INVITATION[1].1.O come Lavinia, lovely maid,  Said Dion, stretch'd at ease,Beneath the walnut's fragrant shade,A sweet retreat! by nature made  With elegance to please.2.O leave the court's deceitful glare,  Loath'd pageantry and pride,Come taste our solid pleasures here.Which angels need not blush to share,  And with bless'd men divide.3.What raptures were it in these bow'rs,  Fair virgin, chaste, and wise,With thee to lose the learned hours,And note the beauties in these flowers,  Conceal'd from vulgar eyes.4.For thee my gaudy garden blooms,  And richly colour'd glows;Above the pomp of royal rooms,Or purpled works of Persian looms,  Proud palaces disclose.5.Haste, nymph, nor let me sigh in vain,  Each grace attends on thee;Exalt my bliss, and point my strain,For love and truth are of thy train,  Content and harmony.[1] This piece is not in Mr. Hinchliffe's works, but is assuredly his.       *       *       *       *       *MR. MATTHEW CONCANEN.This gentleman was a native of Ireland, and was bred to the Law. In thisprofession he seems not to have made any great figure. By some means orother he conceived an aversion to Dr. Swift, for his abuse of whom, theworld taxed him with ingratitude. Concanen had once enjoyed some degreeof Swift's favour, who was not always very happy in the choice of hiscompanions. He had an opportunity of reading some of the Dr's poems inMS. which it is said he thought fit to appropriate and publish as hisown.As affairs did not much prosper with him in Ireland, he came over toLondon, in company with another gentleman, and both commenced writers.These two friends entered into an extraordinary agreement. As thesubjects which then attracted the attention of mankind were of apolitical cast, they were of opinion that no species of writing could sosoon recommend them to public notice; and in order to make their trademore profitable, they resolved to espouse different interests; oneshould oppose, and the other defend the ministry. They determined theside of the question each was to espouse, by tossing up a half-penny,and it fell to the share of Mr. Concanen to defend the ministry, whichtask he performed with as much ability, as political writers generallydiscover.He was for some time, concerned in the British, and London Journals, anda paper called The Speculatist. These periodical pieces are long sinceburied in neglect, and perhaps would have even sunk into oblivion, hadnot Mr. Pope, by his satyrical writings, given them a kind ofdisgraceful immortality. In these Journals he published manyscurrilities against Mr. Pope; and in a pamphlet called, The Supplementto the Profound, he used him with great virulence, and little candour.He not only imputed to him Mr. Brome's verses (for which he might indeedseem in some degree accountable, having corrected what that gentlemandid) but those of the duke of Buckingham and others. To this rare piecesome body humorously perswaded him to take for his motto, De profundisclamavi. He afterwards wrote a paper called The Daily Courant, whereinhe shewed much spleen against lord Bolingbroke, and some of his friends.All these provocations excited Mr. Pope to give him a place in hisDunciad. In his second book, l. 287, when he represents the duncesdiving in the mud of the Thames for the prize, he speaks thus ofConcanen;  True to the bottom see Concanen creep,  A cold, long winded, native of the deep!  If perseverance gain the diver's prize,  Not everlasting Blackmore this denies.In the year 1725 Mr. Concanen published a volume of poems in 8vo.consisting chiefly of compositions of his own, and some few of othergentlemen; they are addressed to the lord Gage, whom he endeavoursartfully to flatter, without offending his modesty. 'I shall begin thisAddress, says he, by declaring that the opinion I have of a great partof the following verses, is the highest indication of the esteem inwhich I hold the noble character I present them to. Several of them haveauthors, whose names do honour to whatever patronage they receive. As tomy share of them, since it is too late, after what I have alreadydelivered, to give my opinion of them, I'll say as much as can be saidin their favour. I'll affirm that they have one mark of merit, which isyour lordship's approbation; and that they are indebted to fortune fortwo other great advantages, a place in good company, and an honourableprotection.'The gentlemen, who assisted Concanen in this collection, were DeanSwift, Mr. Parnel, Dr. Delany, Mr. Brown, Mr. Ward, and Mr. Stirling. Inthis collection there is a poem by Mr. Concanen, called A Match atFootball, in three Cantos; written, 'tis said, in imitation of The Rapeof the Lock. This performance is far from being despicable; theverification is generally smooth; the design is not ill conceived, andthe characters not unnatural. It perhaps would be read with moreapplause, if The Rape of the Lock did not occur to the mind, and, byforcing a comparison, destroy all the satisfaction in perusing it; asthe disproportion is so very considerable. We shall quote a few linesfrom the beginning of the third canto, by which it will appear thatConcanen was not a bad rhimer.  In days of yore a lovely country maid  Rang'd o'er these lands, and thro' these forests stray'd;  Modest her pleasures, matchless was her frame,  Peerless her face, and Sally was her name.  By no frail vows her young desires were bound,  No shepherd yet the way to please her found.  Thoughtless of love the beauteous nymph appear'd,  Nor hop'd its transports, nor its torments fear'd.  But careful fed her flocks, and grac'd the plain,  She lack'd no pleasure, and she felt no pain.  She view'd our motions when we toss'd the ball,  And smil'd to see us take, or ward, a fall;  'Till once our leader chanc'd the nymph to spy,  And drank in poison from her lovely eye.  Now pensive grown, he shunn'd the long-lov'd plains,  His darling pleasures, and his favour'd swains,  Sigh'd in her absence, sigh'd when she was near,  Now big with hope, and now dismay'd with fear;  At length with falt'ring tongue he press'd the dame,  For some returns to his unpity'd flame;  But she disdain'd his suit, despis'd his care,  His form unhandsome, and his bristled hair;  Forward she sprung, and with an eager pace  The god pursu'd, nor fainted in the race;  Swift as the frighted hind the virgin flies,  When the woods ecchoe to the hunters cries:  Swift as the fleetest hound her flight she trac'd,  When o'er the lawns the frighted hind is chac'd;  The winds which sported with her flowing vest  Display'd new charms, and heightened all the rest:  Those charms display'd, increas'd the gods desire,  What cool'd her bosom, set his breast on fire:  With equal speed, for diff'rent ends they move,  Fear lent the virgin wings, the shepherd love:  Panting at length, thus in her fright she pray'd,  Be quick ye pow'rs, and save a wretched maid.  [Protect] my honour, shelter me from shame,  [Beauty] and life with pleasure I disclaim.[Transcriber's note: print unclear for words in square brackets,therefore words are assumed.]Mr. Concanen was also concerned with the late Mr. Roome [Transcriber'snote: print unclear, "m" assumed], and a certain eminent senator, inmaking The Jovial Crew, an old Comedy, into a Ballad Opera; which wasperformed about the year 1730; and the profits were given entirely toMr. Concanen. Soon after he was preferred to be attorney-general inJamaica, a post of considerable eminence, and attended with a very largeincome. In this island he spent the remaining part of his days, and, weare informed made a tolerable accession of fortune, by marrying aplanter's daughter, who surviving him was left in the possession ofseveral hundred pounds a year. She came over to England after his death,and married the honourable Mr. Hamilton.       *       *       *       *       *RICHARD SAVAGE, Esq;This unhappy gentleman, who led a course of life imbittered with themost severe calamities, was not yet destitute of a friend to close hiseyes. It has been remarked of Cowley, who likewise experienced many ofthe vicissitudes of fortune, that he was happy in the acquaintance ofthe bishop of Rochester, who performed the last offices which can bepaid to a poet, in the elegant Memorial he made of his Life. Though Mr.Savage was as much inferior to Cowley in genius, as in the rectitude ofhis life, yet, in some respect, he bears a resemblance to that greatman. None of the poets have been more honoured in the commemoration oftheir history, than this gentleman. The life of Mr. Savage was writtensome years after his death by a gentleman, who knew him intimately,capable to distinguish between his follies, and those good qualitieswhich were often concealed from the bulk of mankind by the abjectness ofhis condition. From this account[1] we have compiled that which we nowpresent to the reader.In the year 1697 Anne countess of Macclesfield, having lived for sometime on very uneasy terms with her husband, thought a public confessionof adultery the most expeditious method of obtaining her liberty, andtherefore declared the child with which she then was big was begotten bythe earl of Rivers. This circumstance soon produced a separation, which,while the earl of Macclesfield was prosecuting, the countess, on the10th of January 1697-8, was delivered of our author; and the earl ofRivers, by appearing to consider him as his own, left no room to doubtof her declaration. However strange it may appear, the countess lookedupon her son, from his birth, with a kind of resentment and abhorrence.No sooner was her son born, than she discovered a resolution ofdisowning him, in a short time removed him from her sight, and committedhim to the care of a poor woman, whom she directed to educate him as herown, and enjoined her never to inform him of his true parents. Insteadof defending his tender years, she took delight to see him strugglingwith misery, and continued her persecution, from the first hour of hislife to the last, with an implacable and restless cruelty. His mother,indeed, could not affect others with the same barbarity, and though she,whose tender sollicitudes should have supported him, had launched himinto the ocean of life, yet was he not wholly abandoned. The lady Mason,mother to the countess, undertook to transact with the nurse, andsuperintend the education of the child. She placed him at a grammarschool near St. Albans, where he was called by the name of his nurse,without the least intimation that he had a claim to any other. While hewas at this school, his father, the earl of Rivers, was seized with adistemper which in a short time put an end to his life. While the earllay on his death-bed, he thought it his duty to provide for him, amongsthis other natural children, and therefore demanded a positive account ofhim. His mother, who could no longer refuse an answer, determined, atleast, to give such, as should deprive him for ever of that happinesswhich competency affords, and declared him dead; which is, perhaps, thefirst instance of a falshood invented by a mother, to deprive her son ofa provision which was designed him by another. The earl did not imaginethat there could exist in nature, a mother that would ruin her son,without enriching herself, and therefore bestowed upon another son sixthousand pounds, which he had before in his will bequeathed to Savage.The same cruelty which incited her to intercept this provision intendedhim, suggested another project, worthy of such a disposition. Sheendeavoured to rid herself from the danger of being at any time madeknown to him, by sending him secretly to the American Plantations; butin this contrivance her malice was defeated.Being still restless in the persecution of her son, she formed anotherscheme of burying him in poverty and obscurity; and that the state ofhis life, if not the place of his residence, might keep him for ever ata distance from her, she ordered him to be placed with a Shoemaker inHolbourn, that after the usual time of trial he might become hisapprentice. It is generally reported, that this project was, for sometime, successful, and that Savage was employed at the awl longer than hewas willing to confess; but an unexpected discovery determined him toquit his occupation.About this time his nurse, who had always treated him as her own son,died; and it was natural for him to take care of those effects, which byher death were, as he imagined, become his own. He therefore went to herhouse, opened her boxes, examined her papers, and found some letterswritten to her by the lady Mason, which informed him of his birth, andthe reasons for which it was concealed.He was now no longer satisfied with the employment which had beenallotted him, but thought he had a right to share the affluence of hismother, and therefore, without scruple, applied to her as her son, andmade use of every art to awake her tenderness, and attract her regard.It was to no purpose that he frequently sollicited her to admit him tosee her, she avoided him with the utmost precaution, and ordered him tobe excluded from her house, by whomsoever he might be introduced, andwhat reason soever he might give for entering it.Savage was at this time so touched with the discovery of his realmother, that it was his frequent practice to walk in the dark eveningsfor several hours before her door, in hopes of seeing her by accident.But all his assiduity was without effect, for he could neither softenher heart, nor open her hand, and while he was endeavouring to rouse theaffections of a mother, he was reduced to the miseries of want. In thissituation he was obliged to find other means of support, and became bynecessity an author.His first attempt in that province was, a poem against the bishop ofBangor, whose controversy, at that time, engaged the attention of thenation, and furnished the curious with a topic of dispute. Of thisperformance Mr. Savage was afterwards ashamed, as it was the crudeeffort of a yet uncultivated genius. He then attempted another kind ofwriting, and, while but yet eighteen, offered a comedy to the stage,built upon a Spanish plot; which was refused by the players. Upon thishe gave it to Mr. Bullock, who, at that time rented the Theatre inLincoln's-Inn-Fields of Mr. Rich, and with messieurs Keene, Pack, andothers undertook the direction thereof. Mr. Bullock made some slightalterations, and brought it upon the stage, under the title of Woman's aRiddle, but allowed the real author no part of the profit. Thisoccasioned a quarrel between Savage and Bullock; but it ended withoutbloodshed, though not without high words: Bullock insisted he had atranslation of the Spanish play, from whence the plot was taken, givenhim by the same lady who had bestowed it on Savage.--Which was notimprobable, as that whimsical lady had given a copy to several others.Not discouraged, however, at this repulse, he wrote, two years after,Love in a Veil, another Comedy borrowed likewise from the Spanish, butwith little better success than before; for though it was received andacted, yet it appeared so late in the year, that Savage obtained noother advantage from it, than the acquaintance of Sir Richard Steele,and Mr. Wilks, by whom, says the author of his Life, he was pitied,caressed, and relieved. Sir Richard Steele declared in his favour, withthat genuine benevolence which constituted his character, promoted hisinterest with the utmost zeal, and taking all opportunities ofrecommending him; he asserted, 'that the inhumanity of his mother hadgiven him a right to find every good man his father.' Nor was Mr. Savageadmitted into his acquaintance only, but to his confidence and esteem.Sir Richard intended to have established him in some settled scheme oflife, and to have contracted a kind of alliance with him, by marryinghim to a natural daughter, on whom he intended to bestow a thousandpounds. But Sir Richard conducted his affairs with so little oeconomy,that he was seldom able to raise the sum, which he had offered, and themarriage was consequently delayed. In the mean time he was officiouslyinformed that Mr. Savage had ridiculed him; by which he was so muchexasperated that he withdrew the allowance he had paid him, and neverafterwards admitted him to his house.He was now again abandoned to fortune, without any other friend but Mr.Wilks, a man to whom calamity seldom complained without relief. Henaturally took an unfortunate wit into his protection, and not onlyassisted him in any casual distresses, but continued an equal and steadykindness to the time of his death. By Mr. Wilks's interposition Mr.Savage once obtained of his mother fifty pounds, and a promise of onehundred and fifty more, but it was the fate of this unhappy man, thatfew promises of any advantage to him were ever performed.Being thus obliged to depend [Transcriber's note: 'depended' inoriginal] upon Mr. Wilks, he was an assiduous frequenter of thetheatres, and, in a short time, the amusements of the stage took such apossession of his mind, that he was never absent from a play in severalyears.In the year 1723 Mr. Savage brought another piece on the stage. He madechoice of the subject of Sir Thomas Overbury: If the circumstances inwhich he wrote it be considered, it will afford at once an uncommonproof of strength of genius, and an evenness of mind not to be ruffled.During a considerable part of the time in which he was employed uponthis performance, he was without lodging, and often without food; norhad he any other conveniencies for study than the fields, or the street;in which he used to walk, and form his speeches, and afterwards stepinto a shop, beg for a few moments the use of pen and ink, and writedown what he had composed, upon paper which he had picked up byaccident.Mr. Savage had been for some time distinguished by Aaron Hill, Esq; withvery particular kindness; and on this occasion it was natural to applyto him, as an author of established reputation. He therefore sent thisTragedy to him, with a few verses, in which he desired his correction.Mr. Hill who was a man of unbounded humanity, and most accomplishedpoliteness, readily complied with his request; and wrote the prologueand epilogue, in which he touches the circumstances [Transcriber's note:'cirumstances' in original] of the author with great tenderness.Mr. Savage at last brought his play upon the stage, but not till thechief actors had quitted it, and it was represented by what was thencalled the summer-company. In this Tragedy Mr. Savage himself performedthe part of Sir Thomas Overbury, with so little success, that he alwaysblotted out his name from the list of players, when a copy of hisTragedy was to be shewn to any of his friends. This play howeverprocured him the notice and esteem of many persons of distinction, forsome rays of genius glimmered thro' all the mists which poverty andoppression had spread over it. The whole profits of this performance,acted, printed, and dedicated, amounted to about 200 l. But thegenerosity of Mr. Hill did not end here; he promoted the subscription tohis Miscellanies, by a very pathetic representation of the author'ssufferings, printed in the Plain-Dealer, a periodical paper written byMr. Hill. This generous effort in his favour soon produced himseventy-guineas, which were left for him at Button's, by some whocommiserated his misfortunes.Mr. Hill not only promoted the subscription to the Miscellany, butfurnished likewise the greatest part of the poems of which it iscomposed, and particularly the Happy Man, which he published as aspecimen. To this Miscellany he wrote a preface, in which he gives anaccount of his mother's cruelty, in a very uncommon strain of humour,which the success of his subscriptions probably inspired.Savage was now advancing in reputation, and though frequently involvedin very perplexing necessities, appeared however to be gaining onmankind; when both his fame and his life were endangered, by an event ofwhich it is not yet determined, whether it ought to be mentioned as acrime or a calamity. As this is by far the most interesting circumstancein the life of this unfortunate man, we shall relate the particularsminutely.On the 20th of November 1727 Mr. Savage came from Richmond, where he hadretired, that he might pursue his studies with less interruption, withan intent to discharge a lodging which he had in Westminster; andaccidentally meeting two gentlemen of his acquaintance, whose names wereMarchant and Gregory, he went in with them to a neighbouringCoffee-House, and sat drinking till it was late. He would willingly havegone to bed in the same house, but there was not room for the wholecompany, and therefore they agreed to ramble about the streets, anddivert themselves with such amusements as should occur till morning. Intheir walk they happened unluckily to discover light in Robinson'sCoffee-House, near Charing-Cross, and went in. Marchant with somerudeness demanded a room, and was told that there was a good fire in thenext parlour, which the company were about to leave, being then payingtheir reckoning. Marchant not satisfied with this answer, rushed intothe room, and was followed by his companions. He then petulantly placedhimself between the company and the fire; and soon afterwards kickeddown the table. This produced a quarrel, swords were drawn on bothsides; and one Mr. James Sinclair was killed. Savage having woundedlikewise a maid that held him, forced his way with Gregory out of thehouse; but being intimidated, and confus'd, without resolution, whetherto fly, or stay, they were taken in a back court by one of the company,and some soldiers, whom he had called to his assistance.When the day of the trial came on, the court was crowded in a veryunusual manner, and the public appeared to interest itself as in a causeof general concern. The witnesses against Mr. Savage and his friends,were the woman who kept the house, which was a house of ill-fame, andher maid, the men who were in the room with Mr. Sinclair, and a woman ofthe town, who had been drinking with them, and with whom one of them hadbeen seen in bed.They swore in general, that Marchant gave the provocation, which Savageand Gregory drew their swords to justify; that Savage drew first, thathe stabb'd Sinclair, when he was not in a posture of defence, or whileGregory commanded his sword; that after he had given the thrust heturned pale, and would have retired, but that the maid clung round him,and one of the company endeavoured to detain him, from whom he broke, bycutting the maid on the head.Sinclair had declared several times before his death, for he survivedthat night, that he received his wound from Savage; nor did Savage athis trial deny the fact, but endeavoured partly to extenuate it, byurging the suddenness of the whole action, and the impossibility of anyill design, or premeditated malice, and partly to justify it by thenecessity of self-defence, and the hazard of his own life, if he hadlost that opportunity of giving the thrust. He observed that neitherreason nor law obliged a man to wait for the blow which was threatened,and which if he should suffer, he might never be able to return; that itwas always allowable to prevent an assault, and to preserve life, bytaking away that of the adversary, by whom it was endangered.With regard to the violence with which he endeavoured his escape, hedeclared it was not his design to fly from justice, or decline a trial,but to avoid the expences and severities of a prison, and that heintended to appear at the bar, without compulsion. This defence whichtook up more than an hour, was heard by the multitude that thronged thecourt, with the most attentive and respectful silence. Those who thoughthe ought not to be acquitted, owned that applause could not be refusedhim; and those who before pitied his misfortunes, now reverenced hisabilities.The witnesses who appeared against him were proved to be persons of suchcharacters as did not entitle them to much credit; a common strumpet, awoman by whom such wretches were entertained, and a man by whom theywere supported. The character of Savage was by several persons ofdistinction asserted to be that of a modest inoffensive man, notinclined to broils, or to insolence, and who had to that time been onlyknown by his misfortunes and his wit.Had his audience been his judges, he had undoubtedly been acquitted; butMr. Page, who was then upon the bench, treated him with the most brutalseverity, and in summing up the evidence endeavoured to exasperate thejury against him, and misrepresent his defence. This was a provocation,and an insult, which the prisoner could not bear, and therefore Mr.Savage resolutely asserted, that his cause was not candidly explained,and began to recapitulate what he had before said; but the judge havingordered him to be silent, which Savage treated with contempt, hecommanded that he should be taken by force from the bar. The jury thenheard the opinion of the judge, that good characters were of no weightagainst positive evidence, though they might turn the scale, where itwas doubtful; and that though two men attack each other, the death ofeither is only manslaughter; but where one is the aggressor, as in thecase before them, and in pursuance of his first attack kills the other,the law supposes the action, however sudden, to be malicious. The jurydetermined, that Mr. Savage and Mr. Gregory were guilty of murder, andMr. Marchant who had no sword, only manslaughter.Mr. Savage and Mr. Gregory were conducted back to prison, where theywere more closely confined, and loaded with irons of fifty pound weight.Savage had now no hopes of life but from the king's mercy, and can it bebelieved, that mercy his own mother endeavoured to intercept.When Savage (as we have already observed) was first made acquainted withthe story of his birth, he was so touched with tenderness for hismother, that he earnestly sought an opportunity to see her.To prejudice the queen against him, she made use of an incident, whichwas omitted in the order of time, that it might be mentioned togetherwith the purpose it was made to serve.One evening while he was walking, as was his custom, in the street sheinhabited, he saw the door of her house by accident open; he entered it,and finding no persons in the passage to prevent him, went up stairs tosalute her. She discovered him before he could enter her chamber,alarmed the family with the most distressful out-cries, and when she hadby her screams gathered them about her, ordered them to drive out of thehouse that villain, who had forced himself in upon her, and endeavouredto murder her.This abominable falsehood his mother represented to the queen, orcommunicated it to some who were base enough to relate it, and sostrongly prepossessed her majesty against this unhappy man, that for along while she rejected all petitions that were offered in his favour.Thus had Savage perished by the evidence of a bawd, of a strumpet, andof his mother; had not justice and compassion procured him an advocate,of a rank too great to be rejected unheard, and of virtue too eminent tobe heard without being believed. The story of his sufferings reached theear of the countess of Hertford, who engaged in his support with thetenderness and humanity peculiar to that amiable lady. She demanded anaudience of the queen, and laid before her the whole series of hismother's cruelty, exposed the improbability of her accusation of murder,and pointed out all the circumstances of her unequall'd barbarity.The interposition of this lady was so successful, that he was soon afteradmitted to bail, and on the 9th of March 1728, pleaded the king'spardon.[2]Mr. Savage during his imprisonment, his trial, and the time in which helay under sentence of death, behaved with great fortitude, and confirmedby his unshaken equality of mind, the esteem of those who before admiredhim for his abilities. Upon weighing all the circumstances relating tothis unfortunate event, it plainly appears that the greatest guilt couldnot be imputed to Savage. His killing Sinclair, was rather rash thantotally dishonourable, for though Marchant had been the aggressor, whowould not procure his friend from being over-powered by numbers?Some time after he had obtained his liberty, he met in the street thewoman of the town that had swore against him: She informed him that shewas in distress, and with unparalleled assurance desired him to relieveher. He, instead of insulting her misery, and taking pleasure in thecalamity of one who had brought his life into danger, reproved hergently for her perjury, and changing the only guinea he had, divided itequally between her and himself.Compassion seems indeed to have been among the few good qualitiespossessed by Savage; he never appeared inclined to take the advantage ofweakness, to attack the defenceless, or to press upon the falling:Whoever was distressed was certain at last of his good wishes. But whenhis heart was not softened by the sight of misery, he was obstinate inhis resentment, and did not quickly lose the remembrance of an injury.He always harboured the sharpest resentment against judge Page; and ashort time before his death, he gratified it in a satire upon thatsevere magistrate.When in conversation this unhappy subject was mentioned, Savage appearedneither to consider himself as a murderer, nor as a man wholly free fromblood. How much, and how long he regretted it, appeared in a poempublished many years afterwards, which the following lines will set in avery striking light.  Is chance a guilt, that my disast'rous heart,  For mischief never meant, must ever smart?  Can self-defence be sin?--Ah! plead no more!  What tho' no purpos'd malice stain'd thee o'er;  Had Heav'n befriended thy unhappy side,  Thou had'st not been provok'd, or thou had'st died.  Far be the guilt of home-shed blood from all,  On whom, unfought, imbroiling dangers fall.  Still the pale dead revives and lives to me,  To me through pity's eye condemn'd to see.  Remembrance veils his rage, but swells his fate,  Griev'd I forgive, and am grown cool too late,  Young and unthoughtful then, who knows one day,  What rip'ning virtues might have made their way?  He might, perhaps, his country's friend have prov'd,  Been gen'rous, happy, candid and belov'd;  He might have sav'd some worth now doom'd to fall,  And I, perchance, in him have murder'd all.Savage had now obtained his liberty, but was without any settled meansof support, and as he had lost all tenderness for his mother, who hadthirsted for his blood, he resolved to lampoon her, to extort thatpension by satire, which he knew she would never grant upon anyprinciples of honour, or humanity. This expedient proved successful;whether shame still survived, though compassion was extinct, or whetherher relations had more delicacy than herself, and imagined that some ofthe darts which satire might point at her, would glance upon them: LordTyrconnel, whatever were his motives, upon his promise to lay aside thedesign of exposing his mother, received him into his family, treated himas his equal, and engaged to allow him a pension of 200 l. a year.This was the golden part of Mr. Savage's life; for some time he had noreason to complain of fortune; his appearance was splendid, his expenceslarge, and his acquaintance extensive. 'He was courted, says the authorof his life, by all who endeavoured to be thought men of genius, andcaressed by all that valued themselves upon a fine taste. To admire Mr.Savage was a proof of discernment, and to be acquainted with him was atitle to poetical reputation. His presence was sufficient to make anyplace of entertainment popular; and his approbation and exampleconstituted the fashion. So powerful is genius, when it is invested withthe glitter of affluence. Men willingly pay to fortune that regard whichthey owe to merit, and are pleased when they have at once an opportunityof exercising their vanity, and practising their duty. This interval ofprosperity furnished him with opportunities of enlarging his knowledgeof human nature, by contemplating life from its highest gradation to itslowest.'In this gay period of life, when he was surrounded by the affluence ofpleasure, 1729, he published the Wanderer, a Moral Poem, of which thedesign is comprised in these lines.  I fly all public care, all venal strife,  To try the _Still_, compared with _Active Life_.  To prove by these the sons of men may owe,  The fruits of bliss to bursting clouds of woe,  That ev'n calamity by thought refin'd  Inspirits, and adorns the thinking mind.And more distinctly in the following passage:  By woe the soul to daring actions swells,  By woe in plaintless patience it excells;  From patience prudent, clear experience springs,  And traces knowledge through the course of things.  Thence hope is form'd, thence fortitude, success,  Renown--Whate'er men covet or caress.This performance was always considered by Mr. Savage as hismaster-piece; but Mr. Pope, when he asked his opinion of it, told him,that he read it once over, and was not displeased with it, that it gavehim more pleasure at the second perusal, and delighted him still more atthe third. From a poem so successfully written, it might be reasonablyexpected that he should have gained considerable advantages; but thecase was otherwise; he sold the copy only for ten guineas. That he gotso small a price for so finished a poem, was not to be imputed either tothe necessity of the writer, or to the avarice of the bookseller. He wasa slave to his passions, and being then in the pursuit of some triflinggratification, for which he wanted a supply of money, he sold his poemto the first bidder, and perhaps for the first price which was proposed,and probably would have been content with less, if less had beenoffered. It was addressed to the earl of Tyrconnel, not only in thefirst lines, but in a formal dedication, filled with the highest strainsof panegyric. These praises in a short time he found himself inclined toretract, being discarded by the man on whom he had bestowed them, andwhom he said, he then discovered, had not deserved them.Of this quarrel, lord Tyrconnel and Mr. Savage assigned very differentreasons. Lord Tyrconnel charged Savage with the most licentiousbehaviour, introducing company into his house, and practising with themthe most irregular frolics, and committing all the outrages ofdrunkenness. Lord Tyrconnel farther alledged against Savage, that thebooks of which he himself had made him a present, were sold or pawned byhim, so that he had often the mortification to see them exposed to saleupon stalls.Savage, it seems, was so accustomed to live by expedients, thataffluence could not raise him above them. He often went to the tavernand trusted the payment of his reckoning to the liberality of hiscompany; and frequently of company to whom he was very little known.This conduct indeed, seldom drew him into much inconvenience, or hisconversation and address were so pleasing, that few thought the pleasurewhich they received from him, dearly purchased by paying for his wine.It was his peculiar happiness that he scarcely ever found a stranger,whom he did not leave a friend; but it must likewise be added, that hehad not often a friend long, without obliging him to become an enemy.Mr. Savage on the other hand declared, that lord Tyrconnel quarrelledwith him because he would not subtract from his own luxury andextravagance what he had promised to allow him; and that his resentmentwas only a plea for the violation of his promise: He asserted that hehad done nothing which ought to exclude him from that subsistence whichhe thought not so much a favour as a debt, since it was offered him uponconditions, which he had never broken; and that his only fault was, thathe could not be supported upon nothing.Savage's passions were strong, among which his resentment was not theweakest; and as gratitude was not his constant virtue, we ought not toohastily to give credit to all his prejudice asserts against (his oncepraised patron) lord Tyrconnel.During his continuance with the lord Tyrconnel, he wrote the Triumph ofHealth and Mirth, on the recovery of the lady Tyrconnel, from alanguishing illness. This poem is built upon a beautiful fiction. Mirthoverwhelmed with sickness for the death of a favourite, takes a flightin quest of her sister Health, whom she finds reclined upon the brow ofa lofty mountain, amidst the fragrance of a perpetual spring, and thebreezes of the morning sporting about her. Being solicited by her sisterMirth, she readily promises her assistance, flies away in a cloud, andimpregnates the waters of Bath with new virtues, by which the sicknessof Belinda is relieved.While Mr. Savage continued in high life, he did not let slip anyopportunity to examine whether the merit of the great is magnified ordiminished by the medium through which it is contemplated, and whethergreat men were selected for high stations, or high stations made greatmen. The result of his observations is not much to the advantage ofthose in power.But the golden aera of Savage's life was now at an end, he was banishedthe table of lord Tyrconnel, and turned again a-drift upon the world.While he was in prosperity, he did not behave with a moderation likelyto procure friends amongst his inferiors. He took an opportunity in thesun-shine of his fortune, to revenge himself of those creatures, who, asthey are the worshippers of power, made court to him, whom they hadbefore contemptuously treated. This assuming behaviour of Savage was notaltogether unnatural. He had been avoided and despised by thosedespicable sycophants, who were proud of his acquaintance when railed toeminence. In this case, who would not spurn such mean Beings? Hisdegradation therefore from the condition which he had enjoyed with somuch superiority, was considered by many as an occasion of triumph.Those who had courted him without success, had an opportunity to returnthe contempt they had suffered.Mean time, Savage was very diligent in exposing the faults of lordTyrconnel, over whom he obtained at least this advantage, that he drovehim first to the practice of outrage and violence; for he was so muchprovoked by his wit and virulence, that he came with a number ofattendants, to beat him at a coffee-house; but it happened that he hadleft the place a few minutes before: Mr. Savage went next day to repayhis visit at his own house, but was prevailed upon by his domestics toretire without insisting upon seeing him.He now thought himself again at full liberty to expose the cruelty ofhis mother, and therefore about this time published THE BASTARD, a Poemremarkable for the vivacity in the beginning, where he makes a pompousenumeration of the imaginary advantages of base birth, and the patheticsentiments at the close; where he recounts the real calamities which hesuffered by the crime of his parents.The verses which have an immediate relation to those two circumstances,we shall here insert.    In gayer hours, when high my fancy ran,    The Muse exulting thus her lay began.    Bless'd be the Bastard's birth! thro' wond'rous ways,  He shines excentric like a comet's blaze.  No sickly fruit of faint compliance he;  He! stamp'd in nature's mint with extasy!  He lives to build, not boast a gen'rous race,  No tenth transmitter of a foolish face.  His daring hope, no fire's example bounds;  His first-born nights no prejudice confounds.  He, kindling from within requires no flame,  He glories in a bastard's glowing name.  --Nature's unbounded son he stands alone,  His heart unbiass'd, and his mind his own.  --O mother! yet no mother!--'Tis to you  My thanks for such distinguish'd claims are due.  --What had I lost if conjugally kind,  By nature hating, yet by vows confin'd,  You had faint drawn me with a form alone,  A lawful lump of life, by force your own!  --I had been born your dull domestic heir,  Load of your life and motive of your care;  Perhaps been poorly rich and meanly great;  The slave of pomp, a cypher in the state:  Lordly neglectful of a worth unknown,  And slumb'ring in a feat by chance my own,After mentioning the death of Sinclair, he goes on thus:  --Where shall my hope find rest?--No mother's care  Shielded my infant innocence with prayer;  No father's guardian hand my youth maintain'd,  Call'd forth my virtues, and from vice refrain'd.This poem had extraordinary success, great numbers were immediatelydispersed, and editions were multiplied with unusual rapidity.One circumstance attended the publication, which Savage used to relatewith great satisfaction. His mother, to whom the poem with due reverencewas inscribed, happened then to be at Bath, where she could notconveniently retire from censure, or conceal herself from observation;and no sooner did the reputation of the poem begin to spread, than sheheard it repeated in all places of concourse; nor could she enter theassembly rooms, or cross the walks, without being saluted with somelines from the Bastard. She therefore left Bath with the utmost haste,to shelter herself in the crowds of London. Thus Savage had thesatisfaction of finding, that tho' he could not reform, he could yetpunish his mother.Some time after Mr. Savage took a resolution of applying to the queen,that having once given him life, she would enable him to support it, andtherefore published a short poem on her birth day, to which he gave theodd title of Volunteer-Laureat. He had not at that time one friend topresent his poem at court, yet the Queen, notwithstanding this act ofceremony was wanting, in a few days after publication, sent him a banknote of fifty-pounds, by lord North and Guildford; and her permission towrite annually on the same subject, and that he should yearly receivethe like present, till something better should be done for him. Afterthis he was permitted to present one of his annual poems to her majesty,and had the honour of kissing her hand.When the dispute between the bishop of London, and the chancellor,furnished for some time the chief topic of conversation, Mr. Savage whowas an enemy to all claims of ecclesiastical power, engaged with hisusual zeal against the bishop. In consequence of his aversion to thedominion of superstitious churchmen, he wrote a poem called The Progressof a Divine, in which he conducts a profligate priest thro' all thegradations of wickedness, from a poor curacy in the country, to thehighest preferment in the church; and after describing his behaviour inevery station, enumerates that this priest thus accomplished, found atlast a patron in the bishop of London.The clergy were universally provoked with this satire, and Savage wascensured in the weekly Miscellany, with a severity he did not seeminclined to forget: But a return of invective was not thought asufficient punishment. The court of King's-Bench was moved against him,and he was obliged to return an answer to a charge of obscenity. It wasurged in his defence, that obscenity was only criminal, when it wasintended to promote the practice of vice; but that Mr. Savage had onlyintroduced obscene ideas, with a view of exposing them to detestation,and of amending the age, by shewing the deformity of wickedness. Thisplea was admitted, and Sir Philip York, now lord Chancellor, who thenpresided in that court, dismissed the information, with encomiums uponthe purity and excellence of Mr. Savage's writings.He was still in his usual exigencies, having no certain support, but thepension allowed him from the Queen, which was not sufficient to last himthe fourth part of the year. His conduct, with regard to his pension,was very particular. No sooner had he changed the bill, than he vanishedfrom the sight of all his acquaintances, and lay, for some time, out ofthe reach of his most intimate friends. At length he appeared againpennyless as before, but never informed any person where he had been,nor was his retreat ever discovered. This was his constant practiceduring the whole time he received his pension. He regularly disappeared,and returned. He indeed affirmed that he retired to study, and that themoney supported him in solitude for many months, but his friendsdeclared, that the short time in which it was spent, sufficientlyconfuted his own account of his conduct.His perpetual indigence, politeness, and wit, still raised him friends,who were desirous to set him above want, and therefore sollicited SirRobert Walpole in his favour, but though promises were given, and Mr.Savage trusted, and was trusted, yet these added but one mortificationmore to the many he had suffered. His hopes of preferment from thatstatesman; issued in a disappointment; upon which he published a poem inthe Gentleman's Magazine, entitled, The Poet's Dependance on aStatesman; in which he complains of the severe usage he met with. But todespair was no part of the character of Savage; when one patronagefailed, he had recourse to another. The Prince was now extremelypopular, and had very liberally rewarded the merit of some writers, whomMr. Savage did not think superior to himself; and therefore he resolvedto address a poem to him.For this purpose he made choice of a subject, which could regard onlypersons of the highest rank, and greatest affluence, and which wastherefore proper for a poem intended to procure the patronage of aprince; namely, public spirit, with regard to public works. But havingno friend upon whom he could prevail to present it to the Prince, he hadno other method of attracting his observation, than by publishingfrequent advertisements, and therefore received no reward from hispatron, however generous upon other occasions. His poverty stillpressing, he lodged as much by accident, as he dined; for he generallylived by chance, eating only when he was invited to the tables of hisacquaintance, from which, the meanness of his dress often excluded him,when the politeness, and variety of his conversation, would have beenthought a sufficient recompence for his entertainment. Having nolodging, he passed the night often in mean houses, which are set openfor any casual wanderers; sometimes in cellars, amongst the riot andfilth of the meanest and most profligate of the rabble; and sometimeswhen he was totally without money, walked about the streets till he wasweary, and lay down in the summer upon a bulk, and in the winter, withhis associates in poverty, among the ashes of a glass-house.In this manner were passed those days and nights, which nature hadenabled him to have employed in elevated speculations. On a bulk, in acellar, or in a glass-house, among thieves and beggars, was to be foundthe author of The Wanderer, the man, whose remarks in life might haveassisted the statesman, whose ideas of virtue might have enlightened themoralist, whose eloquence might have influenced senates, and whosedelicacy might have polished courts. His distresses, however afflictive,never dejected him. In his lowest sphere he wanted not spirit to assertthe natural dignity of wit, and was always ready to repress thatinsolence, which superiority of fortune incited, and to trample thatreputation which rose upon any other basis, than that of merit. He neveradmitted any gross familiarity, or submitted to be treated otherwisethan as an equal.Once, when he was without lodging, meat, or cloaths, one of his friends,a man indeed not remarkable for moderation in prosperity, left amessage, that he desired to see him about nine in the morning. Savageknew that his intention was to assist him, but was very much disgusted,that he should presume to prescribe the hour of his attendance; andtherefore rejected his kindness.The greatest hardships of poverty were to Savage, not the want oflodging, or of food, but the neglect and contempt it drew upon him. Hecomplained that as his affairs grew desperate, he found his reputationfor capacity visibly decline; that his opinion in questions of criticismwas no longer regarded, when his coat was out of fashion; and thatthose, who in the interval of his prosperity, were always encouraginghim to great undertakings, by encomiums on his genius, and assurances ofsuccess, now received any mention of his designs with coldness, and, inshort, allowed him to be qualified for no other performance thanvolunteer-laureat. Yet even this kind of contempt never depressed him,for he always preserved a steady confidence in his own capacity, andbelieved nothing above his reach, which he should at any time earnestlyendeavour to attain.This life, unhappy as it may be already imagined, was yet embittered in1738 with new distresses. The death of the Queen deprived him of all theprospects of preferment, with which he had so long entertained hisimagination. But even against this calamity there was an expedient athand. He had taken a resolution of writing a second tragedy upon thestory of Sir Thomas Overbury, in which he made a total alteration of theplan, added new incidents, and introduced new characters, so that it wasa new tragedy, not a revival of the former. With the profits of thisscheme, when finished, he fed his imagination, but proceeded slowly init, and, probably, only employed himself upon it, when he could find noother amusement. Upon the Queen's death it was expected of him, that heshould honour her memory with a funeral panegyric: He was thoughtculpable for omitting it; but on her birth-day, next year, he gave aproof of the power of genius and judgment. He knew that the track ofelegy had been so long beaten, that it was impossible to travel in it,without treading the footsteps of those who had gone before him, andtherefore it was necessary that he might distinguish himself from theherd of encomists, to find out some new walk of funeral panegyric.This difficult task he performed in such a manner, that this poem may bejustly ranked the best of his own, and amongst the best pieces that thedeath of Princes has produced. By transferring the mention of her death,to her birth-day, he has formed a happy combination of topics, which anyother man would have thought it difficult to connect in one view; butthe relation between them appears natural; and it may be justly said,that what no other man could have thought on, now seems scarcelypossible for any man to miss. In this poem, when he takes occasion tomention the King, he modestly gives him a hint to continue his pension,which, however, he did not receive at the usual time, and there was somereason to think that it would be discontinued. He did not take thosemethods of retrieving his interest, which were most likely to succeed,for he went one day to Sir Robert Walpole's levee, and demanded thereason of the distinction that was made between him and the otherpensioners of the Queen, with a degree of roughness which, perhaps,determined him to withdraw, what had only been delayed. This lastmisfortune he bore not only with decency, but cheerfulness, nor was hisgaiety clouded, even by this disappointment, though he was, in a shorttime, reduced to the lowest degree of distress, and often wanted bothlodging and food. At this time he gave another instance of theinsurmountable obstinacy of his spirit. His cloaths were worn out, andhe received notice, that at a coffee-house some cloaths and linen wereleft for him. The person who sent them did not, we believe, inform himto whom he was to be obliged, that he might spare the perplexity ofacknowledging the benefit; but though the offer was so far generous, itwas made with some neglect of ceremonies, which Mr. Savage so muchresented, that he refused the present, and declined to enter the house'till the cloaths, which were designed for him, were taken away.His distress was now publicly known, and his friends therefore thoughtit proper to concert some measures for his relief. The scheme proposedwas, that he should retire into Wales, and receive an allowance of fiftypounds a year, to be raised by subscription, on which he was to liveprivately in a cheap place, without aspiring any more to affluence, orhaving any farther sollicitude for fame.This offer Mr. Savage gladly accepted, though with intentions verydifferent from those of his friends; for they proposed that he shouldcontinue an exile from London for ever, and spend all the remaining partof his life at Swansea; but he designed only to take the opportunitywhich their scheme offered him, of retreating for a short time, that hemight prepare his play for the stage, and his other works for the press,and then to return to London to exhibit his tragedy, and live upon theprofits of his own labour.After many sollicitations and delays, a subscription was at last raised,which did not amount to fifty pounds a year, though twenty were paid byone gentleman. He was, however, satisfied, and willing to retire, andwas convinced that the allowance, though scanty, would be more thansufficient for him, being now determined to commence a rigid oeconomist.Full of these salutary resolutions, he quitted London in 1739. He wasfurnished with fifteen guineas, and was told, that they would besufficient, not only for the expence of his journey, but for his supportin Wales for some time; and that there remained but little more of thefirst collection. He promised a strict adherence to his maxims ofparsimony, and went away in the stage coach; nor did his friends expectto hear from him, 'till he informed them of his arrival at Swansea. But,when they least expected, arrived a letter dated the 14th day after hisdeparture, in which he sent them word, that he was yet upon the road,and without money, and that he therefore could not proceed without aremittance. They then sent him the money that was in their hands, withwhich he was enabled to reach Bristol, from whence he was to go toSwansea by water. At Bristol he found an embargo laid upon the shipping,so that he could not immediately obtain a passage, and being thereforeobliged to stay there some time, he, with his usual felicity,ingratiated himself with many of the principal inhabitants, was invitedto their houses, distinguished at their public feasts, and treated witha regard that gratified his vanity, and therefore easily engaged hisaffection.After some stay at Bristol, he retired to Swansea, the place originallyproposed for his residence, where he lived about a year very muchdisatisfied with the diminution of his salary, for the greatest part ofthe contributors, irritated by Mr. Savage's letters, which they imaginedtreated them contemptuously, withdrew their subscriptions. At thisplace, as in every other, he contracted an acquaintance with those whowere most distinguished in that country, among whom, he has celebratedMr. Powel, and Mrs. Jones, by some verses inserted in the Gentleman'sMagazine. Here he compleated his tragedy, of which two acts were wantingwhen he left London, and was desirous of coming to town to bring it onthe stage. This design was very warmly opposed, and he was advised byhis chief benefactor, who was no other than Mr. Pope, to put it in thehands of Mr. Thomson and Mr. Mallet, that it might be fitted for thestage, and to allow his friends to receive the profits, out of which anannual pension should be paid him. This proposal he rejected with theutmost contempt. He was by no means convinced that the judgment of thoseto whom he was required to submit, was superior to his own. He was nowdetermined, as he expressed, to be no longer kept in leading-strings,and had no elevated idea of his bounty, who proposed to pension him outof the profits of his own labours. He soon after this quitted Swansea,and, with an intent to return to London, went to Bristol, where arepetition of the kindness which he had formerly found, invitedhim to stay. He was not only caressed, and treated, but had a collectionmade for him of about thirty pounds, with which it had been happy ifhe had immediately departed for London; but he never considered thatsuch proofs of kindness were not often to be expected, and that thisardour of benevolence was, in a great degree, the effect of novelty.Another part of his misconduct was, the practice of prolonging hisvisits to unseasonable hours, and disconcerting all the families intowhich he was admitted. This was an error in a place of commerce, whichall the charms of conversion could not compensate; for what trader wouldpurchase such airy satisfaction, with the loss of solid gain, which mustbe the consequence of midnight merriment, as those hours which weregained at night were generally lost in the morning? Distress at laststole upon him by imperceptible degrees; his conduct had already weariedsome of those who were at first enamoured of his conversation; but hestill might have devolved to others, whom he might have entertained withequal success, had not the decay of his cloaths made it no longerconsistent with decency to admit him to their tables, or to associatewith him in public places. He now began to find every man from home, atwhose house he called; and was therefore no longer able to procure thenecessaries of life, but wandered about the town, slighted andneglected, in quest of a dinner, which, he did not always obtain. Tocompleat his misery, he was obliged to withdraw from the small number offriends from whom he had still reason to hope for favours. His customwas to lie in bed the greatest part of the day, and to go out in thedark with the utmost privacy, and after having paid his visit, returnagain before morning to his lodging, which was in the garret of anobscure inn.Being thus excluded on one hand, and confined on the other, he sufferedthe utmost extremities of poverty, and often waited so long, that he wasseized with faintness, and had lost his appetite, not being able to bearthe smell of meat, 'till the action of his stomach was restored by acordial.He continued to bear these severe pressures, 'till the landlady of acoffee-house, to whom he owed about eight pounds, compleated hiswretchedness. He was arrested by order of this woman, and conducted tothe house of a Sheriff's Officer, where he remained some time at a greatexpence, in hopes of finding bail. This expence he was enabled tosupport by a present from Mr. Nash of Bath, who, upon hearing of hislate mis-fortune, sent him five guineas. No friends would contribute torelease him from prison at the expence of eight pounds, and therefore hewas removed to Newgate. He bore this misfortune with an unshakenfortitude, and indeed the treatment he met with from Mr. Dagg, thekeeper of the prison, greatly softened the rigours of his confinement.He was supported by him at his own table, without any certainty ofrecompence; had a room to himself, to which he could at any time retirefrom all disturbance; was allowed to stand at the door of the prison,and sometimes taken out into the fields; so that he suffered fewerhardships in the prison, than he had been accustomed to undergo thegreatest part of his life. Virtue is undoubtedly most laudable in thatstate which makes it most difficult; and therefore the humanity of thegaoler certainly deserves this public attestation.While Mr. Savage was in prison, he began, and almost finished a satire,which he entitled London and Bristol Delineated; in order to be revengedof those who had had no more generosity for a man, to whom theyprofessed friendship, than to suffer him to languish in a gaol for eightpounds. He had now ceased from corresponding with any of hissubscribers, except Mr. Pope, who yet continued to remit him twentypounds a year, which he had promised, and by whom he expected to be in avery short time enlarged; because he had directed the keeper to enquireafter the state of his debts.However he took care to enter his name according to the forms of thecourt, that the creditors might be obliged to make him some allowance,if he was continued a prisoner; and when on that occasion he appeared inthe Hall, was treated with very unusual respect.But the resentment of the City was afterwards raised, by some accountsthat had been spread of the satire, and he was informed, that some ofthe Merchants intended to pay the allowance which the law required, andto detain him a prisoner at their own expence. This he treated as anempty menace, and had he not been prevented by death, he would havehastened the publication of the satire, only to shew how much he wassuperior to their insults.When he had been six months in prison, he received from Mr. Pope, inwhose kindness he had the greatest confidence, and on whose assistancehe chiefly depended, a letter that contained a charge of very atrociousingratitude, drawn up in such terms as sudden resentment dictated. Mr.Savage returned a very solemn protestation of his innocence, but howeverappeared much disturbed at the accusation. Some days afterwards he wasseized with a pain in his back and side, which, as it was not violent,was not suspected to be dangerous; but growing daily more languid anddejected, on the 25th of July he confined himself to his room, and afever seized his spirits. The symptoms grew every day more formidable,but his condition did not enable him to procure any assistance. The lasttime the keeper saw him was on July 31, when Savage, seeing him at hisbed-side, said, with uncommon earnestness, I have something to say toyou, sir, but, after a pause, moved his hand in a melancholy manner, andfinding himself unable to recollect what he was going to communicate,said, 'tis gone. The keeper soon after left him, and the next morning hedied. He was buried in the church-yard of St. Peter, at the expence ofthe keeper.Such were the life and death of this unfortunate poet; a man equallydistinguished by his virtues and vices, and, at once, remarkable for hisweaknesses and abilities. He was of a middle stature, of a thin habit ofbody, a long visage, coarse features, and a melancholy aspect; of agrave and manly deportment, a solemn dignity of mien, but which, upon anearer acquaintance, softened into an engaging easiness of manners. Hiswalk was slow, and his voice tremulous and mournful. He was easilyexcited to smiles, but very seldom provoked to laughter. His judgmentwas eminently exact, both with regard to writings and to men. Theknowledge of life was his chief attainment. He was born rather to bearmisfortunes greatly, than to enjoy prosperity with moderation. Hediscovered an amazing firmness of spirit, in spurning those who presumedto dictate to him in the lowest circumstances of misery; but we nevercan reconcile the idea of true greatness of mind, with the perpetualinclination Savage discovered to live upon the bounty of his friends. Tostruggle for independence appears much more laudable, as well as ahigher instance of spirit, than to be the pensioner of another.As Savage had seen so much of the world, and was capable of so deep apenetration into nature, it was strange he could not form some scheme ofa livelihood, more honourable than that of a poetical mendicant: hisprosecuting any plan of life with diligence, would have thrown morelustre on his character, than, all his works, and have raised our ideasof the greatness of his spirit, much, beyond the conduct we have alreadyseen. If poverty is so great an evil as to expose a man to commitactions, at which he afterwards blushes, to avoid this poverty should bethe continual care of every man; and he, who lets slip every opportunityof doing so, is more entitled to admiration than pity, should he bearhis sufferings nobly.Mr. Savage's temper, in consequence of the dominion of his passions, wasuncertain and capricious. He was easily engaged, and easily disgusted;but he is accused of retaining his hatred more tenaciously than hisbenevolence. He was compassionate both by nature and principle, andalways ready to perform offices of humanity; but when he was provoked,and very small offences were sufficient to provoke him, he wouldprosecute his revenge with the utmost acrimony, 'till his passion hadsubsided. His friendship was therefore of little value, for he waszealous in the support, or vindication of those whom he loved, yet itwas always dangerous to trust him, because he considered himself asdischarged by the first quarrel, from all ties of honour and gratitude.He would even betray those secrets, which, in the warmth of confidence,had been imparted to him. His veracity was often questioned, and notwithout reason. When he loved any man, he suppressed all his faults, andwhen he had been offended by him, concealed all his virtues. But hischaracters were generally true, so far as he proceeded, though it cannotbe denied, but his partiality might have sometimes the effect offalshood.In the words of the celebrated writer of his life, from whom, as weobserved in the beginning, we have extracted the account here given, weshall conclude this unfortunate person's Memoirs, which were so variousas to afford large scope for an able biographer, and which, by thisgentleman, have been represented with so great a mastery, and force ofpenetration, that the Life of Savage, as written by him, is an excellentmodel for this species of writing.'This relation (says he) will not be wholly without its use, if those,who languish under any part of his sufferings, should be enabled tofortify their patience, by reflecting that they feel only thoseafflictions from which the abilities of Savage did not exempt him; orthose, who in confidence of superior capacities, or attainments,disregard the common maxims of life, shall be reminded that nothing cansupply the want of prudence, and that negligence and irregularity longcontinued, will make knowledge useless, wit ridiculous, and geniuscontemptible.'FOOTNOTES:[1] However slightly the author of Savage's life passes over the less    amiable characteristics of that unhappy man; yet we cannot but    discover therein, that vanity and ingratitude were the principal    ingredients in poor Savage's composition; nor was his veracity    greatly to be depended on. No wonder therefore, if the good-natur'd    writer suffer'd his better understanding to be misled, in some    accounts relative to the poet we are now speaking of.--Among many,    we shall at present only take notice of the following, which makes    too conspicuous a figure to pass by entirely unnoticed.    In this life of Savage 'tis related, that Mrs. Oldfield was very    fond of Mr. Savage's conversation, and allowed him an annuity,    during her life, of 50 l.--These facts are equally ill-grounded:--    There was no foundation for them. That Savage's misfortunes pleaded    for pity, and had the desired effect on Mrs. Oldfield's compassion,    is certain:--But she so much disliked the man, and disapproved his    conduct, that she never admitted him to her conversation, nor    suffer'd him to enter her house. She, indeed, often relieved him    with such donations, as spoke her generous disposicion.--But this    was on the sollicitation of friends, who frequently set his    calamities before her in the most piteous light; and from a    principle of humanity, she became not a little instrumental in    saving his life.[2] Lord Tyrconnel delivered a petition to his majesty in Savage's    behalf: And Mrs. Oldfield sollicited Sir Robert Walpole on his    account. This joint-interest procured him his pardon.       *       *       *       *       *Dr. THOMAS SHERIDAN.was born in the county of Cavan, where his father kept a public house. Agentleman, who had a regard for his father, and who observed the songave early indications of genius above the common standard, sent him tothe college of Dublin, and contributed towards the finishing hiseducation there. Our poet received very great encouragement upon hissetting out in life, and was esteemed a fortunate man. The agreeablehumour, and the unreserved pleasantry of his temper, introduced him tothe acquaintance, and established him in the esteem, of the wits of thatage. He set up a school in Dublin, which, at one time, was soconsiderable as to produce an income of a thousand pounds a year, andpossessed besides some good livings, and bishops leases, which areextremely lucrative.Mr. Sheridan married the daughter of Mr. Macpherson, a Scots gentleman,who served in the wars under King William, and, during the troubles ofIreland, became possessed of a small estate of about 40 l. per annum,called Quilca. This little fortune devolved on Mrs. Sheridan, whichenabled her husband to set up a school. Dr. Sheridan, amongst hisvirtues, could not number oeconomy; on the contrary, he was remarkablefor profusion and extravagance, which exposed him to suchinconveniences, that he was obliged to mortgage all he had. His schooldaily declined, and by an act of indiscretion, he was stript of the bestliving he then enjoyed. On the birth-day of his late Majesty, the Dr.having occasion to preach, chose for his text the following words,  Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.This procured him the name of a Jacobite, or a disaffected person, acircumstance sufficient to ruin him in his ecclesiastical capacity. Hisfriends, who were disposed to think favourably of him, were for softningthe epithet of Jacobite into Tory, imputing his choice of that text,rather to whim and humour, than any settled prejudice against hisMajesty, or the government; but this unseasonable pleasantry was not soeasily passed over, and the Dr. had frequent occasion to repent thechoice of his text.Unhappy Sheridan! he lived to want both money and friends. He spent hismoney and time merrily among the gay and the great, and was an example,that there are too many who can relish a man's humour, who have not soquick a sense of his misfortunes. The following story should not havebeen told, were it not true.In the midst of his misfortunes, when the demands of his creditorsobliged him to retirement, he went to dean Swift, and sollicited alodging for a few days, 'till by a proper composition he might berestored to his freedom. The dean retired early to rest. The Dr.fatigued, but not inclinable to go so soon to bed, sent the servant tothe dean, desiring the key of the cellar, that he might have a bottle ofwine. The dean, in one of his odd humours, returned for answer, hepromised to find him a lodging, but not in wine; and refused to send thekey. The Dr. being thunderstruck at this unexpected incivility, thetears burst from his eyes; he quitted the house, and we believe neverafter repeated the visit.Dr. Sheridan died in the year 1738, in the 55th year of his age. Thefollowing epitaph for him was handed about.  Beneath this marble stone here lies  Poor Tom, more merry much than wise;  Who only liv'd for two great ends,  To spend his cash, and lose his friends:  His darling wife of him bereft,  Is only griev'd--there's nothing left.When the account of his death was inserted in the papers, it was done inthe following particular terms;  'September 10, died the revd. Dr. Thomas Sheridan of Dublin. He was a  great linguist, a most sincere friend, a delightful companion, and the  best Schoolmaster in Europe: He took the greatest care of the morals  of the young gentlemen, who had the happiness of being bred up under  him; and it was remarked, that none of his scholars ever was an  Atheist, or a Free-Thinker.'We cannot more successfully convey to the reader a true idea of Dr.Sheridan, than by the two following quotations from Lord Orrery in hislife of Swift, in which he occasionally mentions Swift's friend.  'Swift was naturally fond of seeing his works in print, and he was  encouraged in this fondness by his friend Dr. Sheridan, who had the  Cacoethea Scribendi, to the greatest degree, and was continually  letting off squibs, rockets, and all sorts of little fire-works from  the press; by which means he offended many particular persons, who,  although they stood in awe of Swift, held Sheridan at defiance. The  truth is, the poor doctor by nature the most peacable, inoffensive man  alive, was in a continual state of warfare with the Minor Poets, and  they revenged themselves; or, in the style of Mr. Bays, often gave him  flash for flash, and singed his feathers. The affection between  Theseus and Perithous was not greater than the affection between Swift  and Sheridan: But the friendship that cemented the two ancient heroes  probably commenced upon motives very different from those which united  the two modern divines.'  'Dr. Sheridan was a school-master, and in many instances, perfectly  well adapted for that station. He was deeply vers'd in the Greek and  Roman languages; and in their customs and antiquities. He had that  kind of good nature, which absence of mind, indolence of body, and  carelessness of fortune produce: And although not over-strict in his  own conduct, yet he took care of the morality of his scholars, whom he  sent to the university, remarkably well founded in all kind of  classical learning, and not ill instructed in the social duties of  life. He was slovenly, indigent, and chearful. He knew books much  better than men; And he knew the value of money least of all. In this  situation, and with this disposition, Swift fattened upon him as upon  a prey, with which he intended to regale himself, whenever his  appetite should prompt him. Sheridan was therefore certainly within  his reach; and the only time he was permitted to go beyond the limits  of his chain, was to take possession of a living in the county of  Corke, which had been bestowed upon him, by the then lord lieutenant  of Ireland, the present earl of Granville. Sheridan, in one fatal  moment, or by one fatal text, effected his own ruin. You will find the  story told by Swift himself, in the fourth volume of his works [page  289. in a pamphlet intitled a Vindication of his Excellency John Lord  Carteret, from the charge of favouring none but Tories,  High-Churchmen, and Jacobites.] So that here I need only tell you,  that this ill-starred, good-natur'd, improvident man returned to  Dublin, unhinged from all favour at court, and even banished from the  Castle: But still he remained a punster, a quibbler, a fiddler, and a  wit. Not a day passed without a rebus, an anagram, or a madrigal. His  pen and his fiddle-stick were in continual motion; and yet to little  or no purpose, if we may give credit to the following verses, which  shall serve as the conclusion of his poetical character.'  With music and poetry equally bless'd[1],  A bard thus Apollo most humbly address'd,  Great author of poetry, music, and light,  Instructed by thee, I both fiddle and write:  Yet unheeded I scrape, or I scribble all day,  My tunes are neglected, my verse flung away.  Thy substantive here, Vice Apollo [2] disdains,  To vouch for my numbers, or list to my strains.  Thy manual sign he refuses to put  To the airs I produce from the pen, or the gut:  Be thou then propitious, great Phoebus, and grant  Belief, or reward to my merit, or want,  Tho' the Dean and Delany [3] transcendently shine,  O! brighten one solo, or sonnet of mine,  Make one work immortal, 'tis all I request;  Apollo look'd pleas'd, and resolving to jest,  Replied--Honest friend, I've consider'd your case.  Nor dislike your unmeaning and innocent face.  Your petition I grant, the boon is not great,  Your works shall continue, and here's the receipt;  On Roundo's[4] hereafter, your fiddle-strings spend.  Write verses in circles, they never shall end.Dr. Sheridan gained some reputation by his Prose-translation of Persius;to which he added a Collection of the best Notes of the Editors of thisintricate Satyrist, who are in the best esteem; together with manyjudicious Notes of his own. This work was printed in 12mo. for A.Millar, 1739.One of the volumes of Swift's Miscellanies consists almost entirely ofLetters between the Dean and the Dr.FOOTNOTES:[1] Not a first rate genius, or extraordinary proficient, in either.[2] Dr. Swift.[3] Now Dean of Downe.[4] A Song, or peculiar kind of Poetry, which returns to the beginning    of the first verse, and continues in a perpetual rotation.       *       *       *       *       *The Revd. Dr. JONATHAN SWIFT.When the life of a person, whose wit and genius raised him to aneminence among writers of the first class, is written by one of uncommonabilities:--One possess'd of the power (as Shakespear says) _of lookingquite thro' the deeds of men_; we are furnished with one of the highestentertainments a man can enjoy:--Such an author also presents us with atrue picture of human nature, which affords us the most ampleinstruction:--He discerns the passions which play about the heart; andwhile he is astonished with the high efforts of genius, is at the sametime enabled to observe nature as it really is, and how distant fromperfection mankind are in this world, even in the most refined state ofhumanity. Such an intellectual feast they enjoy, who peruse the life ofthis great author, drawn by the masterly and impartial hand of lordOrrery. We there discern the greatness and weakness of Dean Swift; wediscover the patriot, the genius, and the humourist; the peevish master,the ambitious statesman, the implacable enemy, and the warm friend. Hismixed qualities and imperfections are there candidly marked: His errorsand virtues are so strongly represented, that while we reflect upon hisvirtues, we forget he had so many failings; and when we consider hiserrors, we are disposed to think he had fewer virtues. With such candourand impartiality has lord Orrery drawn the portrait of Swift; and, asevery biographer ought to do, has shewn us the man as he really was.Upon this account given by his lordship, is the following chiefly built.It shall be our business to take notice of the most remarkable passagesof the life of Swift; to omit no incidents that can be found concerninghim, and as our propos'd bounds will not suffer us to enlarge, we shallendeavour to display, with as much conciseness as possible, thoseparticulars which may be most entertaining to the reader.He was born in Dublin, November the 30th, 1667, and was carried intoEngland soon after his birth, by his nurse, who being obliged to crossthe sea, and having a nurse's fondness for the child at her breast,convey'd him ship-board without the knowledge of his mother orrelations, and kept him with her at Whitehaven in Cumberland, during herresidence about three-years in that place. This extraordinary event madehis return seem as if he had been transplanted to Ireland, rather thanthat he owed his original existence to that soil. But perhaps he tacitlyhoped to inspire different nations with a contention for his birth; atleast in his angry moods, when he was peevish and provoked at theingratitude of Ireland, he was frequently heard to say, 'I am not ofthis vile country, I am an Englishman.' Such an assertion tho' meantfiguratively, was often received literally; and the report was stillfarther propagated by Mr. Pope, who in one of his letters has thisexpression. 'Tho' one, or two of our friends are gone, since you sawyour native country, there remain a few.' But doctor Swift, in hiscooler hours, never denied his country: On the contrary he frequentlymentioned, and pointed out, the house where he was born.The other suggestion concerning the illegitimacy of his birth, isequally false. Sir William Temple was employed as a minister abroad,from the year 1665, to the year 1670; first at Brussels, and afterwardsat the Hague, as appears by his correspondence with the earl ofArlington, and other ministers of state. So that Dr. Swift's mother, whonever crossed the sea, except from England to Ireland, was out of allpossibility of a personal correspondence with Sir William Temple, tillsome years after her son's birth. Dr. Swift's ancestors were persons ofdecent and reputable characters. His grand-father was the Revd. Mr.Thomas Swift, vicar of Goodridge, near Ross in Herefordshire. He enjoyeda paternal estate in that county, which is still in possession of hisgreat-grandson, Dean Swift, Esq; He died in the year 1658, leaving fivesons, Godwin, Thomas, Dryden, Jonathan, and Adam.Two of them only, Godwin and Jonathan, left sons. Jonathan married Mrs.Abigail Erick of Leicestershire, by whom he had one daughter and a son.The daughter was born in the first year of Mr. Swift's marriage; but helived not to see the birth of his son, who was born two months after hisdeath, and became afterwards the famous Dean of St. Patrick's.The greatest part of Mr. Jonathan Swift's income had depended uponagencies, and other employments of that kind; so that most of hisfortune perished with him[1], and the remainder being the only supportthat his widow could enjoy, the care, tuition, and expence of her twochildren devolved upon her husband's elder brother, Mr. Godwin Swift,who voluntarily became their guardian, and supplied the loss which theyhad sustained in a father.The faculties of the mind appear and shine forth at different ages indifferent men. The infancy of Dr. Swift pass'd on without any marks ofdistinction. At six years old he was sent to school at Kilkenny, andabout eight years afterwards he was entered a student of Trinity Collegein Dublin. He lived there in perfect regularity, and under an entireobedience to the statutes; but the moroseness of his temper rendered himvery unacceptable to his companions, so that he was little regarded, andless beloved, nor were the academical exercises agreeable to his genius.He held logic and metaphysics in the utmost contempt; and he scarceconsidered mathematics, and natural philosophy, unless to turn them intoridicule. The studies which he followed were history and poetry. Inthese he made a great progress, but to all other branches of science, hehad given so very little application, that when he appeared as acandidate for the degree of batchelor of arts, he was set aside onaccount of insufficiency.'This, says lord Orrery, is a surprising incident in his life, but it isundoubtedly true; and even at last he obtained his admission SpecialiGratia. A phrase which in that university carries with it the utmostmarks of reproach. It is a kind of dishonourable degree, and the recordof it (notwithstanding Swift's present established character throughoutthe learned world) must for ever remain against him in the academicalregister at Dublin.'The more early disappointments happen in life, the deeper impressionthey make upon the heart. Swift was full of indignation at the treatmenthe received in Dublin; and therefore resolved to pursue his studies atOxford. However, that he might be admitted Ad Eundem, he was obliged tocarry with him the testimonium of his degree. The expression SpecialiGratia is so peculiar to the university of Dublin, that when Mr. Swiftexhibited his testimonium at Oxford, the members of the Englishuniversity concluded, that the words Speciali Grata must signify adegree conferred in reward of extraordinary diligence and learning. Itis natural to imagine that he did not try to undeceive them; he wasentered in Hart-Hall, now Hartford-College, where he resided till hetook his degree of master of arts in the year 1691.Dr. Swift's uncle, on whom he had placed his chief dependance, dying inthe Revolution year, he was supported chiefly by the bounty of SirWilliam Temple, to whose lady he was a distant relation. Acts ofgenerosity seldom meet with their just applause. Sir William Temple'sfriendship was immediately construed to proceed from a consciousnessthat he was the real father of Mr. Swift, otherwise it was thoughtimpossible he could be so uncommonly munificent to a young man, sodistantly related to his wife.'I am not quite certain, (says his noble Biographer) that Swift himselfdid not acquiesce in the calumny; perhaps like Alexander, he thought thenatural son of Jupiter would appear greater than the legitimate son ofPhilip.'As soon as Swift quitted the university, he lived with Sir WilliamTemple as his friend, and domestic companion. When he had been about twoyears in the family of his patron, he contracted a very long, anddangerous illness, by eating an immoderate quantity of fruit. To thissurfeit he used to ascribe the giddiness in his head, which, withintermissions sometimes of a longer, and sometimes of a shortercontinuance, pursued him till it seemed to compleat its conquest, byrendering him the exact image of one of his own STRULDBRUGGS; amiserable spectacle, devoid of every appearance of human nature, exceptthe outward form.After Swift had sufficiently recovered to travel, he went into Irelandto try the effects of his native air; and he found so much benefit bythe journey, that pursuant to his own inclinations he soon returned intoEngland, and was again most affectionately received by Sir WilliamTemple, whose house was now at Sheen, where he was often visited by KingWilliam. Here Swift had frequent opportunities of conversing with thatprince; in some of which conversations the king offered to make him acaptain of horse: An offer, which in his splenetic dispositions, healways seemed sorry to have refused; but at that time he had resolvedwithin his own mind to take orders, and during his whole life hisresolutions, like the decrees of fate, were immoveable. Thus determined,he again went over to Ireland, and immediately inlisted himself underthe banner of the church. He was recommended to lord Capel, thenLord-Deputy, who gave him, the first vacancy, a prebend, of which theincome was about a hundred pounds a year.Swift soon grew weary of a preferment, which to a man of his ambitionwas far from being sufficiently considerable. He resigned his prebend infavour of a friend, and being sick of solitude he returned to Sheen,were he lived domestically as usual, till the death of Sir WilliamTemple; who besides a legacy in money, left to him the care and trust ofpublishing his posthumous works.During Swift's residence with Sir William Temple he became intimatelyacquainted with a lady, whom he has distinguished, and often celebrated,under the name of Stella. The real name of this lady was Johnson. Shewas the daughter of Sir William Temple's steward; and the concealed butundoubted wife of doctor Swift. Sir William Temple bequeathed her in hiswill 1000 l. as an acknowledgment of her father's faithful services. Inthe year 1716 she was married to doctor Swift, by doctor Ashe, thenbishop of Clogher.The reader must observe, there was a long interval between thecommencement of his acquaintance with Stella, and the time of making herhis wife, for which (as it appears he was fond of her from the beginningof their intimacy) no other cause can be assigned, but that the sameunaccountable humour, which had so long detained him from marrying,prevented him from acknowledging her after she was his wife.'Stella (says lord Orrery) was a most amiable woman both in mind andperson: She had an elevated understanding, with all the delicacy, andsoftness of her own sex. Her voice, however sweet in itself, was stillrendered more harmonious by what she said. Her wit was poignant withoutseverity: Her manners were humane, polite, easy and unreserved.--Wherever she came, she attracted attention and esteem. As virtue was herguide in morality, sincerity was her guide in religion. She wasconstant, but not ostentatious in her devotions: She was remarkablyprudent in her conversation: She had great skill in music; and wasperfectly well versed in all the lesser arts that employ a lady'sleisure. Her wit allowed her a fund of perpetual cheerfulness withinproper limits. She exactly answered the description of Penelope inHomer.  A woman, loveliest of the lovely kind,  In body perfect, and compleat in mind.'Such was this amiable lady, yet, with all these advantages, she couldnever prevail on Dr. Swift to acknowledge her openly as his wife. Agreat genius must tread in unbeaten paths, and deviate from the commonroad of life; otherwise a diamond of so much lustre might have beenpublickly produced, although it had been fixed within the collet ofmatrimony: But that which diminished the value of this inestimable jewelin Swift's eye was the servile state of her father.Ambition and pride, the predominant principles which directed all theactions of Swift, conquered reason and justice; and the vanity ofboasting such a wife was suppressed by the greater vanity of keepingfree from a low alliance. Dr. Swift and Mrs. Johnson continued the sameoeconomy of life after marriage, which they had pursued before it. Theylived in separate houses; nothing appeared in their behaviourinconsistent in their decorum, and beyond the limits of platonic love.However unaccountable this renunciation of marriage rites might appearto the world, it certainly arose, not from any consciousness of a toonear consanguinity between him and Mrs. Johnson, although the generalvoice of some was willing to make them both the natural children of SirWilliam Temple. Dr. Swift, (says lord Orrery) was not of that opinion,for the same false pride which induced him to deny the legitimatedaughter of an obscure servant, might have prompted him to own thenatural daughter of Sir William Temple.[2]It is natural to imagine, that a woman of Stella's delicacy must repineat such an extraordinary situation. The outward honours she received areas frequently bestowed upon a mistress as a wife; she was absolutelyvirtuous, and was yet obliged to submit to all the appearances of vice.Inward anxiety affected by degrees the calmness of her mind, and thestrength of her body. She died towards the end of January 1727,absolutely destroy'd by the peculiarity of her fate; a fate whichperhaps she could not have incurred by an alliance with any other personin the world.Upon the death of Sir William Temple, Swift came to London, and took theearliest opportunity of delivering a petition to King William, under theclaim of a promise made by his majesty to Sir William Temple, that Mr.Swift should have the first vacancy which might happen among theprebends of Westminster or Canterbury. But this promise was eithertotally forgotten, or the petition which Mr. Swift presented was drownedamidst the clamour of more urgent addresses. From this firstdisappointment may be dated that bitterness towards kings and courtiers,which is to be found so universally dispersed throughout his works.After a long and fruitless attendance at Whitehall, Swift reluctantlygave up all thoughts of a settlement in England: Pride prevented himfrom remaining longer in a state of servility and contempt. He compliedtherefore with an invitation from the earl of Berkley (appointed one ofthe Lords Justices in Ireland) to attend him as his chaplain, andprivate secretary.--Lord Berkley landed near Waterford, and Mr. Swiftacted as secretary during the whole journey to Dublin. But another oflord Berkley's attendants, whose name was Bush, had by this timeinsinuated himself into the earl's favour, and had whispered to hislordship, that the post of secretary was not proper for a clergyman, towhom only church preferments could be suitable or advantageous. LordBerkley listened perhaps too attentively to these insinuations, andmaking some slight apology to Mr. Swift, divested him of that office,and bestowed it upon Mr. Bush.Here again was another disappointment, and a fresh object ofindignation. The treatment was thought injurious, and Swift expressedhis sensibility of it in a short but satyrical copy of verses, intitledthe Discovery. However, during the government of the Earls of Berkleyand Galway, who were jointly Lords Justices of Ireland, two livings,Laracor and Rathbeggan, were given to Mr. Swift. The first of theserectories was worth about 200, and the latter about 60 l. a year; andthey were the only church preferments which he enjoyed till he wasappointed Dean of St. Patrick's, in the year 1713.Lord Orrery gives the following instances of his humour and of hispride.As soon as he had taken possession of his two livings, he went to resideat Laracor, and gave public notice to his parishioners, that he wouldread prayers on every Wednesday and Friday. Upon the subsequentWednesday the bell was rung, and the rector attended in his desk, whenafter having sat some time, and finding the congregation to consist onlyof himself and his clerk Roger, he began with great composure andgravity; but with a turn peculiar to himself. "_Dearly beloved_ Roger,_the scripture moveth you and me in sundry places, &c_."  And thenproceeded regularly thro' the whole service. This trifling circumstanceserves to shew; that he could not resist a vein of humour, whenever hehad an opportunity of exerting it.The following is the instance of his pride. While Swift was chaplain tolord Berkley, his only sister, by the consent and approbation of heruncle and relations, was married to a man in trade, whose fortune,character, and situation were esteemed by all her friends, and suitableto her in every respect.But the marriage was intirely disagreeable to her brother. It seemed tointerrupt those ambitious views he had long since formed: He grewoutragious at the thoughts of being brother-in law to a trademan. Heutterly refused all reconciliation with his father; nor would he evenlisten to the entreaties of his mother, who came over to Ireland underthe strongest hopes of pacifying his anger; having in every otherinstance found him a dutiful and obedient son: But his pride was not tobe conquered, and Mrs. Swift finding her son inflexible, hastened backto Leicester, where she continued till her death.During his mother's life time, he scarce ever failed to pay her anannual visit. But his manner of travelling was as singular as any otherof his actions. He often went in a waggon, but more frequently walkedfrom Holyhead to Leicester, London, or any other part of England. Hegenerally chose to dine with waggoners, ostlers, and persons of thatrank; and he used to lye at night in houses where he found written overthe door, Lodgings for a Penny. He delighted in scenes of low life. Thevulgar dialect was not only a fund of humour for him; but seems to havebeen acceptable to his nature, as appears from the many filthy ideas,and indecent expressions found throughout his works.A strict residence in a country place was not in the least suitable tothe restless temper of Swift. He was perpetually making excursions notonly to Dublin, and other places in Ireland, but likewise to London; sorambling a disposition occasioned to him a considerable loss. The richdeanery of Derry became vacant at this time, and was intended for him bylord Berkley, if Dr. King, then bishop of Derry, and afterwardsarchbishop of Dublin, had not interposed; entreating with greatearnestness, that the deanery might be given to some grave and elderlydivine, rather than to so young a man 'because (added the bishop) thesituation of Derry is in the midst of Presbyterians, and I should beglad of a clergyman, who might be of assistance to me. I have noobjection to Mr. Swift. I know him to be a sprightly ingenious youngman; but instead of residing, I dare say he will be eternally flyingbackwards and forwards to London; and therefore I entreat that he may beprovided for in some other place.'Swift was accordingly set aside on account of youth, and from the year1702, to the change of the ministry in the year 1710, few circumstancesof his life can be found sufficiently material to be inserted here. Fromthis last period, 'till the death of Queen Anne, we find him fighting onthe side of the Tories, and maintaining their cause in pamphlets, poems,and weekly papers. In one of his letters to Mr. Pope he has thisexpression, 'I have conversed, in some freedom, with more ministers ofstate, of all parties, than usually happens to men of my level; and, Iconfess, in their capacity as ministers I look upon them as a race ofpeople, whose acquaintance no man would court otherwise, than on thescore of vanity and ambition.' A man always appears of more consequenceto himself, than he is in reality to any other person. Such, perhaps,was the case of Dr. Swift. He knew how useful he was to theadministration in general; and in one of his letters he mentions, thatthe place of historiographer was intended for him; but in thisparticular he flattered himself; at least, he remained without anypreferment 'till the year 1713, when he was made dean of St. Patrick's.In point of power and revenue, such a deanery might be esteemed noinconsiderable promotion; but to an ambitious mind, whose perpetual viewwas a settlement in England, a dignity in any other country must appearonly a profitable and an honourable kind of banishment. It is veryprobable, that the temper of Swift might occasion his English friends towish him promoted at a distance. His spirit was ever untractable. Themotions of his genius were often irregular. He assumed more of the airof a patron, than of a friend. He affected rather to dictate thanadvise. He was elated with the appearance of enjoying ministerialconfidence. He enjoyed the shadow indeed, but the substance was detainedfrom him. He was employed, not entrusted; and at the same time heimagined himself a subtle diver, who dextrously shot down into theprofoundest regions of politics, he was suffered only to sound theshallows nearest the shore, and was scarce admitted to descend below thefroth at the top. Swift was one of those strange kind of Tories, wholord Bolingbroke, in his letter to Sir William Wyndham, calls theWhimsicals, that is, they were Tories attach'd to the Hanoveriansuccession. This kind of Tory is so incongruous a creature, that it is awonder ever such a one existed. Mrs. Pilkington informs us, that Swifthad written A Defence of the last Ministers of Queen Anne, from anintention of restoring the Pretender, which Mr. Pope advised him todestroy, as not one word of it was true. Bolingbroke, by far the mostaccomplished man in that ministry (for Oxford was, in comparison of him,a statesman of no compass) certainly aimed at the restoration of theexiled family, however he might disguise to some people his realintentions, under the masque of being a Hanoverian Tory. This serves tocorroberate the observation which lord Orrery makes of Swift: 'that hewas employed, not trusted, &c.'By reflexions of this sort, says lord Orrery, we may account for hisdisappointment of an English bishopric. A disappointment, which, heimagined, he owed to a joint application, made against him to the Queen,by Dr. Sharp, archbishop of York, and by a lady of the highest rank andcharacter. Archbishop Sharpe, according to Swift's account, hadrepresented him to the Queen as a person, who was no Christian; thegreat lady had supported the assertion, and the Queen, upon suchassurances, had given away the bishopric, contrary to her Majesty'sintentions. Swift kept himself, indeed, within some tolerable boundswhen he spoke of the Queen; but his indignation knew no limits when hementioned the archbishop, or the lady.Most people are fond of a settlement in their native country, but Swifthad not much reason to rejoice in the land where his lot had fallen; forupon his arrival in Ireland to take possesion of the deanery, he foundthe violence of party raging in that kingdom to the highest degree. Thecommon people were taught to consider him as a Jacobite, and theyproceeded so far in their detestation, as to throw stones and dirt athim as he passed thro' the streets. The chapter of St. Patrick's, likethe rest of the kingdom, received him with great reluctance. Theyopposed him in every point he proposed. They avoided him as apestilence, and resisted him as an invader and an enemy to his country.Such was his first reception, as dean of St. Patrick's. Fewer talents,and less firmness must have yielded to so outrageous an opposition. Hehad seen enough of human nature to be convinced that the passions oflow, self-interested minds ebb and flow continually. They love they knownot whom, they hate they know not why. They are captivated by words,guided by names, and governed by accidents. But to few the strangerevolutions in this world, Dr. Swift, who was now the detestion of theIrish rabble, lived to be afterwards the most absolute monarch overthem, that ever governed men. His first step was to reduce to reason andobedience his revd. brethren the the chapter of St. Patrick's; in whichhe succeeded so perfectly, and so speedily, that, in a short time afterhis arrival, not one member in that body offered to contradict him, evenin trifles: on the contrary, they held him in the highest respect andveneration, so that he sat in the Chapter-House, like Jupiter in theSynod of the Gods.In the beginning of the year 1714 Swift returned to England. He foundhis great friends, who sat in the seat of power, much disunited amongthemselves. He saw the Queen declining in her health, and distressed inher situation; while faction was exerting itself, and gathering newstrength every day. He exerted the utmost of his skill to unite theministers, and to cement the apertures of the state: but he found hispains fruitless, his arguments unavailing, and his endeavours, like thestone of Sisyphus, rolling back upon himself. He retired to a friend'shouse in Berkshire, where he remained 'till the Queen died. So fatal anevent terminated all his views in England, and made him return as fastas possible to his deanery in Ireland, oppressed with grief anddiscontent. His hopes in England were now crushed for ever. As Swift waswell known to have been attached to the Queen's last ministry, he metwith several indignities from the populace, and, indeed, was equallyabused by persons of all ranks and denominations. Such a treatmentsoured his temper, confined his acquaintance, and added bitterness tohis stile.From the year 1714, 'till he appeared in the year 1720 a champion forIreland, against Wood's halfpence, his spirit of politics and patriotismwas kept almost closely confined within his own breast. Idleness andtrifles engrossed too many of his leisure hours; fools and sycophantstoo much of his conversation. His attendance upon the public service ofthe church was regular and uninterrupted; and indeed regularity waspeculiar to all his actions, even in the meerest trifles. His hours ofwalking and reading never varied. His motions were guided by his watch,which was so constantly held in his hand, or placed before him on thetable, that he seldom deviated many minutes in the revolution of hisexercises and employments. In the year 1720 he began to re-assume, insome degree, the character of a political writer. A small pamphlet indefence of the Irish Manufactures was his first essay in Ireland in thatkind of writing, and to that pamphlet he owed the turn of the populartide in his favour. It was entitled, A Proposal for the Universal Use ofIrish Manufacture in Clothes and Furniture of Houses, &c. utterlyrejecting and renouncing every thing wearable that comes from England.This proposal immediately raised a very violent flame. The Printer wasprosecuted, and the prosecution had the same effect, which generallyattends those kind of measures. It added fuel to flame. But his greatestenemies must confess, that the pamphlet is written in the stile of a manwho had the good of his country nearest his heart, who saw her errors,and wished to correct them; who felt her oppressions, and wished torelieve them; and who had a desire to rouze and awaken an indolentnation from a lethargic disposition, that might prove fatal to herconstitution. This temporary opposition but increased the stream of hispopularity. He was now looked upon in a new light, and was distinguishedby the title of THE DEAN, and so high a degree of popularity did heattain, as to become an arbitrator, in disputes of property, amongst hisneighbours; nor did any man dare to appeal from his opinion, or murmurat his decrees.But the popular affection, which the dean had hitherto acquired, may besaid not to have been universal, 'till the publication of the Drapier'sLetters, which made all ranks, and all professions unanimous in hisapplause. The occasion of those letters was, a scarcity of copper coinin Ireland, to so great a degree, that, for some time past, the chiefmanufacturers throughout the kingdom were obliged to pay their workmenin pieces of tin, or in other tokens of suppositious value. Such amethod was very disadvantageous to the lower parts of traffic, and wasin general an impediment to the commerce of the state. To remedy thisevil, the late King granted a patent to one Wood, to coin, during theterm of fourteen years, farthings and halfpence in England, for the useof Ireland, to the value of a certain Aim specified. These halfpence andfarthings were to be received by those persons, who would voluntarilyaccept them. But the patent was thought to be of such dangerousconsequence to the public, and of such exorbitant advantage to thepatentee, that the dean, under the character of M. B. Drapier, wrote aLetter to the People, warning them not to accept Wood's halfpence andfarthings, as current coin. This first letter was succeeded by severalothers to the same purpose, all which are inserted in his works.At the sound of the Drapier's trumpet, a spirit arose among the people.Persons of all ranks, parties and denominations, were convinced that theadmission of Wood's copper must prove fatal to the commonwealth. ThePapist, the Fanatic, the Tory, the Whig, all listed themselvesvolunteers, under the banner of the Drapier, and were all equallyzealous to serve the common cause. Much heat, and many fiery speechesagainst the administration were the consequence of this union; nor hadthe flames been allayed, notwithstanding threats and proclamations, hadnot the coin been totally suppressed, and Wood withdrawn his patent. Thename of Augustus was not bestowed upon Octavius Caesar with moreuniversal approbation, than the name of the Drapier was bestowed uponthe dean. He had no sooner assumed his new cognomen, than he became theidol of the people of Ireland, to a degree of devotion, that in the mostsuperstitious country, scarce any idol ever obtained. Libations to hishealth were poured out as frequent as to the immortal memory of KingWilliam. His effigies was painted in every street in Dublin.Acclamations and vows for his prosperity attended his footsteps whereverhe passed. He was consulted in all points relating to domestic policy ingeneral, and to the trade of Ireland in particular; but he was moreimmediately looked upon as the legislator of the Weavers, who frequentlycame in a body, consisting of 40 or 50 chiefs of their trade, to receivehis advice in settling the rates of their manufactures, and the wages oftheir journeymen. He received their address with less majesty thansternness, and ranging his subjects in a circle round his parlour, spokeas copiously, and with as little difficulty and hesitation, to theseveral points in which they supplicated his assistance, as if trade hadbeen the only study and employment of his life. When elections weredepending for the city of Dublin, many Corporations refused to declarethemselves, 'till they had consulted his sentiments and inclinations,which were punctually followed with equal chearfulness and submission.In this state of power, and popular admiration, he remained 'till helost his senses; a loss which he seemed to foresee, and propheticallylamented to many of his friends. The total deprivation of his sensescame upon him by degrees. In the year 1736 he was seized with a violentfit of giddiness; he was at that time writing a satirical poem, calledThe Legion Club; but he found the effects of his giddiness so dreadful,that he left the poem unfinished, and never afterwards attempted acomposition, either in verse or prose. However, his conversation stillremained the same, lively and severe, but his memory gradually grewworse and worse, and as that decreased, he grew every day more fretfuland impatient. In the year 1741, his friends found his passions soviolent and ungovernable, his memory so decayed, and his reason sodepraved, that they took the utmost precautions to keep all strangersfrom approaching him; for, 'till then, he had not appeared totallyincapable of conversation. But early in the year 1742, the small remainsof his understanding became entirely confused, and the violence of hisrage increased absolutely to a degree of madness. In this miserablestate he seemed to be appointed the first inhabitant of his ownHospital; especially as from an outrageous lunatic, he sunk afterwardsto a quiet speechless ideot; and dragged out the remainder of his lifein that helpless situation. He died towards the latter end of October1745. The manner of his death was easy, without the least pang, orconvulsion; even the rattling of his throat was scarce sufficient togive an alarm to his attendants, 'till within some very little timebefore he expired. A man in possession of his reason would have wishedfor such a kind dissolution; but Swift was totally insensible ofhappiness, or pain. He had not even the power or expression of a child,appearing for some years before his death, referred only as an exampleto mortify human pride, and to reverse that fine description of humannature, which is given us by the inimitable Shakespeare. 'What a pieceof work is man! how noble in reason! how infinite in faculty! in formand moving how express and admirable! in action how like an angel! inapprehension how like a God! the beauty of the world! the paragon ofanimals!' Swift's friends often heard him lament the state of childhoodand idiotism, to which some of the greatest men of this nation werereduced before their death. He mentioned, as examples within his owntime, the duke of Marlborough and lord Somers; and when he cited thesemelancholy instances, it was always with a heavy sigh, and with gesturesthat shewed great uneasiness, as if he felt an impulse of what was tohappen to him before he died. He left behind him about twelve thousandpounds, inclusive of the specific legacies mentioned in his will, andwhich may be computed at the sum of twelve hundred pounds, so that theremaining ten thousand eight hundred pounds, is entirely applicable tothe Hospital for Idiots and Lunatics; an establishment remarkablygenerous, as those who receive the benefit, must for ever remainignorant of their benefactor.Lord Orerry has observed, that a propension to jocularity and humour isapparent in the last works of Swift. His Will, like all his otherwritings, is drawn up in his own peculiar manner. Even in so serious acomposition, he cannot help indulging himself in leaving legacies, thatcarry with them an air of raillery and jest. He disposes of his threebest hats (his best, his second best, and his third best beaver) with anironical solemnity, that renders the bequests ridiculous. He bequeaths,'To Mr. John Grattan a silver-box, to keep in it the tobacco which thesaid John usually chewed, called pigtail.' But his legacy to Mr. RobertGrattan, is still more extraordinary. 'Item, I bequeath to the Revd. Mr.Robert Grattan, Prebendary of St. Audeon's, my strong box, on conditionof his giving the sole use of the said box to his brother, Dr. JamesGrattan, during the life of the said Doctor, who hath more occasion forit.'These are so many last expressions of his turn, and way of thinking, andno doubt the persons thus distinguished looked upon these instances asaffectionate memorials of his friendship, and tokens of the jocosemanner, in which he had treated them during his life-time.With regard to Dean Swift's poetical character, the reader will take thefollowing sketch of it in the words of Lord Orrery. 'The poeticalperformances of Swift (says he) ought to be considered as occasionalpoems, written either to pleasure[3], or to vex some particular persons.We must not suppose them designed for posterity; if he had cultivatedhis genius that way, he must certainly have excelled, especially insatire. We see fine sketches in several of his pieces; but he seems moredesirous to inform and strengthen his mind, than to indulge theluxuriancy of his imagination. He chuses to discover, and correct errorsin the works of others, rather than to illustrate, and add beauties ofhis own. Like a skilful artist, he is fond of probing wounds to theirdepth, and of enlarging them to open view. He aims to be severelyuseful, rather than politely engaging; and as he was either not formed,nor would take pains to excel in poetry, he became in some measuresuperior to it; and assumed more the air, and manner of a critic than apoet.' Thus far his lordship in his VIth letter, but in his IXth, headds, when speaking of the Second Volume of Swift's Works, 'He had thenicest ear; he is remarkably chaste, and delicate in his rhimes. A badrhime appeared to him one of the capital sins of poetry.'The Dean's poem on his celebrated Vanessa, is number'd among the best ofhis poetical pieces. Of this lady it will be proper to give someaccount, as she was a character as singular as Swift himself.Vanessa's real name was Esther Vanhomrich[4]. She was one of thedaughters of Bartholomew Vanhomrich, a Dutch merchant of Amsterdam; whoupon the Revolution went into Ireland, and was appointed by king Williama commissioner of the revenue. The Dutch merchant, by parsimony andprudence, had collected a fortune of about 16,000 _l_. He bequeathed anequal division of it to his wife, and his four children, of which twowere sons, and two were daughters. The sons after the death of theirfather travelled abroad: The eldest died beyond sea; and the youngestsurviving his brother only a short time, the whole patrimony fell to histwo sisters, Esther and Mary.With this encrease of wealth, and with heads and hearts elated byaffluence, and unrestrained by fore-sight or discretion, the widowVanhomrich, and her two daughters, quitted their native country for themore elegant pleasures of the English court. During their residence atLondon, they lived in a course of prodigality, that stretched itself farbeyond the limits of their income, and reduced them to great distress,in the midst of which the mother died, and the two daughters hastened inall secresy back to Ireland, beginning their journey on a Sunday, toavoid the interruption of creditors. Within two years after theirarrival in Ireland, Mary the youngest sister died, and the small remainsof the shipwreck'd fortune center'd in Vanessa.Vanity makes terrible devastations in a female breast: Vanessa wasexcessively vain. She was fond of dress; impatient to be admired; veryromantic in her turn of mind; superior in her own opinion to all hersex; full of pertness, gaiety, and pride; not without some agreeableaccomplishments, but far from being either beautiful or genteel:Ambitious at any rate to be esteemed a wit; and with that view alwaysaffecting to keep company with wits; a great reader, and a violentadmirer of poetry; happy in the thoughts of being reputed Swift'sconcubine; but still aiming to be his wife. By nature haughty anddisdainful, looking with contempt upon her inferiors; and with thesmiles of self-approbation upon her equals; but upon Dr. Swift, with theeyes of love: Her love was no doubt founded in vanity.Though Vanessa had exerted all the arts of her sex, to intangle Swift inmatrimony; she was yet unsuccessful. She had lost her reputation, andthe narrowness of her income, and coldness of her lover contributed tomake her miserable, and to increase the phrensical disposition of hermind. In this melancholly situation she remained several years, duringwhich time Cadenus (Swift) visited her frequently. She often press'd himto marry her: His answers were rather turns of wit, than positivedenials; till at last being unable to sustain the weight of misery anylonger, she wrote a very tender epistle to him, insisting peremptorilyupon a serious answer, and an immediate acceptance, or absolute refusalof her as his wife. His reply was delivered by his own hand. He broughtit with him when he made his final visit; and throwing down the letterupon the table with great passion, hastened back to his house, carryingin his countenance the frown of anger, and indignation. Vanessa did notsurvive many days the letter delivered to her by Swift, but during thatshort interval she was sufficiently composed, to cancel a will made inhis favour, and to make another, wherein she left her fortune (which bya long retirement was in some measure retrieved) to her two executors,Dr. Berkley the late lord bishop of Cloyne, and Mr. Marshal one of theking's Serjeants at law. Thus perished under all the agonies of despair,Mrs. Esther Vanhomrich; a miserable example of an ill-spent life,fantastic wit, visionary schemes, and female weakness.It is strange that vanity should have so great a prevalence in thefemale breast, and yet it is certain that to this principle it wasowing, that Swift's house was often a seraglio of very virtuous women,who attended him from morning till night, with an obedience, an awe, andan assiduity that are seldom paid to the richest, or the most powerfullovers. These ladies had no doubt a pride in being thought thecompanions of Swift; but the hours which were spent in his company couldnot be very pleasant, as his sternness and authority were continuallyexerted to keep them in awe.Lord Orrery has informed us, that Swift took every opportunity to exposeand ridicule Dryden, for which he imagines there must have been someaffront given by that great man to Swift. In this particular we cansatisfy the reader from authentic information.When Swift was a young man, and not so well acquainted with the world ashe afterwards became, he wrote some Pindaric Odes. In this species ofcomposition he succeeded ill; sublimity and fire, the indispensablerequisites in a Pindaric Ode not being his talent. As Mr. Dryden wasSwift's kinsman, these odes were shewn to him for his approbation, whosaid to him with an unreserved freedom, and in the candour of a friend,'Cousin Swift, turn your thoughts some other way, for nature has neverformed you for a Pindaric poet.'Though what Dryden observed, might in some measure be true, and Swiftperhaps was conscious that he had not abilities to succeed in thatspecies of writing; yet this honest dissuasive of his kinsman he neverforgave. The remembrance of it soured his temper, and heated hispassions, whenever Dryden's name was mention'd.We shall now take a view of Swift in his moral life, the distinction hehas obtained in the literary world having rendered all illustrations ofhis genius needless.Lord Orrery, throughout his excellent work, from which we have drawn ouraccount of Swift, with his usual marks of candour, has displayed hismoral character. In many particulars, the picture he draws of the Deanresembles the portrait of the same person as drawn by Mrs. Pilkington.'I have beheld him (says his lordship) in all humours and dispositions,and I have formed various speculations from the several weaknesses towhich I observed him liable. His capacity, and strength of mind, wereundoubtedly equal to any talk whatsoever. His pride, his spirit, or hisambition (call it by what name you please) was boundless; but his viewswere checked in his younger years, and the anxiety of thatdisappointment had a sensible effect upon all his actions. He was sourand severe, but not absolutely ill-natur'd. He was sociable only toparticular friends, and to them only at particular hours. He knewpoliteness more than he practiced it. He was a mixture of avarice andgenerosity; the former was frequently prevalent, the latter seldomappeared unless excited by compassion. He was open to adulation, andwould not, or could not, distinguish between low flattery and justapplause. His abilities rendered him superior to envy. He wasundisguised, and perfectly sincere. I am induced to think that heentered into orders, more from some private and fixed resolution, thanfrom absolute choice: Be that as it may, he performed the duties of thechurch with great punctuality, and a decent degree of devotion. He readprayers, rather in a strong nervous voice, than in a graceful manner;and although he has been often accused of irreligion, nothing of thatkind appeared in his conversation or behaviour. His cast of mind inducedhim to think and speak more of politics than religion. His perpetualviews were directed towards power; and his chief aim was to be removedto England: But when he found himself entirely disappointed, he turnedhis thoughts to opposition, and became the Patron of Ireland.'Mrs. Pilkington has represented him as a tyrant in his family, and hasdiscovered in him a violent propension to be absolute in every companywhere he was. This disposition, no doubt, made him more feared thanloved; but as he had the most unbounded vanity to gratify, he waspleased with the servility and awe with which inferiors approached him.He may be resembled to an eastern monarch, who takes delight insurveying his slaves, trembling at his approach, and kneeling withreverence at his feet.Had Swift been born to regal honours, he would doubtless have bent thenecks of his people to the yoke: As a subject, he was restless andturbulent; and though as lord Orrery says, he was above corruption, yetthat virtue was certainly founded on his pride, which disdained everymeasure, and spurned every effort in which he himself was not theprincipal.He was certainly charitable, though it had an unlucky mixture ofostentation in it. One particular act of his charity (not mentioned,except by Mrs. Pilkington, in any account of him yet published) is wellworthy of remembrance, praise, and imitation:--He appropriated the sumof five-hundred pounds intirely to the use of poor tradesmen andhandicraftsmen, whose honesty and industry, he thought meritedassistance, and encouragement: This he lent to them in small loans, astheir exigencies required, without any interest; and they repaid him atso much per week, or month, as their different circumstances bestenabled them.--To the wealthy let us say--  "Abi tu et fac similiter."FOOTNOTES:[1] Lord Orrery, page 6.[2] The authors of the Monthly Review have justly remarked, that this    observation of his lordship's seems premature.    The same public rumour, say they, that made HER Sir William Temple's    daughter, made HIM also Sir William's son: Therefore he (Swift)    could never with decency, have acknowledged Mrs. Johnson as his    wife, while that rumour continued to retain any degree of credit;    and if there had been really no foundation for it, surely it might    have been no very hard task to obviate its force, by producing the    necessary proofs and circumstances of his birth: Yet, we do not    find that ever this was done, either by the Dean or his relations.[3] We are assured, there was one while a misunderstanding subsisting    between Swift and Pope: But that worthy gentleman, the late general    Dormer (who had a great regard for both) reconciled them, e'er it    came to an open rupture:--Though the world might be deprived by the    general's mediation of great matter of entertainment, which the    whetted wit of two such men might have afforded; yet his    good-nature, and sincere friendship, deserves to be remember'd with    honour.--This gentleman Mr. Cibber senior was very intimate with,    and once hinted to him, 'He was concerned to find he stood so ill in    the Dean's opinion, whose great parts, wit, genius, &c. he held in    the highest estimation; nor could he easily account for the Dean's    so frequently appearing his enemy, as he never knowingly had    offended him; and regretted the want of an opportunity of being    better acquainted with him.'--The general had also a great regard    for Mr. Cibber, and wished to bring them together on an agreeable    footing:--Why they were not so, came out soon after.--The secret    was,--Mr. Pope was angry; [for the long-latent cause, look into Mr.    Cibber's letter to Mr. Pope.] Passion and prejudice are not always    friends to truth;--and the foam of resentment never rose higher,    than when it boil'd and swell'd in Mr. Pope's bosom: No wonder then,    that his misrepresentation might make the Dean believe, Mr. Cibber    was not unworthy of that satire and raillery (not always just    neither, and sometimes solicited) which is not unsparingly thrown on    him in the Dean's works:--That this was the case, appears from the    following circumstance.    As soon as Mr. Cibber's Apology was first printed, it was    immediately carried over to Dublin, and given to Mr. Faulkner (an    eminent printer and bookseller there) by a gentleman, who wished to    see an edition of it in Ireland; Mr. Faulkner published it, and the    success thereof was so great, some thousands thereof were disposed    of in a very short time: Just before the intended edition appeared,    the Dean (who often visited Mr. Faulkner) coming into the shop,    asked, 'What new pieces were likely to come forth?'--Mr. Faulkner    gave Mr. Cibber's Apology to him;--The Dean's curiosity    [Transcriber's note: 'curosity' in original] was pretty strong to    see a work of that uncommon sort:--In short, he stay'd and dined    there; and did not quit the house, or the book, 'till he had read it    through: He advised Faulkner, to lose no time in printing it; and    said, he would answer for it's success:--He declared, he had not    perus'd any thing a long time that had pleas'd him so much; and    dwelt long in commendation of it: He added, that he almost envy'd    the author the pleasure he must have in writing it;--That he was    sorry he had ever said any thing to his disadvantage; and was    convinced Cibber had been very much misrepresented to him; nor did    he scruple to say, that, as it had been formerly the fashion to    abuse Cibber, he had unwarily been drawn into it by Pope, and    others. He often, afterwards, spoke in praise of Mr. Cibber, and his    writing in general, and of this work in particular.--He afterwards    told Mr. Faulkner, he had read Cibber's Apology thro' three times;    that he was more and more pleased with it: That the style was not    inferior to any English he had ever read: That his words were    properly adapted: His similes happy, uncommon, and well chosen: He    then in a pleasant manner said--'You must give me this book, which    is the first thing I ever begg'd from you.' To this, we may be sure    Mr. Faulkner readily consented. Ever after in company, the Dean gave    this book a great character.--Let the reader make the application of    this true and well known fact.[4] The name is pronounced Vannumery.       *       *       *       *       *MRS. CONSTANTIA GRIERSON.This lady was born in Ireland; and, as Mrs. Barber judiciously remarks,was one of the most extraordinary women that either this age, or perhapsany other, ever produced. She died in the year 1733, at the age of 27,and was allowed long before to be an excellent scholar, not only inGreek and Roman literature, but in history, divinity, philosophy, andmathematics.Mrs. Grierson (says she) 'gave a proof of her knowledge in the Latintongue, by her dedication of the Dublin edition of Tacitus to the lordCarteret, and by that of Terence to his son, to whom she likewise wrotea Greek epigram. She wrote several fine poems in English[1], on whichshe set so little value, that she neglected to leave copies behind herof but very few.'What makes her character the more remarkable is, that she rose to thiseminence of learning merely by the force of her own genius, andcontinual application. She was not only happy in a fine imagination, agreat memory, an excellent understanding, and an exact judgment, but hadall these crowned by virtue and piety: she was too learned to be vain,too wise to be conceited, too knowing and too clear-sighted toirreligious.'If heaven had spared her life, and blessed her with health, which shewanted for some years before her death, there is good reason to thinkshe would have made as great a figure in the learned world, as any ofher sex are recorded to have done.'As her learning and abilities raised her above her own sex, so theyleft her no room to envy any; on the contrary, her delight was to seeothers excel. She was always ready to advise and direct those whoapplied to her, and was herself willing to be advised.'So little did she value herself upon her uncommon excellences, that ithas often recalled to my mind a fine reflexion of a French author, _Thatgreat geniuses should be superior to their own abilities._'I perswade myself that this short account of so extraordinary a woman,of whom much more might have been said, will not be disagreeable to myreaders; nor can I omit what I think is greatly to the lord Carteret'shonour, that when he was lord lieutenant of Ireland, he obtained apatent for Mr. Grierson, her husband, to be the King's Printer, and todistinguish and reward her uncommon merit, had her life inserted in it.'Thus far Mrs. Barber. We shall now subjoin Mrs. Pilkington's account ofthis wonderful genius.'About two years before this, a young woman (afterwards married to Mr.Grierson) of about eighteen years of age, was brought to my father[2],to be by him instructed in Midwifry: she was mistress of Hebrew[3],Greek, Latin, and French, and understood the mathematics as well as mostmen: and what made these extraordinary talents yet more surprizing was,that her parents were poor, illiterate, country people: so that herlearning appeared like the gift poured out on the apostles, of speakingall languages without the pains of study; or, like the intuitiveknowledge of angels: yet inasmuch as the power of miracles is ceased, wemust allow she used human means for such great and excellentacquirements. And yet, in a long friendship and familiarity with her, Icould never obtain a satisfactory account from her on this head; onlyshe said, she had received some little instruction from the minister ofthe parish, when she could spare time from her needle-work, to which shewas closely kept by her mother. She wrote elegantly both in verse andprose, and some of the most delightful hours I ever passed were in theconversation of this female philosopher.'My father readily consented to accept of her as a pupil, and gave her ageneral invitation to his table; so that she and I were seldom asunder.My parents were well pleased with our intimacy, as her piety was notinferior to her learning. Her turn was chiefly to philosophical ordivine subjects; yet could her heavenly muse descend from its sublimeheight to the easy epistolary stile, and suit itself to my then gaydisposition[4].FOOTNOTES:[1] Mrs. Barber has preserved several specimens of her talent in this    way, which are printed with her own poems.[2] Dr. Van Lewen of Dublin, an eminent physician and man-midwife.[3] Her knowledge of the Hebrew is not mentioned by Mrs. Barber.[4] Vide MRS. PILKINGTON'S MEMOIRS, Vol. I.       *       *       *       *       *MRS. CATHERINE COCKBURN.The Revd. Dr. Birch, who has prefixed a life of Mrs. Cockburn before thecollection he has made of her works, with great truth observes, that itis a justice due to the public, as well as to the memory of Mrs.Cockburn, to premise some account of so extraordinary a person."Posterity, at least, adds he, will be so sollicitous to know, to whomthey will owe the most demonstrative and perspicuous reasonings, uponsubjects of eternal importance; and her own sex is entitled to thefullest information about one, who has done such honour to them, andraised our ideas of their intellectual powers, by an example of thegreatest extent of understanding and correctness of judgment, united toall the vivacity of imagination. Antiquity, indeed, boasted of itsFemale Philosophers, whose merits have been drawn forth in an elaboratetreatise of Menage[1]. But our own age and country may without injusticeor vanity oppose to those illustrious ladies the defender of Lock andClark; who, with a genius equal to the most eminent of them, had thesuperior advantage of cultivating it in the only effectual method ofimprovement, the study of a real philosophy, and a theology worthy humannature, and its all-perfect author. [Transcriber's note: closing quotesmissing from original.]She was the daughter of captain David Trotter, a Scots gentleman, andcommander of the royal navy in the reign of Charles II. He was highly infavour with that prince, who employed him as commodore in the demolitionof Tangier, in the year 1683. Soon after he was sent to convoy the fleetof the Turkey company; when being seized by the plague, then raging atScanderoon, he died there. His death was an irreparable loss to hisfamily, who were defrauded of all his effects on board his ship, whichwere very considerable, and of all the money which he had advanced tothe seamen, during a long voyage: And to add to this misfortune, thegoldsmith, in whose hands the greatest part of his money was lodged,became soon after a bankrupt. These accumulated circumstances ofdistress exciting the companion of king Charles, the captain's widow wasallowed a pension, which ended with that king's life; nor had she anyconsideration for her losses in the two succeeding reigns. But queenAnne, upon her accession to the throne, granted her an annual pension oftwenty pounds.Captain Trotter at his death, left only two daughters, the youngest ofwhom, Catherine, our celebrated author, was born in London, August 16,1679. She gave early marks of her genius, and was not passed herchildhood when she surprized a company of her relations and friends withextemporary verses, on an accident which had fallen under herobservation in the street. She both learned to write, and made herselfmistress of the French language, by her own application and diligence,without any instructor. But she had some assistance in the study of theLatin Grammar and Logic, of which latter she drew up an abstract for herown use. The most serious and important subjects, and especially[Transcriber's note: 'espepecially' in original] those of religion, soonengaged her attention. But not withstanding her education, her intimacywith several families of distinction of the Romish persuasion exposedher, while very young, to impressions in favour of that church, whichnot being removed by her conferences with some eminent and learnedmembers of the church of England, she followed the dictates of amisguided conscience, and embraced the Romish communion, in which shecontinued till the year 1707.She was but 14 years of age, when she wrote a copy of verses upon Mr.Bevil Higgons's sickness and recovery from the small pox, which areprinted in our author's second volume. Her next production was a Tragedycalled Agnes de Castro, which was acted at the Theatre-royal, in 1695,when she was only in her seventeenth year, and printed in 1696. Thereputation of this performance, and the verses which she addressed toMr. Congreve upon his Mourning Bride, in 1697, were probably thefoundation of her acquaintance with that admirable writer.Her second Tragedy, intitled Fatal Friendship, was acted in 1698, at thenew Theatre in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields. This Tragedy met with greatapplause, and is still thought the most perfect of her dramaticperformances. Among other copies of verses sent to her upon occasion ofit, and prefixed to it, was one from an unknown hand, which afterwardsappeared to be from the elegant pen of Mr. Hughs, author of the Siege ofDamascus [2].The death of Mr. Dryden engaged her to join with several other ladies inpaying a just tribute to the memory of that great improver of thestrength, fulness, and harmony of English verse; and their performanceswere published together, under the title of the Nine Muses; or Poemswritten by so many Ladies, upon the Death of the late famous JohnDryden, Esq;Her dramatic talents not being confined to Tragedy, she brought upon thestage, in 1701, a Comedy called Love at a Loss; or most Votes carry it,published in May that year. In the same year she gave the public herthird Tragedy, intitled, The Unhappy Penitent, acted at theTheatre-Royal in Drury-Lane. In the dedication to Charles lord Hallifax,she draws the characters of several of the most eminent of herpredecessors in tragic poetry, with great judgment and precision. Sheobserves, that Shakespear had all the images of nature present to him,studied her thoroughly, and boldly copied all her various features: andthat though he chiefly exerted himself on the more masculine passions,it was the choice of his judgment, not the restraint of his genius; andhe seems to have designed those few tender moving scenes, which he hasgiven us, as a proof that he could be every way equally admirable. Sheallows Dryden to have been the most universal genius which this nationever bred; but thinks that he did not excel in every part; for though heis distinguished in most of his writings, by greatness and elevation ofthought, yet at the same time that he commands our admiration ofhimself, he little moves our concern for those whom he represents, notbeing formed for touching the softer passions. On the other hand, Otway,besides his judicious choice of the fable, had a peculiar art to movecompassion, which, as it is one of the chief ends of Tragedy, he foundmost adapted to his genius; and never venturing where that did not leadhim, excelled in the pathetic. And had Lee, as she remarks, consultedhis strength as well, he might have given us more perfect pieces; butaiming at the sublime, instead of being great, he is extravagant; hisstile too swelling; and if we pursue him in his flight, he often carriesus out of nature. Had he restrained that vain ambition, and intirelyapplied himself to describe the softest of the passions (for love, ofall the passions, he seems best to have understood, if that be allowed aproper subject for Tragedy) he had certainly had fewer defects.But poetry and dramatic writing did not so far engross the thoughts ofour author, but that she sometimes turned them to subjects of a verydifferent nature; and at an age when few of the other sex were capableof understanding the Essay of Human Understanding, and most of themprejudiced against the novelty of its principles; and though she was atthat time engaged in the profession of a religion not very favourable toso rational a philosophy as that of Mr. Lock; yet she had read thatincomparable book, with so clear a comprehension, and so unbiassed ajudgment, that her own conviction of the truth and importance of thenotions contained in it, led her to endeavour that of others, byremoving some of the objections urged against them. She drew uptherefore a Defence of the Essay, against some Remarks which had beenpublished against it in 1667. The author of these remarks was neverknown to Mr. Lock, who animadverted upon them with some marks ofchagrin, at the end of his reply to Stillingfleet, 1697. But after thedeath of the ingenious Dr. Thomas Burner, master of the Charter-House,it appeared from his papers, that the Remarks were the product of hispen. They were soon followed by second Remarks, printed the same year,in vindication of the first, against Mr. Lock's Answer to them; and in1699, by Third Remarks, addressed likewise to Mr. Lock. Mrs. Trotter'sDefence of the Essay against all these Remarks was finished so early asthe beginning of December 1701, when she was but 22 years old. But beingmore apprehensive of appearing before the great writer whom shedefended, than of the public censure, and conscious that the name of awoman would be a prejudice against a work of that nature, she resolvedto conceal herself with the utmost care. But her title to the reputationof this piece did not continue long a secret to the world. For Mrs.Burnet, the late wife of Dr. Burnet, bishop of Sarum, a lady of anuncommon degree of knowledge, and whose Method of Devotion, which passedthrough several editions, is a proof of her exemplary piety, and who, aswell as that prelate, honoured our author with a particular friendship,notwithstanding the difference of her religion, being informed that shewas engaged in writing, and that it was not poetry, was desirous to knowthe subject. This Mrs. Trotter could not deny a lady of her merit, inwhom she might safely confide, and who, upon being acquainted with it,shewed an equal sollicitude that the author might not be known. Butafterwards finding the performance highly approved by the bishop herhusband, Mr. Norris of Bemmerton, and Mr. Lock himself; she thought thereasons of secrecy ceased, and discovered the writer; and in June 1707returned her thanks to Mrs. Trotter, then in London, for her present ofthe book, in a letter which does as much honour to her ownunderstanding, principles and temper, as to her friend, to whom sheaddressed it. Dr. Birch has given a copy of this letter.Mr. Lock likewise was so highly satisfied with the Defence, (which wasperhaps the only piece that appeared in favour of his Essay, except oneby Mr. Samuel Bold, rector of Steeple in Dorsetshire, 1699) that beingin London, he desired Mr. King, afterwards lord high chancellor, to makeMrs. Trotter a visit, and a present of books; and when she had ownedherself, he wrote to her a letter of compliment, a copy of which isinserted in these memoirs.But while our author continued to shew the world so deep a penetrationinto subjects of the most difficult and abstract kind, she was stillincapable of extricating herself from those subtilties and perplexitiesof argument, which retained her in the church of Rome. And the sincerityof her attachment to it, in all its outward severities, obliged her toso strict an observance of its fasts, as proved extremely injurious toher health. Upon which Dr. Denton Nicholas, a very ingenious learnedphysician of her acquaintance, advised her to abate of those rigours ofabstinence, as insupportable to a constitution naturally infirm.She returned to the exercise of her dramatic genius in 1703, and havingfixed upon the Revolution of Sweden under Gustavus Erickson (which hasbeen related in prose with so much force and beauty by the Abbe Vertot)for the subject of a Tragedy, she sent the first draught of it to Mr.Congreve, who returned her an answer, which, on account of the justremarks upon the conduct of the drama, well deserves a place here, didit not exceed our proposed bounds, and therefore we must refer thereader to Dr. Birch's account. This Tragedy was acted in 1706, at theQueen's Theatre in the Hay-Market, and was printed in quarto.By a letter from Mrs. Trotter to her friend George Burnet of Kemnay inScotland, Esq; then at Geneva, dated February 2, 1703-4, it appears thatshe then began to entertain more moderate notions of religion, and toabate of her zeal for the church of Rome. Her charitableness andlatitude of sentiments seems to have increased a-pace, from the fartherexamination which she was now probably making into the state of thecontroversy between the church of Rome and the Protestants; for inanother letter to Mr. Burnet, of August 8, 1704, she speaks to thesubject of religion, with a spirit of moderation unusual in thecommunion of which she still professed herself.'I wish, (says she) there was no distinction of churches; and then Idoubt not there would be much more real religion, the name and notion ofwhich I am so sorry to observe confined to the being of some particularcommunity; and the whole of it, I am afraid, placed by most in a zealof those points, which make the differences between them; from whichmistaken zeal, no doubt, have proceeded all the massacres,persecutions, and hatred of their fellow christians, which all churcheshave been inclined to, when in power. And I believe it is generallytrue, that those who are most bigotted to a sect, or most rigid andprecise in their forms and outward discipline, are most negligent ofthe moral duties, which certainly are the main end of religion. I haveobserved this so often, both in private persons and public societies,that I am apt to suspect it every where.'The victory at Blenheim, which exercised the pens of Mr. Addison and Mr.John Philips, whose poems on that occasion divided the admiration of thepublic, tempted Mrs. Trotter to write a copy of verses to the duke ofMarlborough, upon his return from his glorious campaign in Germany,December, 1704. But being doubtful with respect to the publication ofthem, she sent them in manuscript to his grace; and received for answer,that the duke and duchess, and the lord treasurer Godolphin, withseveral others to whom they were shewn, were greatly pleased with them;and that good judges of poetry had declared, that there were some linesin them superior to any that had been written on the subject. Upon thisencouragement she sent the poem to the press.The high degree of favour with which she was honoured by theseillustrious persons, gave her, about this time, hopes of someestablishment of her fortune, which had hitherto been extremely narrowand precarious. But though she failed of such an establishment, shesucceeded in 1705, in another point, which was a temporary relief toher. This particular appears from one of her letters printed in thesecond volume; but of what nature or amount this relief was, we do notfind.Her enquiries into the nature of true religion were attended with theirnatural and usual effects, in opening and enlarging her notions beyondthe contracted pale of her own church. For in her letter of the 7th ofJuly 1705, to Mr. Burnet, she says, 'I am zealous to have you agree withme in this one article, that all good christians are of the samereligion; a sentiment which I sincerely confess, how little soever it iscountenanced by the church of Rome.' And in the latter end of thefollowing year, or the beginning of 1707, her doubts about the Romishreligion, which she had so many years professed, having led her to athorough examination of the grounds of it, by consulting the best bookson both sides of the question, and advising with men of the bestjudgment, the result was a conviction of the falseness of thepretensions of that church, and a return to that of England, to whichshe adhered during the rest of her life. In the course of this enquiry,the great and leading question concerning A Guide in Controversy, wasparticularly discussed by her; and the two letters which she wrote uponit, the first to Mr. Bennet, a Romish priest, and the second to Mr.H----, who had procured an answer to that letter from a stranger, Mr.Beimel's indisposition preventing him from returning one, were thoughtso valuable on account of the strength and perspicuity of reasoning, aswell as their conciseness, that she consented to the importunity of herfriends, for their publication in June 1707, under the following title,A Discourse concerning a Guide in Controversies; in two Letters: Writtento one of the Church Church of Rome, by a Person lately converted fromthat Communion; a later edition of them being since printed at Edinburghin 1728 in 8vo. Bishop Burnet wrote the preface to them, though withouthis name to it; and he observes, that they might be of use to such ofthe Roman Catholics as are perswaded, that those who deny theinfallibility of their church, take away all certainty of the Christianreligion, or of the authority of the scriptures. This is the main topicof those two letters, and the point was considered by our author as ofsuch importance, that she procured her friend Mrs. Burnet to consult Mr.(afterwards Dr.) Clark upon it, and to show him a paper, which had beenput into her hands, urging the difficulties on that article, on the sideof the Papists. The sentiments of that great man upon this subject arecomprised in a letter from Mrs. Burnet to Mrs. Trotter, of which oureditor has given a copy, to which we refer the reader in the 31st pageof his account.In 1708 our author was married to Mr. Cockburn, the son of Dr. Cockburn,an eminent and learned divine of Scotland, at first attached to thecourt of St. Germains, but obliged to quit it on account of hisinflexible adherence to the Protestant religion; then for some timeminister of the Episcopal church at Amsterdam, and at last collated tothe rectory of Northaw in Middlesex, by Dr. Robinson bishop of London,at the recommendation of Queen Anne. Mr. Cockburn, his son, soon afterhis marriage with our author, had the donative of Nayland in Sussex,where he settled in the same year 1708; but returned afterwards fromthence to London, to be curate of St. Dunstan's in Fleet-street, wherehe continued 'till the accession of his late majesty to the throne, whenfalling into a scruple about the oath of abjuration, though he alwaysprayed for the King and Royal Family by name, he was obliged to quitthat station, and for ten or twelve years following was reduced to greatdifficulties in the support of his family; during which time heinstructed the youth of the academy in Chancery-Lane, in the Latintongue. At last, in 1726, by consulting the lord chancellor King and hisown father, upon the sense and intent of that oath, and by reading somepapers put into his hands, with relation to it, he was reconciled to thetaking of it. In consequence of this, being the year following invitedto be minister of the Episcopal congregation at Aberdeen in Scotland, hequalified himself conformably to the law, and, on the day of his presentMajesty's accession, preached a sermon there on the duty and benefit ofpraying for the government. This sermon being printed and animadvertedupon, he published a reply to the remarks on it, with some papersrelating to the oath of abjuration, which have been much esteemed. Soonafter his settlement at Aberdeen, the lord chancellor presented him tothe living of Long-Horsely, near Morpeth in Northumberland, as a meansof enabling him to support and educate his family; for which purpose hewas allowed to continue his function at Aberdeen, 'till the negligenceand ill-behaviour of the curates, whom he employed at Long Horsely,occasioned Dr. Chandler, the late bishop of Durham, to call him toresidence on that living, 1737; by which means he was forced to quit hisstation at Aberdeen, to the no small diminution of his income. He was aman of considerable learning; and besides his sermon abovementioned, andthe vindication of it, he published, in the Weekly Miscellany, A Defenceof Prime Ministers, in the Character of Joseph; and a Treatise of theMosaic Design, published since his death.Mrs. Cockburn, after her marriage, was entirely diverted from herstudies for many years, by attending tending upon the duties of a wifeand a mother, and by the ordinary cares of an encreasing family, and theadditional ones arising from the reduced circumstances of her husband.However, her zeal for Mr. Lock's character and writings drew her againinto the public light in 1716, upon this occasion.Dr. Holdsworth, fellow of St. John's College in Oxford, had preached onEaster-Monday, 1719 20, before that university, a sermon on John v. 28,29, which he published, professing in his title page to examine andanswer the Cavils, False Reasonings, and False Interpretations ofScripture, of Mr. Lock and others, against the Resurrection of the SameBody. This sermon did not reach Mrs. Cockburn's hands 'till some yearsafter; when the perusal of it forced from her some animadversions, whichshe threw together in the form of a letter to the Dr. and sent to him inMay 1724, with a design of suppressing it entirely, if it should havethe desired effect upon him. After nine months the Dr. informed her,that he had drawn up a large and particular answer to it, but wasunwilling to trust her with his manuscript, 'till she should publish herown. However, after a long time, and much difficulty, she at lastobtained the perusal of his answer; but not meeting with that convictionfrom it, which would have made her give up her cause, she was prevailedon to let the world judge between them, and accordingly published herLetter to Dr. Holdsworth, in January 1726 7, without her name, but saidin the title page to be by the author of, A Defence of Mr. Lock's Essayof Human Understanding. The Dr. whose answer to it was already finished,was very expeditious in the publication of it in June 1727, in an 8vovolume, under the title of A Defence of the Doctrine of the Resurrectionof the same Body, &c.Mrs. Cockburn wrote a very particular reply to this, and entitled it, AVindication of Mr. Lock's Principles, from the injurious Imputations ofDr. Holdsworth. But though it is an admirable performance, and she wasextremely desirous of doing justice to Mr. Lock and herself, yet notmeeting with any Bookseller willing to undertake, nor herself being ableto support the expence of the impression, it continued in manuscript,and was reserved to enrich the collection published after her death.Her Remarks upon some Writers in the Controversy concerning theFoundation of Moral Duty and Moral Obligation were begun during thewinter of the year 1739, and finished in the following one; for theweakness of her eyes, which had been a complaint of many years standing,not permitting her to use, by candlelight, her needle, which so fullyemployed her in the summer season, that she read little, and wrote less;she amused herself, during the long winter-evenings, in digesting herthoughts upon the most abstract subjects in morality and metaphysics.They continued in manuscript till 1743, for want of a Booksellerinclined to accept the publication of them, and were introduced to theworld in August that year, in The History of the Works of the Learned.Her name did not go with them, but they were Inscribed with the utmostDeference to Alexander Pope, Esq; by an Admirer of his moral Character;for which she shews a remarkable zeal in her letters, whenever she hasoccasion to mention him. And her high opinion of him in that respect,founded chiefly on his writings, and especially his letters, as well asher admiration of his genius, inspired her with a strong desire of beingknown to him; for which purpose she drew up a pretty long letter to himabout the year 1738: but it was never sent. The strength, clearness, andvivacity shewn in her Remarks upon the most abstract and perplexedquestions, immediately raised the curiosity of all good judges about theconcealed writer; and their admiration was greatly increased when hersex and advanced age were known. And the worthy Dr. Sharp[3], archdeaconof Northumberland, who had these Remarks in manuscript, and encouragedthe publication of them, being convinced by them, that no person wasbetter qualified for a thorough examination of the grounds of morality,entered into a correspondence with her upon that subject. But her illstate of health at last interrupted her prosecution of it; acircumstance to be regretted, since a discussion carried on with so muchsagacity and candour on both sides, would, in all probability, have leftlittle difficulty remaining on the question.Dr. Rutherforth's Essay on the Nature and Obligations of virtue,published in May 1744, soon engaged her thoughts, and notwithstandingthe asthmatic disorder, which had seized her many years before, and nowleft her small intervals of ease, she applied herself to the confutationof that elaborate discourse; and having finished it with a spirit,elegance, and perspicuity equal, if not superior to all her formerwritings, transmitted her manuscript to Mr. Warburton, who published itin 8vo. with a Preface of his own, in April 1747, under the title ofRemarks upon the Principles and Reasonings of Dr. Rutherforth's Essay onthe Nature and Obligations of Virtue, in Vindication of the contraryPrinciples and Reasons inforced in the Writings of the late Dr. SamuelClark.The extensive reputation which this and her former writings had gainedher, induced her friends to propose to her, the collecting andpublishing them in a body. And upon her consenting to the scheme, whichwas to be executed by subscription, in order to secure to her the fullbenefit of the edition, it met with a ready encouragement from allpersons of true taste; but though Mrs. Cockburn did not live todischarge the office of editor, yet the public has received theacquisition by her death, of a valuable series of letters, which her ownmodesty would have restrained her from permitting to see the light. Andit were to be wished that these two volumes, conditioned for by theterms of subscription, could have contained all her dramatic writings,of which only one is here published. But as that was impossible, thepreference was, upon the maturest deliberation, given to those in prose,as superior in their kind to the most perfect of her poetical, and ofmore general and lasting use to the world.The loss of her husband on the 4th of January 1748, in the 71st year ofhis age, was a severe shock to her; and she did not long survive him,dying on the 11th of May, 1749, in her 71st year, after having longsupported a painful disorder, with a resignation to the divine will,which had been the governing principle of her whole life, and hersupport under the various trials of it. Her memory and understandingcontinued unimpaired, 'till within a few days of her death. She wasinterred near her husband and youngest daughter at Long-Horsley, withthis short sentence on their tomb:  Let their works praise them in the gates.  Prov. xxxi. 31.They left only one son, who is clerk of the cheque at Chatham, and twodaughters.Mrs. Cockburn was no less celebrated for her beauty, in her youngerdays, than for her genius and accomplishments. She was indeed small ofstature, but had a remarkable liveliness in her eye, and delicacy ofcomplexion, which continued to her death. Her private character renderedher extremely amiable to those who intimately knew her. Her conversationwas always innocent, useful and agreeable, without the least affectationof being thought a wit, and attended with a remarkable modesty anddiffidence of herself, and a constant endeavour to adapt her discourseto her company. She was happy in an uncommon evenness and chearfulnessof temper. Her disposition was generous and benevolent; and ready uponall occasions to forgive injuries, and bear them, as well asmisfortunes, without interrupting her own ease, or that of others, withcomplaints or reproaches. The pressures of a very contracted fortunewere supported by her with calmness and in silence; nor did she everattempt to improve it among those great personages to whom she wasknown, by importunities; to which the best minds are most averse, andwhich her approved merit and established reputation mould have renderedunnecessary.The collection now exhibited to the world is, says Dr. Birch, and weentirely agree with him, so incontestable a proof of the superiority ofour author's genius, as in a manner supersedes every thing that can besaid upon that head. But her abilities as a writer, and the merit of herworks, will not have full justice done them, without a due attention tothe peculiar circumstances, in which they were produced: her earlyyouth, when she wrote some, her very advanced age, and ill state ofhealth, when she drew up others; the uneasy situation of her fortune,during the whole course of her life; and an interval of near twentyyears in the vigour of it, spent in the cares of a family, without theleast leisure for reading or contemplation: after which, with a mind solong diverted and incumbered, resuming her studies, she instantlyrecovered its intire powers, and in the hours of relaxation from herdomestic employments, pursued, to their utmost limits, some of thedeepest enquiries of which the human mind is capable!CONTENTS of the First Volume of Mrs. COCKBURN'S Works.I. A Discourse concerning a Guide in Controversy. First published in1707, with a preface by bishop Burnet.II. A Defence of Mr. Lock's Essay of Human Understanding. Firstpublished in 1702.III. A Letter to Dr. Holdsworth, concerning the Resurrection of thesame Body. First published in 1726.IV. A Vindication of Mr. Lock's Christian Principles, from theinjurious Imputations of Dr. Holdsworth. Now first published.V. Remarks upon some Writers in the Controversy, concerning theFoundation of Moral Virtue, and Moral Obligation. With some Thoughtsconcerning Necessary Existence; the Reality and Infinity of Space; theExtension and Place of Spirits; and on Dr. Watts's Notion of Substance.First published in 1743.CONTENTS of the Second Volume.I. Remarks upon Dr. Rutherforth's Essay on the Nature and Obligations ofVirtue. First published in the year 1747.II. Miscellaneous Pieces. Now first printed. Containing a Letter ofAdvice to her Son.--Sunday's Journal.--On the Usefulness of Schools andUniversities.--On the Credibility of the Historical Parts of Scripture.--On Moral Virtue.--Notes on Christianity as old as the Creation.--Onthe Infallibility of the Church of Rome.--Answer to a Questionconcerning the Jurisdiction of the Magistrate over the Life of theSubject.--Remarks on Mr. Seed's Sermon on Moral Virtue.--Remarks uponan Enquiry into the Origin of Human Appetites and Affections.III. Letters between Mrs. Cockburn and several of her Friends. Thesetake up the greatest part of the volume.IV. Letters between the Rev. Dr. Sharp, Archdeacon of Northumberland andMrs. Cockburn concerning the Foundation of Moral Virtue.V. Fatal Friendship, a Tragedy.VI. Poems on several Occasions. There are very few of these, and whatthere are, are of little note. Her poetical talent was the smallest andleast valuable of our author's literary accomplishments.FOOTNOTES:[1] Historia Mulierum Philosopharum. 8vo. Lyons. 1690.[2] Dr. Birch mentions also Mr. Higgons's verses on this occasion, and    gives a copy of a complimentary letter to our author, from Mr.    George Farquhar.[3] Author of an excellent pamphlet, entitled, Two Dissertations    concerning the Etymology and Scripture-meaning of the Hebrew Words    Elohim and Berith. Vide Monthly Review.       *       *       *       *       *AMBROSE PHILLIPS, ESQ;This Gentleman was descended from a very ancient, and considerablefamily in the county of Leicester, and received his education in St.John's college Cambridge, where he wrote his Pastorals, a species ofexcellence, in which he is thought to have remarkably distinguishedhimself. When Mr. Philips quitted the university, and repaired to themetropolis, he became, as Mr. Jacob phrases it, one of the wits atButtons; and in consequence of this, contracted an acquaintance withthose bright genius's who frequented it; especially Sir Richard Steele,who in the first volume of his Tatler inserts a little poem of thisauthor's dated from Copenhagen, which he calls a winter piece; SirRichard thus mentions it with honour. 'This is as fine a piece, as weever had from any of the schools of the most learned painters; suchimages as these give us a new pleasure in our fight, and fix upon ourminds traces of reflexion, which accompany us wherever the like objectsoccur.'This short performance which we shall here insert, was reckoned soelegant, by men of taste then living, that Mr. Pope himself, who had aconfirmed aversion to Philips, when he affected to despise his otherworks, always excepted this out of the number.It is written from Copenhagen, addressed to the Earl of Dorset, anddated the 9th of May 1709.  A WINTER PIECE.    From frozen climes, and endless tracks of snow,  From streams that northern winds forbid to flow;  What present shall the Muse to Dorset bring,  Or how, so near the Pole, attempt to sing?  The hoary winter here conceals from sight,  All pleasing objects that to verse invite.  The hills and dales, and the delightful woods,  The flow'ry plains, and silver streaming floods,  By snow distinguished in bright confusion lie,  And with one dazling waste, fatigue the eye.    No gentle breathing breeze prepares the spring,  No birds within the desart region sing.  The ships unmov'd the boist'rous winds defy,  While rattling chariots o'er the ocean fly.  The vast Leviathan wants room to play,  And spout his waters in the face of day.  The starving wolves along the main sea prowl,  And to the moon in icy valleys howl,  For many a shining league the level main,  Here spreads itself into a glassy plain:  There solid billows of enormous size,  Alps of green ice, in wild disorder rise.    And yet but lately have I seen ev'n here,  The winter in a lovely dress appear.  Ere yet the clouds let fall the treasur'd snow,  Or winds begun through hazy skies to blow;  At ev'ning a keen eastern breeze arose;  And the descending rain unsully'd froze.  Soon as the silent shades of night withdrew,  The ruddy morn disclos'd at once to view,  The face of nature in a rich disguise,  And brighten'd every object to my eyes:    And ev'ry shrub, and ev'ry blade of grass,  And ev'ry pointed thorn seem'd wrought in glass.  In pearls and rubies rich, the hawthorns show,  While through the ice the crimson berries glow.  The thick sprung reeds, the watry marshes yield,  Seem polish'd lances in a hostile field.  The flag in limpid currents with surprize,  Sees crystal branches on his fore-head rise.  The spreading oak, the beech, and tow'ring pine,  Glaz'd over, in the freezing aether shine.  The frighted birds, the rattling branches shun.  That wave and glitter in the distant sun.    When if a sudden gust of wind arise,  The brittle forest into atoms flies:  The crackling wood beneath the tempest bends,  And in a spangled show'r the prospect ends.  Or, if a southern gale the region warm,  And by degrees unbind the wintry charm,  The traveller, a miry country sees,  And journeys sad beneath the dropping trees.    Like some deluded peasant, Merlin leads  Thro' fragrant bow'rs, and thro' delicious meads;  While here inchanted gardens to him rise,  And airy fabrics there attract his eyes,  His wand'ring feet the magic paths pursue;  And while he thinks the fair illusion true,  The trackless scenes disperse in fluid air,  And woods, and wilds, and thorny ways appear:  A tedious road the weary wretch returns,  And, as he goes, the transient vision mourns.But it was not enough for Sir Richard to praise this performance of Mr.Philips. He was also an admirer of his Pastorals, which had thenobtained a great number of readers: He was about to form a CriticalComparison of Pope's Pastorals, and these of Mr. Philips; and giving inthe conclusion, the preference to the latter. Sir Richard's design beingcommunicated to Mr. Pope, who was not a little jealous of hisreputation, he took the alarm; and by the most artful and insinuatingmethod defeated his purpose.The reader cannot be ignorant, that there are several numbers in theGuardian, employed upon Pastoral Poetry, and one in particular, upon themerits of Philips and Pope, in which the latter is found a betterversifier; but as a true Arcadian, the preference is given to Philips.That we may be able to convey a perfect idea of the method which Mr.Pope took to prevent the diminution of his reputation, we shalltranscribe the particular parts of that paper in the Guardian, NumberXL. Monday April the 27th.I designed to have troubled the reader with no farther discourses ofPastorals, but being informed that I am taxed of partiality, in notmentioning an author, whose Eclogues are published in the same volumewith Mr. Philips's, I shall employ this paper in observations upon him,written in the free spirit of criticism, and without apprehensions ofoffending that gentleman, whose character it is, that he takes thegreatest care of his works before they are published, and has the leastconcern for them afterwards. I have laid it down as the first rule ofPastoral, that its idea should be taken from the manners of the GoldenAge, and the moral formed upon the representation of innocence; 'tistherefore plain, that any deviations from that design, degrade a poemfrom being true Pastoral.So easy as Pastoral writing may seem (in the simplicity we havedescribed it) yet it requires great reading, both of the ancients andmoderns, to be a master of it. Mr. Philips hath given us manifest proofsof his knowledge of books; it must be confessed his competitor hasimitated some single thoughts of the antients well enough, if weconsider he had not the happiness of an university education: but hehath dispersed them here and there without that order and method Mr.Philips observes, whose whole third pastoral, is an instance how well hestudied the fifth of Virgil, and how judiciously he reduced Virgil'sthoughts to the standard of pastoral; and his contention of Colin Clout,and the Nightingale, shews with what exactness he hath imitated Strada.When I remarked it as a principal fault to introduce fruits, and flowersof a foreign growth in descriptions, where the scene lies in ourcountry, I did not design that observation should extend also toanimals, or the sensitive life; for Philips hath with great judgmentdescribed wolves in England in his first pastoral. Nor would I have apoet slavishly confine himself, (as Mr. Pope hath done) to oneparticular season of the year, one certain time of the day, and oneunbroken scene in each Eclogue. It is plain, Spencer neglected thispedantry, who in his Pastoral of November, mentions the mournful song ofthe Nightingale.  Sad Philomel, her song in tears doth sleep.And Mr. Philips by a poetical creation, hath raised up finer beds offlowers, than the most industrious gardener; his roses, lilies, anddaffadils, blow in the same season.But the better to discover the merit of our two cotemporary pastoralwriters. I shall endeavour to draw a parallel of them, by placingseveral of their particular thoughts in the same light; whereby it willbe obvious, how much Philips hath the advantage: With what simplicity heintroduces two shepherds singing alternately.  HOBB.  Come Rosalind, O come, for without thee  What pleasure can the country have for me?  Come Rosalind, O come; my brinded kine,  My snowy sheep, my farm and all is thine.  LANG.  Come Rosalind, O come; here shady bowers.  Here are cool fountains, and here springing flowers.  Come Rosalind; here ever let us stay,  And sweetly waste our live-long time away.Our other pastoral writer in expressing the same thought, deviates intodownright poetry.  STREPHON.  In spring the fields, in autumn hills I love,  At morn the plains, at noon the shady grove,  But Delia always; forc'd from Delia's sight,  Nor plains at morn, nor groves at noon delight.  DAPHNE.  Sylvia's like autumn ripe, yet mild as May,  More bright than noon, yet fresh as early day;  Ev'n spring displeases when she shines not here:  But blest with her, 'tis spring throughout the year.In the first of these authors, two shepherds thus innocently describethe behaviour of their mistresses.  HOBB.  As Marian bath'd, by chance I passed by;  She blush'd, and at me cast a side-long eye:  Then swift beneath, the crystal waves she tried,  Her beauteous form, but all in vain, to hide.  LANG.  As I to cool me bath'd one sultry day,  Fond Lydia lurking in the sedges lay,  The woman laugh'd, and seem'd in haste to fly;  Yet often stopp'd, and often turn'd her eye.The other modern (who it must be confess'd has a knack at versifying)has it as follows,  STREPHON.  Me gentle Delia beckons from the plain,  Thus, hid in shades, eludes her eager swain;  But feigns a laugh, to see me search around,  And by that laugh the willing fair is found.  DAPHNE.  The sprightly Sylvia trips along the green;  She runs, but hopes she does not run unseen;  While a kind glance, at her pursuer flies,  How much at variance are her feet and eyes.There is nothing the writers of this kind of poetry are fonder of, thandescriptions of pastoral presents.Philips says thus of a Sheep-hook.  Of season'd elm, where studs of brass appear,  To speak the giver's name, the month, and year;  The hook of polished steel, the handle turn'd,  And richly by the graver's skill adorn'd.The other of a bowl embossed with figures,--Where wanton ivy twines,  And swelling clusters bend the curling vines,  Four figures rising from the work appear,  The various seasons of the rolling year;  And what is that which binds the radiant sky,  Where twelve bright signs, in beauteous order lye.The simplicity of the swain in this place who forgets the name of theZodiac, is no ill imitation of Virgil; but how much more plainly, andunaffectedly would Philips have dressed this thought in his Doric.  And what that height, which girds the welkin-sheen  Where twelve gay signs in meet array are seen.If the reader would indulge his curiosity any farther in the comparisonof particulars, he may read the first Pastoral of Philips, with thesecond of his contemporary, and the fourth and fifth of the former, withthe fourth and first of the latter; where several parallel places willoccur to every one.Having now shewn some parts, in which these two writers may be compared,it is a justice I owe to Mr. Philips, to discover those in which no mancan compare with him. First, the beautiful rusticity, of which I shallnow produce two instances, out of a hundred not yet quoted.  O woeful day! O day of woe, quoth he,  And woeful I, who live the day to see!That simplicity of diction, the melancholy flowing of the numbers, thesolemnity of the sound, and the easy turn of the words, are extremelyelegant.In another Pastoral, a shepherd utters a Dirge, not much inferior to theformer in the following lines.  Ah me the while! ah me, the luckless day!  Ah luckless lad, the rather might I say;  Ah silly I! more silly than my sheep,  Which on the flow'ry plains I once did keep.How he still charms the ear, with his artful repetition of the epithets;and how significant is the last verse! I defy the most common reader torepeat them, without feeling some motions of compassion. In the nextplace, I shall rank his Proverbs in which I formerly observed he excels:For example,  A rolling stone is ever bare of moss;  And, to their cost, green years old proverbs cross,--He that late lies down, as late will rise,  And sluggard like, till noon-day snoring lies.  Against ill-luck, all cunning foresight fails;  Whether we sleep or wake, it nought avails.--Nor fear, from upright sentence wrong,Lastly, His excellent dialect, which alone might prove him the eldestborn of Spencer, and the only true Arcadian, &c.Thus far the comparison between the merit of Mr. Pope and Mr. Philips,as writers of Pastoral, made by the author of this paper in theGuardian, after the publication of which, the enemies of Pope exulted,as in one particular species of poetry, upon which he valued himself, hewas shewn to be inferior to his contemporary. For some time they enjoyedtheir triumph; but it turned out at last to their unspeakablemortification.The paper in which the comparison is inserted, was written by Mr. Popehimself. Nothing could have so effectually defeated the design ofdiminishing his reputation, as this method, which had a very contraryeffect. He laid down some false principles, upon these he reasoned, andby comparing his own and Philips's Pastorals, upon such principles itwas no great compliment to the latter, that he wrote more agreeable tonotions which are in themselves false.The subjects of pastoral are as various as the passions of human nature;nay, it may in some measure partake of every kind of poetry, but withthis limitation, that the scene of it ought always to be laid in thecountry, and the thoughts never contrary to the ideas of those who arebred there. The images are to be drawn from rural life; and provided thelanguage is perspicuous, gentle, and flowing, the sentiments may be aselegant as the country scenes can furnish.--In the particular comparisonof passages between Pope and Philips, the former is so much superior,that one cannot help wondering, that Steele could be thus imposed upon,who was in other respects a very quick discerner. Though 'tis notimpossible, but that Guardian might go to the press without SirRichard's seeing it; he not being the only person concern'd in thatpaper.The two following lines so much celebrated in this paper, aresufficiently convincing, that the whole criticism is ironical.  Ah! silly I, more silly than my sheep,  Which on the flowr'y plains I once did keep.Nothing can be much more silly than these lines; and yet the authorsays, "How he still charms the ear with the artful repetitions ofepithets."  SILLY I, MORE SILLY THAN MY SHEEP.The next work Mr. Philips published after his Pastorals, and which it issaid he wrote at the university, was his life of John Williams lordkeeper of the great-seal, bishop of Lincoln and archbishop of York, inthe reigns of king James and Charles the First, in which are relatedsome remarkable occurrences in those times, both in church and state,with an appendix, giving an account of his benefactions to St. John'scollege.Mr. Philips, seems to have made use of archbishop William's life, thebetter to make known his own state principles, which in the course ofthat work he had a fair occasion of doing. Bishop Williams was the greatopposer of High-Church measures, he was a perpetual antagonist to Laud;and lord Clarendon mentions him in his history with very great decencyand respect, when it is considered that they adhered to oppositeparties.Mr. Philips, who early distinguished himself in revolution principles,was concerned with Dr. Boulter, afterwards archbishop of Armagh, theright honourable Richard West, Esq; lord chancellor of Ireland; therevd. Mr. Gilbert Burnet, and the revd. Mr. Henry Stevens, in writing apaper called the Free-Thinker; but they were all published by Mr.Philips, and since re-printed in three volumes in 12mo. In the latterpart of the reign of queen Anne, he was secretary to the Hanover Club, aset of noblemen and gentlemen, who associated in honour of thatsuccession. They drank regular toasts to the health of those ladies, whowere most zealously attached to the Hanoverian family; upon whom Mr.Philips wrote the following lines,  While these, the chosen beauties of our isle,  Propitious on the cause of freedom smile,  The rash Pretender's hopes we may despise,  And trust Britannia's safety to their eyes.After the accession of his late majesty, Mr. Philips was made a justiceof peace, and appointed a commissioner of the lottery. But though hiscircumstances were easy, the state of his mind was not so; he fell underthe severe displeasure of Mr. Pope, who has satirized him with his usualkeenness.'Twas said, he used to mention Mr. Pope as an enemy to the government;and that he was the avowed author of a report, very industriouslyspread, that he had a hand in a paper called The Examiner. The revengewhich Mr. Pope took in consequence of this abuse, greatly ruffled thetemper of Mr. Philips, who as he was not equal to him in wit, hadrecourse to another weapon; in the exercise of which no great parts arerequisite. He hung up a rod at Button's, with which he resolved tochastise his antagonist, whenever he should come there. But Mr. Pope,who got notice of this design, very prudently declined coming to aplace, where in all probability he must have felt the resentment of anenraged author, as much superior to him in bodily strength, as inferiorin wit and genius.When Mr. Philips's friend, Dr. Boulter, rose to be archbishop of Dublin,he went with him into Ireland, where he had considerable preferments;and was a member of the House of Commons there, as representative of thecounty of Armagh.Notwithstanding the ridicule which Mr. Philips has drawn upon himself,by his opposition to Pope, and the disadvantageous light his Pastoralsappear in, when compared with his; yet, there is good reason to believe,that Mr. Philips was no mean Arcadian: By endeavouring to imitate tooservilely the manners and sentiments of vulgar rustics, he has sometimesraised a laugh against him; yet there are in some of his Pastorals anatural simplicity, a true Doric dialect, and very graphicaldescriptions.Mr. Gildon, in his compleat Art of Poetry, mentions him with Theocritusand Virgil; but then he defeats the purpose of his compliment, for bycarrying the similitude too far, he renders his panegyric hyperbolical.We shall now consider Mr. Philips as a dramatic writer. The first piecehe brought upon the stage, was his Distress'd Mother, translated fromthe French of Monsieur Racine, but not without such deviations as Mr.Philips thought necessary to heighten the distress; for writing to theheart is a secret which the best of the French poets have not found out.This play was acted first in the year 1711, with every advantage a playcould have. Pyrrhus was performed by Mr. Booth, a part in which heacquired great reputation. Orestes was given to Mr. Powel, andAndromache was excellently personated by the inimitable Mrs. Oldfield.Nor was Mrs. Porter beheld in Hermione without admiration. TheDistress'd Mother is so often acted, and so frequently read, we shallnot trouble the reader with giving any farther account of it.A modern critic speaking of this play, observes that the distress ofAndromache moves an audience more than that of Belvidera, who is asamiable a wife, as Andromache is an affectionate mother; theircircumstances though not similar, are equally interesting, and yet sayshe, 'the female part of the audience is more disposed to weep for thesuffering mother, than the suffering wife.[1]' The reason 'tis imagin'dis this, there are more affectionate mothers in the world than wives.Mr. Philips's next dramatic performance was The Briton, a Tragedy; acted1721. This is built on a very interesting and affecting story, whetherfounded on real events I cannot determine, but they are admirably fittedto raise the passion peculiar to tragedy. Vanoc Prince of the Cornaviansmarried for his second wife Cartismand, Queen of the Brigantians, awoman of an imperious spirit, who proved a severe step-mother to theKing's daughter Gwendolen, betrothed to Yvor, the Prince of theSilurians. The mutual disagreement between Vanoc and his Queen, at lastproduced her revolt from him. She intrigues with Vellocad, who had beenformerly the King's servant, and enters into a league with the Romantribune, in order to be revenged on her husband. Vanoc fights somesuccessful battles, but his affairs are thrown into the greatestconfusion, upon receiving the news that a party of the enemy has carriedoff the Princess his daughter. She is conducted to the tent of Valensthe Roman tribune, who was himself in love with her, but who offered herno violation. He went to Vanoc in the name of Didius the Roman general,to offer terms of peace, but he was rejected with indignation. The scenebetween Vanoc and Valens is one of the most masterly to be met with intragedy. Valens returns to his fair charge, while her father preparesfor battle, and to rescue his daughter by the force of arms. ButCartismand, who knew that no mercy would be shewn her at the hands ofher stern husband, flies to the Princess's tent, and in the violence ofher rage stabs her. The King and Yvor enter that instant, but too lateto save the beauteous Gwendolen from the blow, who expires in the armsof her betrothed husband, a scene wrought up with the greatesttenderness. When the King reproaches Cartismand for this deed of horror,she answers,  Hadst thou been more forgiving, I had been less cruel.  VANOC  Wickedness! barbarian! monster--  What had she done, alas!--Sweet innocence!  She would have interceded for thy crimes.  CARTISMAND  Too well I knew the purpose of thy soul.--  Didst thou believe I would submit?--resign my crown?--  Or that thou only hadst the power to punish?  VANOC  Yet I will punish;--meditate strange torments!--  Then give thee to the justice of the Gods.  CARTISMAND  Thus Vanoc, do I mock thy treasur'd rage.--  My heart springs forward to the dagger's point.  Vanoc  Quick, wrest it from her!--drag her hence to chains.  CARTISMAND  There needs no second stroke--  Adieu, rash man!--my woes are at an end:--  Thine's but begun;--and lasting as thy life.Mr. Philips in this play has shewn how well he was acquainted with thestage; he keeps the scene perpetually busy; great designs are carryingon, the incidents rise naturally from one another, and the catastropheis moving. He has not observed the rules which some critics haveestablished, of distributing poetical justice; for Gwendolen, the mostamiable character in the play is the chief sufferer, arising from theindulgence of no irregular passion, nor any guilt of hers.The next year Mr. Philips introduced another tragedy on the stage calledHumfrey Duke of Gloucester, acted 1721. The plot of this play is foundedon history. During the minority of Henry VI. his uncle, the duke ofGloucester, was raised to the dignity of Regent of the Realm. This highstation could not but procure him many enemies, amongst whom was theduke of Suffolk, who, in order to restrain his power, and to inspire themind of young Henry with a love of independence, effected a marriagebetween that Prince, and Margaret of Anjou, a Lady of the mostconsummate beauty, and what is very rare amongst her sex, of the mostapproved courage. This lady entertained an aversion for the duke ofGloucester, because he opposed her marriage with the King, andaccordingly resolves upon his ruin.She draws over to her party cardinal Beaufort, the Regent's uncle, asupercilious proud churchman. They fell upon a very odd scheme to shakethe power of Gloucester, and as it is very singular, and absolutelyfact, we shall here insert it.The duke of Gloucester had kept Eleanor Cobham, daughter to the lordCobham, as his concubine, and after the dissolution of his marriage withthe countess of Hainault, he made her his wife; but this did not restoreher reputation: she was, however, too young to pass in common repute fora witch, yet was arrested for high treason, founded on a pretended pieceof witchcraft, and after doing public penance several days, by sentenceof convocation, was condemned to perpetual imprisonment in the Isle ofMan, but afterwards removed to Killingworth-castle. The fact chargedupon her, was the making an image of wax resembling the King, andtreated in such a manner by incantations, and sorceries, as to makehim waste away, as the image gradually consumed. John Hume, herchaplain, Thomas Southwell, a canon of St. Stephen's Westminster, RogerBolingbroke, a clergyman highly esteemed, and eminent for his uncommonlearning, and merit, and perhaps on that account, reputed to have greatskill in necromancy, and Margery Jourdemain, commonly called The Witchof Eye, were tried as her accomplices, and condemned, the woman to beburnt, the others to be drawn, hanged, and quartered at Tyburn[2]. Thishellish contrivance against the wife of the duke of Gloucester, wasmeant to shake the influence of her husband, which in reality it did, asignorance and credulity cooperated with his enemies to destroy him. Hewas arrested for high treason, a charge which could not be supported,and that his enemies might have no further trouble with him, cardinalBeaufort hired assassins to murder him. The poet acknowledges the hintshe has taken from the Second Part of Shakespear's Henry VI, and in somescenes has copied several lines from him. In the last scene, thatpathetic speech of Eleanor's to Cardinal Beaufort when he was dying inthe agonies of remorse and despair, is literally borrowed.  WARWICK  See how the pangs of death work in his features.  YORK  Disturb him not--let him pass peaceably.  ELEANOR  Lord Cardinal;--if thou think'st of Heaven's bliss  Hold up thy hand;--make signal of that hope.  He dies;--and makes no sign!--In praise of this tragedy, Mr. Welsted has prefixed a very elegant copyof verses.Mr. Philips by a way of writing very peculiar, procured to himself thename of Namby Pamby. This was first bestowed on him by Harry Cary, whoburlesqued some little pieces of his, in so humorous a manner, that fora long while, Harry's burlesque, passed for Swift's with many; and byothers were given to Pope: 'Tis certain, each at first, took it for theother's composition.In ridicule of this manner, the ingenious Hawkins Brown, Esq; now aMember of Parliament, in his excellent burlesque piece called The Pipeof Tobacco, has written an imitation, in which the resemblance is sogreat, as not to be distinguished from the original. This gentleman hasburlesqued the following eminent authors, by such a close imitation oftheir turn of verse, that it has not the appearance of a copy, but anoriginal.SWIFT,POPE,THOMSON,YOUNG,PHILIPS,CIBBER.As a specimen of the delicacy of our author's turn of verification, weshall present the reader with his translation of the following beautifulOde of Sappho.  Hymn to Venus  1.  O Venus, beauty of the skies,  To whom a thousand temples rise,  Gayly false, in gentle smiles,  Full of love, perplexing wiles;  O Goddess! from my heart remove  The wasting cares and pains of love.  2.  If ever thou hast kindly heard  A song in soft distress preferr'd,  Propitious to my tuneful vow,  O gentle goddess! hear me now.  Descend, thou bright immortal guest!  In all thy radiant charms confess'd.  3.  Thou once did leave almighty Jove,  And all the golden roofs above;  The carr thy wanton sparrows drew,  Hov'ring in air, they lightly flew;  As to my bower they wing'd their way,  I saw their quiv'ring pinions play.  4.  The birds dismiss'd (while you remain)  Bore back their empty car again;  Then you, with looks divinely mild,  In ev'ry heav'nly feature smil'd,  And ask'd what new complaints I made,  And why I call'd you to my aid?  5.  What frenzy in my bosom rag'd,  And by what cure to be asswag'd?  What gentle youth I would allure,  Whom in my artful toils secure?  Who does thy tender heart subdue,  Tell me, my Sappho, tell me who!  6.  Tho' now he shuns my longing arms,  He soon shall court thy slighted charms;  Tho' now thy off'rings he despise,  He soon to thee shall sacrifice;  Tho' now he freeze, he soon shall burn,  And be thy victim in his turn.  7.  Celestial visitant once more,  Thy needful presence I implore.  In pity come, and ease my grief,  Bring my distemper'd soul relief,  Favour thy suppliant's hidden fires,  And give me all my heart's desires.There is another beautiful ode by the same Grecian poetess, renderedinto English by Mr. Philips with inexpressible delicacy, quoted in theSpectator, vol. iii,. No. 229.  1.  Blest, as th'immortal Gods is he  The youth who fondly fits by thee,  And hears, and sees thee all the while  Softly speak, and sweetly smile.  2.  'Twas this depriv'd my soul of rest,  And raised such tumults in my breast;  For while I gaz'd, in transport tost,  My breath was gone, my voice was lost.  3.  My bosom glow'd; the subtle flame  Ran quick thro' all my vital frame,  O'er my dim eyes a darkness hung;  My ears with hollow murmurs rung.  4.  In dewy damps my limbs were chill'd;  My blood with gentle horrors thrill'd;  My feeble pulse forgot to play;  I fainted, sunk, and died away.Mr. Philips having purchased an annuity of 400 l. per annum, for hislife, came over to England sometime in the year 1748: But had not hishealth; and died soon after at his lodgings near Vauxhall.FOOTNOTES:[1] Vide the ACTOR.[2] See Cart's History of England, Reign of Henry VI.       *       *       *       *       *RICHARD MAITLAND, EARL OF LAUDERDALEThis learned nobleman was nephew to John, the great duke of Lauderdale,who was secretary of state to King Charles II for Scotch affairs, andfor many years had the government of that kingdom entirely entrusted tohim. Whoever is acquainted with history will be at no loss to know, withhow little moderation he exercised his power; he ruled his nativecountry with a rod of iron, and was the author of all those disturbancesand persecutions which have stained the Annals of Scotland, during thatinglorious period.As the duke of Lauderdale was without issue-male of his own body, hetook our author into his protection as his immediate heir, and orderedhim to be educated in such a manner as to qualify him for the possessionof those great employments his ancestors enjoyed in the state. Theimprovement of this young nobleman so far exceeded his years, that hewas very early admitted into the privy council, and made lord justiceclerk, anno 1681. He married the daughter of the earl of Argyle, who wastried for sedition in the state, and confined in the castle ofEdinburgh. When Argyle found his fate approaching, he meditated, andeffected his escape; and some letters of his being intercepted anddecyphered, which had been written to the earl of Lauderdale, hislordship fell under a cloud, and was stript of his preferments. Theseletters were only of a familiar nature, and contained nothing butdomestic business; but a correspondence with a person condemned, wasesteemed a sin in politics not to be forgiven, especially by a man ofthe Duke of York's furious disposition.Though the duke of Lauderdale had ordered our author to be educated ashis heir, yet he left all his personal estate, which was very great, toanother, the young nobleman having, by some means, disobliged him; andas he was of an ungovernable implacable temper, could never againrecover his favour[1]. Though the earl of Lauderdale was thus removedfrom his places by the court, yet he persisted in his loyalty to theRoyal Family, and, upon the revolution, followed the fortune of KingJames II, and some years after died in France, leaving no survivingissue, so that the titles devolved on his younger brother.While the earl was in exile with his Royal master, he applied his mindto the delights of poetry, and, in his leisure hours, compleated atranslation of Virgil's works. Mr. Dryden, in his dedication of theAeneis, thus mentions it; 'The late earl of Lauderdale, says he, sent meover his new translation of the Aeneis, which he had ended before Iengaged in the same design. Neither did I then intend it, but someproposals being afterwards made me by my Bookseller, I desired hislordship's leave that I might accept them, which he freely granted, andI have his letter to shew for that permission. He resolved to haveprinted his work, which he might have done two years before I could havepublished mine; and had performed it, if death had not prevented him.But having his manuscript in my hands, I consulted it as often as Idoubted of my author's sense; for no man understood Virgil better thanthat learned nobleman. His friends have yet another, and more correctcopy of that translation by them, which if they had pleased to havegiven the public, the judges might have been convinced that I have notflattered him.'Lord Lauderdale's friends, some years after the publication of Dryden'sTranslation, permitted his lordship's to be printed, and, in the lateeditions of that performance, those lines are marked with invertedcommas, which Dryden thought proper to adopt into his version, which arenot many; and however closely his lordship may have rendered Virgil, noman can conceive a high opinion of that poet, contemplated through themedium of his Translation.Dr. Trapp, in his preface to the Aeneis, observes,'that his lordship's Translation is pretty near to the original, thoughnot so close as its brevity would make one imagine; and it sufficientlyappears, that he had a right taste in poetry in general, and the Aeneidin particular. He shews a true spirit, and, in many places, is verybeautiful. But we should certainly have seen Virgil far bettertranslated, by a noble hand, had the earl of Lauderdale been the earl ofRoscommon, and had the Scottish peer followed all the precepts, and beenanimated with the genius of the Irish.'We know of no other poetical compositions of this learned nobleman, andthe idea we have received from history of his character, is, that he wasin every respect the reverse of his uncle, from whence we may reasonablyconclude, that he possessed many virtues, since few statesmen of any ageever were tainted with more vices than the duke of Lauderdale.FOOTNOTE:[1] Crawford's Peerage of Scotland.       *       *       *       *       *DR. JOSEPH TRAPPThis poet was second son to the rev. Mr. Joseph Trapp, rector ofCherington in Gloucestershire, at which place he was born, anno 1679. Hereceived the first rudiments of learning from his father, who instructedhim in the languages, and superintended his domestic education. When hewas ready for the university he was sent to Oxford, and was many yearsscholar and fellow of Wadham College, where he took the degree of masterof arts. In the year 1708 he was unanimously chosen professor of poetry,being the first of that kind. This institution was founded by Dr. HenryBirkhead, formerly fellow of All-Souls, and the place of lecturer can beheld only for ten years.Dr. Trapp was, in the early part of his life, chaplain to lordBolingbroke, the father of the famous Bolingbroke, lately deceased. Thehighest preferment Dr. Trapp ever had in the church, though he was a manof extensive learning, was, the rectory of Harlington, Middlesex, and ofthe united parishes of Christ-Church, Newgate Street, and St. Leonard'sFoster-Lane, with the lectureship of St. Lawrence Jewry, and St.Martin's in the Fields. The Dr's principles were not of that cast, bywhich promotion could be expected. He was attached to the High-Churchinterest, and as his temper was not sufficiently pliant to yield to theprevalence of party, perhaps for that very reason, his rising in thechurch was retarded. A gentleman of learning and genius, when paying avisit to the Dr. took occasion to lament, as there had been lately someconsiderable alterations made, and men less qualified than he, raised tothe mitre, that distinctions should be conferred with so little regardto merit, and wondered that he (the Dr.) had never been promoted to asee. To this the Dr. replied, 'I am thought to have some learning, andsome honesty, and these are but indifferent qualifications to enable aman to rise in the church.'Dr. Trapp's action in the pulpit has been censured by many, asparticipating too much of the theatrical manner, and having more the airof an itinerant enthusiast, than a grave ecclesiastic. Perhaps it may betrue, that his pulpit gesticulations were too violent, yet they borestrong expressions of sincerity, and the side on which he erred, was themost favourable to the audience; as the extreme of over-acting any part,is not half so intolerable as a languid indifference, whether what thepreacher is then uttering, is true or false, is worth attention or no.The Dr. being once in company with a person, whose profession was thatof a player, took occasion to ask him, 'what was the reason that anactor seemed to feel his part with so much sincerity, and utter it withso much emphasis and spirit, while a preacher, whose profession is of ahigher nature, and whose doctrines are of the last importance, remainedunaffected, even upon the most solemn occasion, while he stood in thepulpit as the ambassador of God, to teach righteousness to the people?'the player replied, 'I believe no other reason can be given, sir, butthat we are sincere in our parts, and the preachers are insincere intheirs.' The Dr. could not but acknowledge the truth of this observationin general, and was often heard to complain of the coldness andunaffected indifference of his brethren in those very points, in whichit is their business to be sincere and vehement. Would you move youraudience, says an ancient sage, you must yourself be moved; and it is aproposition which holds universally true. Dr. Trapp was of opinion, thatthe highest doctrines of religion were to be considered as infalliblytrue, and that it was of more importance to impress them strongly on theminds of the audience, to speak to their hearts, and affect theirpassions, than to bewilder them in disputation, and lead them throughlabyrinths of controversy, which can yield, perhaps, but littleinstruction, can never tend to refine the passions, or elevate the mind.Being of this opinion, and from a strong desire of doing good, Dr. Trappexerted himself in the pulpit, and strove not only to convince thejudgment, but to warm the heart, for if passions are the elements oflife, they ought to be devoted to the service of religion, as well asthe other faculties, and powers of the soul.But preaching was not the only method by which, this worthy man promotedthe interest of religion; he drew the muses into her service, and thathe might work upon the hopes and fears of his readers, he has presentedthem with four poems, on these important subjects; _Death, Judgment,Heaven_, and _Hell._ The reason of his making choice of those themes onwhich to write, he very fully explains in his preface. He observes, thathowever dull, and trite it may be to declaim against the corruption ofthe age one lives in, yet he presumes it will be allowed by every body,that all manner of wickedness, both in principles and practice, aboundsamongst men. 'I have lived (says he) in six reigns, but for about thesetwenty years last past, the English nation has been, and is soprodigiously debauched, its very nature and genius so changed, that Iscarce know it to be the English nation, and am almost a foreigner inmy own country. Not only barefaced, impudent, immorality of all kinds,but often professed infidelity and atheism. To slop these overflowingsof ungodliness, much has been done in prose, yet not so as to supersedeall other endeavours: and therefore the author of these poems waswilling to try, whether any good might be done in verse. This manner ofconveyance may, perhaps, have some advantage, which the other has not;at least it makes variety, which is something considerable. The fourlast things are manifestly subjects of the utmost importance. If duereflexions upon Death, Judgment, Heaven, and Hell, will not reclaim menfrom their vices, nothing will. This little work was intended for theuse of all, from the greatest to the least. But as it would have beenintolerably flat, and insipid to the former, had it been wholly writtenin a stile level to the capacities of the latter; to obviateinconveniences on both sides, an attempt has been made to entertain theupper class of readers, and, by notes, to explain such passages indivinity, philosophy, history, &c. as might be difficult to the lower.The work (if it may be so called) being partly argumentative, and partlydescriptive, it would have been ridiculous, had it been possible to makethe first mentioned as poetical as the other. In long pieces of musicthere is the plain recitativo, as well as the higher, and more musicalmodulation, and they mutually recommend, and set off each other. Butabout these matters the writer is little sollicitous, and otherwise,than as they are subservient to the design of doing good.'A good man would naturally wish, that such generous attempts, in thecause of virtue, were always successful. With the lower class ofreaders, it is more than probably that these poems may have inspiredreligious thoughts, have awaked a solemn dread of punishment, kindled asacred hope of happiness, and fitted the mind for the four lastimportant period[1]; But with readers of a higher taste, they can havebut little effect. There is no doctrine placed in a new light, nodescriptions are sufficiently emphatical to work upon a sensible mind,and the perpetual flatness of the poetry is very disgustful to acritical reader, especially, as there were so many occasions of risingto an elevated sublimity.The Dr. has likewise written a Paraphrase on the 104th Psalm, which,though much superior in poetry to his Four Last Things, yet fallsgreatly short of that excellent version by Mr. Blacklocke, quoted in theLife of Dr. Brady.Our author has likewise published four volumes of sermons, and a volumeof lectures on poetry, written in Latin.Before we mention his other poetical compositions, we shall consider himas the translator of Virgil, which is the most arduous province he everundertook. Dr. Trapp, in his preface, after stating the controversy,which has been long held, concerning the genius of Homer and Virgil, towhom the superiority belongs, has informed us, that this work was veryfar advanced before it was undertaken, having been, for many years, thediversion of his leisure hours at the university, and grew upon him, byinsensible degrees, so that a great part of the Aeneis was actuallytranslated, before he had any design of attempting the whole.He further informs us, 'that one of the greatest geniuses, and bestjudges, and critics, our age has produced, Mr. Smith of Christ Church,having seen the first two or three hundred lines of this translation,advised him by all means to go through with it. I said, he laughed atme, replied the Dr. and that I should be the most impudent of mortals tohave such a thought. He told me, he was very much in earnest; and askedme why the whole might not be done, in so many years, as well as such anumber of lines in so many days? which had no influence upon me, nor didI dream of such an undertaking, 'till being honoured by the universityof Oxford with the public office of professor of poetry, which I shallever gratefully acknowledge, I thought it might not be improper for meto review, and finish this work, which otherwise had certainly been asmuch neglected by me, as, perhaps, it will now be by every body else.'As our author has made choice of blank verse, rather than rhime, inorder to bear a nearer resemblance to Virgil, he has endeavoured todefend blank verse, against the advocates for rhime, and shew itssuperiority for any work of length, as it gives the expression a greatercompass, or, at least, does not clog and fetter the verse, by which thesubstance and meaning of a line must often be mutilated, twisted, andsometimes sacrificed for the sake of the rhime.'Blank verse (says he) is not only more majestic and sublime, but moremusical and harmonious. It has more rhime in it, according to theancient, and true sense of the word, than rhime itself, as it is nowused: for, in its original signification, it consists not in thetinkling of vowels and consonants, but in the metrical disposition ofwords and syllables, and the proper cadence of numbers, which is moreagreeable to the ear, without the jingling of like endings, than withit. And, indeed, let a man consult his own ears.  Him th'Almighty pow'r  Hurl'd headlong, flaming from the aetherial sky,  With hideous ruin and combustion, down  To bottomless perdition; there to dwell  In adamantine chains, and penal fire;  Who durst defy th'Omnipotent to arms.  Nine times the space that measures day and night  To mortal men, he with his horrid crew  Lay vanquish'd, rowling in the fiery gulph,  Confounded, tho' immortalWho that hears this, can think it wants rhime to recommend it? or ratherdoes not think it sounds far better without it? We purposely produced acitation, beginning and ending in the middle of a verse, because theprivilege of resting on this, or that foot, sometimes one, and sometimesanother, and so diversifying the pauses and cadences, is the greatestbeauty of blank verse, and perfectly agreeable to the practice of ourmasters, the Greeks and Romans. This can be done but rarely in rhime;for if it were frequent, the rhime would be in a manner lost by it; theend of almost every verse must be something of a pause; and it is butseldom that a sentence begins in the middle. Though this seems to be theadvantage of blank verse over rhime, yet we cannot entirely condemn theuse of it, even in a heroic poem; nor absolutely reject that inspeculation, which. Mr. Dryden and Mr. Pope have enobled by theirpractice. We acknowledge too, that in some particular views, what way ofwriting has the advantage over this. You may pick out mere lines, which,singly considered, look mean and low, from a poem in blank verse, thanfrom one in rhime, supposing them to be in other respects equal. Forinstance, the following verses out of Milton's Paradise Lost, b. ii.  Of Heav'n were falling, and these elements--  Instinct with fire, and nitre hurried him--taken singly, look low and mean: but read them in conjunction withothers, and then see what a different face will be set upon them.  --Or less than of this frame  Of Heav'n were falling, and these elements  In mutiny had from her axle torn  The stedfast earth. As last his sail-broad vans  He spreads for flight; and in the surging smoke  Uplifted spurns the ground--  --Had not by ill chance  The strong rebuff of some tumultuous cloud  Instinct with fire and nitre, hurried him  As many miles aloft. That fury stay'd;  Quench'd in a boggy syrtis, neither sea,  Nor good dry land: night founder'd on he fares,  Treading the crude consistence.Our author has endeavoured to justify his choice of blank verse, byshewing it less subject to restraints, and capable of greater sublimitythan rhime. But tho' this observation may hold true, with respect toelevated and grand subjects, blank verse is by no means capable of sogreat universality. In satire, in elegy, or in pastoral writing, ourlanguage is, it seems, so feebly constituted, as to stand in need of theaid of rhime; and as a proof of this, the reader need only look upon thepastorals of Virgil, as translated by Trapp in blank verse, and comparethem with Dryden's in rhime. He will then discern how insipid and fiatthe pastorals of the same poet are in one kind of verification, and howexcellent and beautiful in another. Let us give one short example toillustrate the truth of this, from the first pastoral of Virgil.  MELIBAEUS.  Beneath the covert of the spreading beech  Thou, Tityrus, repos'd, art warbling o'er,  Upon a slender reed, thy sylvan lays:  We leave our country, and sweet native fields;  We fly our country: careless in the shade,  Thou teachest, Tityrus, the sounding groves  To eccho beauteous Amaryllis' name.  TITYRUS.  O Melibaeus, 'twas a god to us  Indulged this freedom: for to me a god  He shall be ever: from my folds full oft  A tender lamb his altar shall embrue:  He gave my heifers, as thou seest, to roam;  And me permitted on my rural cane  To sport at pleasure, and enjoy my muse,TRAPP.  MELIBAEUS.  Beneath the shade which beechen-boughs diffuse,  You, Tityrus, entertain your Silvan muse:  Round the wide world in banishment we roam,  Forc'd from our pleasing fields, and native home:  While stretch'd at ease you sing your happy loves:  And Amaryllis fills the shady groves.  TITYRUS.  These blessings, friend, a deity bestow'd:  For never can I deem him less than God.  The tender firstlings of my woolly breed  Shall on his holy altar often bleed.  He gave my kine to graze the flowry plain:  And to my pipe renew'd the rural strain.DRYDEN.Dr. Trapp towards the conclusion of his Preface to the Aeneid, hastreated Dryden with less reverence, than might have been expected from aman of his understanding, when speaking of so great a genius. The causeof Trapp's disgust to Dryden, seems to have been this: Dryden had astrong contempt for the priesthood, which we have from his own words,  "Priests of all professions are the same."and takes every opportunity to mortify the usurping superiority ofspiritual tyrants. Trapp, with all his virtues (for I think it appearshe possessed many) had yet much of the priest in him, and for that veryreason, perhaps, has shewn some resentment to Dryden; but if he has withlittle candour of criticism treated Mr. Dryden, he has with greatservility flattered Mr. Pope; and has insinuated, as if the Palm ofGenius were to be yielded to the latter. He observes in general, thatwhere Mr. Dryden shines most, we often see the least of Virgil. To omitmany other instances, the description of the Cyclops forging Thunder forJupiter, and Armour for Aeneas, is elegant and noble to the last degreein the Latin; and it is so to a great degree in the English. But then isthe English a translation of the Latin?  Hither the father of the fire by night,  Thro' the brown air precipitates his flight:  On their eternal anvil, here he found  The brethren beating, and the blows go round.The lines are good, and truely poetical; but the two first are set torender  Hoc tunc ignipotens caelo descendit ab alto.There is nothing of _caelo ab alto_ in the version; nor by _night, brownair_, or _precipitates his sight_, in the original. The two last are putin the room of  Ferrum exercebant vasto Cylopes in antro,  Brontesque, Steropesque, & nudus membra Pyraemon.Vasto in antro, in the first of these lines, and the last line isentirely left out in the translation. Nor is there any thing of eternalanvils, or _hers he found_, in the original, and the brethren beating,and the blows go round, is but a loose version of _Ferrum exercebant._Dr. Trapp has allowed, however, that though Mr. Dryden is often distantfrom the original, yet he sometimes rises to a more excellent height, bythrowing out implied graces, which none but so great a poet was capableof. Thus in the 12th book, after the last speech of Saturn,  Tantum effata, caput glauco contexit amictu,  Multa gemens, & se fluvio Dea condidit also.  She drew a length of sighs, no more she said,  But with an azure mantle wrapp'd her head;  Then plunged into her stream with deep despair,  _And her last sobs came bubbling up in air_.Though the last line is not expressed in the original, it is yet in somemeasure implied, and it is in itself so exceedingly beautiful, that thewhole passage can never be too much admired. These are excellenciesindeed; this is truly Mr. Dryden. The power of truth, no doubt, extortedthis confession from the Dr. and notwithstanding many objections may bebrought against this performance of Dryden, yet we believe most of ourpoetical readers upon perusing it, will be of the opinion of Pope,'that, excepting a few human errors, it is the noblest and most spiritedtranslation in any language.' To whom it may reasonable be asked, hasVirgil been most obliged? to Dr. Trapp who has followed his footsteps inevery line; has shewn you indeed the design, the characters, contexture,and moral of the poem, that is, has given you Virgil's account of theactions of AEneas, or to Mr. Dryden, who has not only conveyed thegeneral ideas of his author, but has conveyed them with the same majestyand fire, has led you through every battle with trepidation, has soothedyou in the tender scenes, and inchanted you with the flowers of poetry?Virgil contemplated thro' the medium of Trapp, appears an accuratewriter, and the Aeneid as well conducted fable, but discerned inDryden's page, he glows as with fire from heaven, and the Aeneid is acontinued series of whatever is great, elegant, pathetic, and sublime.We have already observed, in the Life of Dryden, that it is easier todiscern wherein the beauties of poetical composition consist, than tothrow out those beauties. Dr. Trapp, in his Praelectiones Poeticae, hasshewn how much he was master of every species of poetry; that is, howexcellently he understood the structure of a poem; what noble rules hewas capable of laying down, and what excellent materials he couldafford, for building upon such a foundation, a beautiful fabric. Thereare few better criticisms in any language, Dryden's dedications andprefaces excepted, than are contained in these lectures. The mind isenlarged by them, takes in a wide range of poetical ideas, and is taughtto discover how many amazing requisites are necessary to form a poet. Inhis introduction to the first lecture, he takes occasion to state acomparison between poetry and painting, and shew how small pretensionsthe professors of the latter have, to compare themselves with theformer. 'The painter indeed (says he) has to do with the passions, butthen they are such passions only, as discover themselves in thecountenance; but the poet is to do more, he is to trace the rise ofthose passions, to watch their gradations, to pain their progress, andmark them in the heart in their genuine conflicts; and, continues he,the disproportion between the soul and the body, is not greater than thedisproportion between the painter and the poet.Dr. Trapp is author of a tragedy called Abramule, or Love and Empire,acted at the New Theatre at Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, 1704, dedicated to theRight Honourable the Lady Harriot Godolphin. Scene Constantinople. Thestory is built upon the dethronement of Mahomet IV.Our author has likewise written a piece called The Church of EnglandDefended against the False Reasoning of the Church of Rome. Severaloccasional poems were written by him in English; and there is one Latinpoem of his in the Musae Anglicanae. He has translated the Paradise Lostinto Latin Verse, with little success, and, as he published it at hisown risk, he was a considerable loser. The capital blemish of that work,is, the unharmonious versification, which gives perpetual offence to theear, neither is the language universally pure.He died in the month of November 1747, and left behind him the characterof a pathetic and instructive preacher, a profound scholar, a discerningcritic, a benevolent gentleman, and a pious Christian.We shall conclude the life of Dr. Trapp with the following verses of Mr.Layng, which are expressive of the Dr's. character as a critic and apoet. The author, after applauding Dryden's version, proceeds thus infavour of Trapp.  Behind we see a younger bard arise,  No vulgar rival in the grand emprize.  Hail! learned Trapp! upon whose brow we find  The poet's bays, and critic's ivy join'd.  Blest saint! to all that's virtuous ever dear,  Thy recent fate demands a friendly tear.  None was more vers'd in all the Roman store,  Or the wide circle of the Grecian lore,  Less happy, from the world recluse too long,  In all the sweeter ornaments of song;  Intent to teach, too careless how to please,  He boasts in strength, whate'er he wants in ease.FOOTNOTE[1] By his last Will he ordered a copy of that book to be given to each    of his parishioners, that when he could no longer speak to them from    the pulpit, he might endeavour to instruct them in his writings.       *       *       *       *       *MR. SAMUEL BOYSE.This Poet was the son of the Revd. Mr. Joseph Boyse, a Dissentingminister of great eminence in Dublin. Our author's father was a personso much respected by those immediately under his ministerial care, andwhoever else had the happiness of his acquaintance, that people of alldenominations united in esteeming him, not only for his learning andabilities, but his extensive humanity and undisembled piety.The Revd. Gentleman had so much dignity in his manner, that he obtainedfrom the common people the name of bishop Boyse, meant as a complimentto the gracefulness of his person and mien. But though Mr. Boyse wasthus reverenced by the multitude, and courted by people of fashion, henever contracted the least air of superciliousness: He was humane andaffable in his temper, equally removed from the stiffness of pedantry,and offensive levity. During his ministerial charge at Dublin, hepublished many sermons, which compose several folio volumes, a few Poemsand other Tracts; but what chiefly distinguished him as a writer, wasthe controversy he carried on with Dr. King, archbishop of Dublin, andauthor of the Origin of Evil, concerning the office of a scripturalbishop. This controverted point was managed on both sides with greatforce of argument, and calmness of temper. The bishop asserted that theepiscopal right of jurisdiction had its foundation in the New-Testament:Mr. Boyse, consistent with his principles, denied that anyecclesiastical superiority appeared there; and in the opinion of many,Mr. Boyse was more than equal to his antagonist, whom he treated in thecourse of the controversy, with the greatest candour and good-manners.It has been reported that Mr. Boyse had two brothers, one a clergyman ofthe church of England, and the other a cardinal at Rome; but of thiscircumstance we have no absolute certainty: Be it as it may, he had,however, no brother so much distinguished in the world as himself.We shall now enter upon the life of our poet, who will appear while wetrace it, to have been in every respect the reverse of his father,genius excepted.--He was born in the year 1708, and received the rudiments of hiseducation in a private school in Dublin. When he was but eighteen yearsold, his father, who probably intended him for the ministry, sent him tothe university of Glasgow, that he might finish his education there. Hehad not been a year at the university, till he fell in love with oneMiss Atchenson, the daughter of a tradesman in that city, and wasimprudent enough to interrupt his education, by marrying her, before hehad entered into his 20th year.The natural extravagance of his temper soon exposed him to want, and ashe had now the additional charge of a wife, his reduced circumstancesobliged him to quit the university, and go over with his wife (who alsocarried a sister with her) to Dublin; where they relied upon the oldgentleman for support. His behaviour in this dependent state, was thevery reverse of what it should have been. In place of directing hisstudies to some useful acquisition, so as to support himself and family,he spent his time in the most abject trifling, and drew many heavyexpences upon his father, who had no other means of supporting himselfthan what his congregation afforded, and a small estate of fourscorepounds a year in Yorkshire.Considerations of prudence never entered into the heart of this unhappyyoung roan, who ran from one excess to another, till an indulgent parentwas reduced by his means to very great embarrassments. Young Boyse wasof all men the farthest removed from a gentleman; he had no graces ofperson, and fewer still of conversation. To this cause it was perhapsowing, that his wife, naturally of a very volatile sprightly temper,either grew tired of him, or became enamour'd of variety. It was howeverabundantly certain, that she pursued intrigues with other men; and whatis still more surprising, not without the knowledge of her husband, whohad either too abject a spirit to resent it; or was bribed by somelucrative advantage, to which, he had a mind mean enough to stoop.Though never were three people of more libertine characters than youngBoyse, his wife, and sister-in-law; yet the two ladies wore such a maskof decency before the old gentleman, that his fondness was never abated.He hoped that time and experience would recover his son from his coursesof extravagance; and as he was of an unsuspecting temper, he had not theleast jealousy of the real conduct of his daughter-in-law, who grewevery day in his favour, and continued to blind him, by the seemingdecency of her behaviour, and a performance of those acts of piety, henaturally expected from her. But the old gentleman was deceived in hishopes, for time made no alteration in his son. The estate his fatherpossessed in Yorkshire was sold to discharge his debts; and when the oldman lay in his last sickness, he was entirely supported by presents fromhis congregation, and buried at their expence.We have no farther account of Mr. Boyse, till we find him soon after hisfather's death at Edinburgh; but from what motives he went there wecannot now discover. At this place his poetical genius raised him manyfriends, and some patrons of very great eminence. He published a volumeof poems in 1731, to which is subjoined The Tablature of Cebes, and aLetter upon Liberty, inserted in the Dublin Journal 1726; and by thesehe obtained a very great reputation. They are addressed to the countessof Eglington, a lady of distinguished excellencies, and so muchcelebrated for her beauty, that it would be difficult for the bestpanegyrist to be too lavish in her praise. This amiable lady waspatroness of all men of wit, and very much distinguished Mr. Boyse,while he resided in that country. She was not however exempt from thelot of humanity, and her conspicuous accomplishments were yet chequeredwith failings: The chief of which was too high a consciousness of herown charms, which inspired a vanity that sometimes betrayed her intoerrors.The following short anecdote was frequently related by Mr. Boyse. Thecountess one day came into the bed chamber of her youngest daughter,then about 13 years old, while she was dressing at her toilet. Thecountess observing the assiduity with which the young lady wanted to setoff her person to the best advantage, asked her, what she would give tobe 'as handsome as her mamma?' To which Miss replied; 'As much as yourladyship would give to be as young as me.' This smart repartee which wasat once pungent and witty, very sensibly affected the countess; who forthe future was less lavish in praise of her own charms.--Upon the death of the viscountess Stormont, Mr. Boyse wrote an Elegy,which was very much applauded by her ladyship's relations. This Elegy heintitled, The Tears of the Muses, as the deceased lady was a woman ofthe most refined taste in the sciences, and a great admirer of poetry.The lord Stormont was so much pleased with this mark of esteem paid tothe memory of his lady, that he ordered a very handsome present to begiven to Mr. Boyse, by his attorney at Edinburgh.Though Mr. Boyse's name was very well known in that city, yet his personwas obscure; for as he was altogether unsocial in his temper, he had butfew acquaintances, and those of a cast much inferior to himself, andwith whom he ought to have been ashamed to associate. It was some timebefore he could be found out; and lord Stormont's kind intentions hadbeen defeated, if an advertisement had not been published in one oftheir weekly papers, desiring the author of the Tears of the Muses tocall at the house of the attorney[1].The personal obscurity of Mr. Boyse might perhaps not be altogetherowing to his habits of gloominess and retirement. Nothing is moredifficult in that city, than to make acquaintances; There are no placeswhere people meet and converse promiscuously: There is a reservednessand gravity in the manner of the inhabitants, which makes a strangeraverse to approach them. They naturally love solitude; and are very slowin contracting friendships. They are generous; but it is with a badgrace. They are strangers to affability, and they maintain a haughtinessand an apparent indifference, which deters a man from courting them.They may be said to be hospitable, but not complaisant to strangers:Insincerity and cruelty have no existence amongst them; but if theyought not to be hated, they can never be much loved, for they areincapable of insinuation, and their ignorance of the world makes themunfit for entertaining sensible strangers. They are public-spirited, buttorn to pieces by factions. A gloominess in religion renders one part ofthem very barbarous, and an enthusiasm in politics so transports thegenteeler part, that they sacrifice to party almost every considerationof tenderness. Among such a people, a man may long live, little known,and less instructed; for their reservedness renders themuncommunicative, and their excessive haughtiness prevents them frombeing solicitous of knowledge.The Scots are far from being a dull nation; they are lovers of pomp andshew; but then there is an eternal stiffness, a kind of affecteddignity, which spoils their pleasures. Hence we have the less reason towonder that Boyse lived obscurely at Edinburgh. His extreme carelesnessabout his dress was a circumstance very inauspicious to a man who livesin that city. They are such lovers of this kind of decorum, that theywill admit of no infringement upon it; and were a man with more wit thanPope, and more philosophy than Newton, to appear at their market placenegligent in his apparel, he would be avoided by his acquaintances whowould rather risk his displeasure, than the censure of the public, whichwould not fail to stigmatize them, for assocciating with a man seeminglypoor; for they measure poverty, and riches, understanding, or itsopposite, by exterior appearance. They have many virtues, but their notbeing polished prevents them from shining.The notice which Lady Eglington and the lord Stormont took of our poet,recommended him likewise to the patronage of the dutchess of Gordon, whowas a lady not only distinguished for her taste; but cultivated acorrespondence with some of the most eminent poets then living. Thedutchess was so zealous in Mr. Boyse's affairs, and so felicitous toraise him above necessity, that she employed her interest in procuringthe promise of a place for him. She gave him a letter, which he was nextday to deliver to one of the commissioners of the customs at Edinburgh.It happened that he was then some miles distant from the city, and themorning on which he was to have rode to town with her grace's letter ofrecommendation proved to be rainy. This slender circumstance was enoughto discourage Boyse, who never looked beyond the present moment: Hedeclined going to town on account of the rainy weather, and while he letslip the opportunity, the place was bestowed upon another, which thecommissioner declared he kept for some time vacant, in expectation ofseeing a person recommended by the dutchess of Gordon.Of a man of this indolence of temper, this sluggish meanness of spirit,the reader cannot be surprised to find the future conduct consist of acontinued serious of blunders, for he who had not spirit to prosecute anadvantage put in his hands, will neither bear distress with fortitude,nor struggle to surmount it with resolution.Boyse at last, having defeated all the kind intentions of his patronstowards him, fell into a contempt and poverty, which obliged him to quitEdinburgh, as his creditors began to sollicit the payment of theirdebts, with an earnestness not to be trifled with. He communicated hisdesign of going to London to the dutchess of Gordon; who having still avery high opinion of his poetical abilities, gave him a letter ofrecommendation to Mr. Pope, and obtained another for him to Sir PeterKing, the lord chancellor of England. Lord Stormont recommended him tothe sollicitor-general his brother, and many other persons of the firstfashion.Upon receiving these letters, he, with great caution, quitted Edinburgh,regretted by none but his creditors, who were so exaggerated as tothreaten to prosecute him wherever he should be found. But these menaceswere never carried into execution, perhaps from the consideration of hisindigence, which afforded no probable prospect of their being paid.Upon his arrival in London, he went to Twickenham, in order to deliverthe dutchess of Gordon's letter to Mr. Pope; but that gentleman notbeing at home, Mr. Boyse never gave himself the trouble to repeat hisvisit, nor in all probability would Pope have been over-fond of him; asthere was nothing in his conversation which any wife indicated theabilities he possessed. He frequently related, that he was graciouslyreceived by Sir Peter King, dined at his table, and partook of hispleasures. But this relation, they who knew Mr. Boyse well, never couldbelieve; for he was so abject in his disposition, that he never couldlook any man in the face whose appearance was better than his own; norlikely had courage to sit at Sir Peter King's table, where every one wasprobably his superior. He had no power of maintaining the dignity ofwit, and though his understanding was very extensive, yet but a fewcould discover that he had any genius above the common rank. This wantof spirit produced the greatest part of his calamities, because he; knewnot how to avoid them by any vigorous effort of his mind. He wrotepoems, but those, though excellent in their kind, were lost to theworld, by being introduced with no advantage. He had so strong apropension to groveling, that his acquaintance were generally of such acast, as could be of no service to him; and those in higher life headdressed by letters, not having sufficient confidence or politeness toconverse familiarly with them; a freedom to which he was intitled by thepower of his genius. Thus unfit to support himself in the world, he wasexposed to variety of distress, from which he could invent no means ofextricating himself, but by writing mendicant letters. It will appearamazing, but impartiality obliges us to relate it, that this man, of soabject a spirit, was voluptuous and luxurious: He had no taste for anything elegant, and yet was to the last degree expensive. Can it bebelieved, that often when he had received half a guinea, in consequenceof a supplicating letter, he would go into a tavern, order a supper tobe prepared, drink of the richest wines, and spend all the money thathad just been given him in charity, without having any one toparticipate the regale with him, and while his wife and child werestarving home? This is an instance of base selfishness, for which noname is as yet invented, and except by another poet[2], with somevariation of circumstances, was perhaps never practiced by the mostsensual epicure.He had yet some friends, many of the most eminent dissenters, who from aregard to the memory of his father, afforded him supplies from time totime. Mr. Boyse by perpetual applications, at last exhausted theirpatience; and they were obliged to abandon a man on whom theirliberality was ill bestowed, as it produced no other advantage to him,than a few days support, when he returned again with the samenecessities.The epithet of cold has often been given to charity, perhaps with agreat deal of truth; but if any thing can warrant us to withhold ourcharity, it is the consideration that its purposes are prostituted bythose on whom it is bestowed.We have already taken notice of the infidelity of his wife; and now hercircumstances were reduced, her virtue did not improve. She fell into away of life disgraceful to the sex; nor was his behaviour in any degreemore moral. They were frequently covered with ignominy, reproaching oneanother for the acquisition of a disease, which both deserved, becausemutually guilty.It was about the year 1740, that Mr. Boyse reduced to the last extremityof human wretchedness, had not a shirt, a coat, or any kind of apparelto put on; the sheets in which he lay were carried to the pawnbroker's,and he was obliged to be confined to bed, with no other covering than ablanket. He had little support but what he got by writing letters to hisfriends in the most abject stile. He was perhaps ashamed to let thisinstance of distress be known to his friends, which might be theoccasion of his remaining six weeks in that situation. During this timehe had some employment in writing verses for the Magazines; and whoeverhad seen him in his study, must have thought the object singular enough.He sat up in bed with the blanket wrapt about him, through which he hadcut a hole large enough to admit his arm, and placing the paper upon hisknee, scribbled in the best manner he could the verses he was obliged tomake: Whatever he got by those, or any of his begging letters, was butjust sufficient for the preservation of life. And perhaps he would haveremained much longer in this distressful state, had not a compassionategentleman, upon hearing this circumstance related, ordered his cloathsto be taken out of pawn, and enabled him to appear again abroad.This six weeks penance one would imagine sufficient to deter him for thefuture, from suffering himself to be exposed to such distresses; but bya long habit of want it grew familiar to him, and as he had lessdelicacy than other men, he was perhaps less afflicted with his exteriormeanness. For the future, whenever his distresses so press'd, as toinduce him to dispose of his shirt, he fell upon an artificial method ofsupplying one. He cut some white paper in slips, which he tyed round hiswrists, and in the same manner supplied his neck. In this plight hefrequently appeared abroad, with the additional inconvenience of want ofbreeches.He was once sent for in a hurry, to the house of a printer who hademployed him to write a poem for his Magazine: Boyse then was withoutbreeches, or waistcoat, but was yet possessed of a coat, which he threwupon him, and in this ridiculous manner went to the printer's house;where he found several women, whom his extraordinary appearance obligedimmediately to retire.He fell upon many strange schemes of raising trifling sums: He sometimesordered his wife to inform people that he was just expiring, and by thisartifice work upon their compassion; and many of his friends werefrequently surprised to meet the man in the street to day, to whom theyhad yesterday sent relief, as to a person on the verge of death. Atother times he would propose subscriptions for poems, of which only thebeginning and conclusion were written; and by this expedient wouldrelieve some present necessity. But as he seldom was able to put any ofhis poems to the press, his veracity in this particular suffered adiminution; and indeed in almost every other particular he might justlybe suspected; for if he could but gratify an immediate appetite, hecared not at what expence, whether of the reputation, or purse ofanother.About the year 1745 Mr. Boyse's wife died. He was then at Reading, andpretended much concern when he heard of her death.It was an affectation in Mr. Boyse to appear very fond of a little lapdog which he always carried about with him in his arms, imagining itgave him the air of a man of taste. Boyse, whose circumstances were thentoo mean to put himself in mourning, was yet resolved that some part ofhis family should. He step'd into a little shop, purchased half a yardof black ribbon, which he fixed round his dog's neck by way of mourningfor the loss of its mistress. But this was not the only ridiculousinstance of his behaviour on the death of his wife. Such was thesottishness of this man, that when he was in liquor, he always indulgeda dream of his wife's being still alive, and would talk very spightfullyof those by whom he suspected she was entertained. This he nevermentioned however, except in his cups, which was only as often as he hadmoney to spend. The manner of his becoming intoxicated was veryparticular. As he had no spirit to keep good company, so he retired tosome obscure ale-house, and regaled himself with hot two-penny, whichthough he drank in very great quantities, yet he had never more than apennyworth at a time.--Such a practice rendered him so compleatlysottish, that even his abilities, as an author, became sensiblyimpaired.We have already mentioned his being at Reading. His business there wasto compile a Review of the most material transactions at home andabroad, during the last war; in which he has included a short account ofthe late rebellion. For this work by which he got some reputation, hewas paid by the sheet, a price sufficient to keep him from starving, andthat was all. To such distress must that man be driven, who is destituteof prudence to direct the efforts of his genius. In this work Mr. Boysediscovers how capable he was of the most irksome and laboriousemployment, when he maintained a power over his appetites, and kepthimself free from intemperance.While he remained at Reading, he addressed, by supplicating letters, twoIrish noblemen, lord Kenyston, and lord Kingsland, who resided inBerkshire, and received some money from them; he also met with anothergentleman there of a benevolent disposition, who, from the knowledge hehad of the father, pitied the distresses of the son, and by his interestwith some eminent Dissenters in those parts, railed a sufficient sum tocloath him, for the abjectness of his appearance secluded our poet evenfrom the table of his Printer[3].Upon his return from Reading, his behaviour was more decent than it hadever been before, and there were some hopes that a reformation, tho'late, would be wrought upon him. He was employed by a Bookseller totranslate Fenelon on the Existence of God, during which time he marrieda second wife, a woman in low circumstances, but well enough adapted tohis taste. He began now to live with more regard to his character, andsupport a better appearance than usual; but while his circumstances weremending, and his irregular appetites losing ground, his health visiblydeclined: he had the satisfaction, while in this lingering illness, toobserve a poem of his, entitled The Deity, recommended by two eminentwriters, the ingenious Mr. Fielding, and the rev. Mr. James Harvey,author of The Meditations. The former, in the beginning of his humorousHistory of Tom Jones, calls it an excellent poem. Mr. Harvey stiles it apious and instructive piece; and that worthy gentleman, upon hearingthat the author was in necessitous circumstances, deposited two guineasin the hands of a trusty person to be given him, whenever his occasionsshould press. This poem was written some years before Mr. Harvey or Mr.Fielding took any notice of it, but it was lost to the public, as thereputation of the Bookseller consisted in sending into the worldabundance of trifles, amongst which, it was considered as one. Mr. Boysesaid, that upon its first publication, a gentleman acquainted with Mr.Pope, took occasion to ask that poet, if he was not the author of it, towhich Mr. Pope replied, 'that he was not the author, but that there weremany lines in it, of which he should not be ashamed.' This Mr. Boyseconsidered as a very great compliment. The poem indeed abounds withshining lines and elevated sentiments on the several Attributes of theSupreme Being; but then it is without a plan, or any connexion of parts,for it may be read either backwards or forwards, as the reader pleases.While Mr. Boyse was in this lingering illness, he seemed to have nonotion of his approaching end, nor did he expect it, 'till it was almostpast the thinking of. His mind, indeed, was often religiously disposed;he frequently talked upon that subject, and, probably suffered a greatdeal from the remorse of his conscience. The early impressions of hisgood education were never entirely obliterated, and his whole life was acontinued struggle between his will and reason, as he was alwaysviolating his duty to the one, while he fell under the subjection of theother. It was in consequence of this war in his mind, that he wrote abeautiful poem called The Recantation.In the month of May, 1749, he died in obscure lodgings near Shoe-Lane.An old acquaintance of his endeavoured to collect money to defray theexpences of his funeral, so that the scandal of being buried by theparish might be avoided. But his endeavours were in vain, for thepersons he sollicited, had been so troubled with applications during thelife of this unhappy man, that they refused to contribute any thingtowards his funeral. The remains of this son of the muses were, withvery little ceremony, hurried away by the parish officers, and thrownamongst common beggars; though with this distinction, that the serviceof the church was performed over his corpse. Never was an exit moreshocking, nor a life spent with less grace, than those of Mr. Boyse, andnever were such distinguished abilities given to less purpose. Hisgenius was not confined to poetry only, he had a taste for painting,music and heraldry, with the latter of which he was very wellacquainted. His poetical pieces, if collected, would make six moderatevolumes. Many of them are featured in the Gentleman's Magazine, markedwith the letter Y. and Alceus. Two volumes were published in London, butas they never had any great sale, it will be difficult to find them.An ode of his in the manner of Spenser, entitled The Olive, wasaddressed to Sir Robert Walpole, which procured him a present of tenguineas. He translated a poem from the High Dutch of Van Haren, inpraise of peace, upon the conclusion of that made at Aix la Chapelle;but the poem which procured him the greatest reputation, was, that uponthe Attributes of the Deity, of which we have already taken notice. Hewas employed by Mr. Ogle to translate some of Chaucer's Tales intomodern English, which he performed with great spirit, and received atthe rate of three pence a line for his trouble. Mr. Ogle published acomplete edition of that old poet's Canterbury Tales Modernized; and Mr.Boyse's name is put to such Tales as were done by him. It had often beenurged to Mr. Boyse to turn his thoughts towards the drama, as that wasthe most profitable kind of poetical writing, and as many a poet ofinferior genius to him has raised large contributions on the public bythe success of their plays. But Boyse never seemed to relish thisproposal, perhaps from a consciousness that he had not spirit toprosecute the arduous task of introducing it on the stage; or that hethought himself unequal to the task.In the year 1743 Mr. Boyse published without his name, an Ode on thebattle of Dettingen, entitled Albion's Triumph; some Stanza's of whichwe shall give as a specimen of Mr. Boyse's poetry.STANZA's from ALBION's Triumph.XIII.  But how, blest sovereign! shall th'unpractis'd muse    These recent honours of thy reign rehearse!  How to thy virtues turn her dazzled views,    Or consecrate thy deeds in equal verse!  Amidst the field of horrors wide display'd,    How paint the calm[4] that smil'd upon, thy brow!  Or speak that thought which every part surveyed,    'Directing where the rage of war should glow:'[5]  While watchful angels hover'd round thy head,  And victory on high the palm of glory spread.XIV.  Nor royal youth reject the artless praise,    Which due to worth like thine the Muse bestows,  Who with prophetic extasy surveys    These early wreaths of fame adorn thy brows.  Aspire like Nassau in the glorious strife,    Keep thy great fires' examples full in eye;  But oh! for Britain's sake, consult a life    The noblest triumphs are too mean to buy;  And while you purchase glory--bear in mind,  A prince's truest fame is to protect mankind.XV.  Alike in arts and arms acknowledg'd great,    Let Stair accept the lays he once could own!  Nor Carteret, thou the column of the state!    The friend of science! on the labour frown!  Nor shall, unjust to foreign worth, the Muse    In silence Austria's valiant chiefs conceal;  While Aremberg's heroic line she views,    And Neiperg's conduct strikes even envy pale:  Names Gallia yet shall further learn to fear,  And Britain, grateful still, shall treasure up as dear!XIX.  But oh! acknowledg'd victor in the field,    What thanks, dread sovereign, shall thy toils reward!  Such honours as delivered nations yield,    Such for thy virtues justly stand prepar'd:  When erst on Oudenarde's decisive plain,    Before thy youth, the Gaul defeated fled,  The eye of fate[6] foresaw on distant Maine,    The laurels now that shine around thy head:  Oh should entwin'd with these fresh Olives bloom!  Thy Triumphs then would shame the pride of antient Rome.XX.  Mean time, while from this fair event we shew    That British valour happily survives,  And cherish'd by the king's propitious view,    The rising plant of glory sweetly thrives!  Let all domestic faction learn to cease,    Till humbled Gaul no more the world alarms:  Till GEORGE procures to Europe solid peace,    A peace secur'd by his victorious arms:  And binds in iron fetters ear to ear,  Ambition, Rapine, Havock, and Despair,  With all the ghastly fiends of desolating war.FOOTNOTES:[1] A Profession, which in that City is denominated a Writer.[2] Savage.[3] During his abode at Reading an accident had like to have put an end    to his follies and his life together; for he had the ill-luck to    fall from his garret down the whole flight of stairs; but being    destined to lengthen out a useless life for some time longer, he    escaped with only a severe bruising.[4] The King gave his orders with the utmost calmness, tho' no body was    more expos'd.[5]  Inspir'd repuls'd battalions to engage,  And taught the doubtful battle where to rage.    Mr. Addison's Campaign.[6] His Majesty early distinguished himself as a volunteer at the battle    of Oudenarde, in 1708.       *       *       *       *       *Sir RICHARD BLACKMORE.This eminent poet and physician was son of Mr. Robert Blackmore, anAttorney at Law. He received his early education at a private countryschool, from whence, in the 13th year of his age, he was removed toWestminster, and in a short time after to the university of Oxford,where he continued thirteen years.In the early period of our author's life he was a Schoolmaster, asappears by a satirical copy of verses Dr. Drake wrote against him,consisting of upwards of forty lines, of which the following are verypungent.  By nature form'd, by want a pedant made,  Blackmore at first set up the whipping trade:  Next quack commenc'd; then fierce with pride he swore,  That tooth-ach, gout, and corns should be no more.  In vain his drugs, as well as birch he tried;  His boys grew blockheads, and his patients died.Some circumstances concurring, it may be presumed in Sir Richard'sfavour, he travelled into Italy, and at Padua took his degrees inphysic[1].He gratified his curiosity in visiting France, Germany, and the LowCountries, and after spending a year and a half in this delightfulexercise, he returned to England. As Mr. Blackmore had made physic hischief study, so he repaired to London to enter upon the practice of it,and no long after he was chosen fellow of the Royal College ofPhysicians, by the charter of King James II. Sir Richard had seen toomuch of foreign slavery to be fond of domestic chains, and thereforeearly declared himself in favour of the revolution, and espoused thoseprinciples upon which it was effected. This zeal, recommended him toKing William, and in the year 1697 he was sworn one of his physicians inordinary. He was honoured by that Prince with a gold medal and chain,was likewise knighted by him, and upon his majesty's death was one ofthose who gave their opinion in the opening of the king's body. UponQueen Anne's accession to the throne, he was appointed one of herphysicians, and continued so for some time.This gentleman is author of more original poems, of a considerablelength, besides a variety of other works, than can well be conceivedcould have been composed by one man, during the longest period of humanlife. He was a chaste writer; he struggled in the cause of virtue, evenin those times, when vice had the countenance of the great, and when analmost universal degeneracy prevailed. He was not afraid to appear theadvocate of virtue, in opposition to the highest authority, and nolustre of abilities in his opponents could deter him from stripping viceof those gaudy colours, with which poets of the first eminence hadcloathed her.An elegant writer having occasion to mention the state of wit in thereign of King Charles II, characterizes the poets in the followingmanner;  The wits of Charles found easier ways to fame:  Nor sought for Johnson's art, nor Shakespear's flame:  Themselves they studied; as they lived, they writ,  Intrigue was plot, obscenity was wit.  Their cause was gen'ral, their supports were strong,  Their slaves were willing, and their reign was long.Mr. Pope somewhere says,  Unhappy Dryden--in all Charles's days,  Roscommon only boasts unspotted lays.He might likewise have excepted Blackmore, who was not only chaste inhis own writings, but endeavoured to correct those who prostituted thegifts of heaven, to the inglorious purposes of vice and folly, and hewas, at least, as good a poet as Roscommon.Sir Richard had, by the freedom of his censures on the libertine writersof his age, incurred the heavy displeasure of Dryden, who takes allopportunities to ridicule him, and somewhere says, that he wrote to therumbling of his chariot wheels. And as if to be at enmity with Blackmorehad been hereditary to our greatest poets, we find Mr. Pope taking upthe quarrel where Dryden left it, and persecuting this worthy man withyet a severer degree of satire. Blackmore had been informed by Curl,that Mr. Pope was the author of a Travestie on the first Psalm, which hetakes occasion to reprehend in his Essay on Polite Learning, vol. ii. p.270. He ever considered it as the disgrace of genius, that it should beemployed to burlesque any of the sacred compositions, which as theyspeak the language of inspiration, tend to awaken the soul to virtue,and inspire it with a sublime devotion. Warmed in this honourable cause,he might, perhaps, suffer his zeal to transport him to a height, whichhis enemies called enthusiasm; but of the two extremes, no doubt can bemade, that Blackmore's was the safest, and even dullness in favour ofvirtue (which, by the way, was not the case with Sir Richard) is moretolerable than the brightest parts employed in the cause of lewdness anddebauchery.The poem for which Sir Richard had been most celebrated, was,undoubtedly, his Creation, now deservedly become a classic. We cannotconvey a more amiable idea of this great production, than in the wordsof Mr. Addison, in his Spectator, Number 339, who, after havingcriticised on that book of Milton, which gives an account of the Worksof Creation, thus proceeds, 'I cannot conclude this book upon theCreation, without mentioning a poem which has lately appeared under thattitle. The work was undertaken with so good an intention, and executedwith so great a mastery, that it deserves to be, looked upon as one ofthe most useful and noble productions in our English verse. The readercannot but be pleased to find the depths of philosophy, enlivened withall the charms of poetry, and to see so great a strength of reasonamidst so beautiful a redundancy of the imagination. The author hasshewn us that design in all the works of nature, which necessarily leadsus to the knowledge of its first cause. In short, he has illustrated, bynumberless and incontestable instances, that divine wisdom, which theson of Sirach has so nobly ascribed to the Supreme Being in hisformation of the world, when he tells us, that he _created her, and sawher, and numbered her, and poured her out upon all his works_.'The design of this excellent poem is to demonstrate the self-existenceof an eternal mind, from the created and dependent existence of theuniverse, and to confute the hypothesis of the Epicureans and theFatalists, under whom all the patrons of impiety, ancient and modern, ofwhatsoever denomination may be ranged. The first of whom affirm, theworld was in time caused by chance, and the other, that it existed frometernity without a cause. 'Tis true, both these acknowledge theexistence of Gods, but by their absurd and ridiculous description ofthem, it is plain, they had nothing else in view, but to avoid theobnoxious character of atheistical philosophers. To adorn this poem, noembellishments are borrowed from the exploded and obsolete theology ofthe ancient idolaters of Greece and Rome; no rapturous invocations areaddressed to their idle deities, nor any allusions to their fabulousactions. 'I have more than once (says Sir Richard) publicly declared myopinion, that a Christian poet cannot but appear monstrous andridiculous in a Pagan dress. That though it should be granted, that theHeathen religion might be allowed a place in light and loose songs, mockheroic, and the lower lyric compositions, yet in Christian poems, of thesublime and greater kind, a mixture of the Pagan theology must, by allwho are masters of reflexion and good sense, be condemned, if not asimpious, at least, as impertinent and absurd. And this is a truth soclear and evident, that I make no doubt it will, by degrees, force itsway, and prevail over the contrary practice. Should Britons recovertheir virtue, and reform their taste, they could no more bear theHeathen religion in verse, than in prose. Christian poets, as well asChristian preachers, the business of both being to instruct the people,though the last only are wholly appropriated to it, should endeavour toconfirm, and spread their own religion. If a divine should begin hissermon with a solemn prayer to Bacchus or Apollo, to Mars or Venus, whatwould the people think of their preacher? and is it not as really,though not equally absurd, for a poet in a great and serious poem,wherein he celebrates some wonderful and happy event of divineprovidence, or magnifies the illustrious instrument that was honoured tobring the event about, to address his prayer to false deities, and cryfor help to the abominations of the heathen?'Mr. Gildon, in his Compleat Art of Poetry, after speaking of our authorin the most respectful terms, says, 'that notwithstanding his merit,this admirable author did not think himself upon the same footing withHomer.' But how different is the judgment of Mr. Dennis, who, in thisparticular, opposes his friend Mr. Gildon.'Blackmore's action (says he) has neither unity, integrity, morality,nor universality, and consequently he can have no fable, and no heroicpoem. His narration is neither probable, delightful, nor wonderful. Hischaracters have none of these necessary qualifications.--The thingscontained in his narrations, are neither in their own nature delightfulnor numerous enough, nor rightly disposed, nor surprizing, norpathetic;' nay he proceeds so far as to say Sir Richard has no genius;first establishing it as a principle, 'That genius is known by a furiousjoy, and pride of soul, on the conception of an extraordinary hint. Manymen (says he) have their hints without these motions of fury and prideof soul; because they want fire enough to agitate their spirits; andthese we call cold writers. Others who have a great deal of fire, buthave not excellent organs, feel the fore-mentioned motions, without theextraordinary hints; and these we call fustian writers.'And he declares, that Sir Richard hath neither the hints nor themotions[2]. But Dennis has not contented himself, with chargingBlackmore with want of genius; but has likewise the following remarks toprove him a bad Church of England man: These are his words. 'All Mr.Blackmore's coelestial machines, as they cannot be defended so much asby common received opinion, so are they directly contrary to thedoctrine of the church of England, that miracles had ceased a long timebefore prince Arthur come into the world. Now if the doctrine of thechurch of England be true, as we are obliged to believe, then are allthe coelestial machines of prince Arthur unsufferable, as wanting notonly human but divine probability. But if the machines are sufferable,that is, if they have so much as divine probability, then it follows ofnecessity, that the doctrine of the church is false; so that I leave itto every impartial clergyman to consider.'If no greater objection could be brought against Blackmore's PrinceArthur, than those raised by Mr. Dennis, the Poem would be faultless;for what has the doctrine of the church of England to do with an epicpoem? It is not the doctrine of the church of England, to suppose thatthe apostate spirits put the power of the Almighty to proof, by openlyresisting his will, and maintaining an obstinate struggle with theangels commissioned by him, to drive them from the mansions of thebless'd; or that they attempted after their perdition, to recover heavenby violence. These are not the doctrines of the church of England; butthey are conceived in a true spirit of poetry, and furnish thosetremendous descriptions with which Milton has enriched his ParadiseLost.Whoever has read Mr. Dryden's dedication of his Juvenal, will thereperceive, that in that great man's opinion, coelestial machines mightwith the utmost propriety be introduced in an Epic Poem, built upon achristian model; but at the same time he adds, 'The guardian angels ofstates and kingdoms are not to be managed by a vulgar hand.'Perhaps it may be true, that the guardian angels of states and kingdomsmay have been too powerful for the conduct of Sir Richard Blackmore; buthe has had at least the merit of paving the way, and has set an examplehow Epic Poems may be written, upon the principles of christianity; andhas enjoyed a comfort of which no bitterness, or raillery can deprivehim, namely the virtuous intention of doing good, and as he himselfexpresses it, 'of rescuing the Muses from the hands of ravishers,and restoring them again to their chaste and pure mansions.'Sir Richard Blackmore died on the 9th of October 1729, in an advancedage; and left behind him the character of a worthy man, a great poet,and a friend to religion. Towards the close of his life, his business asa physician declined, but as he was a man of prudent conduct, it is notto be supposed that he was subjected to any want by that accident, forin his earlier years he was considered amongst the first in hisprofession, and his practice was consequently very extensive.The decay of his employment might partly be owing to old age andinfirmities, which rendered him less active than before, and partly tothe diminution his character might suffer by the eternal war, which thewits waged against him, who spared neither bitterness nor calumny; and,perhaps, Sir Richard may be deemed the only poet, who ever suffered forhaving too much religion and morality.The following is the most accurate account we could obtain of hiswritings, which for the sake of distinction we have divided intoclasses, by which the reader may discern how various and numerous hiscompositions are--To have written so much upon so great a variety ofsubjects, and to have written nothing contemptibly, must indicate agenius much superior to the common standard.--His versification isalmost every where beautiful; and tho' he has been ridiculed in theTreatise of the Bathos, published in Pope's works, for being too minutein his descriptions of the objects of nature; yet it rather proceededfrom a philosophical exactness, than a penury of genius.It is really astonishing to find Dean Swift, joining issue with lessreligious wits, in laughing at Blackmore's works, of which he makes aludicrous detail, since they were all written in the cause of virtue,which it was the Dean's business more immediately to support, as on thisaccount he enjoy'd his preferment: But the Dean perhaps, was one ofthose characters, who chose to sacrifice his cause to his joke. This wasa treatment Sir Richard could never have expected at the hands of aclergyman.A List of Sir Richard Blackmore'sWorks.THEOLOGICAL.I. Just Prejudices against the Arian Hypothesis, Octavo. 1725II. Modern Arians Unmask'd, Octavo, 1721III. Natural Theology; or Moral Duties considered apart from positive;with some Observations on the Desirableness and Necessity of asuper-natural Revelation, Octavo, 1728IV. The accomplished Preacher; or an Essay upon Divine Eloquence,Octavo, 1731This Tract was published after the author's death, in pursuance of hisexpress order, by the Reverend Mr. John White of Nayland in Essex; whoattended on Sir Richard during his last illness, in which he manifestedan elevated piety towards God, and faith in Christ, the Saviour of theWorld. Mr. White also applauds him as a person in whose character greatcandour and the finest humanity were the prevailing qualities. Heobserves also that he had the greatest veneration for the clergy of theChurch of England, whereof he was a member. No one, says he, did morehighly magnify our office, or had a truer esteem and honour for ourpersons, discharging our office as we ought, and supporting the holycharacter we bear, with an unblameable conversation,POETICAL.I. Creation, a Philosophical Poem, demonstrating the Existence andProvidence of God, in seven Books, Octavo, 1712II. The Redeemer, a Poem in six Books, Octavo, 1721III. Eliza, a Poem in ten Books, Folio, 1705IV. King Arthur, in ten Books, 1697V. Prince Arthur, in ten Books, 1695VI. King Alfred, in twelve books, Octavo, 1723VII. A Paraphrase on the Book of Job; the Songs of Moses, Deborah andDavid; the ii. viii. ciii. cxiv, cxlviii. Psalms. Four chapters ofIsaiah, and the third of Habbakkuk, Folio and Duodecimo, 1716VIII. A New Version of the Book of Psalms, Duodecimo, 1720IX. The Nature of Man, a Poem in three Books, Octavo, 1720X. A Collection of Poems, Octavo, 1716XI. Essays on several Subjects, 2 vols. Octavo. Vol. I. On Epic Poetry,Wit, False Virtue, Immortality of the Soul, Laws of Nature, Origin ofCivil Power. Vol. II. On Athesim, Spleen, Writing, Future Felicity,Divine Love. 1716XII. History of the Conspiracy against King William the IIId, 1696,Octavo, 1723MEDICINAL.I. A Discourse on the Plague, with a preparatory Account of MalignantFevers, in two Parts; containing an Explication of the Nature of thoseDiseases, and the Method of Cure, Octavo, 1720II. A Treatise on the Small-Pox, in two Parts; containing an Account ofthe Nature, and several Kinds of that Disease; with the proper Methodsof Cure: And a Dissertation upon the modern Practice of Inoculation,Octavo, 1722III. A Treatise on Consumptions, and other Distempers belonging to theBreast and Lungs, Octavo, 1724VI. A Treatise on the Spleen and Vapours; or Hyppocondriacal andHysterical Affections; with three Discourses on the Nature and Cure ofthe Cholic, Melancholly and Palsy, Octavo, 1725V. A Critical Dissertation upon the Spleen, so far as concerns thefollowing Question, viz. Whether the Spleen is necessary or useful tothe animal possessed of it? 1725VI. Discourses on the Gout, Rheumatism, and the King's Evil; containingan Explanation of the Nature, Causes, and different Species of thoseDiseases, and the Method of curing them, Octavo, 1726VII. Dissertations on a Dropsy, a Tympany, the Jaundice, the Stone, andthe Diabetes, Octavo, 1727Single POEMS by Sir _Richard Blackmore_.I. His Satire against Wit, Folio, 1700II. His Hymn to the Light of the World; with a short Description of theCartoons at Hampton-Court, Folio, 1703III. His Advice to the Poets, Folio, 1706IV. His Kit-Kats, Folio, 1708It might justly be esteemed an injury to Blackmore, to dismiss his lifewithout a specimen from his beautiful and philosophical Poem on theCreation. In his second Book he demonstrates the existence of a God,from the wisdom and design which appears in the motions of the heavenlyorbs; but more particularly in the solar system. First in the situationof the Sun, and its due distance from the earth. The fatal consequencesof its having been placed, otherwise than it is. Secondly, he considersits diurnal motion, whence the change of the day and night proceeds;which we shall here insert as a specimen of the elegant versification,and sublime energy of this Poem.  Next see Lucretian Sages, see the Sun,  His course diurnal, and his annual run.  How in his glorious race he moves along,  Gay as a bridegroom, as a giant strong.  How his unweari'd labour he repeats,  Returns at morning, and at eve retreats;  And by the distribution of his light,  Now gives to man the day, and now the night:  Night, when the drowsy swain, and trav'ler cease  Their daily toil, and sooth their limbs with ease;  When all the weary sons of woe restrain  Their yielding cares with slumber's silken chain,  Solace sad grief, and lull reluctant pain.  And while the sun, ne'er covetous of rest,  Flies with such rapid speed from east to west,  In tracks oblique he thro' the zodiac rolls,  Between the northern and the southern poles;  From which revolving progress thro' the skies.  The needful seasons of the year arise:  And as he now advances, now retreats,  Whence winter colds proceed, and summer heats,  He qualifies, and chears the air by turns,  Which winter freezes, and which summer burns.  Thus his kind rays the two extremes reduce,  And keep a temper fit for nature's use.  The frost and drought by this alternate pow'r.  The earth's prolific energy restore.  The lives of man and beast demand the change;  Hence fowls the air, and fish the ocean range.  Of heat and cold, this just successive reign,  Which does the balance of the year maintain,  The gard'ner's hopes, and farmer's patience props,  Gives vernal verdure, and autumnal crops.FOOTNOTES:[1] Jacob.[2] Preface to Remarks on Prince Arthur, octavo 1696.       *       *       *       *       *Mr. JAMES THOMSON.This celebrated poet, from whom his country has derived the mostdistinguished honour, was son of the revd. Mr. Thomson, a minister ofthe church of Scotland, in the Presbytery of Jedburgh.He was born in the place where his father was minister, about thebeginning of the present century, and received the rudiments of hiseducation at a private country school. Mr. Thomson, in the early part ofhis life, so far from appearing to possess a sprightly genius, wasconsidered by his school master, and those which directed his education,as being really without a common share of parts.While he was improving himself in the Latin and Greek tongues at thiscountry school, he often visited a minister, whose charge lay in thesame presbytery with his father's, the revd. Mr. Rickerton, a man ofsuch amazing powers, that many persons of genius, as well as Mr.Thomson, who conversed with him, have been astonished, that such greatmerit should be buried in an obscure part of the country, where he hadno opportunity to display himself, and, except upon periodical meetingsof the ministers, seldom an opportunity of conversing with men oflearning.Though Mr. Thomson's schoolmaster could not discover that he was endowedwith a common portion of understanding, yet Mr. Rickerton was not soblind to his genius; he distinguished our author's early propension topoetry, and had once in his hands some of the first attempts Mr. Thomsonever made in that province.It is not to be doubted but our young poet greatly improved while hecontinued to converse with Mr. Rickerton, who, as he was a philosophicalman, inspired his mind with a love of the Sciences, nor were the revd.gentleman's endeavours in vain, for Mr. Thomson has shewn in his workshow well he was acquainted with natural and moral philosophy, acircumstance which, perhaps, is owing to the early impressions hereceived from Mr. Rickerton.Nature, which delights in diversifying her gifts, does not bestow uponevery one a power of displaying the abilities she herself has granted tothe best advantage. Though Mr. Rickerton could discover that Mr.Thomson, so far from being without parts, really possessed a very finegenius, yet he never could have imagined, as he often declared, thatthere existed in his mind such powers, as even by the best cultivationcould have raised him to so high a degree of eminence amongst the poets.When Mr. Rickerton first saw Mr. Thomson's Winter, which was in aBookseller's shop at Edinburgh, he stood amazed, and after he had readthe lines quoted below, he dropt the poem from his hand in the extasy ofadmiration. The lines are his induction to Winter, than which few poetsever rose to a more sublime height[1].After spending the usual time at a country school in the acquisition ofthe dead languages, Mr. Thomson was removed to the university ofEdinburgh, in order to finish his education, and be fitted for theministry. Here, as at the country school, he made no great figure: hiscompanions thought contemptuously of him, and the masters under whom hestudied, had not a higher opinion of our poet's abilities, than theirpupils. His course of attendance upon the classes of philosophy beingfinished, he was entered in the Divinity Hall, as one of the candidatesfor the ministry, where the students, before they are permitted to enteron their probation, must yield six years attendance.It was in the second year of Mr. Thomson's attendance upon this schoolof divinity, whose professor at that time was the revd. and learned Mr.William Hamilton, a person whom he always mentioned with respect, thatour author was appointed by the professor to write a discourse on thePower of the Supreme Being. When his companions heard their taskassigned him, they could not but arraign the professor's judgment, forassigning so copious a theme to a young man, from whom nothing equal tothe subject could be expected. But when Mr. Thomson delivered thediscourse, they had then reason to reproach themselves for want ofdiscernment, and for indulging a contempt of one superior to thebrightest genius amongst them. This discourse was so sublimely elevated,that both the professor and the students who heard it delivered, wereastonished. It was written in blank verse, for which Mr. Hamiltonrebuked him, as being improper upon that occasion. Such of hisfellow-students as envied him the success of this discourse, and theadmiration it procured him, employed their industry to trace him as aplagiary; for they could not be persuaded that a youth seemingly so muchremoved from the appearance of genius, could compose a declamation, inwhich learning, genius, and judgment had a very great share. Theirsearch, however, proved fruitless, and Mr. Thomson continued, while heremained at the university, to possess the honour of that discourse,without any diminution.We are not certain upon what account it was that Mr. Thomson dropt thenotion of going into the ministry; perhaps he imagined it a way of lifetoo severe for the freedom of his disposition: probably he declinedbecoming a presbyterian minister, from a consciousness of his owngenius, which gave him a right to entertain more ambitious views; for itseldom happens, that a man of great parts can be content with obscurity,or the low income of sixty pounds a year, in some retired corner of aneglected country; which must have been the lot of Thomson, if he hadnot extended his views beyond the sphere of a minister of theestablished church of Scotland.After he had dropt all thoughts of the clerical profession, he began tobe more sollicitous of distinguishing his genius, as he placed somedependence upon it, and hoped to acquire such patronage as would enablehim to appear in life with advantage. But the part of the world where hethen was, could not be very auspicious to such hopes; for which reasonhe began to turn his eyes towards the grand metropolis.The first poem of Mr. Thomson's, which procured him any reputation fromthe public, was his Winter, of which mention is already made, andfurther notice will be taken; but he had private approbation for severalof his pieces, long before his Winter was published, or before hequitted his native country. He wrote a Paraphrase on the 104th Psalm,which, after it had received the approbation of Mr. Rickerton, hepermitted his friends to copy. By some means or other this Paraphrasefell into the hands of Mr. Auditor Benson, who, expressing hisadmiration of it, said, that he doubted not if the author was in London,but he would meet with encouragement equal to his merit. Thisobservation of Benson's was communicated to Thomson by a letter, and, nodoubt, had its natural influence in inflaming his heart, and hasteninghis journey to the metropolis. He soon set out for Newcastle, where hetook shipping, and landed at Billinsgate. When he arrived, it was hisimmediate care to wait on [2]Mr. Mallet, who then lived inHanover-Square in the character of tutor to his grace the duke ofMontrose, and his late brother lord G. Graham. Before Mr. Thomsonreached Hanover-Square, an accident happened to him, which, as it maydivert some of our readers, we shall here insert. He had receivedletters of recommendation from a gentleman of rank in Scotland, to somepersons of distinction in London, which he had carefully tied up in hispocket-handkerchief. As he sauntered along the streets, he could notwithhold his admiration of the magnitude, opulence, and various objectsthis great metropolis continually presented to his view. These mustnaturally have diverted the imagination of a man of less reflexion, andit is not greatly to be wondered at, if Mr. Thomson's mind was soingrossed by these new presented scenes, as to be absent to the busycrowds around him. He often stopped to gratify his curiosity, theconsequences of which he afterwards experienced. With an honestsimplicity of heart, unsuspecting, as unknowing of guilt, he was tentimes longer in reaching Hanover-Square, than one less sensible andcurious would have been. When he arrived, he found he had paid for hiscuriosity; his pocket was picked of his handkerchief, and all theletters that were wrapped up in it. This accident would have proved verymortifying to a man less philosophical than Thomson; but he was of atemper never to be agitated; he then smiled at it, and frequently madehis companions laugh at the relation.It is natural to suppose, that as soon as Mr. Thomson arrived in town,he shewed to some of his friends his poem on Winter[3]. The approbationit might meet with from them, was not, however, a sufficientrecommendation to introduce it to the world. He had the mortification ofoffering it to several Booksellers without success, who, perhaps, notbeing qualified themselves to judge of the merit of the performance,refused to risque the necessary expences, on the work of an obscurestranger, whose name could be no recommendation to it. These were severerepulses; but, at last, the difficulty was surmounted. Mr. Mallet,offered it to Mr. Millan, now Bookseller at Charing-Cross, who withoutmaking any scruples, printed it. For some time Mr. Millan had reason tobelieve, that he should be a loser by his frankness; for the impressionlay like as paper on his hands, few copies being sold, 'till by anaccident its merit was discovered.[4] One Mr. Whatley, a man of sometaste in letters, but perfectly enthusiastic in the admiration of anything which pleased him, happened to cast his eye upon it, and findingsomething which delighted him, perused the whole, not without growingastonishment, that the poem should be unknown, and the author obscure.He learned from the Bookseller the circumstances already mentioned, and,in the extasy of his admiration of this poem, he went from Coffee-houseto Coffee house, pointing out its beauties, and calling upon all men oftaste, to exert themselves in rescuing one of the greatest geniuses thatever appeared, from obscurity. This had a very happy effect, for, in ashort time, the impression was bought up, and they who read the poem,had no reason to complain of Mr. Whatley's exaggeration; for they foundit so compleatly beautiful, that they could not but think themselveshappy in doing justice to a man of so much merit.The poem of Winter is, perhaps, the most finished, as well as mostpicturesque, of any of the Four Seasons. The scenes are grand andlively. It is in that season that the creation appears in distress, andnature assumes a melancholy air; and an imagination so poetical asThomson's, could not but furnish those awful and striking images, whichfill the soul with a solemn dread of _those Vapours, and Storms, andClouds_, he has so well painted. Description is the peculiar talent ofThomson; we tremble at his thunder in summer, we shiver with hiswinter's cold, and we rejoice at the renovation of nature, by the sweetinfluence of spring. But the poem deserves a further illustration, andwe shall take an opportunity of pointing out some of its most strikingbeauties; but before we speak of these, we beg leave to relate thefollowing anecdote.As soon as Winter was published, Mr. Thomson sent a copy of it as apresent to Mr. Joseph Mitchell, his countryman, and brother poet, who,not liking many parts of it, inclosed to him the following couplet;  Beauties and faults so thick lye scattered here,  Those I could read, if these were not so near.To this Mr. Thomson answered extempore.  Why all not faults, injurious Mitchell; why  Appears one beauty to thy blasted eye;  Damnation worse than thine, if worse can be,  Is all I ask, and all I want from thee.Upon a friend's remonstrating to Mr. Thomson, that the expression ofblasted eye would look like a personal reflexion, as Mr. Mitchell hadreally that misfortune, he changed the epithet blasted, into blasting.But to return:After our poet has represented the influence of Winter upon the face ofnature, and particularly described the severities of the frost, he hasthe following beautiful transition;  --Our infant winter sinks,  Divested of its grandeur; should our eye  Astonish'd shoot into the frigid zone;  Where, for relentless months, continual night  Holds o'er the glitt'ring waste her starry reign:  There thro' the prison of unbounded wilds  Barr'd by the hand of nature from escape,  Wide roams the Russian exile. Nought around  Strikes his sad eye, but desarts lost in snow;  And heavy loaded groves; and solid floods,  That stretch athwart the solitary waste,  Their icy horrors to the frozen main;  And chearless towns far distant, never bless'd  Save when its annual course, the caravan  Bends to the golden coast of rich Cathay[5]  With news of human-kind. Yet there life glows;  Yet cherished there, beneath the shining waste,  The furry nations harbour: tipt with jet  Fair ermines, spotless as the snows they press;  Sables of glossy black; and dark embrown'd  Or beauteous, streak'd with many a mingled hue,  Thousands besides, the costly pride of courts.The description of a thaw is equally picturesque. The following linesconsequent upon it are excellent.  --Those sullen seas  That wash th'ungenial pole, will rest no more  Beneath the shackles of the mighty North;  But rousing all their waves resistless heave.--  And hark! the lengthen'd roar continuous runs  Athwart the rested deep: at once it bursts  And piles a thousand mountains to the clouds.  Ill fares the bark, with trembling wretches charg'd,  That tost amid the floating fragments, moors  Beneath the shelter of an icy isle,  While night o'erwhelms the sea, and horror looks  More horrible. Can human force endure  Th' assembled mischiefs that besiege 'em round!  Heart-gnawing hunger, fainting weariness,  The roar of winds and waves, the crush of ice,  Now ceasing, now renew'd with louder rage,  And in dire ecchoes bellowing round the main.As the induction of Mr. Thomson's Winter has been celebrated for itssublimity, so the conclusion has likewise a claim to praise, for thetenderness of the sentiments, and the pathetic force of the expression.  'Tis done!--Dread winter spreads her latest glooms,  And reigns tremendous o'er the conquer'd year.  How dead the vegetable kingdom lies!  How dumb the tuneful! horror wide extends  Her desolate domain. Behold, fond man!  See here thy pictur'd life; pass some few years,  Thy flow'ring spring, thy summer's ardent strength,  Thy sober autumn fading into age,  And page concluding winter comes at last,  And shuts the scene.--He concludes the poem by enforcing a reliance on providence, which willin proper compensate for all those seeming severities, with which goodmen are often oppressed.  --Ye good distrest!  Ye noble few! who here unbending stand  Beneath life's pressure, yet bear up awhile,  And what your bounded view which only saw  A little part, deemed evil, is no more:  The storms of Wintry time will quickly pass,  And one unbounded Spring encircle all.The poem of Winter meeting with such general applause, Mr. Thomson wasinduced to write the other three seasons, which he finished with equalsuccess. His Autumn was next given to the public, and is the mostunfinished of the four; it is not however without its beauties, of whichmany have considered the story of Lavinia, naturally and artfullyintroduced, as the most affecting. The story is in itself moving andtender. It is perhaps no diminution to the merit of this beautiful tale,that the hint of it is taken from the book of Ruth in the Old Testament.The author next published the Spring, the induction to which is verypoetical and beautiful.  Come gentle Spring, etherial mildness come,  And from the bosom of yon dropping cloud,  While music wakes around, veil'd in a show'r  Of shadowing roses, on our plains descend.It is addressed to the countess of Hertford, with the following elegantcompliment,  O Hertford! fitted, or to shine in courts  With unaffected grace, or walk the plains,  With innocence and meditation joined,  In soft assemblage; listen to the song,  Which thy own season paints; while nature all  Is blooming, and benevolent like thee.--The descriptions in this poems are mild, like the season they paint; buttowards the end of it, the poet takes occasion to warn his countrymenagainst indulging the wild and irregular passion of love. Thisdigression is one of the most affecting in the whole piece, and while hepaints the language of a lover's breast agitated with the pangs ofstrong desire, and jealous transports, he at the same time dissuades theladies from being too credulous in the affairs of gallantry. Herepresents the natural influence of spring, in giving a new glow to thebeauties of the fair creation, and firing their hearts with the passionof love.  The shining moisture swells into her eyes,  In brighter flow; her wishing bosom heaves,  With palpitations wild; kind tumults seize  Her veins; and all her yielding soul is love.  From the keen gaze her lover turns away,  Full of the dear extatic power, and sick  With sighing languishment. Ah then, ye fair!  Be greatly cautious of your sliding hearts:  Dare not th'infectious sigh; the pleading look,  Down-cast, and low, in meek submission drest,  But full of guile. Let not the fervent tongue,  Prompt to deceive, with adulation smooth,  Gain on your purpos'd will. Nor in the bower,  Where woodbines flaunt, and roses shed a couch,  While evening draws her crimson curtains round,  Trust your soft minutes with betraying man.Summer has many manly and striking beauties, of which the Hymn to theSun, is one of the sublimest and most masterly efforts of genius we haveever seen.--There are some hints taken from Cowley's beautiful Hymn toLight.--Mr. Thomson has subjoined a Hymn to the Seasons, which is notinferior to the foregoing in poetical merit.The Four Seasons considered separately, each Season as a distinct poemhas been judged defective in point of plan. There appears no particulardesign; the parts are not subservient to one another; nor is there anydependance or connection throughout; but this perhaps is a fault almostinseparable from a subject in itself so diversified, as not to admit ofsuch limitation. He has not indeed been guilty of any incongruity; thescenes described in spring, are all peculiar to that season, and thedigressions, which make up a fourth part of the poem, flow naturally. Hehas observed the same regard to the appearances of nature in the otherseasons; but then what he has described in the beginning of any of theseasons, might as well be placed in the middle, and that in the middle,as naturally towards the close. So that each season may rather be calledan assemblage of poetical ideas, than a poem, as it seems writtenwithout a plan.Mr. Thomson's poetical diction in the Seasons is very peculiar to him:His manner of writing is entirely his own: He has introduced a number ofcompound words; converted substantives into verbs, and in short hascreated a kind of new language for himself. His stile has been blamedfor its singularity and stiffness; but with submission to superiorjudges, we cannot but be of opinion, that though this observation istrue, yet is it admirably fitted for description. The object he paintsstands full before the eye, we admire it in all its lustre, and whowould not rather enjoy a perfect inspection into a natural curiositythrough a microscope capable of discovering all the minute beauties,though its exterior form should not be comely, than perceive an objectbut faintly, through a microscope ill adapted for the purpose, howeverits outside may be decorated. Thomson has a stiffness in his manner, butthen his manner is new; and there never yet arose a distinguishedgenius, who had not an air peculiarly his own. 'Tis true indeed, thetow'ring sublimity of Mr. Thomson's stile is ill adapted for the tenderpassions, which will appear more fully when we consider him as adramatic writer, a sphere in which he is not so excellent as in otherspecies of poetry.The merit of these poems introduced our author to the acquaintance andesteem of several persons, distinguished by their rank, or eminent fortheir talents:--Among the latter Dr. Rundle, afterwards bishop of Derry,was so pleased with the spirit of benevolence and piety, which breathesthroughout the Seasons, that he recommended him to the friendship of thelate lord chancellor Talbot, who committed to him the care of his eldestson, then preparing to set out on his travels into France and Italy.With this young nobleman, Mr. Thomson performed (what is commonlycalled) The Tour of Europe, and stay'd abroad about three years, whereno doubt he inriched his mind with the noble monuments of antiquity, andthe conversation of ingenious foreigners. 'Twas by comparing modernItaly with the idea he had of the antient Romans, which furnished himwith the hint of writing his Liberty, in three parts. The first isAntient and Modern Italy compared. The second Greece, and the thirdBritain. The whole is addressed to the eldest son of lord Talbot, whodied in the year 1734, upon his travels.Amongst Mr. Thomson's poems, is one to the memory of Sir Isaac Newton,of which we shall say no more than this, that if he had never wrote anything besides, he deserved to enjoy a distinguished reputation amongstthe poets. Speaking of the amazing genius of Newton, he says,  Th'aerial flow of sound was known to him,  From whence it first in wavy circles breaks.  Nor could the darting beam of speed immense,  Escape his swift pursuit, and measuring eye.  Ev'n light itself, which every thing displays,  Shone undiscover'd, till his brighter mind  Untwisted all the shining robe of day;  And from the whitening undistinguished blaze,  Collecting every separated ray,  To the charm'd eye educ'd the gorgeous train  Of parent colours. First, the flaming red,  Sprung vivid forth, the tawny orange next,  And next refulgent yellow; by whose side  Fell the kind beams of all-refreshing green.  Then the pure blue, that swells autumnal skies,  AEtherial play'd; and then of sadder hue,  Emerg'd the deepen'd indico, as when  The heavy skirted evening droops with frost,  While the last gleamings of refracted light,  Died in the fainting violet away.  These when the clouds distil the rosy shower,  Shine out distinct along the watr'y bow;  While o'er our heads the dewy vision bends,  Delightful melting in the fields beneath.  Myriads of mingling dyes from these result,  And myriads still remain--Infinite source  Of beauty ever-flushing, ever new.About the year 1728 Mr. Thomson wrote a piece called Britannia, thepurport of which was to rouse the nation to arms, and excite in thespirit of the people a generous disposition to revenge the injuries donethem by the Spaniards: This is far from being one of his best poems.Upon the death of his generous patron, lord chancellor Talbot, for whomthe nation joined with Mr. Thomson in the most sincere inward sorrow, hewrote an elegiac poem, which does honour to the author, and to thememory of that great man he meant to celebrate. He enjoyed, during lordTalbot's life, a very profitable place, which that worthy patriot hadconferred upon him, in recompence of the care he had taken in formingthe mind of his son. Upon his death, his lordship's successor reservedthe place for Mr. Thomson, and always expected when he should wait uponhim, and by performing some formalities enter into the possession of it.This, however, by an unaccountable indolence he neglected, and at lastthe place, which he might have enjoyed with so little trouble, wasbestowed upon another.Amongst the latest of Mr. Thomson's productions is his Castle ofIndolence, a poem of so extraordinary merit, that perhaps we are notextravagant, when we declare, that this single performance discoversmore genius and poetical judgment, than all his other works puttogether. We cannot here complain of want of plan, for it is artfullylaid, naturally conducted, and the descriptions rise in a beautifulsuccession: It is written in imitation of Spenser's stile; and theobsolete words, with the simplicity of diction in some of the lines,which borders on the ludicrous, have been thought necessary to make theimitation more perfect.'The stile (says Mr. Thomson) of that admirable poet, as well as themeasure in which he wrote, are, as it were, appropriated by custom toall allegorical poems written in our language; just as in French, thestile of Marot, who lived under Francis the 1st, has been used in Talesand familiar Epistles, by the politest writers of the age of Louis theXIVth.'We shall not at present enquire how far Mr. Thomson is justifiable inusing the obsolete words of Spenser: As Sir Roger de Coverley observedon another occasion, much may be said on both sides. One thing iscertain, Mr. Thomson's imitation is excellent, and he must have nopoetry in his imagination, who can read the picturesque descriptions inhis Castle of Indolence, without emotion. In his LXXXIst Stanza he hasthe following picture of beauty:  Here languid beauty kept her pale-fac'd court,  Bevies of dainty dames, of high degree,  From every quarter hither made resort;  Where, from gross mortal care, and bus'ness free,  They lay, pour'd out in ease and luxury:  Or should they a vain shew of work assume,  Alas! and well-a-day! what can it be?  To knot, to twist, to range the vernal bloom;  But far is cast the distaff, spinning-wheel and loom.He pursues the description in the subsequent Stanza.  Their only labour was to kill the time;  And labour dire it is, and weary woe.  They fit, they loll, turn o'er some idle rhime;  Then rising sudden, to the glass they go,  Or saunter forth, with tott'ring steps and slow:  This soon too rude an exercise they find;  Strait on the couch their limbs again they throw,  Where hours on hours they sighing lie reclin'd,  And court the vapoury God soft breathing in the wind.In the two following Stanzas, the dropsy and hypochondria arebeautifully described.  Of limbs enormous, but withal unsound,  Soft swoln and pale, here lay the Hydropsy:  Unwieldly man; with belly monstrous round,  For ever fed with watery supply;  For still he drank, and yet he still was dry.  And moping here did Hypochondria sit,  Mother of spleen, in robes of various die,  Who vexed was full oft with ugly fit;  And some her frantic deem'd, and some her deem'd a wit.  A lady proud she was, of antient blood,  Yet oft her fear, her pride made crouchen low:  She felt, or fancy'd in her fluttering mood,  All the diseases which the spitals know,  And sought all physic which the shops bestow;  And still new leaches, and new drugs would try,  Her humour ever wavering too and fro;  For sometimes she would laugh, and sometimes cry,  And sudden waxed wroth, and all she knew not why.The speech of Sir Industry in the second Canto, when he enumerates thevarious blessings which flow from action, is surely one of the highestinstances of genius which can be produced in poetry. In the secondstanza, before he enters upon the subject, the poet complains of thedecay of patronage, and the general depravity of taste; and in the thirdbreaks out into the following exclamation, which is so perfectlybeautiful, that it would be the greatest mortification not to transcribeit,  I care not, fortune, what you me deny:  You cannot rob me of free nature's grace;  You cannot shut the windows of the sky,  Through which Aurora shews her bright'ning face;  You cannot bar my constant feet to trace  The woods and lawns, by living stream at eve:  Let health my nerves, and finer fibres brace,  And I their toys to the great children leave;  Of fancy, reason, virtue, nought can me bereave.Before we quit this poem, permit us, reader, to give you two morestanzas from it: the first shews Mr. Thomson's opinion of Mr. Quin as anactor; of their friendship we may say more hereafter.STANZA LXVII.Of the CASTLE of INDOLENCE.  Here whilom ligg'd th'Aesopus[6] of the age;  But called by fame, in foul ypricked deep,  A noble pride restor'd him to the stage,  And rous'd him like a giant from his sleep.  Even from his slumbers we advantage reap:  With double force th'enliven'd scene he wakes,  Yet quits not nature's bounds. He knows to keep  Each due decorum: now the heart he shakes,  And now with well-urg'd sense th'enlighten'd judgment takes.The next stanza (wrote by a friend of the author's, as the notementions) is a friendly, though familiar, compliment; it gives us animage of our bard himself, at once entertaining, striking, and just.STANZA LXVIII.  A bard here dwelt, more fat than bard beseems,  Who void of envy, guile, and lust of gain,  On virtue still, and nature's pleasing themes,  Pour'd forth his unpremeditated strain:  The world forsaking with a calm disdain.  Here laugh'd he, careless in his easy seat;  Here quaff'd, encircl'd with the joyous train,  Oft moralizing sage: his ditty sweet  He loathed much to write, ne cared to repeat.We shall now consider Mr. Thomson as a dramatic writer.In the year 1730, about six years after he had been in London, hebrought a Tragedy upon the stage, called Sophonisba, built upon theCarthaginian history of that princess, and upon which the famousNathaniel Lee has likewise written a Tragedy. This play met with afavourable reception from the public. Mrs. Oldfield greatlydistinguished herself in the character of Sophonisba, which Mr. Thomsonacknowledges in his preface.--'I cannot conclude, says he, withoutowning my obligations to those concerned in the representation. Theyhave indeed done me more than justice; Whatever was designed as amiableand engageing in Masinessa shines out in Mr. Wilks's action. Mrs.Oldfield, in the character of Sophonisba, has excelled what even in thefondness of an author I could either wish or imagine. The grace, dignityand happy variety of her action, have been universally applauded, andare truly admirable.'Before we quit this play, we must not omit two anecdotes which happenedthe first night of the representation. Mr. Thomson makes one of hischaracters address Sophonisba in a line, which some critics reckoned thefalse pathetic.  O! Sophonisba, Sophonisba Oh!Upon which a smart from the pit cried out,  Oh! Jamey Thomson, Jamey Thomson Oh!However ill-natured this critic might be in interrupting the action ofthe play for sake of a joke; yet it is certain that the line ridiculeddoes partake of the false pathetic, and should be a warning to tragicpoets to guard against the swelling stile; for by aiming at the sublime,they are often betrayed into the bombast.--Mr. Thomson who could not butfeel all the emotions and sollicitudes of a young author the first nightof his play, wanted to place himself in some obscure part of the house,in order to see the representation to the best advantage, without beingknown as the poet.--He accordingly placed himself in the upper gallery;but such was the power of nature in him, that he could not helprepeating the parts along with the players, and would sometimes whisperto himself, 'now such a scene is to open,' by which he was soondiscovered to be the author, by some gentlemen who could not, on accountof the great crowd, be situated in any other part of the house.After an interval of four years, Mr. Thomson exhibited to the public hissecond Tragedy called Agamemnon. Mr. Pope gave an instance of his greataffection to Mr. Thomson on this occasion: he wrote two letters in itsfavour to the managers, and honoured the representation on the firstnight with his presence. As he had not been for some time at a play,this was considered as a very great instance of esteem. Mr. Thomsonsubmitted to have this play considerably shortened in the action, assome parts were too long, other unnecessary, in which not the characterbut the poet spoke; and though not brought on the stage till the monthof April, it continued to be acted with applause for several nights.Many have remark'd that his characters in his plays are more frequentlydescriptive, than expressive, of the passions; but they all abound withuncommon beauties, with fire, and depth of thought, with noblesentiments and nervous writing. His speeches are often too long,especially for an English audience; perhaps sometimes they areunnaturally lengthened: and 'tis certainly a greater relief to the earto have the dialogue more broken; yet our attention is well rewarded,and in no passages, perhaps, in his tragedies, more so, than in theaffecting account Melisander [7] gives of his being betrayed, and lefton the desolate island.  --'Tis thus my friend.  Whilst sunk in unsuspecting sleep I lay,  Some midnight ruffians rush'd into my chamber,  Sent by Egisthus, who my presence deem'd  Obstructive (so I solve it) to his views,  Black views, I fear, as you perhaps may know,  Sudden they seiz'd, and muffled up in darkness,  Strait bore me to the sea, whose instant prey  I did conclude myself, when first around  The ship unmoor'd, I heard the chiding wave.  But these fel tools of cruel power, it seems,  Had orders in a desart isle to leave me;  There hopeless, helpless, comfortless, to prove  The utmost gall and bitterness of death.  Thus malice often overshoots itself,  And some unguarded accident betrays  The man of blood.--Next night--a dreary night!  Cast on the wildest of the Cyclad Isles,  Where never human foot had mark'd the shore,  These ruffians left me.--Yet believe me, Arcas,  Such is the rooted love we bear mankind,  All ruffians as they were, I never heard  A sound so dismal as their parting oars.--  Then horrid silence follow'd, broke alone  By the low murmurs of the restless deep,  Mixt with the doubtful breeze that now and then  Sigh'd thro' the mournful woods. Beneath a shade  I sat me down, more heavily oppress'd,  More desolate at heart, than e'er I felt  Before. When, Philomela, o'er my head  Began to tune her melancholy strain,  As piteous of my woes, 'till, by degrees,  Composing sleep on wounded nature shed  A kind but short relief. At early morn,  Wak'd by the chant of birds, I look'd around  For usual objects: objects found I none,  Except before me stretch'd the toiling main,  And rocks and woods in savage view behind.  Wrapt for a moment in amaz'd confusion,  My thought turn'd giddy round; when all at once,  To memory full my dire condition rush'd--In the year 1736 Mr. Thomson offered to the stage a Tragedy calledEdward and Eleonora, which was forbid to be acted, for some politicalreason, which it is not in our power to guess.The play of Tancred and Sigismunda was acted in the year 1744; thissucceeded beyond any other of Thomson's plays, and is now in possesionof the stage. The plot is borrowed from a story in the celebratedromance of Gil Blas: The fable is very interesting, the characters arefew, but active; and the attention in this play is never suffered towander. The character of Seffredi has been justly censured asinconsistent, forced, and unnatural.By the command of his royal highness the prince of Wales, Mr. Thomson,in conjunction with Mr. Mallet, wrote the Masque of Alfred, which wasperformed twice in his royal highness's gardens at Cliffden. Since Mr.Thomson's death, this piece has been almost entirely new modelled by Mr.Mallet, and brought on the stage in the year 1751, its success beingfresh in the memory of its frequent auditors, 'tis needless to say moreconcerning it.Mr. Thomson's last Tragedy, called Coriolanus, was not acted till afterhis death; the profits of it were given to his sisters in Scotland, oneof whom is married to a minister there, and the other to a man of lowcircumstances in the city of Edinburgh. This play, which is certainlythe least excellent of any of Thomson's, was first offered to Mr.Garrick, but he did not think proper to accept it. The prologue waswritten by Sir George Lyttleton, and spoken by Mr. Quin, which had avery happy effect upon the audience. Mr. Quin was the particular friendof Thomson, and when he spoke the following lines, which are inthemselves very tender, all the endearments of a long acquaintance, roseat once to his imagination, while the tears gushed from his eyes.  He lov'd his friends (forgive this gushing tear:  Alas! I feel I am no actor here)  He lov'd his friends with such a warmth of heart,  So clear of int'rest, so devoid of art,  Such generous freedom, such unshaken real,  No words can speak it, but our tears may tell.The beautiful break in these lines had a fine effect in speaking. Mr.Quin here excelled himself; he never appeared a greater actor than atthis instant, when he declared himself none: 'twas an exquisite stroketo nature; art alone could hardly reach it. Pardon the digression,reader, but, we feel a desire to say somewhat more on this head. Thepoet and the actor were friends, it cannot then be quite foreign to thepurpose to proceed. A deep fetch'd sigh filled up the heart felt pause;grief spread o'er all the countenance; the tear started to the eye, themuscles fell, and,  'The whiteness of his cheek  Was apter than his tongue to speak his tale.'They all expressed the tender feelings of a manly heart, becoming aThomson's friend. His pause, his recovery were masterly; and hedelivered the whole with an emphasis and pathos, worthy the excellentlines he spoke; worthy the great poet and good man, whose merits theypainted, and whose loss they deplored.The epilogue too, which was spoken by Mrs. Woffington, with an exquisitehumour, greatly pleased. These circumstances, added to the considerationof the author's being no more, procured this play a run of nine nights,which without these assistances 'tis likely it could not have had; for,without playing the critic, it is not a piece of equal merit to manyother of his works. It was his misfortune as a dramatist, that he neverknew when to have done; he makes every character speak while there isany thing to be said; and during these long interviews, the action toostands still, and the story languishes. His Tancred and Sigismunda maybe excepted from this general censure: But his characters are too littledistinguished; they seldom vary from one another in their manner ofspeaking. In short, Thomson was born a descriptive poet; he only wrotefor the stage, from a motive too obvious to be mentioned, and too strongto be refilled. He is indeed the eldest born of Spenser, and he hasoften confessed that if he had any thing excellent in poetry, he owed itto the inspiration he first received from reading the Fairy Queen, inthe very early part of his life.In August 1748 the world was deprived of this great ornament of poetryand genius, by a violent fever, which carried him off in the 48th yearof his age. Before his death he was provided for by Sir GeorgeLittleton, in the profitable place of comptroller of America, which helived not long to enjoy. Mr. Thomson was extremely beloved by hisacquaintance. He was of an open generous disposition; and was sometimestempted to an excessive indulgence of the social pleasures: A failingtoo frequently inseparable from men of genius. His exterior appearancewas not very engaging, but he grew more and more agreeable, as heentered into conversation: He had a grateful heart, ready to acknowledgeevery favour he received, and he never forgot his old benefactors,notwithstanding a long absence, new acquaintance, and additionaleminence; of which the following instance cannot be unacceptable to thereader.Some time before Mr. Thomson's fatal illness, a gentleman enquired forhim at his house in Kew-Lane, near Richmond, where he then lived. Thisgentleman had been his acquaintance when very young, and proved to beDr. Gustard, the son of a revd. minister in the city of Edinburgh. Mr.Gustard had been Mr. Thomson's patron in the early part of his life, andcontributed from his own purse (Mr. Thomson's father not being in veryaffluent circumstances) to enable him to prosecute his studies. Thevisitor sent not in his name, but only intimated to the servant that anold acquaintance desired to see Mr. Thomson. Mr. Thomson came forward toreceive him, and looking stedfastly at him (for they had not seen oneanother for many years) said, Troth Sir, I cannot say I ken yourcountenance well--Let me therefore crave your name. Which the gentlemanno sooner mentioned but the tears gushed from Mr. Thomson's eyes. Hecould only reply, good God! are you the son of my dear friend, my oldbenefactor; and then rushing to his arms, he tenderly embraced him;rejoicing at so unexpected a meeting.It is a true observation, that whenever gratitude is absent from aheart, it is generally capable of the most consummate baseness; and onthe other hand, where that generous virtue has a powerful prevalence inthe soul, the heart of such a man is fraught with all those otherendearing and tender qualities, which constitute goodness. Such was theheart of this amiable poet, whose life was as inoffensive as his pagewas moral: For of all our poets he is the farthest removed from whateverhas the appearance of indecency; and, as Sir George Lyttleton happilyexpresses it, in the prologue to Mr. Thomson's Coriolanus,  --His chaste muse employ'd her heav'n-taught lyre  None but the noblest passions to inspire,  Not one immoral, one corrupted thought,  One line, which dying he could wish to blot.FOOTNOTES:[1]  See winter comes to rule the varied year,  Sullen and sad, with all his rising train!  Vapours, and storms, and clouds; be these my theme;  These that exalt the soul to solemn thought,  And heav'nly musing; welcome kindred glooms.  Congenial horrors hail!--with frequent foot  Oft have I in my pleasing calm of life,  When nurs'd by careless solitude I liv'd,  Oft have I wander'd thro' your rough domain;  Trod the pure virgin snows; my self as pure;  Heard the winds blow, or the big torrents burst,  Or seen the deep fermenting tempest brew'd  In the red evening sky. Thus pass'd the time,  'Till from the lucid chambers of the south  Look'd out the joyous spring, look'd out and smil'd.[2] Mr. Mallet was his quondam schoolfellow (but much his junior) they    contracted an early intimacy, which improved with their years, nor    was it ever once disturbed by any casual mistake, envy, or jealousy    on either side: a proof that two writers of merit may agree, in    spite of the common observation to the contrary.[3] The Winter was first wrote in detached pieces, or occasional    descriptions; it was by the advice of Mr. Mallet they were collected    and made into one connected piece. This was finished the first of    all the seasons, and was the first poem he published. By the farther    advice, and at the earnest request, of Mr. Mallet, he wrote the    other three seasons.[4] Though 'tis possible this piece might be offered to more Printers    who could read, than could taste, nor is it very surprizing, that an    unknown author might meet with a difficulty of this sort; since an    eager desire to peruse a new piece, with a fashionable name to it,    shall, in one day, occasion the sale of thousands of what may never    reach a second edition: while a work, that has only its intrinsic    merit to depend on, may lie long dormant in a Bookseller's shop,    'till some person, eminent for taste, points out its worth to the    many, declares the bullion sterling, stamps its value with his name,    and makes it pass current with the world. Such was the fate of    Thomson at this juncture: Such heretofore was Milton's, whose works    were only found in the libraries of the curious, or judicious few,    'till Addison's remarks spread a taste for them; and, at length, it    became even unfashionable not to have read them.[5] The old name of China.[6] Mr. Quin.[7] The mention of this name reminds me of an obligation I had to Mr.    Thomson; and, at once, an opportunity offers, of gratefully    acknowledging the favour, and doing myself justice.    I had the pleasure of perusing the play of Agamemnon, before it was    introduced to the manager. Mr. Thomson was so thoroughly satisfied    (I might say more) with my reading of it; he said, he was confirmed    in his design of giving to me the part of Melisander. When I    expressed my sentiments of the favour, he told me, he thought it    none; that my old acquaintance Savage knew, he had not forgot my    taste in reading the poem of Winter some years before: he added,    that when (before this meeting) he had expressed his doubt, to which    of the actors he should give this part (as he had seen but few plays    since his return from abroad) Savage warmly urged, I was the fittest    person, and, with an oath affirmed, that Theo. Cibber would taste    it, feel it, and act it; perhaps he might extravagantly add, 'beyond    any one else.' 'Tis likely, Mr. Savage might be then more vehement    in this assertion, as some of his friends had been more used to see    me in a comic, than a serious light; and which was, indeed, more    frequently my choice. But to go on. When I read the play to the    manager, Mr. Quin, &c. (at which several gentlemen, intimate friends    of the author, were present) I was complimented by them all; Mr.    Quin particularly declared, he never heard a play done so much    justice to, in reading, through all its various parts, Mrs. Porter    also (who on this occasion was to appear in the character of    Clytemnestra) so much approved my entering into the taste, sense,    and spirit of the piece, that she was pleased to desire me to repeat    a reading of it, which, at her request, and that of other principal    performers, I often did; they all confessed their approbation, with    thanks.    When this play was to come forward into rehearsal, Mr. Thomson told    me, another actor had been recommended to him for this part in    private, by the manager (who, by the way) our author, or any one    else, never esteemed as the best judge, of either play, or player.    But money may purchase, and interest procure, a patent, though they    cannot purchase taste, or parts, the person proposed was, possibly,    some favoured flatterer, the partner of his private pleasures, or    humble admirer of his table talk: These little monarchs have their    little courtiers. Mr. Thomson insisted on my keeping the part. He    said, 'Twas his opinion, none but myself, or Mr. Quin, could do it    any justice; and, as that excellent actor could not be spared from    the part of Agamemnon (in the performance of which character he    added to his reputation, though before justly rated as the first    actor of that time) he was peremptory for my appearing in it; I did    so, and acquitted myself to the satisfaction of the author and his    friends (men eminent in rank, in taste, and knowledge) and received    testimonies of approbation from the audience, by their attention and    applause.    By this time the reader may be ready to cry out, 'to what purpose is    all this?' Have patience, sir. As I gained reputation in the    forementioned character, is there any crime in acknowledging my    obligation to Mr. Thomson? or, am I unpardonable, though I should    pride myself on his good opinion and friendship? may not gratitude,    as well as vanity, be concerned in this relation? but there is    another reason that may stand as an excuse, for my being led into    this long narrative; which, as it is only an annotation, not made    part of our author's life, the reader, at his option, may peruse, or    pass it over, without being interrupted in his attention to what    more immediately concerns Mr. Thomson. As what I have related is a    truth, which living men of worth can testify; and as it evidently    shows that Mr. Savage's opinion of me as an actor was, in this    latter part of his life, far from contemptible, of which, perhaps,    in his earlier days he had too lavishly spoke; I thought this no    improper (nor ill-timed) contradiction to a remark the writer of[7A]    Mr. Savage's Life has been pleased, in his Gaite de Coeur, to make,    which almost amounts to an unhandsome innuendo, that Mr. Savage, and    some of his friends, thought me no actor at all.    I accidentally met with the book some years ago, and dipt into that    part where the author says, 'The preface (to Sir Thomas Overbury)    contains a very liberal encomium on the blooming excellences of Mr.    Theophilus Cibber, which Mr. Savage could not, in the latter part of    his life, see his friends about to read, without snatching the play    out of their hands.' As poor Savage was well remembered to have been    as inconsiderate, inconsistent, and inconstant a mortal as ever    existed, what he might have said carried but little weight; and, as    he would blow both hot and cold, nay, too frequently, to gratify the    company present, would sacrifice the absent, though his best friend,    I disregarded this invidious hint, 'till I was lately informed, a    person of distinction in the learned world, had condescended to    become the biographer of this unhappy man's unimportant life: as the    sanction of such a name might prove of prejudice to me, I have since    thought it worth my notice.    The truth is, I met Savage one summer, in a condition too melancholy    for description. He was starving; I supported him, and my father    cloathed him, 'till his tragedy was brought on the stage, where it    met with success in the representation, tho' acted by the young part    of the company, in the summer season; whatever might be the merit of    his play, his necessities were too pressing to wait 'till winter for    its performance. When it was just going to be published (as I met    with uncommon encouragement in my young attempt in the part of    Somerset) he repeated to me a most extraordinary compliment, as he    might then think it, which, he said, he intended to make me in his    preface. Neither my youth (for I was then but 18) or vanity, was so    devoid of judgment, as to prevent my objecting to it. I told him, I    imagined this extravagancy would have so contrary an effect to his    intention, that what he kindly meant for praise, might be    misinterpreted, or render him liable to censure, and me to ridicule;    I insisted on his omitting it: contrary to his usual obstinacy, he    consented, and sent his orders to the Printer to leave it out; it    was too late; the sheets were all work'd off, and the play was    advertised to come out (as it did) the next day. T.C.[7A] _Published about the year_ 1743.       *       *       *       *       *ALEXANDER POPE, Esq;This illustrious poet was born at London, in 1688, and was descendedfrom a good family of that name, in Oxfordshire, the head of which wasthe earl of Downe, whose sole heiress married the earl of Lindsey. Hisfather, a man of primitive simplicity, and integrity of manners, was amerchant of London, who upon the Revolution quitted trade, and convertedhis effects into money, amounting to near 10,000 l. with which heretired into the country; and died in 1717, at the age of 75.Our poet's mother, who lived to a very advanced age, being 93 years oldwhen she died, in 1733, was the daughter of William Turner, Esq; ofYork. She had three brothers, one of whom was killed, another died inthe service of king Charles; and the eldest following his fortunes, andbecoming a general officer in Spain, left her what estate remained aftersequestration, and forfeitures of her family. To these circumstances ourpoet alludes in his epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot, in which he mentions hisparents.  Of gentle blood (part shed in honour's cause,  While yet in Britain, honour had applause)  Each parent sprang,--What fortune pray?--their own,  And better got than Bestia's from the throne.  Born to no pride, inheriting no strife,  Nor marrying discord in a noble wife;  Stranger to civil and religious rage,  The good man walked innoxious thro' his age:  No courts he saw; no suits would ever try;  Nor dar'd an oath, nor hazarded a lye:  Unlearn'd, he knew no schoolmen's subtle art,  No language, but the language of the heart:  By nature honest, by experience wise,  Healthy by temp'rance, and by exercise;  His life though long, to sickness past unknown,  His death was instant and without a groan.The education of our great author was attended with circumstances verysingular; and some of them extremely unfavourable; but the amazing forceof his genius fully compensated the want of any advantage in hisearliest instruction. He owed the knowledge of his letters to an aunt;and having learned very early to read, took great delight in it, andtaught himself to write by copying after printed books, the charactersof which he could imitate to great perfection. He began to composeverses, farther back than he could well remember; and at eight years ofage, when he was put under one Taverner a priest, who taught him therudiments of the Latin and Greek tongues at the same time, he met withOgilby's Homer, which gave him great delight; and this was encreased bySandys's Ovid: The raptures which these authors, even in the disguise ofsuch translations, then yielded him, were so strong, that he spoke ofthem with pleasure ever after. From Mr. Taverner's tuition he was sentto a private school at Twiford, near Winchester, where he continuedabout a year, and was then removed to another near Hyde Park Corner; butwas so unfortunate as to lose under his two last masters, what he hadacquired under the first.While he remained at this school, being permitted to go to theplay-house, with some of his school fellows of a more advanced age, hewas so charmed with dramatic representations, that he formed thetranslation of the Iliad into a play, from several of the speeches inOgilby's translation, connected with verses of his own; and the severalparts were performed by the upper boys of the school, except that ofAjax by the master's gardener. At the age of 12 our young poet, wentwith his father to reside at his house at Binfield, in Windsor forest,where he was for a few months under the tuition of another priest, withas little success as before; so that he resolved now to become his ownmaster, by reading those Classic Writers which gave him mostentertainment; and by this method, at fifteen he gained a ready habit inthe learned languages, to which he soon after added the French andItalian. Upon his retreat to the forest, he became first acquainted withthe writings of Waller, Spenser and Dryden; in the last of which heimmediately found what he wanted; and the poems of that excellent writerwere never out of his hands; they became his model, and from them alonehe learned the whole magic of his versification.The first of our author's compositions now extant in print, is an Ode onSolitude, written before he was twelve years old: Which, consider'd asthe production of so early an age, is a perfect master piece; nor needhe have been ashamed of it, had it been written in the meridian of hisgenius. While it breathes the most delicate spirit of poetry, it at thesame time demonstrates his love of solitude, and the rational pleasureswhich attend the retreats of a contented country life.Two years after this he translated the first Book of Statius' Thebais,and wrote a copy of verses on Silence, in imitation of the Earl ofRochester's poem on Nothing[1]. Thus we find him no sooner capable ofholding the pen, than he employed it in writing verses,  "_He lisp'd [Transcriber's note: 'lips'd' in original] in Numbers, for  the Numbers came_."Though we have had frequent opportunity to observe, that poets havegiven early displays of genius, yet we cannot recollect, that among theinspired tribe, one can be found who at the age of twelve could produceso animated an Ode; or at the age of fourteen translate from the Latin.It has been reported indeed, concerning Mr. Dryden, that when he was atWestminster-School, the master who had assigned a poetical task to someof the boys, of writing a Paraphrase on our Saviour's Miracle, ofturning Water into Wine, was perfectly astonished when young Drydenpresented him with the following line, which he asserted was the bestcomment could be written upon it.  The conscious water saw its God, and blush'd.This was the only instance of an early appearance of genius in thisgreat man, for he was turn'd of 30 before he acquired any reputation; anage in which Mr. Pope's was in its full distinction.The year following that in which Mr. Pope wrote his poem on Silence, hebegan an Epic Poem, intitled Alcander, which he afterwards veryjudiciously committed to the flames, as he did likewise a Comedy, and aTragedy; the latter taken from a story in the legend of St. Genevieve;both of these being the product of those early days. But his Pastorals,which were written in 1704, when he was only 16 years of age, wereesteemed by Sir William Trumbull, Mr. Granville, Mr. Wycherley, Mr.Walsh and others of his friends, too valuable to be condemned to thesame fate.Mr. Pope's Pastorals are four, viz.  Spring, address'd to Sir William Trumbull,  Summer, to Dr. Garth.  Autumn, to Mr. Wycherley.  Winter, in memory of Mrs. Tempest.The three great writers of Pastoral Dialogue, which Mr. Pope in somemeasure seems to imitate, are Theocritus, Virgil, and Spenser. Mr. Popeis of opinion, that Theocritus excells all others in nature andsimplicity.That Virgil, who copies Theocritus, refines on his original; and in allpoints in which judgment has the principal part is much superior to hismaster.That among the moderns, their success has been, greatest who have mostendeavoured to make these antients their pattern. The most considerablegenius appears in the famous Tasso, and our Spenser. Tasso in his Amintahas far excelled all the pastoral writers, as in his Gierusalemme he hasoutdone the Epic Poets of his own country. But as this piece seems tohave been the original of a new sort of poem, the Pastoral Comedy, inItaly, it cannot so well be considered as a copy of the antients.Spenser's Calendar, in Mr. Dryden's opinion, is the most compleat workof this kind, which any nation has produced ever since the time ofVirgil. But this he said before Mr. Pope's Pastorals appeared.Mr. Walsh pronounces on our Shepherd's Boy (as Mr. Pope called himself)the following judgment, in a letter to Mr. Wycherly.'The verses are very tender and easy. The author seems to have aparticular genius for that kind of poetry, and a judgment that muchexceeds the years, you told me he was of. It is no flattery at all tosay, that Virgil had written nothing so good at his age. I shall take itas a favour if you will bring me acquainted with him; and if he willgive himself the trouble, any morning, to call at my house, I shall bevery glad to read the verses with him, and give him him my opinion ofthe particulars more largely than I can well do in this letter.'Thus early was Mr. Pope introduced to the acquaintance of men of genius,and so improved every advantage, that he made a more rapid progresstowards a consummation in fame, than any of our former English poets.His Messiah; his Windsor-Forest, the first part of which was written atthe same time with his pastorals; his Essay on Criticism in 1709, andhis Rape of the Lock in 1712, established his poetical character in sucha manner, that he was called upon by the public voice, to enrich ourlanguage with the translation of the Iliad; which he began at 25, andexecuted in five years. This was published for his own benefit, bysubscription, the only kind of reward, which he received for hiswritings, which do honour to our age and country: His religion renderinghim incapable of a place, which the lord treasurer Oxford used toexpress his concern for, but without offering him a pension, as the earlof Halifax, and Mr. Secretary Craggs afterwards did, though Mr. Popedeclined it.The reputation of Mr. Pope gaining every day upon the world, he wascaressed, flattered, and railed at; according as he was feared, or lovedby different persons. Mr. Wycherley was amongst the first authors ofestablished reputation, who contributed to advance his fame, and withwhom he for some time lived in the most unreserved intimacy. This poet,in his old age, conceived a design of publishing his poems, and as hewas but a very imperfect master of numbers, he entrusted his manuscriptsto Mr. Pope, and submitted them to his correction. The freedom which ouryoung bard was under a necessity to use, in order to polish and refinewhat was in the original, rough, unharmonious, and indelicate, proveddisgustful to the old gentleman, then near 70, who, perhaps, was alittle ashamed, that a boy at 16 should so severely correct his works.Letters of dissatisfaction were written by Mr. Wycherley, and at last heinformed him, in few words, that he was going out of town, withoutmentioning to what place, and did not expect to hear from him 'till hecame back. This cold indifference extorted from Mr. Pope a protestation,that nothing should induce him ever to write to him again.Notwithstanding this peevish behaviour of Mr. Wycherley, occasioned byjealousy and infirmities, Mr. Pope preserved a constant respect andreverence for him while he lived, and after his death lamented him. In aletter to Edward Blount, esq; written immediately upon the death of thispoet, he has there related some anecdotes of Wycherly, which we shallinsert here, especially as they are not taken notice of in his life.'DEAR SIR,'I know of nothing that will be so interesting to you, at present, assome circumstances of the last act of that eminent comic poet, and ourfriend, Wycherley. He had often told me, as, I doubt not, he did all hisacquaintance, that he would marry, as soon as his life was despaired of:accordingly, a few days before his death, he underwent the ceremony, andjoined together those two sacraments, which, wise men say, should be thelast we receive; for, if you observe, matrimony is placed after extremeunction in our catechism, as a kind of hint of the order of time inwhich they are to be taken. The old man then lay down, satisfied in theconscience of having, by this one act, paid his just debts, obliged awoman, who, he was told, had merit, and shewn a heroic resentment ofthe ill usage of his next heir. Some hundred pounds which he had withthe lady, discharged those debts; a jointure of four hundred a year madeher a recompence; and the nephew he left to comfort himself, as well ashe could, with the miserable remains of a mortgaged estate. I saw ourfriend twice after this was done, less peevish in his sickness, than heused to be in his health, neither much afraid of dying, nor (which inhim had been more likely) much ashamed of marrying. The evening beforehe expired, he called his young wife to the bed side, and earnestlyentreated her not to deny him one request, the last he should ever make.Upon her assurance of consenting to it, he told her, my dear, it is onlythis, that you will never marry an old man again. I cannot helpremarking, that sickness, which often destroys both wit and wisdom, yetseldom has power to remove that talent we call humour. Mr. Wycherleyshewed this even in this last compliment, though, I think, his request alittle hard; for why should he bar her from doubling her jointure on thesame easy terms.'One of the most affecting and tender compositions of Mr. Pope, is, hisElegy to the Memory of an Unfortunate Lady, built on a true story. Weare informed in the Life of Pope, for which Curl obtained a patent, thatthis young lady was a particular favourite of the poet, though it is notascertained whether he himself was the person from whom she was removed.This young lady was of very high birth, possessed an opulent fortune,and under the tutorage of an uncle, who gave her an education suitableto her titles and pretensions. She was esteemed a match for the greatestpeer in the realm, but, in her early years, she suffered her heart to beengaged by a young gentleman, and in consequence of this attachment,rejected offers made to her by persons of quality, seconded by thesollicitations of her uncle. Her guardian being surprized at thisbehaviour, set spies upon her, to find out the real cause of herindifference. Her correspondence with her lover was soon discovered,and, when urged upon that topic, she had too much truth and honour todeny it. The uncle finding, that she would make no efforts to disengageher affection, after a little time forced her abroad, where she wasreceived with a ceremony due to her quality, but restricted from theconversation of every one, but the spies of this severe guardian, sothat it was impossible for her lover even to have a letter delivered toher hands. She languished in this place a considerable time, bore aninfinite deal of sickness, and was overwhelmed with the profoundestsorrow. Nature being wearied out with continual distress, and beingdriven at last to despair, the unfortunate lady, as Mr. Pope justlycalls her, put an end to her own life, having bribed a maid servant toprocure her a sword. She was found upon the ground weltering in herblood. The severity of the laws of the place, where this fairunfortunate perished, denied her Christian burial, and she was interredwithout solemnity, or even any attendants to perform the last offices ofthe dead, except some young people of the neighbourhood, who saw her putinto common ground, and strewed the grave with flowers.The poet in the elegy takes occasion to mingle with the tears of sorrow,just reproaches upon her cruel uncle, who drove her to this violation.  But thou, false guardian of a charge too good,  Thou base betrayer of a brother's blood!  See on those ruby lips the trembling breath,  Those cheeks now fading at the blast of death:  Lifeless the breast, which warm'd the world before,  And those love-darting eyes must roll no more.The conclusion of this elegy is irresistably affecting.  So peaceful rests, without a stone, a name,  Which once had beauty, titles, wealth and fame,  How lov'd, how honoured once, avails thee not,  To whom related, or by whom begot;  A heap of dust alone remains of thee;  'Tis all thou art, and all the proud shall be!No poem of our author's more deservedly obtained him reputation, thanhis Essay on Criticism. Mr. Addison, in his Spectator, No. 253, hascelebrated it with such profuse terms of admiration, that it is reallyastonishing, to find the same man endeavouring afterwards to diminishthat fame he had contributed to raise so high.The art of criticism (says he) which was published some months ago, is amaster-piece in its kind. The observations follow one another, likethose in Horace's Art of Poetry, without that methodical regularity,which would have been requisite in a prose writer. They are some of themuncommon, but such as the reader must assent to, when he sees themexplained with that elegance and perspicuity in which they aredelivered. As for those which are the most known, and the most received,they are placed in so beautiful a light, and illustrated with such aptallusions, that they have in them all the graces of novelty, and makethe reader, who was before acquainted with them, still more convinced oftheir truth and solidity. And here give me leave to mention, whatMonsieur Boileau has so well enlarged upon, in the preface to his works;that wit and fine writing do not consist so much in advancing thingsthat are new, as in giving things that are known an agreeable turn. Itis impossible for us, who live in the latter ages of the world, to makeobservations in criticism, morality, or any art and science, which havenot been touched upon by others. We have little else left us, but torepresent the common sense of mankind in more strong, more beautiful, ormore uncommon lights. If a reader examines Horace's Art of Poetry, hewill find but few precepts in it, which he may not meet with inAristotle, and which were not commonly known by all the poets of theAugustan age. His way of expressing, and applying them, not hisinvention of them, is what we are chiefly to admire.--"Longinus, in his Reflexions, has given us the same kind of sublime,which he observes in the several passages which occasioned them. Icannot but take notice, that our English author has, after the samemanner, exemplified several of his precepts, in the very preceptsthemselves." He then produces some instances of a particular kind ofbeauty in the numbers, and concludes with saying, that "we have threepoems in our tongue of the same nature, and each a master-piece in itskind: The Essay on Translated Verse, the Essay on the Art of Poetry, andthe Essay on Criticism." [Transcriber's note: Opening quotes missing inoriginal.]In the Lives of Addison and Tickell, we have thrown out some generalhints concerning the quarrel which subsisted between our poet and theformer of these gentlemen; here it will not be improper to give a moreparticular account of it.The author of Mist's Journal positively asserts, 'that Mr. Addisonraised Pope from obscurity, obtained him the acquaintance and friendshipof the whole body of our nobility, and transferred his powerfulinfluence with those great men to this rising bard, who frequentlylevied by that means, unusual contributions on the public.[Transcriber'snote: 'pubic' in original.] No sooner was his body lifeless, but thisauthor reviving his resentment, libelled the memory of his departedfriend, and what was still more heinous, made the scandal public.'When this charge of ingratitude and dishonour was published against Mr.Pope, to acquit himself of it, he called upon any nobleman, whosefriendship, or any one gentleman, whose subscription Mr. Addison hadprocured to our author, to stand forth, and declare it, that truth mightappear. But the whole libel was proved a malicious story, by manypersons of distinction, who, several years before Mr. Addison's decease,approved those verses denominated a libel, but which were, 'tis said, afriendly rebuke, sent privately in our author's own hand, to Mr. Addisonhimself, and never made public, 'till by Curl in his Miscellanies, 12mo.1727. The lines indeed are elegantly satirical, and, in the opinion ofmany unprejudiced judges, who had opportunities of knowing the characterof Mr. Addison, are no ill representation of him. Speaking of thepoetical triflers of the times, who had declared against him, he makes asudden transition to Addison.  Peace to all such! But were there one whose fires  True genius kindles, and fair fame inspires,  Blest with each talent, and each art to please,  And born to write, converse, and live with ease;  Should such a man, too fond to rule alone,  Bear, like the Turk, no rival near the throne,  View him with scornful, yet with jealous eyes,  And hate for arts, that caus'd himself to rise;  Damn with faint praise, assent with civil leer,  And, without sneering, others teach to sneer;  Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike,  Just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike;  Alike reserv'd to blame or to commend,  A tim'rous foe, and a suspicious friend;  Dreading even fools; by flatt'rers besieg'd;  And so obliging, that he ne'er oblig'd.  Like Cato give his little senate laws,  [Transcriber's note: 'litttle' in original]  And sit attentive to his own applause;  While Wits and Templars ev'ry sentence raise,  And wonder with a foolish face of praise.  Who but must laugh, if such a man there be!  Who would not weep, if Atticus were he!Some readers may think these lines severe, but the treatment he receivedfrom Mr. Addison, was more than sufficient to justify them, which willappear when we particularize an interview between these two poeticalantagonists, procured by the warm sollicitations of Sir Richard Steele,who was present at it, as well as Mr. Gay.Mr. Jervas being one day in company with Mr. Addison, the conversationturned upon Mr. Pope, for whom Addison, at that time, expressed thehighest regard, and assured Mr. Jervas, that he would make use not onlyof his interest, but of his art likewise, to do Mr. Pope service; hethen said, he did not mean his art of poetry, but his art at court, andprotested, notwithstanding many insinuations were spread, that it shallnot be his fault, if there was not the best understanding andintelligence between them. He observed, that Dr. Swift might havecarried him too far among the enemy, during the animosity, but now allwas safe, and Mr. Pope, in his opinion, was escaped. When Mr. Jervascommunicated this conversation to Mr. Pope, he made this reply: 'Thefriendly office you endeavour to do between Mr. Addison and me deservesacknowledgments on my part. You thoroughly know my regard to hischaracter, and my readiness to testify it by all ways in my power; youalso thoroughly knew the meanness of that proceeding of Mr. Phillips, tomake a man I so highly value suspect my disposition towards him. But as,after all, Mr. Addison must be judge in what regards himself, and as hehas seemed not to be a very just one to me, so I must own to you, Iexpect nothing but civility from him, how much soever I wish for hisfriendship; and as for any offers of real kindness or service which itis in his power to do me, I should be ashamed to receive them from aman, who has no better opinion of my morals, than to think me a partyman, nor of my temper, than to believe me capable of maligning, orenvying another's reputation as a poet. In a word, Mr. Addison is sureof my respect at all times, and of my real friendship, whenever he shallthink fit to know me for what I am.'Some years after this conversation, at the desire of Sir Richard Steele,they met. At first, a very cold civility, and nothing else appeared oneither side, for Mr. Addison had a natural reserve and gloom at thebeginning of an evening, which, by conversation and a glass, brightenedinto an easy chearfulness. Sir Richard Steele, who was a most socialbenevolent man, begged of him to fulfill his promise, in dropping allanimosity against Mr. Pope. Mr. Pope then desired to be made sensiblehow he had offended; and observed, that the translation of Homer, ifthat was the great crime, was undertaken at the request, and almost atthe command of Sir Richard Steele. He entreated Mr. Addison to speakcandidly and freely, though it might be with ever so much severity,rather than by keeping up forms of complaisance, conceal any of hisfaults. This Mr. Pope spoke in such a manner as plainly indicated hethought Mr. Addison the aggressor, and expected him to condescend, andown himself the cause of the breach between them. But he wasdisappointed; for Mr. Addison, without appearing to be angry, was quiteovercome with it. He began with declaring, that he always had wished himwell, had often endeavoured to be his friend, and in that light advisedhim, if his nature was capable of it, to divert himself of part of hisvanity, which was too great for his merit; that he had not arrived yetto that pitch of excellence he might imagine, or think his most partialreaders imagined; that when he and Sir Richard Steele corrected hisverses, they had a different air; reminding Mr. Pope of the amendment(by Sir Richard) of a line, in the poem called The MESSIAH.  He wipes the tears for ever from our eyes.Which is taken from the prophet Isaiah,  The Lord God will wipe all tears from off all faces.  From every face he wipes off ev'ry tear.And it stands so altered in the newer editions of Mr. Pope's works. Heproceeded to lay before him all the mistakes and inaccuracies hinted atby the writers, who had attacked Mr. Pope, and added many things, whichhe himself objected to. Speaking of his translation in general, he said,that he was not to be blamed for endeavouring to get so large a sum ofmoney, but that it was an ill-executed thing, and not equal to Tickell,which had all the spirit of Homer. Mr. Addison concluded, in a lowhollow voice of feigned temper, that he was not sollicitous about hisown fame as a poet; that he had quitted the muses to enter into thebusiness of the public, and that all he spoke was through friendship toMr. Pope, whom he advised to have a less exalted sense of his own merit.Mr. Pope could not well bear such repeated reproaches, but boldly toldMr. Addison, that he appealed from his judgment to the public, and thathe had long known him too well to expect any friendship from him;upbraided him with being a pensioner from his youth, sacrificing thevery learning purchased by the public money, to a mean thirst of power;that he was sent abroad to encourage literature, in place of which hehad always endeavoured to suppress merit. At last, the contest grew sowarm, that they parted without any ceremony, and Mr. Pope upon thiswrote the foregoing verses, which are esteemed too true a picture of Mr.Addison.In this account, and, indeed, in all other accounts, which have beengiven concerning this quarrel, it does not appear that Mr. Pope was theaggressor. If Mr. Addison entertained suspicions of Mr. Pope's beingcarried too far among the enemy, the danger was certainly Mr. Pope's,and not Mr. Addison's. It was his misfortune, and not his crime. If Mr.Addison should think himself capable of becoming a rival to Mr. Pope,and, in consequence of this opinion, publish a translation of part ofHomer; at the same time with Mr. Pope's, and if the public should decidein favour of the latter by reading his translation, and neglecting theother, can any fault be imputed to Mr. Pope? could he be blamed forexerting all his abilities in so arduous a province? and was it hisfault that Mr. Addison (for the first book of Homer was undoubtedly his)could not translate to please the public? Besides, was it not somewhatpresumptuous to insinuate to Mr. Pope, that his verses bore another facewhen he corrected them, while, at the same time, the translation ofHomer, which he had never seen in manuscript, bore away the palm fromthat very translation, he himself asserted was done in the true spiritof Homer? In matters of genius the public judgment seldom errs, and inthis case posterity has confirmed the sentence of that age, which gavethe preference to Mr. Pope; for his translation is in the hands of allreaders of taste, while the other is seldom regarded but as a soil toPope's.It would appear as if Mr. Addison were himself so immersed in partybusiness, as to contrast his benevolence to the limits of a faction:Which was infinitely beneath the views of a philosopher, and the ruleswhich that excellent writer himself established. If this was the failingof Mr. Addison, it was not the error of Pope, for he kept the strictestcorrespondence with some persons, whose affections to the Whig-interestwere suspected, yet was his name never called in question. While he wasin favour with the duke of Buckingham, the lords Bolingbroke, Oxford,and Harcourt, Dr. Swift, and Mr. Prior, he did not drop hiscorrespondence with the lord Hallifax, Mr. Craggs, and most of those whowere at the head of the Whig interest. A professed Jacobite one dayremonstrated to Mr. Pope, that the people of his party took it ill thathe should write with Mr. Steele upon ever so indifferent a subject; atwhich he could not help smiling, and observed, that he hated narrownessof soul in any party; and that if he renounced his reason in religiousmatters, he should hardly do it on any other, and that he could pray notonly for opposite parties, but even for opposite religions. Mr. Popeconsidered himself as a citizen of the world, and was therefore obligedto pray for the prosperity of mankind in general. As a son of Britain hewished those councils might be suffered by providence to prevail, whichwere most for the interest of his native country: But as politics wasnot his study, he could not always determine, at least, with any degreeof certainty, whose councils were best; and had charity enough tobelieve, that contending parties might mean well. As taste and scienceare confined to no country, so ought they not to be excluded from anyparty, and Mr. Pope had an unexceptionable right to live upon terms ofthe strictest friendship with every man of parts, to which party soeverhe might belong. Mr. Pope's uprightness in his conduct towardscontending politicians, is demonstrated by his living independent ofeither faction. He accepted no place, and had too high a spirit tobecome a pensioner.Many effects however were made to proselyte him from the Popish faith,which all proved ineffectual. His friends conceived hopes from themoderation which he on all occasions expressed, that he was really aProtestant in his heart, and that upon the death of his mother, he wouldnot scruple to declare his sentiments, notwithstanding the reproaches hemight incur from the Popish party, and the public observation it woulddraw upon him. The bishop of Rochester strongly advised him to read thecontroverted points between the Protestant and the Catholic church, tosuffer his unprejudiced reason to determine for him, and he made nodoubt, but a separation from the Romish communion would soon ensue. Tothis Mr. Pope very candidly answered, 'Whether the change would be to myspiritual advantage, God only knows: This I know, that I mean as well inthe religion I now profess, as ever I can do in any other. Can a man whothinks so, justify a change, even if he thought both equally good? Tosuch an one, the part of joining with any one body of Christians mightperhaps be easy, but I think it would not be so to renounce the other.'Your lordship has formerly advised me to read the best controversiesbetween the churches. Shall I tell you a secret? I did so at 14 yearsold (for I loved reading, and my father had no other books) there was acollection of all that had been written on both sides, in the reign ofKing James II. I warmed my head with them, and the consequence was, Ifound myself a Papist, or a Protestant by turns, according to the lastbook I read. I am afraid most seekers are in the same case, and whenthey stop, they are not so properly converted, as outwitted. You see howlittle glory you would gain by my conversion: and after all, I verilybelieve, your lordship and I are both of the same religion, if we werethoroughly understood by one another, and that all honest and reasonableChristians would be so, if they did but talk enough together every day,and had nothing to do together but to serve God, and live in peace withtheir neighbours."As to the temporal side of the question, I can have no dispute withyou; it is certain, all the beneficial circumstances of life, and allthe shining ones, lie on the part you would invite me to. But if I couldbring myself to fancy, what I think you do but fancy, that I have anytalents for active life, I want health for it; and besides it is a realtruth. I have, if possible, less inclination, than ability.Contemplative life is not only my scene, but is my habit too. I begun mylife where most people end theirs, with all that the world callsambition. I don't know why it is called so, for, to me, it always seemedto be stooping, or climbing. I'll tell you my politic and religioussentiments in a few words. In my politics, I think no farther, than howto preserve my peace of life, in any government under which I live; norin my religion, than to preserve the peace of my conscience, in anychurch with which I communicate. I hope all churches, and allgovernments are so far of God, as they are rightly understood, andrightly administered; and where they are, or may be wrong, I leave it toGod alone to mend, or reform them, which, whenever he does, it must beby greater instruments than I am. I am not a Papist, for I renounce thetemporal invasions of the papal power, and detest their arrogatedauthority over Princes and States. I am a Catholic in the strictestsense of the word. If I was born under an absolute Prince, I would be aquiet subject; but, I thank God, I was not. I have a due sense of theexcellence of the British constitution. In a word, the things I havealways wished to see, are not a Roman Catholic, or a French Catholic, ora Spanish Catholic, but a True Catholic; and not a King of Whigs, or[Transcriber's note: repeated 'or' removed] a King of Tories, but a Kingof England."These are the peaceful maxims upon which we find Mr. Pope conducted hislife, and if they cannot in some respects be justified, yet it must beowned, that his religion and his politics were well enough adapted for apoet, which entitled him to a kind of universal patronage, and to makeevery good man his friend.Dean Swift sometimes wrote to Mr. Pope on the topic of changing hisreligion, and once humorously offered him twenty pounds for thatpurpose. Mr. Pope's answer to this, lord Orrery has obliged the world bypreserving in the life of Swift. It is a perfect master-piece of wit andpleasantry.We have already taken notice, that Mr. Pope was called upon by thepublic voice to translate the Iliad, which he performed with so muchapplause, and at the same time, with so much profit to himself, that hewas envied by many writers, whose vanity perhaps induced them to believethemselves equal to so great a design. A combination of inferior witswere employed to write The Popiad, in which his translation ischaracterized, as unjust to the original, without beauty of language, orvariety of numbers. Instead of the justness of the original, they saythere is absurdity and extravagance. Instead of the beautiful languageof the original, there is solecism and barbarous English. A candidreader may easily discern from this furious introduction, that thecritics were actuated rather by malice than truth, and that they mustjudge with their eyes shut, who can see no beauty of language, noharmony of numbers in this translation.But the most formidable critic against Mr. Pope in this greatundertaking, was the celebrated Madam Dacier, whom Mr. Pope treated withless ceremony in his Notes on the Iliad, than, in the opinion of somepeople, was due to her sex. This learned lady was not without a sense ofthe injury, and took an opportunity of discovering her resentment."Upon finishing (says she) the second edition of my translation ofHomer, a particular friend sent me a translation of part of Mr. Pope'spreface to his Version of the Iliad. As I do not understand English, Icannot form any judgment of his performance, though I have heard much ofit. I am indeed willing to believe, that the praises it has met with arenot unmerited, because whatever work is approved by the English nation,cannot be bad; but yet I hope I may be permitted to judge of that partof the preface, which has been transmitted to me, and I here take theliberty of giving my sentiments concerning it. I must freely acknowledgethat Mr. Pope's invention is very lively, though he seems to have beenguilty of the same fault into which he owns we are often precipitated byour invention, when we depend too much upon the strength of it; asmagnanimity (says he) may run up to confusion and extravagance, so maygreat invention to redundancy and wildness."This has been the very case of Mr. Pope himself; nothing is moreoverstrained, or more false than the images in which his fancy hasrepresented Homer; sometimes he tells us, that the Iliad is a wildparadise, where, if we cannot see all the beauties, as in an orderedgarden, it is only because the number of them is infinitely greater.Sometimes he compares him to a copious nursery, which contains the seedsand first productions of every kind; and, lastly, he represents himunder the notion of a mighty tree, which rises from the most vigorousseed, is improved with industry, flourishes and produces the finestfruit, but bears too many branches, which might be lopped into form, togive it a more regular appearance."What! is Homer's poem then, according to Mr. Pope, a confused heap ofbeauties, without order or symmetry, and a plot whereon nothing butseeds, nor nothing perfect or formed is to be found; and a productionloaded with many unprofitable things which ought to be retrenched, andwhich choak and disfigure those which deserve to be preserved? Mr. Popewill pardon me if I here oppose those comparisons, which to me appearvery false, and entirely contrary to what the greatest of ancient, andmodern critics ever thought."The Iliad is so far from being a wild paradise, that it is the mostregular garden, and laid out with more symmetry than any ever was. Everything herein is not only in the place it ought to have been, but everything is fitted for the place it hath. He presents you at first withthat which ought to be first seen; he places in the middle what ought tobe in the middle, and what would be improperly placed at the beginningor end, and he removes what ought to be at a greater distance, to createthe more agreeable surprize; and, to use a comparison drawn frompainting, he places that in the greatest light which cannot be toovisible, and sinks in the obscurity of the shade, what does not requirea full view; so that it may be said, that Homer is the Painter who bestknew how to employ the shades and lights. The second comparison isequally unjust; how could Mr. Pope say, 'that one can only discoverseeds, and the first productions of every kind in the Iliad?' everybeauty is there to such an amazing perfection, that the following agescould add nothing to those of any kind; and the ancients have alwaysproposed Homer, as the most perfect model in every kind of poetry."The third comparison is composed of the errors of the two former; Homerhad certainly an incomparable fertility of invention, but his fertilityis always checked by that just sense, which made him reject everysuperfluous thing which his vast imagination could offer, and to retainonly what was necessary and useful. Judgment guided the hand of thisadmirable gardener, and was the pruning hook he employed to lop offevery useless branch."Thus far Madam Dacier differs in her opinion from Mr. Pope concerningHomer; but these remarks which we have just quoted, partake not at allof the nature of criticism; they are meer assertion. Pope had declaredHomer to abound with irregular beauties. Dacier has contradicted him,and asserted, that all his beauties are regular, but no reason isassigned by either of these mighty geniuses in support of theiropinions, and the reader is left in the dark, as to the real truth. Ifhe is to be guided by the authority of a name only, no doubt theargument will preponderate in favour of our countryman. The French ladythen proceeds to answer some observations, which Mr. Pope made upon herRemarks on the Iliad, which she performs with a warmth that generallyattends writers of her sex. Mr. Pope, however, paid more regard to thisfair antagonist, than any other critic upon his works. He confessed thathe had received great helps from her, and only thought she had (througha prodigious, and almost superstitious, fondness for Homer) endeavouredto make him appear without any fault, or weakness, and stamp aperfection on his works, which is no where to be found. He wrote her avery obliging letter, in which he confessed himself exceedingly sorrythat he ever should have displeased so excellent a wit, and she, on theother hand, with a goodness and frankness peculiar to her, protested toforgive it, so that there remained no animosities between those twogreat admirers and translators of Homer.Mr. Pope, by his successful translation of the Iliad, as we have beforeremarked, drew upon him the envy and raillery of a whole tribe ofwriters. Though he did not esteem any particular man amongst his enemiesof consequence enough to provoke an answer, yet when they wereconsidered collectively, they offered excellent materials for a generalsatire. This satire he planned and executed with so extraordinary amastery, that it is by far the most compleat poem of our author's; itdiscovers more invention, and a higher effort of genius, than any otherproduction of his. The hint was taken from Mr. Dryden's Mac Flecknoe,but as it is more general, so it is more pleasing. The Dunciad is souniversally read, that we reckon it superfluous to give any furtheraccount of it here; and it would be an unpleasing task to trace all theprovocations and resentments, which were mutually discovered upon thisoccasion. Mr. Pope was of opinion, that next to praising good writers,there was a merit in exposing bad ones, though it does not holdinfallibly true, that each person stigmatized as a dunce, was genuinelyso. Something must be allowed to personal resentment; Mr. Pope was a manof keen passions; he felt an injury strongly, retained a longremembrance of it, and could very pungently repay it. Some of thegentlemen, however, who had been more severely lashed than the rest,meditated a revenge, which redounds but little to their honour. Theyeither intended to chastize him corporally, or gave it out that they hadreally done so, in order to bring shame upon Mr. Pope, which, if true,could only bring shame upon themselves.While Mr. Pope enjoyed any leisure from severer applications to study,his friends were continually solliciting him to turn his thoughtstowards something that might be of lasting use to the world, and engageno more in a war with dunces who were now effectually humbled. Our greatdramatic poet Shakespear had pass'd through several hands, some of whomwere very reasonably judged not to have understood any part of himtolerably, much less were capable to correct or revise him.The friends of Mr. Pope therefore strongly importuned him, to undertakethe whole of Shakespear's plays, and, if possible, by comparing all thedifferent copies now to be procured, restore him to his ancient purity.To which our poet made this modest reply, that not having attempted anything in the Drama, it might in him be deemed too much presumption. Towhich he was answered, that this did not require great knowledge of thefoundation and disposition of the drama, as that must stand as it was,and Shakespear [Transcriber's note: 'Skakespear' in original] himselfhad not always paid strict regard to the rules of it; but this was toclear the scenes from the rubbish with which ignorant editors had filledthem.His proper business in this work was to render the text so clear as tobe generally understood, to free it from obscurities, and sometimesgross absurdities, which now seem to appear in it, and to explaindoubtful and difficult passages of which there are great numbers. Thishowever was an arduous province, and how Mr. Pope has acquitted himselfin it has been differently determined: It is certain he never valuedhimself upon that performance, nor was it a task in the least adapted tohis genius; for it seldom happens that a man of lively parts can undergothe servile drudgery of collecting passages, in which more industry andlabour are necessary than persons of quick penetration generally have tobestow.It has been the opinion of some critics, that Mr. Pope's talents werenot adapted for the drama, otherwise we cannot well account for hisneglecting the most gainful way of writing which poetry affords,especially as his reputation was so high, that without much ceremony ormortification, he might have had any piece of his brought upon thestage. Mr. Pope was attentive to his own interest, and if he had noteither been conscious of his inability in that province, or too timid towish the popular approbation, he would certainly have attempted thedrama. Neither was he esteemed a very competent judge of what plays wereproper or improper for representation. He wrote several letters to themanager of Drury-Lane Theatre, in favour of Thomson's Agamemnon, whichnotwithstanding his approbation, Thomson's friends were obliged tomutulate and shorten; and after all it proved a heavy play.--Though itwas generally allowed to have been one of the best acted plays that hadappeared for some years.He was certainly concerned in the Comedy, which was published in Mr.Gay's name, called Three Hours after Marriage, as well as Dr. Arbuthnot.This illustrious triumvirate, though men of the most various parts, andextensive understanding, yet were not able it seems to please thepeople, tho' the principal parts were supported by the best actors inthat way on the stage. Dr. Arbuthnot and Mr. Pope were no doubtsolicitous to conceal their concern in it; but by a letter which Gaywrote to Pope, published in Ayre's Memoirs, it appears evident (ifAyre's authority may be depended on) that they, both assisted in thecomposition.DEAR POPE,'Too late I see, and confess myself mistaken in relation to the Comedy;yet I do not think, had I followed your advice, and only introduced themummy, that the absence of the crocodile had saved it. I can't helplaughing myself (though the vulgar do not consider it was designed tolook ridiculous) to think how the poor monster and mummy were dashed attheir reception, and when the cry was loudest, I thought that if thething had been written by another, I should have deemed the town in somemeasure mistaken; and as to your apprehension that this may do us futureinjury, do not think of it; the Dr. has a more valuable name than can behurt by any thing of this nature; and your's is doubly safe. I will, ifany shame there be, take it all to myself, and indeed I ought, themotion being first mine, and never heartily approved by you.'Of all our poet's writings none were read with more general approbationthan his Ethic Epistles, or multiplied into more editions. Mr. Pope whowas a perfect oeconomist, secured to himself the profits arising fromhis own works; he was never subjected to necessity, and therefore wasnot to be imposed upon by the art or fraud of publishers.But now approaches the period in which as he himself expressed it, hestood in need of the generous tear he paid,  Posts themselves must fall like those they sung,  Deaf the prais'd ear, and mute the tuneful tongue.  Ev'n he whose soul now melts in mournful lays,  Shall shortly want the generous tear he pays.Mr. Pope who had been always subjected to a variety of bodilyinfirmities, finding his strength give way, began to think that hisdays, which had been prolonged past his expectation, were drawingtowards a conclusion. However, he visited the Hot-Wells at Bristol,where for some time there were small hopes of his recovery; but makingtoo free with purges he grew worse, and seemed desirous to draw nearerhome. A dropsy in the breast at last put a period to his life, at theage of 56, on the 30th of May 1744, at his house at Twickenham, where hewas interred in the same grave with his father and mother.Mr. Pope's behaviour in his last illness has been variously representedto the world: Some have affirmed that it was timid and peevish; thathaving been fixed in no particular system of faith, his mind waswavering, and his temper broken and disturb'd. Others have asserted thathe was all chearfulness and resignation to the divine will: Which ofthese opinions is true we cannot now determine; but if the former, itmust be regretted, that he, who had taught philosophy to others, shouldhimself be destitute of its assistance in the most critical moments ofhis life.The bulk of his fortune he bequeath'd to Mrs. Blount, with whom he livedin the strictest friendship, and for whom he is said to have entertainedthe warmest affection. His works, which are in the hands of every personof true taste, and will last as long as our language will be understood,render unnecessary all further remarks on his writings. He was equallyadmired for the dignity and sublimity of his moral and philosophicalworks, the vivacity of his satirical, the clearness and propriety of hisdidactic, the richness and variety of his descriptive, and the eleganceof all, added to an harmony of versification and correctness ofsentiment and language, unknown to our former poets, and of which he hasset an example which will be an example or a reproach to his successors.His prose-stile is as perfect in its kind as his poetic, and has all thebeauties proper for it, joined to an uncommon force and perspicuity.Under the profession of the Roman-Catholic religion, to which he adheredto the last, he maintained all the moderation and charity becoming themost thorough and confident Protestant. His conversation was natural,easy and agreeable, without any affectation of displaying his wit, orobtruding his own judgment, even upon subjects of which he was soeminently a master.The moral character of our author, as it did not escape the lash of hiscalumniators in his life; so have there been attempts since his death todiminish his reputation. Lord Bolingbroke, whom Mr. Pope esteemed toalmost an enthusiastic degree of admiration, was the first to make thisattack. Not many years ago, the public were entertained with thiscontroversy immediately upon the publication of his lordship's Letterson the Spirit of Patriotism, and the Idea of a Patriot King. Differentopinions have been offered, some to extenuate the fault of Mr. Pope, forprinting and mutilating these letters, without his lordship's knowledge;others to blame him for it as the highest breach of friendship, and thegreatest mark of dishonour. It would exceed our proposed bounds to enterinto the merits of this controversy; the reader, no doubt, will find itamply discussed in that account of the life of this great author, whichMr. Warburton has promised the public.This great man is allowed to have been one of the first rank amongst thepoets of our nation, and to acknowledge the superiority of none butShakespear, Milton, and Dryden. With the two former, it is unnatural tocompare him, as their province in writing is so very different. Pope hasnever attempted the drama, nor published an Epic Poem, in which thesetwo distinguished genius's have so wonderfully succeeded. Though Pope'sgenius was great, it was yet of so different a cast from Shakespear's,and Milton's, that no comparison can be justly formed. But if this maybe said of the former two, it will by no means hold with respect to thelater, for between him and Dryden, there is a great similarity ofwriting, and a very striking coincidence of genius. It will not perhapsbe unpleasing to our readers, if we pursue this comparison, andendeavour to discover to whom the superiority is justly to beattributed, and to which of them poetry owes the highest obligations.When Dryden came into the world, he found poetry in a very imperfectstate; its numbers were unpolished; its cadences rough, and there wasnothing of harmony or mellifluence to give it a graceful of flow. Inthis harsh, unmusical situation, Dryden found it (for the refinements ofWaller were but puerile and unsubstantial) he polished the roughdiamond, he taught it to shine, and connected beauty, elegance, andstrength, in all his poetical compositions. Though Dryden thus polishedour English numbers, and thus harmonized versification, it cannot besaid, that he carried his art to perfection. Much was yet left undone;his lines with all their smoothness were often rambling, and expletiveswere frequently introduced to compleat his measures. It was apparenttherefore that an additional harmony might still be given to ournumbers, and that cadences were yet capable of a more musicalmodulation. To effect this purpose Mr. Pope arose, who with an earelegantly delicate, and the advantage of the finest genius, soharmonized the English numbers, as to make them compleatly musical. Hisnumbers are likewise so minutely correct, that it would be difficult toconceive how any of his lines can be altered to to advantage. He hascreated a kind of mechanical versification; every line is alike; andthough they are sweetly musical, they want diversity, for he has notstudied so great a variety of pauses, and where the accents may be laidgracefully. The structure of his verse is the best, and a line of his ismore musical than any other line can be made, by placing the accentselsewhere; but we are not quite certain, whether the ear is not apt tobe soon cloy'd with this uniformity of elegance, this sameness ofharmony. It must be acknowledged however, that he has much improved uponDryden in the article of versification, and in that part of poetry isgreatly his superior. But though this must be acknowledged, perhaps itwill not necessarily follow that his genius was therefore superior.The grand characteristic of a poet is his invention, the surestdistinction of a great genius. In Mr. Pope, nothing is so truly originalas his Rape of the Lock, nor discovers so much invention. In this kindof mock-heroic, he is without a rival in our language, for Dryden haswritten nothing of the kind. His other work which discovers invention,fine designing, and admirable execution, is his Dunciad; which, tho'built on Dryden's Mac Flecknoe, is yet so much superior, that in satiricwriting, the Palm must justly be yielded to him. In Mr. Dryden's Absalomand Achitophel, there are indeed the most poignant strokes of satire,and characters drawn with the most masterly touches; but this poem withall its excellencies is much inferior to the Dunciad, though Dryden hadadvantages which Mr. Pope had not; for Dryden's characters are men ofgreat eminence and figure in the state, while Pope has to expose men ofobscure birth and unimportant lives only distinguished from the herd ofmankind, by a glimmering of genius, which rendered the greatest part ofthem more emphatically contemptible. Pope's was the hardest task, and hehas executed it with the greatest success. As Mr. Dryden mustundoubtedly have yielded to Pope in satyric writing, it is incumbent onthe partizans of Dryden to name another species of composition, in whichthe former excells so as to throw the ballance again upon the side ofDryden. This species is the Lyric, in which the warmest votaries of Popemust certainly acknowledge, that he is much inferior; as an irrefutableproof of this we need only compare Mr. Dryden's Ode on St. Cecilia'sDay, with Mr. Pope's; in which the disparity is so apparent, that weknow not if the most finished of Pope's compositions has discovered sucha variety and command of numbers.It hath been generally acknowledged, that the Lyric is a more excellentkind of writing than the Satiric; and consequently he who excells in themost excellent species, must undoubtedly be esteemed the greatest poet.--Mr. Pope has very happily succeeded in many of his occasional pieces,such as Eloisa to Abelard, his Elegy on an unfortunate young Lady, and avariety of other performances deservedly celebrated. To these may beopposed Mr. Dryden's Fables, which though written in a very advancedage, are yet the most perfect of his works. In these Fables there isperhaps a greater variety than in Pope's occasional pieces: Many of themindeed are translations, but such as are original shew a great extent ofinvention, and a large compass of genius.There are not in Pope's works such poignant discoveries of wit, or sucha general knowledge of the humours and characters of men, as in thePrologues and Epilogues of Dryden, which are the best records of thewhims and capricious oddities of the times in which they are written.When these two great genius's are considered in the light oftranslators, it will indeed be difficult to determine into whose scalethe ballance should be thrown: That Mr. Pope had a more arduous provincein doing justice to Homer, than Dryden with regard to Virgil iscertainly true; as Homer is a more various and diffuse poet than Virgil;and it is likewise true, that Pope has even exceeded Dryden in theexecution, and none will deny, that Pope's Homer's Iliad, is a finerpoem than Dryden's Aeneis of Virgil: Making a proper allowance for thedisproportion of the original authors. But then a candid critic shouldreflect, that as Dryden was prior in the great attempt of renderingVirgil into English, so did he perform the task under manydisadvantages, which Pope, by a happier situation in life, was enabledto avoid; and could not but improve upon Dryden's errors, though theauthors translated were not the same: And it is much to be doubted, ifDryden were to translate the Aeneid now, with that attention which thecorrectness of the present age would force upon him, whether thepreference would be due to Pope's Homer.But supposing it to be yielded (as it certainly must) that the latterbard was the greatest translator; we are now to throw into Mr. Dryden'sscale all his dramatic works; which though not the most excellent of hiswritings, yet as nothing of Mr. Pope's can be opposed to them, they havean undoubted right to turn the ballance greatly in favour of Mr.Dryden.--When the two poets are considered as critics, the comparisonwill very imperfectly hold. Dryden's Dedications and Prefaces, besidesthat they are more numerous, and are the best models for courtlypanegyric, shew that he understood poetry as an art, beyond any man thatever lived. And he explained this art so well, that he taught hisantagonists to turn the tables against himself; for he so illuminatedthe mind by his clear and perspicuous reasoning, that dullness itselfbecame capable of discerning; and when at any time his performances fellshort of his own ideas of excellence; his enemies tried him by rules ofhis own establishing; and though they owed to him the ability ofjudging, they seldom had candour enough to spare him.Perhaps it may be true that Pope's works are read with more appetite, asthere is a greater evenness and correctness in them; but in perusing theworks of Dryden the mind will take a wider range, and be more fraughtwith poetical ideas: We admire Dryden as the greater genius, and Pope asthe most pleasing versifier.ERRATA in the foregoing life, viz.P. 237. l. 27. for with all that the world calls ambition, read with _adisgust of_ all, &c. And l. 29. for 'stooping or climbing' read,_rather_ stooping _than_ climbing.FOOTNOTE:[1] See a Note in Warburton's Edition of Pope's Works.       *       *       *       *       *AARON HILL, Esq;[1]Was the son of George Hill, esq; of Malmsbury-Abbey in Wiltshire; agentleman possessed of an estate of about 2000 l. a year, which wasentailed upon him, and the eldest son, and to his heirs for manydescents. But the unhappy misconduct of Mr. George Hill, and theweakness of the trustees, entangled it in such a manner as hitherto hasrendered it of no advantage to his family; for, without any legal titleso to do, he sold it all, at different times, for sums greatly beneaththe value of it, and left his children to their mother's care, and hermother's (Mrs. Ann Gregory) who took great pains with her grandson'seducation. At nine years old she put him to school to Mr. Rayner atBarnstable in Devonshire, from whence, he went to Westminster school;where soon (under the care of Dr. Knipe) his genius shewed itself in adistinguished light, and often made him some amends for his hardfortune, which denied him such supplies of pocket-money as his spiritwished, by enabling him to perform the tasks of many who had not hiscapacity.Mr. Aaron Hill, was born in Beaufort-Buildings in the Strand, onFebruary 10, 1684-5. At fourteen years of age he left Westminsterschool; and, shortly after, hearing his grandmother make mention of arelation much esteemed (lord Paget, then ambassador at Constantinople)he formed a resolution of paying him a visit there, being likewise verydesirous to see that empire.His grandmother being a woman of uncommon understanding, and greatgood-nature, would not oppose him in it; and accordingly he soonembark'd on board a ship, then going there, March 2, 1700, as appears bya Journal which he kept during his voyage, and in his travels (though atso weak an age) wherein he gave the most accurate account of everyparticular, in a manner much above his years.When he arrived, lord Paget received him with as much surprize, aspleasure, wondering that so young a person as he was (but then in hisfifteenth year) should chuse to run the hazard of such a voyage to visita relation, whom he knew but by character. The ambassador immediatelyprovided for him a very learned ecclesiastic in his own house, and,under his tuition, sent him to travel, being desirous to improve, as faras possible, the education of a person he found worthy of it. With thistutor he had the opportunity of seeing Egypt, Palestine, and a greatpart of the Eastern country.With lord Paget he returned home, about the year 1703, through greatpart of Europe; in which tour he saw most of the courts.He was in great esteem with that nobleman; insomuch, that in allprobability he had been still more distinguished by him at his death,than in his life time, had not the envious fears and malice of a certainfemale, who was in high authority and favour with that lord, preventedand supplanted his kind disposition towards him: My lord took greatpleasure in instructing him himself, wrote him whole books in differentlanguages, on which his student placed the greatest value; which was nosooner taken notice of by jealous observation, than they were stolenfrom his apartment, and suffered to be some days missing, to the greatdispleasure of my lord, but still much greater affliction of his pupil,whose grief for losing a treasure he so highly valued, was more thandoubled, by perceiving that from some false insinuation that had beenmade, it was believed he had himself wilfully lost them: But young Mr.Hill was soon entirely cleared on this head.A few years after, he was desired both on account of his sobriety andunderstanding, to accompany Sir William Wentworth, a worthy baronet ofYorkshire, who was then going to make the tour of Europe; with whom hetravelled two or three years, and brought him home improved, to thesatisfaction of that gentleman's relations.'Twas in those different travels he collected matter for the history hewrote of Turkey, and published in 1709; a work he afterwards oftenrepented having printed; and (though his own) would criticise upon itwith much severity. (But, as he used to say, he was a very boy when hebegan and ended it; therefore great allowance may be made on thataccount); and in a letter which has since been printed in his works,wrote to his greatly valued friend, the worthy author of Clarissa, heacknowledges his consciousness of such defects: where speaking ofobscurity, he says,  'Obscurity, indeed (if they had penetration to mean that) is burying  sense alive, and some of my rash, early, too affected, puerile  scriblings must, and should, have pleaded guilty to so just an  accusation.'The fire of youth, with an imagination lively as his was, seldom, ifever, go hand in hand with solid judgment. Mr. Hill did not give himselfindeed time for correction, having wrote it so very expeditiously, ashardly would be credited. But (as Dr. Sprat, then bishop of Rochester,used to observe) there is certainly visible in that book, the seeds of agreat writer.--He seldom in his riper years was guilty of the fault ofnon-correction; for he revis'd, too strictly rather, every piece hepurposed for the public eye (exclusive of an author's natural fondness);and it has been believed by many, who have read some of his pieces inthe first copy, that had they never been by a revisal deepened[Transcriber's note: 'deepned' in original] into greater strength, theywould have pleased still more, at least more generally.About the year 1709 he published his first poem, called Camillus; invindication, and honour of the earl of Peterborough, who had beengeneral in Spain. After that nobleman had seen it, he was desirous toknow who was the author of it; which having found by enquiry, hecomplimented him by making him his secretary, in the room of Mr. Furly,who was gone abroad with another nobleman: And Mr. Hill was always heldin high esteem with that great peer; with whom, however, he did notcontinue long; for in the year 1710 he married the only daughter ofEdmund Morris, Esq; of Stratford, in Essex; with whom he had a veryhandsome fortune: By her he had nine children, four of whom (a son, andthree daughters) are still living.In 1709 he was made master of the Theatre in Drury-Lane; and then, atthe desire of Mr. Barton Booth, wrote his first Tragedy, (Elfrid, or theFair Inconstant) which from his first beginning of it he compleated in alittle more than a week.--The following year, 1710, he was master of theOpera House in the Hay-Market; and then wrote an Opera called Rinaldo,which met with great success: It was the first which that admirablegenius Mr. Handel compos'd, after he came to England; (this he dedicatedto Queen Anne).--His genius was adapted greatly to the business of thestage; and while he held the management, he conducted both Theatres,intirely to the satisfaction of the public.--But in a few months herelinquished it, from some misunderstanding with the then lordchamberlain; and though he was soon after sollicited to take that chargeagain upon him (by a person the highest in command) he still declinedit.From that time he bent his thoughts on studies far more solid anddesirable to him; to views of public benefit: For his mind was ardentlydevoted to the pursuit of general improvement. But, as one genius seldomis adapted to both theory and practice; so in the execution of a varietyof undertakings, the most advantageous in themselves, by somemismanagement of those concerned with him, he fail'd of the success hislabours merited.As in particular, in an affair he set on foot about the year 1715, andwas the sole discoverer of, for which he had a patent; the making of anOil, as sweet as that from Olives, from the Beech-Nuts: But this beingan undertaking of a great extent, he was obliged to work conjointly withother men's assistance, and materials; whence arose disputes among them,which terminated in the overthrowing the advantage then arising from it;which otherwise might have been great and lasting.This, has occasioned that affair to be misunderstood by many; ittherefore may not be thought improper, here, to set it in a justerlight; and this cannot more exactly be given, than from his own words,called, A fair state of the Account, published in the year 1716.'An impartial state of the case, between the patentee, annuitants, andsharers, in the Beech-Oil-Company.'--Some part of which is hererecited.'The disappointments of the Beech-Oil-Company this year have madeabundance of sharers peevish; the natural effect of peevishness isclamour, and clamour like a tide will work itself a passage, where ithas no right of flowing; some gentlemen, misled by false conceptionsboth of the affair and its direction, have driven their discontentthrough a mistaken chanel, and inclined abundance who are strangers tothe truth, to accuse the patentee of faults, he is not only absolutelyfree from, but by which he is, of all concern'd, the greatest sufferer.'But, he is not angry with the angry; he considers they must take thingsas they hear them represented; he governs all his actions by thisgeneral maxim; never to be moved at a reproach, unless it be a just one.'In October 1713 the patentee procured a grant for fourteen years, tohim and his assigns, for the Beech-Oil invention.'Anno 1714, he made and published proposals, for taking a subscriptionof 20,000 l. upon the following conditions;'That every subscriber should receive, by half yearly payments, atLady-Day and Michaelmas, during the continuance of the patent fromLady-Day 1715, inclusive, an annuity amounting to fifty-pound per cent,for any sum subscribed, excepting a deduction for the payment of thedirectors.'That nine directors should be chosen on midsummer-day, who shouldreceive complaints upon non-payments of annuities; and in such case,upon refusal, any five of the nine directors had power to meet and chusea governor from among themselves, enrolling that choice in chancery,together with the reasons for it.'That after such choice and enrollment, the patentee should standabsolutely excluded, the business be carried on, and all the right ofthe grant be vested (not as a mortgage, but as a sale withoutredemption) in the governor so chosen, for the joint advantage of theannuitants, in proportion to their several interests.'As a security for making good the articles, the patentee did, byindenture enrolled in chancery, assign and make over his patent totrustees, in the indenture named, for the uses above-mentioned.'In the mean time the first half yearly payments to the annuitants,amounting to 3750 l. became due, and the company not being yetcompleated, the patentee himself discharged it, and has never reckon'dthat sum to the account between him and the company; which he might havedone by virtue of the articles on which he gave admission to thesharers.'For the better explanation of this scheme it will be necessary toobserve, that while the shares were selling, he grew apprehensive thatthe season would be past, before the fifty pounds per share they were tofurnish by the articles could be contributed: He therefore gave upvoluntarily, and for the general good, 20,000 l. of his own 25,000guineas purchase money, as a loan to the company till the expiration ofthe patent, after which it was again to be made good to him, or hisassigns; and this money so lent by the patentee, is all the stock thatever has been hitherto employed by the company.'But instead of making good the above-mentioned conditional covenant,the board proceeded to unnecessary warmth, and found themselves involvedstill more and more in animosities, and those irregularities whichnaturally follow groundless controversy. He would therefore take uponhimself the hazard and the power of the whole affair, accountablehowever to the board, as to the money part; and yet would bind himselfto pay for three years to come, a profit of forty shillings per annumupon every share, and then deliver back the business to the generalcare, above the reach of future disappointments.'What reasons the gentlemen might have to refuse so inviting an offer isbest known to themselves; but they absolutely rejected that part of it,which was to fix the sole power of management in the patentee. Uponwhich, and many other provocations afterward, becoming more and moredissatisfied, he thought fit to demand repayment of five hundred pounds,which he had lent the company; as he had several other sums before; andnot receiving it, but, on the contrary, being denied so much as anacknowledgment that it was due, withdrew himself intirely from theboard, and left them to their measures.'Thus at the same time have I offered my defence, and my opinion: By thefirst I am sure I shall be acquitted from all imputations; and confirmedin the good thoughts of the concerned on either side, who will know forthe future what attention they should give to idle reflections, and thefalsehood of rumour; and from the last, I have hopes that a plan may bedrawn, which will settle at once all disputed pretensions, and restorethat fair prospect, which the open advantage of last year's success(indifferent as it was) has demonstrated to be a view that was no waychimerical.--'They know how to judge of malicious insinuations to my prejudice, bythis _one most scandalous example_, which has been given by theendeavours of some to persuade the out-sharers that I have made anextravagant _profit_ from the _losses_ of the adventurers. Whereas onthe contrary, out of _Twenty-five Thousand Guineas_, which was the wholeI should have received by the sale of the shares, I have given up_Twenty Thousand Pounds_ to the use of the company, and to the annuitiesafterward; and three thousand seven hundred and fifty pounds more I paidto the annuitants, at Lady-Day 1715, on the company's account; and havenever demanded it again, in consideration of their disappointments thefirst year.'So that it plainly appears, that out of twenty-five thousand guineas, Ihave given away in two articles only, twenty-three thousand sevenhundred and fifty pounds for the public advantage. And I can easilyprove, that the little remainder has been short of making good thecharges I have been at for their service; by which means I am not onefarthing a gainer by the company, notwithstanding the clamour and maliceof some unthinking adventurers: And for the truth of all this, I appealto their own _Office-Books_, and defy the most angry among them to denyany article of it. See then what a grateful and generous encouragementmay be expected by men, who would dedicate their labours to the profitof others.November the 30th. 1716. A. HILL.'This, and much more, too tedious to insert, serves to demonstrate thatit was a great misfortune, for a mind so fertile of invention andimprovement, to be embarrassed by a narrow power of fortune; too weakalone to execute such undertakings.About the same year he wrote another Tragedy, intitled [Transcriber'snote: 'intiled' in original] the Fatal Vision[2], or the Fall of Siam(which was acted the same year, in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields) to which hegave this Motto out of Horace.  I not for vulgar admiration write;  To be well read, not much, is my delight.And to his death he would declare in favour of that choice.--That year,he likewise published the two first books of an Epic Poem, called Gideon(founded on a Hebrew Story) which like its author, and all otherauthors, had its enemies; but many more admirers.But his poetic pieces were not frequent in their appearance. They werethe product of some leisure hours, when he relaxed his thoughts fromdrier study; as he took great delight in diving into every usefulscience, viz. criticism, history, geography, physic, commerce ingeneral, agriculture, war, and law; but in particular naturalphilosophy, wherein he has made many and valuable discoveries.Concerning poetry, he says, in his preface to King Henry the Vth, wherehe laments the want of taste for Tragedy,'But in all events I will be easy, who have no better reason to wishwell to poetry, than my love for a mistress I shall never be married to:For, whenever I grow ambitious, I shall wish to build higher; and owe mymemory to some occasion of more importance than my writings.'He had acquired so deep an insight in law, that he has from hisarguments and demonstrations obliged some of the greatest council(formally) under their hands, to retract their own first-given opinions.He wrote part of a Tract of War; another upon Agriculture; but they areleft unfinished, with several other pieces.In his younger days he bought a grant of Sir Robert Montgomery (who hadpurchas'd it of the lords proprietors of Carolina) with whom, &c. be hadbeen concern'd, in a design of settling a new plantation in the South ofCarolina, of a vast tract of land; on which he then designed to pursuethe same intention.--But being not master of a fortune equal to thatscheme, it never proved of any service to him, though many years since,it has been cultivated largely[3].His person was (in youth) extremely fair, and handsome; his eyes were adark blue, both bright and penetrating; brown hair and visage oval;which was enlivened with a smile, the most agreeable in conversation;where his address was affably engageing; to which was joined a dignity,which rendered him at once respected and admired, by those (of eithersex) who were acquainted with him--He was tall, genteelly made, and notthin.--His voice was sweet, his conversation elegant; and capable ofentertaining upon various subjects.--His disposition was benevolent,beyond the power of the fortune he was blessed with; the calamities ofthose he knew (and valued as deserving) affected him more than his own:He had fortitude of mind sufficient to support with calmness greatmisfortune; and from his birth it may be truly said he was obliged tomeet it.Of himself, he says in his epistle dedicatory to one of his poems,  'I am so devoted a lover of a private and unbusy life, that I cannot  recollect a time wherein I wish'd an increase to the little influence  I cultivate in the dignified world, unless when I have felt the  deficience of my own power, to reward some merit that has charm'd  me:'--His temper, though by nature warm (when injuries were done him) was asnobly forgiving; mindful of that great lesson in religion, of returninggood for evil; and he fulfilled it often to the prejudice of his owncircumstances. He was a tender husband, friend, and father; one of thebest masters to his servants, detesting the too common inhumanity, thattreats them almost as if they were not fellow-creatures.His manner of life was temperate in all respects (which might havepromis'd greater length of years) late hours excepted which hisindefatigable love of study drew him into; night being not liable tointerruptions like the day.About the year 1718 he wrote a poem called the Northern-Star, upon theactions of the Czar Peter the Great; and several years after he wascomplimented with a gold medal from the empress Catherine (according tothe Czar's desire before his death) and was to have wrote his life, frompapers which were to be sent him of the Czar's: But the death of theCzarina, quickly after, prevented it.--In an advertisement to thereader, in the fifth edition of that poem, published in 1739, the authorsays of it.'Though the design was profess'd panegyric, I may with modesty ventureto say it was not a very politic, perhaps, but an honest example ofpraise without flattery.--In the verse, I am afraid there was much to beblamed, as too low; but, I am sure there was none of that fault in thepurpose: The poem having never been hinted, either before or after thepublication, to any person (native or foreigner) who could be supposedto have interest in, or concern for, its subject.'In effect, it had for six years or more been forgot by myself--and mycountry,--when upon the death of the prince it referred to, I wassurprized by the condescension of a compliment from the empress hisrelict, and immediate successor; and thereby first became sensible thatthe poem had, by means of some foreign translation, reach'd the eye andregard of that emphatically great monarch, in justice to whom it waswritten.'Soon after he finished six books more of Gideon; which made eight, ofthe twelve he purpos'd writing; but did not live to finish it.In 1723 he brought his Tragedy called King Henry the Vth, upon the stagein Drury-Lane; which is (as he declares in the preface) a new fabric,yet built on Shakespear's foundation.In 1724, for the advantage of an unhappy gentleman (an old officer inthe army) he wrote a paper in the manner of the Spectators, inconjunction with Mr. William Bond, &c. intitled the Plain Dealer; whichwere some time after published in two volumes octavo. And many of hisformer writings were appropriated to such humane uses; both those towhich he has prefixed his name, and several others which he wrote andgave away intirely. But, though the many imagined authors are notliving, their names, and those performances will be omitted here; yet,in mere justice to the character of Mr. Hill, we mention thisparticular.In 1728, he made a journey into the North of Scotland, where he had beenabout two years before, having contracted with the York-BuildingsCompany, concerning many woods of great extent in that kingdom, fortimber for the uses of the navy; and many and various were theassertions upon this occasion: Some thought, and thence reported, thatthere was not a stick in Scotland could be capable of answering thatpurpose; but he demonstrated the contrary: For, though there was not agreat number large enough for masts to ships of the greatest burthen;yet there were millions, fit for all smaller vessels; and planks andbanks, proper for every sort of building.--One ship was built entirelyof it; and a report was made, that never any better timber was broughtfrom any part of the world: But he found many difficulties in thisundertaking; yet had sagacity to overcome them all (as far as his ownmanagement extended) for when the trees were by his order chain'dtogether into floats, the ignorant Highlanders refus'd to venturethemselves on them down the river Spey; till he first went himself, tomake them sensible there was no danger.--In which passage however, hefound a great obstacle in the rocks, by which that river seemedimpassible; but on these he ordered fires to be made, when by thelowness of the river they were most expos'd; and then had quantities ofwater thrown upon them: Which method being repeated with the help ofproper tools, they were broke in pieces and thrown down, which made thepassage easy for the floats.This affair was carried on to a very good account, till those concern'dthought proper to call off the men and horses from the woods ofAbernethy, in order to employ them in their lead mines in the samecountry; from which they hoped to make greater advantage.The magistrates of Inverness paid him the compliment of making him apresent of the freedom of that place (at an elegant entertainment madeby them on that occasion) a favour likewise offered him at Aberdeen, &c.After a stay of several months in the Highlands, during which time hevisited the duke and duchess of Gordon, who distinguished him with greatcivilities, he went to York, and other places in that country; where hiswife then was, with some relations, for the recovery of her health; buthis staying longer there (on that account) than he intended, had like tohave proved of unhappy consequence; by giving room for some, whoimagined (as they wished) that he would not return, to be guilty of abreach of trust that aimed at the destruction of great part of what hethen was worth; but they were disappointed.In that retirement in the North, he wrote a poem intitled, The Progressof Wit, a Caveat for the use of an eminent Writer. It was composed ofthe genteelest praise, and keenest allegorical satire; and it gave nosmall uneasiness to Mr. Pope: Who had indeed drawn it upon himself, bybeing the aggressor in his Dunciad.--This afterwards occasioned aprivate paper-war between those writers, in which 'tis generally thoughtthat Mr. Hill had greatly the advantage of Mr. Pope. For theparticulars, the reader is referred to a shilling pamphlet latelypublished by Owen, containing Letters between Mr. Pope and Mr. Hill, &c.The progress of wit begins with the eight following lines, wherein theSNEAKINGLY APPROVES affected Mr. Pope extreamly.  Tuneful Alexis on the Thames' fair side,  The Ladies play-thing, and the Muses pride,  With merit popular, with wit polite,  Easy tho' vain, and elegant tho' light:  Desiring, and deserving other's praise,  Poorly accepts a fame he ne'er repays:  Unborn to cherish, SNEAKINGLY APPROVES,  And wants the soul to spread the worth he loves.During their controversy, Mr. Pope seemed to express his repentance, bydenying the offence he had given; thus, in one of his letters, he says,'That the letters A.H. were apply'd to you in the papers I did not know(for I seldom read them) I heard it only from Mr. Savage[4], as fromyourself, and sent my assurances to the contrary: But I don't see howthe annotator on the D. could have rectified that mistake publicly,without particularizing your name in a book where I thought it too goodto be inserted, &c.[5].'And in another place he says,'I should imagine the Dunciad meant you a real compliment, and so it hasbeen thought by many who have ask'd to whom that passage made thatoblique panegyric. As to the notes, I am weary of telling a great truth,which is, that I am not author of them, &c.'Which paragraph was answer'd by the following in Mr. Hill's reply.'As to your oblique panegyric, I am not under so blind an attachment tothe goddess I was devoted to in the Dunciad, but that I know it was acommendation; though a dirtier one than I wished for; who am neitherfond of some of the company in which I was listed--the noble reward, forwhich I was to become a diver;--the allegorical muddiness in which I wasto try my skill;--nor the institutor of the games you were so kind toallow me a share in, &c.'--A genteel severe reprimand.Much about the same time he wrote another poem, called Advice to thePoets; in praise of worthy poetry, and in censure of the misapplicationof poetry in general. The following lines here quoted, are the motto ofit, taken from the poem.  Shame on your jingling, ye soft sons of rhyme,  Tuneful consumers of your reader's time!  Fancy's light dwarfs! whose feather-footed strains,  Dance in wild windings, thro' a waste of brains:  Your's is the guilt of all, who judging wrong,  Mistake tun'd nonsense for the poet's song.He likewise in this piece, reproves the above named celebrated author,for descending below his genius; and in speaking of the inspiration ofthe Muse, he says,  I feel her now.--Th'invader fires my breast:  And my soul swells, to suit the heav'nly guest.  Hear her, O Pope!--She sounds th'inspir'd decree,  Thou great Arch-Angel of wit's heav'n! for thee!    Let vulgar genii, sour'd by sharp disdain,  Piqu'd and malignant, words low war maintain,    While every meaner art exerts her aim,  O'er rival arts, to list her question'd fame;  Let half-soul'd poets still on poets fall,  And teach the willing world to scorn them all.  But, let no Muse, pre-eminent as thine,  Of voice melodious, and of force divine,  Stung by wits, wasps, all rights of rank forego,  And turn, and snarl, and bite, at every foe.  No--like thy own Ulysses, make no stay  Shun monsters--and pursue thy streamy way.In 1731 he brought his Tragedy of Athelwold upon the stage inDrury-Lane; which, as he says in his preface to it, was written on thesame subject as his Elfrid or the Fair Inconstant, which he there calls,'An unprun'd wilderness of fancy, with here and there a flower among theleaves; but without any fruit of judgment.'--He likewise mentions it as a folly, having began and finished Elfrid ina week; and both the difference of time and judgment are visible infavour of the last of those performances.That year he met the greatest shock that affliction ever gave him; inthe loss of one of the most worthy of wives, to whom he had been marriedabove twenty years.The following epitaph he wrote, and purpos'd for a monument which hedesigned to erect over her grave.  Enough, cold stone! suffice her long-lov'd name;  Words are too weak to pay her virtues claim.  Temples, and tombs, and tongues, shall waste away,  And power's vain pomp, in mould'ring dust decay.  But e'er mankind a wife more perfect see,  Eternity, O Time! shall bury thee.He was a man susceptible of love, in its sublimest sense; as may be seenin that poetical description of that passion, which he has given in hispoem called the Picture of Love; wrote many years ago (from whence thefollowing two lines are taken)  No wild desire can this proud bliss bestow,  Souls must be match'd in heav'n, tho' mix'd below.About the year 1735 he was concern'd with another gentleman in writing apaper called the Prompter; all those mark'd with a B. were his.--Thiswas meant greatly for the service of the stage; and many of them havebeen regarded in the highest manner.--But, as there was not onlyinstruction, but reproof, the bitter, with the sweet, by some could notbe relish'd.In 1736 having translated from the French of Monsieur de Voltaire, theTragedy of Zara, he gave it to be acted for the benefit of Mr. WilliamBond; and it was represented first, at the Long-Room in Villars-Street,York-Buildings; where that poor gentleman performed the part of Lusignan(the old expiring king) a character he was at that time too well suitedto; being, and looking, almost dead, as in reality he was before the runof it was over.--Soon after this play was brought upon the stage inDrury-Lane, by Mr. Fleetwood, at the earnest sollicitation of Mr.Theophilus Cibber; the part of Zara was played by Mrs. Cibber, and washer first attempt in Tragedy; of the performers therein he makes veryhandsome mention in the preface. This play he dedicated to his royalhighness the Prince of Wales.The same year was acted, at the Theatre in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, anotherTragedy of his translating from the same French author, called Alzira,which was likewise dedicated to the Prince.--His dedications generallywore a different face from those of other writers; he there most warmlyrecommends Monsieur de Voltaire, as worthy of his royal highness'spartiality; disclaiming for himself all expectations of his notice. Buthe was, notwithstanding, particularly honoured with his approbation.These plays, if not a litteral translation, have been thought muchbetter, for their having past his hands; as generously was acknowledgedby Monsieur de Voltaire himself.In 1737 he published a poem called, The Tears of the Muses; composed ofgeneral satire: in the address to the reader he says (speaking ofsatire)  'There is, indeed, something so like cruelty in the face of that  species of poetry, that it can only be reconciled to humanity, by the  general benevolence of its purpose; attacking particulars for the  public advantage.'The following year he wrote (in prose) a book called, An Enquiry intothe Merit of Assassination, with a View to the Character of Caesar; andhis Designs on the Roman Republic.About this time, he in a manner left the world, (though living near sopopulous a part of it as London) and settled at Plaistow in Essex; wherehe entirely devoted himself to his study, family, and garden; and theaccomplishment of many profitable views; particularly one, in which foryears he had laboured through experiments in vain; and when he broughtit to perfection, did not live to reap the benefit of it: The discoveryof the art of making pot-ash like the Russian, which cost this nation,yearly, an immense sum of money.In the year 1743 he published The Fanciad, an Heroic Poem; inscribed tohis grace the duke of Marlborough: Who as no name was then prefixed toit, perhaps, knew not the author by whom he was distinguished in it.Soon after he wrote another, intitled the Impartial; which he inscribed,in the same manner, to the lord Carteret (now earl of Granville). In thebeginning of it are the following lines,  Burn, sooty slander, burn thy blotted scroll;  Greatness is greatness, spite of faction's soul.  Deep let my soul detest th'adhesive pride,  That changing sentiment, unchanges side.It would be tedious to enumerate the variety of smaller pieces he atdifferent times was author of.His notions of the deity were boundlessly extensive; and the few lineshere quoted from his Poem upon faith, published in 1746, must give thebest idea of his sentiments upon that most elevated of all subjects.  What then must be believ'd?--Believe God kind,  To fear were to offend him. Fill thy heart  With his felt laws; and act the good he loves.  Rev'rence his power. Judge him but by his works:  Know him but in his mercies. Rev'rence too  The most mistaken schemes that mean his praise.  Rev'rence his priests.--for ev'ry priest is his,--  Who finds him in his conscience.--This year he published his Art of Acting, a Poem, deriving Rules from anew Principle, for touching the Passions in a natural Manner, &c. Whichwas dedicated to the Earl of Chesterfield.Having for many years been in a manner forgetful of the eight Books hehad finished of his Epic Poem called Gideon,--in 1749 he re-perused thatwork, and published three of the Books; to which he gave the name ofGideon, or the Patriot.--They were inscribed to the late lordBolingbroke; to whom he accounts as follows, for the alterations he hadmade since the first publication of two Books.  Erring, where thousands err'd, in youth's hot smart,  Propulsive prejudice had warp'd his heart:  Bold, and too loud he sigh'd, for high distress,  Fond of the fall'n, nor form'd to serve success;  Partial to woes, had weigh'd their cause too light,  Wept o'er misfortune,--and mis-nam'd it right:  Anguish, attracting, turn'd attachment wrong,  And pity's note mis-tun'd his devious song.'Tis much lamented by many who are admirers of that species of poetry,that the author did not finish it.The same year (after a length of different applications, for severalseasons, at both Theatres without success) his Tragedy, called Merope,was brought upon the stage in Drury-Lane by Mr. Garrick; to whom, aswell as to another gentleman he likewise highly both admired andesteemed, he was greatly obliged; and his own words (here borrowed) willshew how just a sense he had of these obligations.--They begin thepreface to the play.'If there can be a pride that ranks with virtues, it is that we feelfrom friendships with the worthy. Mr. Mallet, therefore, must forgiveme, that I boast the honour he has done my Merope--I have so long been aretreater from the world, that one of the best spirits in it told melately, I had made myself an alien there. I must confess, I owe so manyobligations to its ornaments of most distinguished genius, that I musthave looked upon it as a great unhappiness to have made choice ofsolitude, could I have judged society in general, by a respect so due tothese adorners of it.'And in relation to this Tragedy he says, after very justly censuringMonsieur de Voltaire, for representing in the preface to his Merope theEnglish as incapable of Tragedy,'To such provoking stimulations I have owed inducement to retouch, forMr. Voltaire's use, the characters in his high boasted Merope; and Ihave done it on a plan as near his own as I could bring it with a safeconscience; that is to say, without distaste to English audiences.This he likewise dedicated to lord Bolingbroke; and was the last he everwrote.--There is a melancholy thread of fatal prophecy in the beginningof it; of his own approaching dissolution.  Cover'd in fortune's shade, I rest reclin'd;  My griefs all silent; and my joys resign'd.  With patient eye life's evening gloom survey:  Nor shake th'out-hast'ning sands; nor bid 'em stay--  Yet, while from life my setting prospects fly,  Fain wou'd my mind's weak offspring shun to die.  Fain wou'd their hope some light through time explore;  The name's kind pasport--When the man's no more.From about the time he was solliciting the bringing on this play, anillness seized him; from the tormenting pains of which he had scarce anhour's intermission; and after making trial of all he thought could beof service to him in medicine; he was desirous to try his native air ofLondon (as that of Plaistow was too moist a one) but he was then pastall recovery, and wasted almost to a skeleton, from some internal cause,that had produced a general decay (and was believed to have been aninflamation in the kidneys; which his intense attachment to his studiesmight probably lay the foundation of.--When in town, he had the comfortof being honoured with the visits of the most worthy and esteemed amonghis friends; but he was not permitted many weeks to taste that blessing.[Transcriber's note: closing brackets missing in original.]The same humane and generous Mr. Mallet, who had before aided hisMerope, about this time was making interest for its being played again,for the advantage of its author:--His royal highness the prince ofWales; had the great goodness to command it; and Mr. Hill just lived toexpress his grateful acknowledgments (to those about him) upon hearingof it:--But on the day before it was to be represented he died, in thevery minute of the earthquake, February the eighth, 1749, which heseemed sensible of, though then deprived of utterance. Had he lived twodays longer, he had been sixty-five years old.--He endur'd atwelve-month's torment of the body with a calmness that confess'd asuperiority of soul! He was interred in the same grave with her the mostdear to him when living, in the great cloister of Westminster-Abbey;near the lord Godolphin's tomb.It may be truly said of Mr. Hill, he was a great and general writer; andhad he been possest of the estate he was intitled to, his liberality hadbeen no less extensive than his genius. But often do we see misfortune'sclouds obscure the brightest sunshine.Besides his works which here have been enumerated, there are severalother; particularly two poems, intitled the Creation, and theJudgment-Day; which were published many years ago.--Another in blankverse he published in the time of his retreat into Essex; it was called,Cleon to Lycidas, a Time Piece; the date not marked by the printer.Some years before his death, he talked of making a collection of hisworks for publication; but postponed it for the finishing some pieces,which he did not live to effect.Since his death, four volumes of them have been published bysubscription, for his family. He left one Tragedy, never yet acted;which was wrote originally about 1737, and intitled Caesar; but since, hehas named it the Roman Revenge:--But as the author was avowedly a greatadmirer of Caesar's character, not in the light he is generallyunderstood (that of a tyrant) but in one much more favourable, he wasadvised by several of the first distinction, both in rank and judgment,to make such alterations in it as should adapt it more to the generalopinion; and upon that advice he in a manner new wrote the play: But asmost first opinions are not easily eradicated, it has been never able tomake a public trial of the success; which many of the greatestunderstanding have pronounced it highly worthy of.--The late lordBolingbroke (in a letter wrote to the author) has called it one of thenoblest drama's, that our language, or any age can boast.These few little speeches are taken from the part of Caesar.  'Tis the great mind's expected pain, Calphurnia,  To labour for the thankless.--He who seeks  Reward in ruling, makes ambition guilt;  And living for himself disclaims mankind.And thus speaking to Mark Anthony;  If man were placed above the reach of insult,  To pardon were no virtue.--Think, warm Anthony,  What mercy is--'Tis, daring to be wrong'd,  Yet unprovok'd by pride, persist, in pity.This again to Calphurnia.  No matter.--Virtue triumphs by neglect:  Vice, while it darkens, lends but foil to brightness:  And juster times, removing slander's veil,  Wrong'd merit after death is help'd to live.FOOTNOTES:[1] This was sent us by an unknown hand.[2] This play he made a present of to the patentee, and had several fine    scenes painted for it, at his own expence: He indeed gave all his    pieces to the stage; never taking any benefit, or gratuity from the    managers, as an author--'till his last piece, Merope, was brought on    the stage; when (unhappy gentleman) he was under the necessity of    receiving his profits of the third nights; which 'till then, his    generosity, and spirit, had ever declined.[3] Under the name of Georgia.[4] Savage was of great use to Mr. Pope, in helping him to little    stories, and idle tales, of many persons whose names, lives, and    writings, had been long since forgot, had not Mr. Pope mentioned    them in his Dunciad:--This office was too mean for any one but    inconsistent Savage: Who, with a great deal of absurd pride, could    submit to servile offices; and for the vanity of being thought Mr.    Pope's intimate, made no scruple of frequently sacrificing a regard    to sincerity or truth. He had certainly, at one time, considerable    influence over that great poet; but an assuming arrogance at last    tired out Mr. Pope's patience.[5] A lame come-off.       *       *       *       *       *Mr. LEWIS THEOBALD.This gentleman was born at Sittingburn in Kent, of which place hisfather, Mr. Peter Theobald, was an eminent attorney. His grammaticallearning he received chiefly under the revd. Mr. Ellis, at Isleworth inMiddlesex, and afterwards applied himself to the study and practice ofthe law: but finding that study too tedious and irksome for his genius,he quitted it for the profession of poetry. He engaged in a paper calledthe Censor, published in Mill's Weekly Journal; and by delivering hisopinion with two little reserve, concerning some eminent wits, heexposed himself to their lashes, and resentment. Upon the publication ofPope's Homer, he praised it in the most extravagant terms of admiration;but afterwards thought proper to retract his opinion, for reasons wecannot guess, and abused the very performance he had beforehyperbollically praised.Mr. Pope at first made Mr. Theobald the hero of his Dunciad, butafterwards, for reasons best known to himself, he thought proper todisrobe him of that dignity, and bestow it upon another: with whatpropriety we shall not take upon us to determine, but refer the readerto Mr. Cibber's two letters to Mr. Pope. He was made hero of the poem,the annotator informs us, because no better was to be had. In the firstbook of the Dunciad, Mr. Theobald, or Tibbald, as he is there called, isthus stigmatised,  --Dullness her image full exprest,  But chief in Tibbald's monster-breeding breast;  Sees Gods with Daemons in strange league engage,  And Earth, and heav'n, and hell her battles wage;  She eyed the bard, where supperless he sate,  And pin'd unconscious of his rising fate;  Studious he sate, with all his books around,  Sinking from thought to thought, a vast profound!  Plung'd for his sense, but found no bottom there;  Then writ, and flounder'd on, in meer despair.  He roll'd his eyes, that witness'd huge dismay,  Where yet unpawn'd much learned lumber lay.He describes Mr. Theobald as making the following address to Dulness.  --For thee  Old puns restore, lost blunders nicely seek,  And crucify poor Shakespear once a-week.  For thee I dim these eyes, and stuff this head,  With all such reading as was never read;  For thee, supplying in the worst of days,  Notes to dull books, and prologues to dull plays;  For thee explain a thing till all men doubt it,  And write about it, goddess, and about it;  So spins the silk-worm small its slender store,  And labours till it clouds itself all o'er.In the year 1726 Mr. Theobald published a piece in octavo, calledShakespear Restored: Of this it is said, he was so vain as to aver, inone of Mist's Journals, June the 8th, 'That to expose any errors in itwas impracticable;' and in another, April the 27th, 'That whatever caremight for the future be taken, either by Mr. Pope, or any otherassistants, he would give above five-hundred emendations, that wouldescape them all.'During two whole years, while Mr. Pope was preparing his edition, hepublished advertisements, requesting assistance, and promisingsatisfaction to any who would contribute to its greater perfection. Butthis restorer, who was at that time solliciting favours of him, byletters, did wholly conceal that he had any such design till after itspublication; which he owned in the Daily Journal of November 26, 1728:and then an outcry was made, that Mr. Pope had joined with thebookseller to raise an extravagant subscription; in which he had noshare, of which he had no knowledge, and against which he had publicklyadvertised in his own proposals for Homer.Mr. Theobald was not only thus obnoxious to the resentment of Pope, butwe find him waging war with Mr. Dennis, who treated him with moreroughness, though with less satire. Mr. Theobald in the Censor, Vol. II.No. XXXIII. calls Mr. Dennis by the name of Furius. 'The modern Furius(says he) is to be looked upon as more the object of pity, than thatwhich he daily provokes, laughter, and contempt. Did we really know howmuch this poor man suffers by being contradicted, or which is the samething in effect, by hearing another praised; we should in compassionsometimes attend to him with a silent nod, and let him go away with thetriumphs of his ill-nature. Poor Furius, where any of his cotemporariesare spoken well of, quitting the ground of the present dispute, stepsback a thousand years, to call in the succour of the antients. His verypanegyric is spiteful, and he uses it for the same reason as some ladiesdo their commendations of a dead beauty, who never would have had theirgood word; but that a living one happened to be mentioned in theircompany. His applause is not the tribute of his heart, but the sacrificeof his revenge.'Mr. Dennis in resentment of this representation made of him, in hisremarks on Pope's Homer, page 9. 10. thus mentions him. 'There is anotorious idiot, one HIGHT WHACHUM, who from an Under-spur-leather tothe law, is become an Under strapper to the play-house, who has latelyburlesqued the Metamorphoses of Ovid, by a vile translation, &c. Thisfellow is concerned in an impertinent paper called the Censor.' Such wasthe language of Mr. Dennis, when enflamed by contradiction.In the year 1729 Mr. Theobald introduced upon the stage a Tragedy calledthe Double Falsehood; the greatest part of which he asserted wasShakespear's. Mr. Pope insinuated to the town, that it was all, orcertainly the greatest part written, not by Shakespear, but Theobaldhimself, and quotes this line,  None but thyself can be thy parallel.Which he calls a marvellous line of Theobald, 'unless (says he) the playcalled the Double Falsehood be (as he would have it thought)Shakespear's; but whether this line is his or not, he proves Shakespearto have written as bad.' The arguments which Mr. Theobald uses to provethe play to be Shakespear's are indeed far from satisfactory;--First,that the MS. was above sixty years old;--Secondly, that once Mr.Betterton had it, or he hath heard so;--Thirdly, that some body told himthe author gave it to a bastard daughter of his;--But fourthly, andabove all, that he has a great mind that every thing that is good in ourtongue should be Shakespear's.This Double Falsehood was vindicated by Mr. Theobald, who was attackedagain in the art of sinking in poetry. Here Mr. Theobald endeavours toprove false criticisms, want of understanding Shakespear's manner, andperverse cavelling in Mr. Pope: He justifies himself and the greatdramatic poet, and essays to prove the Tragedy in question to be inreality Shakespear's, and not unworthy of him. We cannot set thiscontroversy in a clearer light, than by transcribing a letter subjoinedto the Double Falsehood.Dear Sir,You desire to know, why in the general attack which Mr. Pope has latelymade against writers living and dead, he has so often had a fling ofsatire at me. I should be very willing to plead guilty to hisindictment, and think as meanly of myself as he can possibly do, werehis quarrel altogether upon a fair, or unbiassed nature. But he is angryat the man; and as Juvenal says--  Facit indignatio versum.He has been pleased to reflect on me in a few quotations from a play,which I had lately the good fortune to usher into the world; I am thereconcerned in reputation to enter upon my defence. There are threepassages in his Art of Sinking in Poetry, which he endeavours to bringinto disgrace from the Double Falsehood.One of these passages alledged by our critical examiner is of thatstamp, which is certain to include me in the class of profound writers.The place so offensive for its cloudiness, is,  --The obscureness of her birth  Cannot eclipse the lustre of her eyes,  Which make her all one light.I must own, I think, there needs no great Oedipus to solve thedifficulty of this passage. Nothing has ever been more common, than forlovers to compare their mistresses eyes to suns and stars. And what doesHenriquez say more here than this, 'That though his mistress be obscureby her birth; yet her eyes are so refulgent, they set her above thatdisadvantage, and make her all over brightness.' I remember anotherrapture in Shakespear, upon a painter's drawing a fine lady's picture,where the thought seems to me every whit as magnified and dark at thefirst glance,--But her eyes--  How could he see to do them! having done one,  Methinks it should have power to steal both his,  And leave itself unfinished.--This passage is taken from the Merchant of Venice, which will appear themore beautiful, the more it is considered.Another passage which Mr. Pope is pleased to be merry with, is in aspeech of Violante's;  Wax! render up thy trust.--This, in his English is open the letter; and he facetiously mingles itwith some pompous instances, most I believe of his own framing; which inplain terms signify no more than, See, whose there; snuff the candle;uncork the bottle; chip the bread; to shew how ridiculous actions of noconsequence are, when too much exalted in the diction. This he bringsunder a figure, which he calls the Buskin, or Stately. But we'll examinecircumstances fairly, and then we shall see which is most ridiculous;the phrase, or our sagacious censurer.Violante is newly debauched by Henriquez, on his solemn promise ofmarrying her: She thinks he is returning to his father's court, as hetold her, for a short time; and expects no letter from him. His servantwho brings the letter, contradicts his master's going for court; andtells her he is gone some two months progress another way, upon a changeof purpose. She who knew what concessions she had made to him, declaresherself by starts, under the greatest agonies; and immediately upon theservant leaving her, expresses an equal impatience, and fear of thecontents of this unexpected letter.  To hearts like mine, suspence is misery.  Wax! render up thy trust,--Be the contents  Prosperous, or fatal, they are all my due.Now Mr. Pope shews us his profound judgment in dramatical passions;thinks a lady in her circumstances cannot without absurdity open aletter that seems to her as surprize, with any more preparation than themost unconcerned person alive should a common letter by the penny-post.I am aware Mr. Pope may reply, his cavil was not against the actionitself of addressing to the wax, but of exalting that action in theterms. In this point I may fairly shelter myself under the judgment of aman, whose character in poetry will vie with any rival this age shallproduce.Mr. Dryden in his Essay on Dramatic Poetry, tells us. 'That when fromthe most elevated thoughts of verse, we pass to those which are mostmean, and which are common with the lowest houshold conversation; yetstill there is a choice to be made of the best words, and the leastvulgar (provided they be apt) to express such thoughts. Our language,says he, is noble, full, and significant; and I know not, why he who ismaster of it, may not cloath ordinary things in it as decently as theLatin, if we use the same diligence in the choice of words.'I come now to the last quotation, which in our examiner's handling,falls under this predicament of _being a thought astonishingly out ofthe way of common sense._  None but himself can be his parallel.This, he hints, may seem borrowed from the thought of that master of ashow in Smithfield, who wrote in large letters over the picture of hisElephant. _This is the greatest Elephant in the world except himself._ Ilike the pleasantry of the banter, but have no great doubt of gettingclear from the severity of it. The lines in the play stand thus.  Is there a treachery like this in baseness,  Recorded any where? It is the deepest;  None but itself can be its parallel.I am not a little surprized, to find that our examiner at last isdwindled into a word-catcher. Literally speaking, indeed, I agree withMr. Pope, that nothing can be the parallel to itself; but allowing alittle for the liberty of expression, does it not plainly imply, that itis a treachery which stands single for the nature of its baseness, andhas not its parallel on record; and that nothing but a treachery equalto it in baseness can parallel it? If this were such nonsense as Popewould willingly have it, it would be a very bad plea for me to alledge,as the truth is, that the line is in Shakespear's old copy; for I mighthave suppressed it. But I hope it is defensible; at least if examplescan keep it in countenance. There is a piece of nonsense of the samekind in the Amphytrio of Plautus: Sofia having survey'd Mercury from topto toe, finds him such an exact resemblance of himself, in dress, shape,and features, that he cries out,  Tam consimil' est, atq; ego.That is, he is as like me, as I am to myself. Now I humbly conceive, instrictness of expression a man can no more be like himself, than a thingits own parallel. But to confine myself to Shakespear. I doubt not but Ican produce some similar passages from him, which literally examined,are stark nonsense; and yet taken with a candid latitude have neverappeared ridiculous. Mr. Pope would scarce allow one man to say toanother. 'Compare and weigh your mistress with your mistress; and Igrant she is a very fair woman; but compare her with some other womanthat I could name, and the case will be very much altered.' Yet the verysubstance of this, is said by Shakespear, in Romeo and Juliet; and Mr.Pope has not degraded it as any absurdity, or unworthy of the author.  Pho! pho! you saw her fair, none else being by;  HERSELF poiz'd with HERSELF in either eye.  But, &c.Or, what shall we say of the three following quotations.ROMEO and JULIET.  --Oh! so light a foot  Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint.WINTER'S TALE.  --For _Cogitation_  Resides not in the man _that does not think._HAMLET.  --Try what repentance can, what can it not?  Yet what can it, when one _cannot repent._Who does not see at once, the heaviest foot that ever trod cannot wearout the everlasting flint? or that he who does not think has no thoughtsin him? or that repentance can avail nothing when a man has notrepentance? yet let these passages appear, with a casting weight ofallowance, and their absurdity will not be so extravagant, as whenexamined by the literal touchstone.--Your's, &c.LEWIS THEOBALD.By perusing the above, the reader will be enabled to discern whether Mr.Pope has wantonly ridiculed the passages in question; or whether Mr.Theobald has, from a superstitious zeal for the memory of Shakespear,defended absurdities, and palliated extravagant blunders.The ingenious Mr. Dodd, who has lately favoured the public with ajudicious collection of the beauties of Shakespear, has quoted abeautiful stroke of Mr. Theobald's, in his Double Falsehood, upon music.  --Strike up, my masters;  But touch the strings with a religious softness;  Teach sounds to languish thro' the night's dull ear,  'Till Melancholy start from her lazy couch,  And carelessness grow concert to attention.ACT I. SCENE III.A gentleman of great judgment happening to commend these lines to Mr.Theobald, he assured him he wrote them himself, and only them in thewhole play.Mr. Theobald, besides his edition of all Shakespear's plays, in which hecorrected, with great pains and ingenuity, many faults which had creptinto that great poet's writings, is the author of the following dramaticpieces.I. The Persian Princess, or the Royal Villain; a Tragedy, acted at theTheatre-Royal in Drury-Lane, printed in the year 1715. The authorobserves in his preface, this play was written and acted before he wasfull nineteen years old.II. The Perfidious Brother; a Tragedy acted at the Theatre in LittleLincoln's-Inn-Fields, 1716. This play is written on the model of Otway'sOrphan; the scene is in a private family in Brussels.III. Pan and Syrinx; an Opera of one act, performed on the Theatre inLittle Lincoln's Inn-Fields, 1717.IV. Decius and Paulina, a Masque; to which is added MusicalEntertainments, as performed at the Theatre in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, inthe Dramatic Opera of Circe.V. Electra, a Tragedy; translated from the Greek of Sophocles, withnotes, printed in the year 1714, dedicated to Joseph Addison, Esq;VI. Oedipus King of Thebes; a Tragedy translated from Sophocles, withnotes, translated in the year 1715, dedicated to the earl of Rockingham.VII. Plutus, or the World's Idol; a Comedy translated from the Greek ofAristophanes, with notes, printed in the year 1715. The author has tothis Translation prefixed a Discourse, containing some Account ofAristophanes, and his two Comedies of Plutus and the Clouds.VIII. The Clouds, a Comedy; translated from Aristophanes, with notes,printed in the year 1715.IX. The Rape of Proserpine; a Farce acted at the Theatre-Royal inLincoln's-Inn-Fields, 1727.X. The Fatal Secret; a Tragedy acted at the Theatre-Royal inCovent-Garden, 1725.XI. The Vocal Parts of an Entertainment, called Apollo and Daphne,or the Burgo Master Trick'd; performed at the Theatre inLincoln's-Inn-Fields, 1726.XII. Double Falsehood; which we have already mentioned.Mr. Theobald's other Works are chiefly these.The Gentleman's Library, containing Rules for Conduct in all Parts ofLife, in 12mo. 1722.The first Book of Homer's Odyssey translated, with notes, 8vo. 1716.The Cave of Poverty, written in imitation of Shakespear.Pindaric Ode on the Union, 1707.A Poem sacred to the Memory of Queen Anne, Folio 1714.Translations from Ovid's Metamorphoses.Lives of Antiochus, and Berenice, from the French, 1717.       *       *       *       *       *The Revd. Dr. SAMUEL CROXALL,The celebrated author of the Fair Circassian, was son of the revd. Mr.Samuel Croxall, rector of Hanworth, Middlesex, and vicar of Walton uponThames in Surry, in the last of which places our author was born. Hereceived his early education at Eton school, and from thence wasadmitted to St. John's College, Cambridge. Probably while he was at theuniversity, he became enamoured of Mrs. Anna Maria Mordaunt, who firstinspired his breast with love, and to whom he dedicates the poem of theCircassian, for which he has been so much distinguished. This dedicationis indeed the characteristic of a youth in love, but then it likewiseproves him altogether unacquainted with the world, and with thateasiness of address which distinguishes a gentleman. A recluse scholarmay be passionately in love, but he discovers it by strains of bombast,and forced allusions, of which this dedication is a very livelyinstance.'The language of the Fair Circassian, says he, like yours, was naturalpoetry; her voice music, and the excellent colouring and formation ofher features, painting; but still, like yours, drawn by the inimitablepencil of nature, life itself; a pattern for the greatest master, butcopying after none; I will not say angels are not cast in the samemould.' And again in another place, 'Pardon, O lovely deity, thepresumption of this address, and favour my weak endeavours. If myconfession of your divine power is any where too faint, believe it notto proceed from a want of due respect, but of a capacity more thanhuman. Whoever thinks of you can no longer be himself; and if he could,ought to be something above man to celebrate the accomplishment of agoddess. To you I owe my creation as a lover, and in the beams of yourbeauty only I live, move, and exist. If there should be a suspension ofyour charms, I should fall to nothing. But it seems to be out of yourpower to deprive us of their kind influence; wherever you shine theyfill all our hearts, and you are charming out of necessity, as theauthor of nature is good.' We have quoted enough to shew the enthusiasm,or rather phrenzy, of this address, which is written in such a manner asif it were intended for a burlesque on the False Sublime, as thespeeches of James I. are upon pedantry.Mr. Croxall, who was intended for holy orders, and, probably, when hepublished the Circassian, had really entered into them, was cautiouslest he should be known to be the author of this piece, since manydivines have esteemed the Song of Solomon, from which it is taken, as aninspired poem, emblematic of the Messiah and the Church. Our author wasof another opinion, and with him almost all sensible men join, inbelieving that it is no more than a beautiful poem, composed by thatEastern monarch, upon some favourite lady in his Seraglio. He artfullyintroduces it with a preface, in which he informs us, that it was thecomposition of a young gentleman, his pupil, lately deceased, executedby him, while he was influenced by that violent passion with which Mrs.Mordaunt inspired him. He then endeavours to ascertain who this Easternbeauty was, who had charms to enflame the heart of the royal poet. He isof opinion it could not be Pharaoh's daughter, as has been commonlyconjectured, because the bride in the Canticles is characterised as aprivate person, a shepherdess, one that kept a vineyard, and was illused by her mother's children, all which will agree very well withsomebody else, but cannot, without great straining, be drawn to fit theEgyptian Princess. He then proceeds, 'seeing we have so good reason toconclude that it was not Pharaoh's daughter, we will next endeavour toshew who she was: and here we are destitute of all manner of light, butwhat is afforded us by that little Arabian manuscript, mentioned in thePhilosophical Transactions of Amsterdam, 1558, said to be found in amarble chest among the ruins of Palmyra, and presented to the universityof Leyden by Dr. Hermanus Hoffman. The contents of which are somethingin the nature of Memoirs of the Court of Solomon; giving a sufficientaccount of the chief offices and posts in his houshold; of the severalfunds of the royal revenue; of the distinct apartments of his palacethere; of the different Seraglios, being fifty two in number in that onecity. Then there is an account given of the Sultanas; their manner oftreatment and living; their birth and country, with some touches oftheir personal endowments, how long they continued in favour, and whatthe result was of the King's fondness for each of them. Among these,there is particular mention made of a slave of more exceeding beautythan had ever been known before; at whose appearance the charms of allthe rest vanished like stars before the morning sun; that the Kingcleaved to her with the strongest affection, and was not seen out of theSeraglio, where she was kept, for about a month. That she was takencaptive, together with her mother, out of a vineyard, on the Coast ofCircassia, by a Corsair of Hiram King of Tyre, and brought to Jerusalem.It is said, she was placed in the ninth Seraglio, to the east ofPalmyra, which, in the Hebrew tongue, is called Tadmor; which, withoutfarther particulars, are sufficient to convince us that this was thecharming person, sung with so much rapture by the Royal poet, and in therecital of whose amour he seems so transported. For she speaks ofherself as one that kept a vineyard, and her mother's introducing her inone of the gardens of pleasure (as it seems she did at her firstpresenting her to the King) is here distinctly mentioned. The manuscriptfurther takes notice, that she was called Saphira, from the heavenlyblue of her eyes.'Notwithstanding the caution with which Mr. Croxall published the FairCircassian, yet it was some years after known to be his. The success itmet with, which was not indeed above its desert, was perhaps too muchfor vanity (of which authors are seldom entirely divested) to resist,and he might be betrayed into a confession, from that powerfulprinciple, of what otherwise would have remained concealed.Some years after it was published, Mr. Cragg, one of the ministers ofthe city of Edinburgh, gave the world a small volume of spiritual poems,in one of which he takes occasion to complain of the prostitution ofgenius, and that few poets have ever turned their thoughts towardsreligious subjects; and mentions the author of the Circassian with greatindignation, for having prostituted his Muse to the purposes oflewdness, in converting the Song of Solomon (a work, as he thought it,of sacred inspiration) into an amorous dialogue between a King and hismistress. His words are,  Curss'd be he that the Circassian wrote,  Perish his fame, contempt be all his lot,  Who basely durst in execrable strains,  Turn holy mysteries into impious scenes.The revd. gentleman met with some remonstrances from his friends, forindulging so splenetic a temper, when he was writing in the cause ofreligion, as to wish any man accursed. Of this censure he was notinsensible; in the next edition of his poems, he softened the sarcasm,by declaring, in a note, that he had no enmity to the author's person,and that when he wished him accursed, be meant not the man, but theauthor, which are two very distinct considerations; for an author may beaccursed, that is, damned to fame, while the man may be in as fair a wayto happiness as any body; but, continues he, I should not have expectedsuch prophanation from a clergyman.The Circassian, however, is a beautiful poem, the numbers are generallysmooth, and there is a tender delicacy in the dialogue, though greatlyinferior to the noble original.Mr. Croxall had not long quitted the university, e'er he was institutedto the living of Hampton in Middlesex; and afterwards to the unitedparishes of St. Mary Somerset, and St. Mary Mounthaw, in the city ofLondon, both which he held 'till his death. He was also chancellor,prebend, and canon residentiary and portionist of the church ofHereford. Towards the latter end of the reign of Queen Anne he publishedtwo original Cantos, in imitation of Spenser's Fairy Queen, which weremeant as a satire on the earl of Oxford's administration. In the year1715 he addressed a poem to the duke of Argyle, upon his obtaining aVictory over the Rebels, and the same year published The Vision, a poem,addressed to the earl of Halifax. He was concerned, with many others, inthe translation of Ovid's Metamorphoses, of which the following wereperformed by him:The Story of Nisus and Scylla, from the sixth Book.The Labyrinth, and Daedalus and Icarus, from the eighth Book.Part of the Fable of Cyparissus from the tenth Book.Most part of the eleventh Book, and The Funeral of Memnon, from thethirteenth Book.He likewise performed an entire Translation of AEsop's Fables.Subjoined to the Fair Circassian are several Poems addressed to Sylvia;Naked Truth, from the second Book of Ovid's Fastorum; HeathenPriestcraft, from the first Book of Ovid's Fastorum; A Midsummer's Wish;and an Ode on Florinda, seen while she was Bathing. He is also author ofa curious work, in one Volume Octavo, entitled Scripture Politics: beinga view of the original constitution, and subsequent revolutions in thegovernment of that people, out of whom the Saviour of the World was toarise: As it is contained in the Bible.In consequence of his strong attachment to the Whig interest, he wasmade archdeacon of Salop 1732, and chaplain in ordinary to his presentMajesty.As late as the year 1750, Dr. Croxall published a poem called The RoyalManual, in the preface to which he endeavours to shew, that it wascomposed by Mr. Andrew Marvel, and found amongst his MSS. but theproprietor declares, that it was written by Dr. Croxall himself. Thiswas the last of his performances, for he died the year following, in apretty advanced age. His abilities, as a poet, we cannot better display,than by the specimen we are about to quote.On FLORINDA, Seen while she was Bathing.  Twas summer, and the clear resplendent moon    Shedding far o'er the plains her full-orb'd light,  Among the lesser stars distinctly shone,    Despoiling of its gloom the scanty night,  When, walking forth, a lonely path I took  Nigh the fair border of a purling brook.  Sweet and refreshing was the midnight air,    Whose gentle motions hush'd the silent grove;  Silent, unless when prick'd with wakeful care    Philomel warbled out her tale of love:  While blooming flowers, which in the meadows grew,  O'er all the place their blended odours threw.  Just by, the limpid river's crystal wave,    Its eddies gilt with Phoebe's silver ray,  Still as it flow'd a glittering lustre gave    With glancing gleams that emulate the day;  Yet oh! not half so bright as those that rise  Where young Florinda bends her smiling eyes.  Whatever pleasing views my senses meet,    Her intermingled charms improve the theme;  The warbling birds, the flow'rs that breath so sweet,    And the soft surface of the dimpled stream,  Resembling in the nymph some lovely part,  With pleasures more exalted seize my heart.  Rapt in these thoughts I negligently rov'd,    Imagin'd transports all my soul employ,  When the delightful voice of her I lov'd    Sent thro' the Shades a sound of real joy.  Confus'd it came, with giggling laughter mixt,  And echo from the banks reply'd betwixt.  Inspir'd with hope, upborn with light desire,    To the dear place my ready footsteps tend.  Quick, as when kindling trails of active fire    Up to their native firmament ascend:  There shrouded in the briers unseen I stood,  And thro' the leaves survey'd the neighb'ring flood.  Florinda, with two sister nymphs, undrest,    Within the channel of the cooly tide,  By bathing sought to sooth her virgin breast,    Nor could the night her dazzling beauties hide;  Her features, glowing with eternal bloom,  Darted, like Hesper, thro' the dusky gloom.  Her hair bound backward in a spiral wreath    Her upper beauties to my sight betray'd;  The happy stream concealing those beneath,    Around her waste with circling waters play'd;  Who, while the fair one on his bosom sported,  Her dainty limbs with liquid kisses courted.  A thousand Cupids with their infant arms    Swam padling in the current here and there;  Some, with smiles innocent, remarked the charms    Of the regardless undesigning fair;  Some, with their little Eben bows full-bended,  And levell'd shafts, the naked girl defended.  Her eyes, her lips, her breasts exactly round,    Of lilly hue, unnumber'd arrows sent;  Which to my heart an easy passage found,    Thrill'd in my bones, and thro' my marrow went:  Some bubbling upward thro' the water came,  Prepar'd by fancy to augment my flame.  Ah love! how ill I bore thy pleasing pain?    For while the tempting scene so near I view'd,  A fierce impatience throb'd in every vein,    Discretion fled and reason lay subdu'd;  My blood beat high, and with its trembling made  A strange commotion in the rustling shade.  Fear seiz'd the tim'rous Naiads, all aghast    Their boding spirits at the omen sink,  Their eyes they wildly on each other cast,    And meditate to gain the farther brink;  When in I plung'd, resolving to asswage  In the cool gulph love's importuning rage.  Ah, stay Florinda (so I meant to speak)    Let not from love the loveliest object fly!  But ere I spoke, a loud combining squeak    From shrilling voices pierc'd the distant sky:  When straight, as each was their peculiar care,  Th' immortal pow'rs to bring relief prepare.  A golden cloud descended from above,    Like that which whilom hung on Ida's brow,  Where Juno, Pallas, and the queen of love,    As then to Paris, were conspicuous now.  Each goddess seiz'd her fav'rite charge, and threw  Around her limbs a robe of azure hue.  But Venus, who with pity saw my flame    Kindled by her own Amorer so bright,  Approv'd in private what she seem'd to blame,    And bless'd me with a vision of delight:  Careless she dropt Florinda's veil aside,  That nothing might her choicest beauties hide.  I saw Elysium and the milky way    Fair-opening to the shades beneath her breast;  In Venus' lap the struggling wanton lay,    And, while she strove to hide, reveal'd the rest.  A mole, embrown'd with no unseemly grace,  Grew near, embellishing the sacred place.  So pleas'd I view'd, as one fatigu'd with heat,    Who near at hand beholds a shady bower,  Joyful, in hope-amidst the kind retreat    To shun the day-star in his noon-tide hour;  Or as when parch'd with droughty thirst he spies  A mossy grot whence purest waters rise.  So I Florinda--but beheld in vain:    Like Tantalus, who in the realms below  Sees blushing fruits, which to increase his pain,    When he attempts to eat, his taste forego.  O Venus! give me more, or let me drink  Of Lethe's fountain, and forget to think.       *       *       *       *       *The Revd. Mr. CHRISTOPHER PITT,The celebrated translator of Virgil, was born in the year 1699. Hereceived his early education in the college near Winchester; and in 1719was removed from thence to new college in Oxford. When he had studiedthere four years, he was preferred to the living of Pimperne inDorsetshire, by his friend and relation, Mr. George Pitt; which he heldduring the remaining part of his life. While he was at the university,he possessed the affection and esteem of all who knew him; and wasparticularly distinguished by that great poet Dr. Young, who so muchadmired the early displays of his genius, that with an engagingfamiliarity he used to call him his son.Amongst the first of Mr. Pitt's performances which saw the light, were apanegyric on lord Stanhope, and a poem on the Plague of Marseilles: Buthe had two large Folio's of MS. Poems, very fairly written out, while hewas a school-boy, which at the time of election were delivered to theexaminers. One of these volumes contained an entire translation ofLucan; and the other consisted of Miscellaneous pieces. Mr. Pitt's Lucanhas never been published; perhaps from the consideration of its beingthe production of his early life, or from a consciousness of its notequalling the translation of that author by Rowe, who executed this talkin the meridian of his genius. Several of his other pieces werepublished afterwards, in his volume of Miscellaneous Poems.The ingenious writer of the Student hath obliged the world by inferringin that work several original pieces by Mr. Pitt; whose name is prefixedto them.Next to his beautiful Translation of Virgil, Mr. Pitt gained thegreatest reputation by rendering into English, Vida's Art of Poetry,which he has executed with the strictest attention to the author'ssense, with the utmost elegance of versification, and without sufferingthe noble spirit of the original to be lost in his translation.This amiable poet died in the year 1748, without leaving one enemybehind him. On his tombstone were engraved these words,  "He lived innocent, and died beloved."Mr. Auditor Benson, who in a pamphlet of his writing, has treatedDryden's translation of Virgil with great contempt, was yet charmed withthat by Mr. Pitt, and found in it some beauties, of which he was fondeven to a degree of enthusiasm. Alliteration is one of those beautiesMr. Benson so much admired, and in praise of which he has a longdissertation in his letters on translated verse. He once took anopportunity, in conversation with Mr. Pitt, to magnify that beauty, andto compliment him upon it. Mr. Pitt thought this article far lessconsiderable than Mr. Benson did; but says he, 'since you are so fond ofalliteration, the following couplet upon Cardinal Woolsey will notdisplease you,  'Begot by butchers, but by bishops bred,  How high his honour holds his haughty head.Benson was no doubt charmed to hear his favourite grace in poetry sobeautifully exemplified, which it certainly is, without any affectationor stiffness. Waller thought this a beauty; and Dryden was very fond ofit. Some late writers, under the notion of imitating these two greatversifiers in this point, run into downright affectation, and are guiltyof the most improper and ridiculous expressions, provided there be butan alliteration. It is very remarkable, that an affectation of thisbeauty is ridiculed by Shakespear, in Love's Labour Lost, Act II. wherethe Pedant Holofernes says,  I will something affect the letter, for it argues facility.--  The praiseful princess pierced, and prickt.--Mr. Upton, in his letter concerning Spencer, observes, that alliterationis ridiculed too in Chaucer, in a passage which every reader does notunderstand.The Ploughman's Tale is written, in some measure, in imitation ofPierce's Ploughman's Visions; and runs chiefly upon some one letter, orat least many stanza's have this affected iteration, as  A full sterne striefe is stirr'd now,--  For some be grete grown on grounde.When the Parson therefore in his order comes to tell his tale, whichreflected on the clergy, he says,  --I am a southern man,  I cannot jest, rum, ram, riff, by letter,  And God wote, rime hold I but little better.Ever since the publication of Mr. Pitt's version of the Aeneid, thelearned world has been divided concerning the just proportion of merit,which ought to be ascribed to it. Some have made no scruple in defianceof the authority of a name, to prefer it to Dryden's, both in exactness,as to his author's sense, and even in the charms of poetry. Thisperhaps, will be best discovered by producing a few shining passages ofthe Aeneid, translated by these two great masters.In biographical writing, the first and most essential principal iscandour, which no reverence for the memory of the dead, nor affectionfor the virtues of the living should violate. The impartiality which wehave endeavoured to observe through this work, obliges us to declare,that so far as our judgment may be trusted, the latter poet has donemost justice to Virgil; that he mines in Pitt with a lustre, whichDryden wanted not power, but leisure to bestow; and a reader, fromPitt's version, will both acquire a more intimate knowledge of Virgil'smeaning, and a more exalted idea of his abilities.--Let not this detractfrom the high representations we have endeavoured in some other placesto make of Dryden. When he undertook Virgil, he was stooping with age,oppressed with wants, and conflicting with infirmities. In thissituation, it was no wonder that much of his vigour was lost; and weought rather to admire the amazing force of genius, which was so littledepressed under all these calamities, than industriously to dwell on hisimperfections.Mr. Spence in one of his chapters on Allegory, in his Polymetis, hasendeavoured to shew, how very little our poets have understood theallegories of the antients, even in their translations of them; and hasinstanced Mr. Dryden's translation of the Aeneid, as he thought him oneof our most celebrated poets. The mistakes are very numerous, and someof them unaccountably gross. Upon this, says Mr. Warton, "I was desirousto examine Mr. Pitt's translation of the same passages; and wassurprized to find near fifty instances which Mr. Spence has given ofDryden's mistakes of that kind, when Mr. Pitt had not fallen into abovethree or four." Mr. Warton then produces some instances, which we shallnot here transcribe, as it will be more entertaining to our readers tohave a few of the most shining passages compared, in which there is thehighest room for rising to a blaze of poetry.There are few strokes in the whole Aeneid, which have been more admiredthan Virgil's description of the Lake of Avernus, Book VI.  Spelunca alta fuit, vastoque immanis hiatu,  Scrupea, tuta lacu nigro, nemorumque tenebris;  Quam super haud ullae poterant impune volantes.  Tendere iter pennis; talis sese halitus atris,  Faucibus effundens supera ad convexa ferebat:  Unde locum Graii dixerunt nomine Aornon.  Quatuor hic primum nigrantes terga juvencos  Constituit, frontique invergit vina sacerdos;  Et, summas carpens media inter cornua setas,  Ignibus imponit sacris libarmina prima,  Voce vocans Hecaten, caeloque ereboque potentem.DRYDEN.  Deep was the cave; and downward as it went,  From the wide mouth, a rocky wide descent;  And here th'access a gloomy grove defends;  And there th'innavigable lake extends.  O'er whose unhappy waters, void of light,  No bird presumes to steer his airy flight;  Such deadly stenches from the depth arise,  And steaming sulphur that infects the skies.  From hence the Grecian bards their legends make,  And give the name Aornus to the lake.  Four fable bullocks in the yoke untaught,  For sacrifice, the pious hero brought.  The priestess pours the wine betwixt their horns:  Then cuts the curling hair, that first oblation burns,  Invoking Hecate hither to repair;  (A powerful name in hell and upper air.)PITT.  Deep, deep, a cavern lies, devoid of light,  All rough with rocks, and horrible to sight;  Its dreadful mouth is fenc'd with sable floods,  And the brown horrors of surrounding woods.  From its black jaws such baleful vapours rise,  Blot the bright day, and blast the golden skies,  That not a bird can stretch her pinions there,  Thro' the thick poisons, and incumber'd air,  But struck by death, her flagging pinions cease;  And hence Aornus was it call'd by Greece.  Hither the priestess, four black heifers led,  Between their horns the hallow'd wine she shed;  From their high front the topmost hairs she drew,  And in the flames the first oblations threw.  Then calls on potent Hecate, renown'd  In Heav'n above, and Erebus profound.The next instance we shall produce, in which, as in the former, Mr. Pitthas greatly exceeded Dryden, is taken from Virgil's description ofElysium, which says Dr. Trap is so charming, that it is almost Elysiumto read it.  His demum exactis, perfecto munere divae,  Devenere locos laetos, & amoena vireta  Fortunatorum nemorum, sedesque beatas.  Largior hic campos aether & lumine vestit  Purpureo; solemque suum, sua sidera norunt.  Pars in gramineis exercent membra palaestris,  Contendunt ludo, & fulva luctanter arena:  Pars pedibus plaudunt choreas, & carmina dicunt.  Necnon Threicius longa cum veste sacerdos  Obloquitur numeris septem discrimina vocum:  Jamque eadem digitis, jam pectine pulsat eburno.PITT.  These rites compleat, they reach the flow'ry plains,  The verdant groves, where endless pleasure reigns.  Here glowing AEther shoots a purple ray,  And o'er the region pours a double day.  From sky to sky th'unwearied splendour runs,  And nobler planets roll round brighter suns.  Some wrestle on the sands, and some in play  And games heroic pass the hours away.  Those raise the song divine, and these advance  In measur'd steps to form the solemn dance.  There Orpheus graceful in his long attire,  In seven divisions strikes the sounding lyre;  Across the chords the quivering quill he flings,  Or with his flying fingers sweeps the strings.DRYDEN.  These holy rites perform'd, they took their way,  Where long extended plains of pleasure lay.  The verdant fields with those of heav'n may vie;  With AEther veiled, and a purple sky:  The blissful seats of happy souls below;  Stars of their own, and their own suns they know.  Their airy limbs in sports they exercise,  And on the green contend the wrestlers prize.  Some in heroic verse divinely sing,  Others in artful measures lead the ring.  The Thracian bard surrounded by the rest,  There stands conspicuous in his flowing vest.  His flying fingers, and harmonious quill,  Strike seven distinguish'd notes, and seven at once they fill.In the celebrated description of the swiftness of Camilla in the VIIthAeneid, which Virgil has laboured with so much industry, Dryden is moreequal to Pitt than in the foregoing instances, tho' we think even inthis he falls short of him.  Illa vel intactae segetis per summa volaret  Gramina, nec teneras curfu laesisset aristas:  Vel mare per medium, fluctu suspensa tumenti  Ferret iter; celeres nec tingeret aequore plantas.DRYDEN.--The fierce virago fought,--  Outstrip'd the winds, in speed upon the plain,  Flew o'er the fields, nor hurt the bearded grain:  She swept the seas, and as she skim'd along,  Her flying feet, unbath'd, on billows hung.PITT.  She led the rapid race, and left behind,  The flagging floods, and pinions of the wind;  Lightly she flies along the level plain,  Nor hurts the tender grass, nor bends the golden grain;  Or o'er the swelling surge suspended sweeps,  And smoothly skims unbath'd along the deeps.We shall produce one passage of a very different kind from the former,that the reader may have the pleasure of making the comparison. This isthe celebrated simile in the XIth Book, when the fiery eagerness ofTurnus panting for the battle, is resembled to that of a Steed; which isperhaps one of the most picturesque beauties in the whole Aeneid.  Qualis, ubi abruptis fugit praesepia vinc'lis,  Tandem liber equus, campoque potitus aperto;  Aut ille in pastus armentaque tendit equarum,  Aut assuetus aquae perfundi flumine noto  Emicat; arrectisque fremit cervicibus alte  Luxurians, luduntque jubae per colla, per armos.DRYDEN.  Freed from his keepers, thus with broken reins,  The wanton courser prances o'er the plains:  Or in the pride of youth, o'erleaps the mounds,  And snuffs the females in forbidden grounds.  Or seeks his wat'ring in the well-known flood,  To quench his thirst, and cool his fiery blood:  He swims luxuriant in the liquid plain;  And o'er his shoulders flows his waving main.  He neighs, he snorts, he bears his head on high;  Before his ample chest, the frothy waters fly.PITT.  So the gay pamper'd steed with loosen'd reins,  Breaks from the stall, and pours along the plains;  With large smooth strokes he rushes to the flood,  Bathes his bright sides, and cools his fiery blood;  Neighs as he flies, and tossing high his head,  Snuffs the fair females in the distant mead;  At every motion o'er his neck reclin'd,  Plays his redundant main, and dances in the wind.From the above specimens, our readers may determine for themselves towhose translation they would give the preference. Critics, likehistorians, should divest themselves of prejudice: they should never bemisguided by the authority of a great name, nor yield that tribute toprescription, which is only due to merit. Mr. Pitt, no doubt, had manyadvantages above Dryden in this arduous province: As he was later in theattempt, he had consequently the version of Dryden to improve upon. Hesaw the errors of that great poet, and avoided them; he discovered hisbeauties, and improved upon them; and as he was not impelled bynecessity, he had leisure to revise, correct, and finish his excellentwork.The Revd. and ingenious Mr. Joseph Warton has given to the world acompleat edition of Virgil's works made English. The Aeneid by Mr. Pitt:The Eclogues, Georgics, and notes on the whole, by himself; with somenew observations by Mr. Holdsworth, Mr. Spence, and others. This is thecompleatest English dress, in which Virgil ever appeared. It is enrichedwith a dissertation on the VIth Book of the Aeneid, by Warburton. On theShield of Aeneas, by Mr. William Whitehead. On the Character of Japis,by the late Dr. Atterbury bishop of Rochester; and three Essays onPastoral, Didactic, and Epic Poetry, by Mr. Warton.       *       *       *       *       *Mr. HAMMOND.This Gentleman, known to the world by the Love Elegies, which some yearsafter his death were published by the Earl of Chesterfield, was the sonof a Turkey merchant, in the city of London. We cannot ascertain wherehe received his education; but it does not appear that he was at any ofthe universities. Mr. Hammond was early preferred to a place about theperson of the late Prince of Wales, which he held till an unfortunateaccident stript him of his reason, or at least so affected hisimagination, that his senses were greatly disordered. The unhappy causeof his calamity was a passion he entertained for one Miss Dashwood,which proved unsuccessful. Upon this occasion it was that he wrote hisLove Elegies, which have been much celebrated for their tenderness. Thelady either could not return his passion with a reciprocal fondness, orentertained too ambitious views to settle her affections upon him, whichhe himself in some of his Elegies seems to hint; for he frequentlymentions her passion for gold and splendour, and justly treats it asvery unworthy a fair one's bosom. The chief beauty of these Elegiescertainly consists in their being written by a man who intimately feltthe subject; for they are more the language of the heart than of thehead. They have warmth, but little poetry, and Mr. Hammond seems to havebeen one of those poets, who are made so by love, not by nature.Mr. Hammond died in the year 1743, in the thirty-first year of his age,at Stow, the seat of his kind patron, the lord Cobham, who honoured himwith a particular intimacy. The editor of Mr. Hammond's Elegiesobserves, that he composed them before he was 21 years of age; a period,says he, when fancy and imagination commonly riot at the expence ofjudgment and correctness. He was sincere in his love, as in hisfriendship; he wrote to his mistress, as he spoke to his friends,nothing but the true genuine sentiments of his heart. Tibullus seems tohave been the model our author judiciously preferred to Ovid; the formerwriting directly from the heart to the heart, the latter too oftenyielding and addressing himself to the imagination.As a specimen of Mr. Hammond's turn for Elegiac Poetry, we shall quotehis third Elegy, in which he upbraids and threatens the avarice ofNeaera, and resolves to quit her.    Should Jove descend in floods of liquid ore,  And golden torrents stream from every part,    That craving bosom still would heave for more,  Not all the Gods cou'd satisfy thy heart.    But may thy folly, which can thus disdain  My honest love, the mighty wrong repay,    May midnight-fire involve thy sordid gain,  And on the shining heaps of rapine prey.    May all the youths, like me, by love deceiv'd,  Not quench the ruin, but applaud the doom,    And when thou dy'st, may not one heart be griev'd:  May not one tear bedew the lonely tomb.    But the deserving, tender, gen'rous maid,  Whose only care is her poor lover's mind,    Tho' ruthless age may bid her beauty fade,  In every friend to love, a friend shall find.    And when the lamp of life will burn no more,  When dead, she seems as in a gentle sleep,    The pitying neighbour shall her loss deplore;  And round the bier assembled lovers weep.    With flow'ry garlands, each revolving year  Shall strow the grave, where truth and softness rest,    Then home returning drop the pious tear,  And bid the turff lie easy on her breast.       *       *       *       *       *Mr. JOHN BANKS.This poet was the son of Mr. John Banks of Sunning in Berkshire, inwhich place he was born in 1709. His father dying while our author wasvery young, the care of his education devolved upon an uncle in law, whoplaced him at a private school, under the tuition of one Mr. Belpene, anAnabaptist. This schoolmaster, so far from encouraging young Banks tomake a great progress in classical learning, exerted his influence withhis relations to have him taken from school, and represented him asincapable of receiving much erudition. This conduct in Mr. Belpeneproceeded from an early jealousy imbibed against this young man, who, sofar from being dull, as the school-master represented him, possessedextraordinary parts, of which he gave very early proofs.Mr. Belpene was perhaps afraid, that as soon as Mr. Banks mould finishhis education, he would be preferred to him as minister to thecongregation of Anabaptists, which place he enjoyed, independent of hisschool. The remonstrances of Mr. Belpene prevailed with Mr. Banks'suncle, who took him from school, and put him apprentice to a Weaver atReading. Before the expiration of the apprenticeship, Mr. Banks had themisfortune to break his arm, and by that accident was disqualified frompursuing the employment to which he was bred. How early Mr. Banks beganto write we cannot determine, but probably the first sallies of his witwere directed against this school-master, by whom he was injuriouslytreated, and by whose unwarrantable jealousy his education, in somemeasure, was ruined. Our author, by the accident already mentioned,being rendered unfit to obtain a livelihood, by any mechanicalemployment, was in a situation deplorable enough. His uncle was eitherunable, or unwilling to assist him, or, perhaps, as the relation betweenthem was only collateral, he had not a sufficient degree of tendernessfor him, to make any efforts in his favour. In this perplexity of ouryoung poet's affairs, ten pounds were left him by a relation, which hevery oeconomically improved to the best advantage. He came to London,and purchasing a parcel of old books, he set up a stall inSpital-Fields.Much about this time Stephen Duck, who had wrote a poem called TheThresher, reaped very great advantages from it, and was caressed bypersons in power, who, in imitation of the Royal patroness, heapedfavours upon him, perhaps more on account of the extraordinary regardQueen Caroline had shewn him, than any opinion of his merit. Mr. Banksconsidered that the success of Mr. Duck was certainly owing to thepeculiarity of his circumstances, and that the novelty of a thresherwriting verses, was the genuine cause of his being taken notice of, andnot any intrinsic excellence in the verses themselves. This reflexioninspired him with a resolution of making an effort of the same kind; butas curiosity was no more to be excited by novelty, the attempt waswithout success. He wrote, in imitation of The Thresher, The Weaver'sMiscellany, which failed producing the intended effect, and, 'tis said,never was reckoned by Mr. Banks himself as any way worthy of particulardistinction. His business of selling books upon a stall becomingdisagreeable to him, as it demanded a constant and uncomfortableattendance, he quitted that way of life, and was received into the shopof one Mr. Montague a bookbinder, and bookseller, whom he served sometime as a journeyman. During the time he lived with Mr. Montague, heemployed his leisure hours in composing several poems, which were nowswelled to such a number, that he might sollicit a subscription for themwith a good grace. He had taken care to improve his acquaintance, and ashe had a power of distinguishing his company, he found his interesthigher in the world than he had imagined. He addressed a poem to Mr.Pope, which he transmitted to that gentleman, with a copy of hisproposals inclosed. Mr. Pope answered his letter, and the civilitiescontained in it, by subscribing for two setts of his poems, and 'tissaid he wrote to Mr. Banks the following compliment,  'May this put money in your purse:  For, friend, believe me, I've seen worse.'The publication of these poems, while they, no doubt, enhanced hisinterest, added likewise something to his reputation; and quitting hisemployment at Mr. Montague's, he made an effort to live by writing only.He engaged in a large work in folio, entitled, The Life of Christ, whichwas very acceptable to the public, and was executed with much piety andprecision.Mr. Banks's next prose work, of any considerable length, was A CriticalReview of the Life of Oliver Cromwell. We have already taken notice thathe received his education among the Anabaptists, and consequently wasattached to those principles, and a favourer of that kind ofconstitution which Cromwell, in the first period of his power, meant toestablish. Of the many Lives of this great man, with which the biographyof this nation has been augmented, perhaps not one is written with atrue dispassionate candour. Men are divided in their sentimentsconcerning the measures which, at that critical AEra, were pursued bycontending factions. The writers, who have undertaken to review thoseunhappy times, have rather struggled to defend a party, to which theymay have been swayed by education or interest, than, by strippingthemselves of all partiality, to dive to the bottom of contentions insearch of truth. The heats of the Civil War produced such animosities,that the fervour which then prevailed, communicated itself to posterity,and, though at the distance of a hundred years, has not yet subsided. Itwill be no wonder then if Mr. Banks's Review is not found altogetherimpartial. He has, in many cases, very successfully defended Cromwell;he has yielded his conduct, in others, to the just censure of the world.But were a Whig and a Tory to read this book, the former would pronouncehim a champion for liberty, and the latter would declare him a subverterof truth, an enemy to monarchy, and a friend to that chaos which Oliverintroduced.Mr. Banks, by his early principles, was, no doubt, biassed to the Whiginterest, and, perhaps, it may be true, that in tracing the actions ofCromwell, he may have dwelt with a kind of increasing pleasure on thebright side of his character, and but slightly hinted at those facts onwhich the other party fasten, when they mean to traduce him as aparricide and an usurper. But supposing the allegation to be true, Mr.Banks, in this particular, has only discovered the common failing ofhumanity: prejudice and partiality being blemishes from which the mindof man, perhaps, can never be entirely purged.Towards the latter end of Mr. Banks's life, he was employed in writingtwo weekly news-papers, the Old England, and the Westminster Journals.Those papers treated chiefly on the politics of the times, and the tradeand navigation of England. They were carried on by our author, withoutoffence to any party, with an honest regard to the public interest, andin the same kind of spirit, that works of that sort generally are. Thesepapers are yet continued by other hands.Mr. Banks had from nature very considerable abilities, and his poemsdeservedly hold the second rank. They are printed in two volumes 8vo.Besides the poems contained in these volumes, there are several otherpoetical pieces of his scattered in news-papers, and other periodicalworks to which he was an occasional contributer. He had the talent ofrelating a tale humorously in verse, and his graver poems have bothforce of thinking, and elegance of numbers to recommend them.Towards the spring of the year 1751 Mr. Banks, who had long been in avery indifferent state of health, visibly declined. His disorder was ofa nervous sort, which he bore with great patience, and even with achearful resignation. This spring proved fatal to him; he died on the19th of April at his house at Islington, where he had lived severalyears in easy circumstances, by the produce of his pen, without leavingone enemy behind him.Mr. Banks was a man of real good nature, of an easy benevolentdisposition, and his friends ever esteemed him as a most agreeablecompanion. He had none of the petulance, which too frequently rendersmen of genius unacceptable to their acquaintance. He was of so composeda temper, that he was seldom known to be in a passion, and he wore aperpetual chearfulness in his countenance. He was rather bashful, thanforward; his address did not qualify him for gay company, and though hepossessed a very extensive knowledge of things, yet, as he had not muchgrace of delivery, or elegance of manner, he could not make so good afigure in conversation, as many persons of his knowledge, with a happierappearance. Of all authors Mr. Banks was the farthest removed from envyor malevolence. As he could not bear the least whisper of detraction, sohe was never heard to express uneasiness at the growing reputation ofanother; nor was he ever engaged in literacy contests. We shall concludethis article in the words of lord Clarendon. 'He that lives such a life,need be less anxious at how short warning it is taken from him [1].'[1] See lord Clarendon's character of the lord Falkland.       *       *       *       *       *Mrs. LAETITIA PILKINGTON.This unfortunate poetess, the circumstances of whose life, written byherself, have lately entertained the public, was born in the year 1712.She was the daughter of Dr. Van Lewen, a gentleman of Dutch extraction,who settled in Dublin. Her mother was descended of an ancient andhonourable family, who have frequently intermarried with the nobility.Mrs. Pilkington, from her earliest infancy, had a strong disposition toletters, and particularly to poetry. All her leisure hours werededicated to the muses; from a reader she quickly became a writer, and,as Mr. Pope expresses it,  'She lisp'd in numbers, for the numbers came.'Her performances were considered as extraordinary for her years, anddrew upon her the admiration of many, who found more pleasure in herconversation, than that of girls generally affords. In consequence of apoetical genius, and an engaging sprightliness peculiar to her, she hadmany wooers, some of whom seriously addressed her, while others meant nomore than the common gallantries of young people. After the usualceremony of a courtship, she became the wife of Mr. Matthew Pilkington,a gentleman in holy orders, and well known in the poetical world by hisvolume of Miscellanies, revised by dean Swift. As we have few materialsfor Mrs. Pilkington's life, beside those furnished by herself in herMemoirs published in 1749, our readers must depend upon her veracity forsome facts which we may be obliged to mention, upon her sole authority.Our poetess, says she, had not been long married, e'er Mr. Pilkingtonbecame jealous, not of her person, but her understanding. She wasapplauded by dean Swift, and many other persons of taste; everycompliment that was paid her, gave a mortal stab to his peace. Beholdthe difference between the lover and the husband! When Mr. Pilkingtoncourted her, he was not more enamoured of her person, than her poetry,he shewed her verses to every body in the enthusiasm of admiration: butnow he was become a husband, it was a kind of treason for a wife topretend to literary accomplishments.It is certainly true, that when a woman happens to have moreunderstanding than her husband, she should be very industrious toconceal it; but it is like wise true, that the natural vanity of the sexis difficult to check, and the vanity of a poet still more difficult:wit in a female mind can no more cease to sparkle, than she whopossesses it, can cease to speak. Mr. Pilkington began to view her withscornful, yet with jealous eyes, and in this situation, nothing butmisery was likely to be their lot. While these jealousies subsisted, Mr.Pilkington, contrary to the advice of his friends, went into England, inorder to serve as chaplain to alderman Barber during his mayoralty ofthe city of London.While he remained in London, and having the strange humour of loving hiswife best at a distance, he wrote her a very kind letter, in which heinformed her, that her verses were like herself, full of elegance andbeauty[1]; that Mr. Pope and others, to whom he had shewn them, longedto see the writer, and that he heartily wished her in London. Thisletter set her heart on flame. London has very attractive charms to mostyoung people, and it cannot be much wondered at if Mrs. Pilkingtonshould take the only opportunity she was ever likely to have, ofgratifying her curiosity: which however proved fatal to her; for thoughwe cannot find, that during this visit to London, her conduct was theleast reproachable, yet, upon her return to Ireland, she underwent aviolent persecution of tongues. They who envied her abilities, fastenednow upon her morals; they were industrious to trace the motives of hergoing to London; her behaviour while she was there; and insinuatedsuspicions against her chastity. These detracters were chiefly of herown sex, who supplied by the bitterest malice what they wanted in power.Not long after this an accident happened, which threw Mrs. Pilkington'saffairs into the utmost confusion. Her father was stabbed, as she hasrelated, by an accident, but many people in Dublin believe, by his ownwife, though some say, by his own hand. Upon this melancholy occasion,Mrs. Pilkington has given an account of her father, which places her ina very amiable light. She discovered for him the most filial tenderness;she watched round his bed, and seems to have been the only relation thenabout him, who deserved his blessing. From the death of her father hersufferings begin, and the subsequent part of her life is a continuedseries of misfortunes.Mr. Pilkington having now no expectation of a fortune by her, threw offall reserve in his behaviour to her. While Mrs. Pilkington was in thecountry for her health, his dislike of her seems to have encreased,and, perhaps, he resolved to get rid of his wife at any rate: nor was helong waiting for an occasion of parting with her. The story of theirseparation may be found at large in her Memoirs. The substance is, thatshe was so indiscreet as to permit a gentleman to be found in herbed-chamber at an unseasonable hour; for which she makes this apology.'Lovers of learning I am sure will pardon me, as I solemnly declare, itwas the attractive charms of a new book, which the gentleman would notlend me, but consented to stay till I read it through, that was thesole motive of my detaining him.' This indeed is a poor evasion; and asMrs. Pilkington has said no more in favour of her innocence, they musthave great charity indeed with whom she can stand exculpated.While the gentleman was with her, the servants let in twelve men at thekitchen window, who, though they might, as she avers, have opened thechamber door, chose rather to break it to pieces, and took both her andthe gentleman prisoners. Her husband now told her, that she must turnout of doors; and taking hold of her hand, made a present of it to thegentleman, who could not in honour refuse to take her, especially as hisown liberty was to be procured upon no other terms. It being then twoo'clock in the morning, and not knowing where to steer, she went homewith her gallant: but she sincerely assures us, that neither of thementertained a thought of any thing like love, but sat like statues 'tillbreak of day.The gentleman who was found with her, was obliged to fly, leaving aletter and five guineas inclosed in it for her. She then took a lodgingin some obscure street, where she was persecuted by infamous women, whowere panders to men of fortune.In the mean time Mr. Pilkington carried on a vigorous prosecutionagainst her in the Spiritual Court; during which, as she says, hesolemnly declared, he would allow her a maintainance, if she never gavehim any opposition: but no sooner had he obtained a separation, than heretracted every word he had said on that subject. Upon this she wasadvised to lodge an appeal, and as every one whom he consulted, assuredhim he would be cast, he made a proposal of giving her a small annuity,and thirty pounds[2] in money; which, in regard to her children, shechose to accept, rather than ruin their father. She was with child atthe time of her separation, and when her labour came on, the woman whereshe lodged insisted upon doubling her rent: whereupon she was obliged towrite petitionary letters, which were not always successful.Having passed the pains and peril of childbirth, she begged of Mr.Pilkington to send her some money to carry her to England; who, in hopesof getting rid of her, sent her nine pounds. She was the more desirousto leave Ireland, as she found her character sinking every day with thepublic. When she was on board the yacht, a gentleman of figure in thegay world took an opportunity of making love to her, which she rejectedwith some indignation. 'Had I (said she) accepted the offers he made me,poverty had never approached me. I dined with him at Parkgate, and Ihope virtue will be rewarded; for though I had but five guineas in theworld to carry me to London, I yet possessed chastity enough to refusefifty for a night's lodging, and that too from a handsome well-bred man.I shall scarcely ever forget his words to me, as they seemed almostprophetic. "Well, madam, said he, you do not know London; you will beundone there." "Why, sir, said I, I hope you don't imagine I will gointo a bad course of life?" "No, madam, said he, but I think you willsit in your chamber and starve;" which, upon my word, I have been prettynear doing; and, but that the Almighty raised me one worthy friend, goodold Mr. Cibber, to whose humanity I am indebted, under God, both forliberty and life, I had been quite lost.'When Mrs. Pilkington arrived in London, her conduct was the reverse ofwhat prudence would have dictated. She wanted to get into favour withthe great, and, for that purpose, took a lodging in St. James's Street,at a guinea a week; upon no other prospect of living, than what mightarise from some poems she intended to publish by subscription. In thisplace she attracted the notice of the company frequenting White'sChocolate-House; and her story, by means of Mr. Cibber, was made knownto persons of the first distinction, who, upon his recommendation, werekind to her.Her acquaintance with Mr. Cibber began by a present she made him of TheTrial of Constancy, a poem of hers, which Mr. Dodsley published. Mr.Cibber, upon this, visited her, and, ever after, with the most unweariedzeal, promoted her interest. The reader cannot expect that we shouldswell this volume by a minute relation of all the incidents whichhappened to her, while she continued a poetical mendicant. She has not,without pride, related all the little tattle which passed between herand persons of distinction, who, through the abundance of theiridleness, thought proper to trifle an hour with her.Her virtue seems now to have been in a declining state; at least, herbehaviour was such, that a man, must have extraordinary faith, who canthink her innocent. She has told us, in the second volume of herMemoirs, that she received from a noble person a present of fiftypounds. This, she says, was the ordeal, or fiery trial; youth, beauty,nobility of birth, attacking at once the most desolate person in theworld. However, we find her soon after this thrown into great distress,and making various applications to persons of distinction forsubscriptions to her poems. Such as favoured her by subscribing, she hasrepaid with most lavish encomiums, and those that withheld that proof oftheir bounty, she has sacrificed to her resentment, by exhibiting themin the most hideous light her imagination could form.From the general account of her characters, this observation results,That such as she has stigmatized for want of charity, ought rather to becensured for want of decency. There might be many reasons, why a personbenevolent in his nature, might yet refuse to subscribe to her; but, ingeneral, such as refused, did it (as she says) in a rude manner, and shewas more piqued at their deficiency in complaisance to her, than theirwant of generosity. Complaisance is easily shewn; it may be done withoutexpence; it often procures admirers, and can never make an enemy. On theother hand, benevolence itself, accompanied with a bad grace, may lay usunder obligations, but can never command our affection. It is said ofKing Charles I. that he bestowed his bounty with so bad a grace, that hedisobliged more by giving, than his son by refusing; and we have heardof a gentleman of great parts, who went to Newgate with a greatersatisfaction, as the judge who committed him accompanied the sentencewith an apology and a compliment, than he received from his releasmentby another, who, in extending the King's mercy to him, allayed the Royalclemency by severe invectives against the gentleman's conduct.We must avoid entering into a detail of the many addresses,disappointments and encouragements, which she met with in her attendanceupon the great: her characters are naturally, sometimes justly, andoften strikingly, exhibited. The incidents of her life while sheremained in London were not very important, though she has related themwith all the advantage they can admit of. They are such as commonlyhappen to poets in distress, though it does not often fall out, that theinsolence of wealth meets with such a bold return as this lady has givenit. There is a spirit of keenness, and freedom runs through her book,she spares no man because he is great by his station, or famous by hisabilities. Some knowledge of the world may be gained from reading herMemoirs; the different humours of mankind she has shewn to the life, andwhatever was ridiculous in the characters she met with, is exposed invery lively terms.The next scene which opens in Mrs. Pilkington's life, is the prison ofthe Marshalsea. The horrors and miseries of this jail she haspathetically described, in such a manner as should affect the heart ofevery rigid creditor. In favour of her fellow-prisoners, she wrote avery moving memorial, which, we are told, excited the legislative powerto grant an Act of Grace for them. After our poetess had remained nineweeks in this prison, she was at last released by the goodness of Mr.Cibber, from whose representation of her distress, no less than sixteendukes contributed a guinea apiece towards her enlargement. When thisnews was brought her, she fainted away with excess of joy. Some timeafter she had tasted liberty, she began to be weary of that continuedattendance upon the great; and therefore was resolved, if ever she wasagain favoured with a competent sum, to turn it into trade, and quit theprecarious life of a poetical mendicant. Mr. Cibber had five guineas inreserve for her, which, with ten more she received from the duke ofMarlborough, enabled her to take a shop in St. James's Street, which shefilled with pamphlets and prints, as being a business better suited toher taste and abilities, than any other. Her adventures, while sheremained a shopkeeper, are not extremely important. She has neglected toinform us how long she continued behind the counter, but has told us,however, that by the liberality of her friends, and the bounty of hersubscribers, she was set above want, and that the autumn of her days waslike to be spent in peace and serenity.But whatever were her prospects, she lived not long to enjoy thecomforts of competence, for on the 29th of August, 1750, a few yearsafter the publication of her second volume, she died at Dublin, in thethirty ninth year of her age.Considered as a writer, she holds no mean rank. She was the author ofThe Turkish Court, or The London Apprentice, acted at the theatre inCaple-street, Dublin, 1748, but never printed. This piece was poorlyperformed, otherwise it promised to have given great satisfaction. Thefirst act of her tragedy of the Roman Father, is no ill specimen of hertalents that way, and throughout her Memoirs there are scattered manybeautiful little pieces, written with a true spirit of poetry, thoughunder all the disadvantages that wit can suffer. Her memory seems tohave been amazingly great, of which her being able to repeat almost allShakespear is an astonishing instance.One of the prettiest of her poetical performances, is the followingAddress to the reverend Dr. Hales, with whom she became acquainted atthe house of captain Mead, near Hampton-Court.To the Revd. Dr. HALES.    Hail, holy sage! whose comprehensive mind,  Not to this narrow spot of earth confin'd,  Thro' num'rous worlds can nature's laws explore,  Where none but Newton ever trod before;  And, guided by philosophy divine,  See thro' his works th'Almighty Maker shine:  Whether you trace him thro' yon rolling spheres,  Where, crown'd with boundless glory, he appears;  Or in the orient sun's resplendent rays,  His setting lustre, or his noon-tide blaze,  New wonders still thy curious search attend,  Begun on earth, in highest Heav'n to end.  O! while thou dost those God-like works pursue,  What thanks, from human-kind to thee are due!  Whose error, doubt, and darkness, you remove,  And charm down knowledge from her throne above.  Nature to thee her choicest secrets yields,  Unlocks her springs, and opens all her fields;  Shews the rich treasure that her breast contains,  In azure fountains, or enamell'd plains;  Each healing stream, each plant of virtuous use,  To thee their medicinal pow'rs produce.  Pining disease and anguish wing their flight,  And rosy health renews us to delight.    When you, with art, the animal dissect,  And, with the microscopic aid, inspect  [Transcriber's note: 'microsopic' in  original]  Where, from the heart, unnumbered rivers glide,  And faithful back return their purple tide;  How fine the mechanism, by thee display'd!  How wonderful is ev'ry creature made!  Vessels, too small for sight, the fluids strain,  Concoct, digest, assimilate, sustain;  In deep attention, and surprize, we gaze,  And to life's author, raptur'd, pour out praise.    What beauties dost thou open to the sight,  Untwisting all the golden threads of light!  Each parent colour tracing to its source,  Distinct they live, obedient to thy force!  Nought from thy penetration is conceal'd,  And light, himself, shines to thy soul reveal'd.    So when the sacred writings you display,  And on the mental eye shed purer day;  In radiant colours truth array'd we see,  Confess her charms, and guided up by thee;  Soaring sublime, on contemplation's wings,  The fountain seek, whence truth eternal springs.  Fain would I wake the consecrated lyre,  And sing the sentiments thou didst inspire!  But find my strength unequal to a theme,  Which asks a Milton's, or a Seraph's flame!  If, thro' weak words, one ray of reason shine,  Thine was the thought, the errors only mine.  Yet may these numbers to thy soul impart  The humble incense of a grateful heart.  Trifles, with God himself, acceptance find,  If offer'd with sincerity of mind;  Then, like the Deity, indulgence shew,  Thou, most like him, of all his works below.FOOTNOTES:[1] An extravagant compliment; for Mrs. Pilkington was far from being a    beauty.[2] Of which, she says, she received only 15 l.       *       *       *       *       *Mr. THOMAS SOUTHERN.This eminent poet was born in Dublin, on the year of the Restoration ofCharles the IId. and received his early education at the universitythere. In the 18th year of his age, he quitted Ireland, and as hisintention was to pursue a lucrative profession, he entered himself inthe Middle-Temple. But the natural vivacity of his mind overcomingconsiderations of advantage, he quitted that state of life, and enteredinto the more agreeable service of the Muses[1].The first dramatic performance of Mr. Southern, his Persian Prince, orLoyal Brother, was acted in the year 1682. The story is taken fromThamas Prince of Persia, a Novel; and the scene is laid in Ispahan inPersia. This play was introduced at a time when the Tory interest wastriumphant in England, and the character of the Loyal brother was nodoubt intended to compliment James Duke of York, who afterwards rewardedthe poet for his service. To this Tragedy Mr. Dryden wrote the Prologueand Epilogue, which furnished Mr. Southern with an opportunity of sayingin his dedication, 'That the Laureat's own pen secured me, maintainingthe out-works, while I lay safe entrenched within his lines; and malice,ill-nature, and censure were forced to grin at a distance.'The Prologue is a continued invective against the Whigs, and whetherconsidered as a party libel, or an induction to a new play, is in everyrespect unworthy of the great hand that wrote it. His next play was aComedy, called the Disappointment, or the Mother in Fashion, performedin the year 1684.--After the accession of king James the IId to thethrone, when the duke of Monmouth made an unfortunate attempt upon hisuncle's crown, Mr. Southern went into the army, in the regiment of footraised by the lord Ferrers, afterwards commanded by the duke of Berwick;and he had three commissions, viz. ensign, lieutenant, and captain,under King James, in that regiment.During the reign of this prince, in the year before the Revolution, hewrote a Tragedy called the Spartan Dame, which however was not actedtill the year 1721. The subject is taken from the Life of Agis inPlutarch, where the character of Chelonis, between the duties of a wifeand daughter was thought to have a near resemblance to that of KingWilliam's Queen Mary. 'I began this play, says Mr. Southern, a yearbefore the Revolution, and near four acts written without any view. Manythings interfering with those times, I laid by what I had written forseventeen years: I shewed it then to the late duke of Devonshire, whowas in every regard a judge; he told me he saw no reason why it mightnot have been acted the year of the Revolution: I then finished it, andas I thought cut out the exceptionable parts, but could not get itacted, not being able to persuade myself to the cutting off those limbs,which I thought essential to the strength and life of it. But since Ifound it must pine in obscurity without it, I consented to theoperation, and after the amputation of every line, very near to thenumber of 400, it stands on its own legs still, and by the favour of thetown, and indulging assistance of friends, has come successfully forwardon the stage.' This play was inimitably acted. Mr. Booth, Mr. Wilks, Mr.Cibber, Mr. Mills, sen. Mrs. Oldfield, and Mrs. Porter, all performed init, in their heighth of reputation, and the full vigour of their powers.Mr. Southern acknowledges in his preface to this play, that the lastscene of the third Act, was almost all written by the honourable JohnStafford, father to the earl of Stafford. Mr. Southern has likewiseacknowledged, that he received from the bookseller, as a price for thisplay, 150 l. which at that time was very extraordinary. He was the firstwho raised the advantage of play writing to a second and third night,which Mr. Pope mentions in the following manner,  --Southern born to raise,  The price of Prologues and of Plays.The reputation which Mr. Dryden gained by the many Prologues he wrote,induced the players to be sollicitous to have one of his to speak, whichwere generally well received by the public. Mr. Dryden's price for aPrologue had usually been five guineas, with which sum Mr. Southernpresented him when he received from him a Prologue for one of his plays.Mr. Dryden returned the money, and said to him; 'Young man this is toolittle, I must have ten guineas.' Mr. Southern on this observ'd, thathis usual price was five guineas. Yes answered Dryden, it has been so,but the players have hitherto had my labours too cheap; for the future Imust have ten guineas [2].Mr. Southern was industrious to draw all imaginable profits from hispoetical labours. Mr. Dryden once took occasion to ask him how much hegot by one of his plays; to which he answered, that he was reallyashamed to inform him. But Mr. Dryden being a little importunate toknow, he plainly told him, that by his last play he cleared sevenhundred pounds; which appeared astonishing to Mr. Dryden, as he himselfhad never been able to acquire more than one hundred by any of his mostsuccessful pieces. The secret is, Mr. Southern was not beneath thedrudgery of sollicitation, and often sold his tickets at a very highprice, by making applications to persons of distinction: a degree ofservility which perhaps Mr. Dryden thought was much beneath the dignityof a poet; and too much in the character of an under-player.That Mr. Dryden entertained a very high opinion of our author'sabilities, appears from his many expressions of kindness towards him. Hehas prefixed a copy of verses to a Comedy of his, called the Wife'sExcuse, acted in the year 1692, with very indifferent success: Of thisComedy, Mr. Dryden had so high an opinion, that he bequeathed to ourpoet, the care of writing half the last act of his Tragedy of Cleomenes,'Which, says Mr. Southern, when it comes into the world will appear tobe so considerable a trust, that all the town will pardon me fordefending this play, that preferred me to it.'Our author continued from time to time to entertain the public with hisdramatic pieces, the greatest part of which met with the success theydeserved. The night on which his Innocent Adultery was first acted,which is perhaps the most moving play in any language; a gentleman tookoccasion to ask Mr. Dryden, what was his opinion of Southern's genius?to which that great poet replied, 'That he thought him such another poetas Otway.' When this reply was communicated to Mr. Southern, heconsidered it as a very great compliment, having no ambition to bethought a more considerable poet than Otway was.Of our author's Comedies, none are in possession of the stage, norperhaps deserve to be so; for in that province he is less excellent thanin Tragedy. The present Laureat, who is perhaps one of the best judgesof Comedy now living, being asked his opinion by a gentleman, ofSouthern's comic dialogue, answered, That it might be denominatedWhip-Syllabub, that is, flashy and light, but indurable; and as it iswithout the Sal Atticum of wit, can never much delight the intelligentpart of the audience.The most finished, and the most pathetic of Mr. Southern's plays, in theopinion of the critics, is his Oroonoko, or the Royal Slave. This dramais built upon a true story, related by Mrs. Behn, in a Novel; and has somuch the greater influence on the audience, as they are sensible thatthe representation is no fiction. In this piece, Mr. Southern hastouched the tender passions with so much skill, that it will perhaps beinjurious to his memory to say of him, that he is second to Otway.Besides the tender and delicate strokes of passion, there are manyshining and manly sentiments in Oroonoko; and one of the greatestgenius's of the present age, has often observed, that in the mostcelebrated play of Shakespear, so many striking thoughts, and such aglow of animated poetry cannot be furnished. This play is so oftenacted, and admired, that any illustration of its beauties here, would beentirely superfluous. His play of The Fatal Marriage, or The InnocentAdultery, met with deserved success; the affecting incidents, andinteresting tale in the tragic part, sufficiently compensate for thelow, trifling, comic part; and when the character of Isabella is acted,as we have seen it, by Mrs. Porter, and Mrs. Woffington, the ladiesseldom fail to sympathise in grief.Mr. Southern died on the 26th of May, in the year 1746, in the 86th yearof his age; the latter part of which he spent in a peaceful serenity,having by his commission as a soldier, and the profits of his dramaticworks, acquired a handsome fortune; and being an exact oeconomist, heimproved what fortune he gained, to the best advantage: He enjoyed thelongest life of all our poets, and died the richest of them, a very fewexcepted.A gentleman whose authority we have already quoted, had likewiseinformed us, that Mr. Southern lived for the last ten years of his lifein Westminster, and attended very constant at divine service in theAbbey, being particularly fond of church music. He never staid withindoors while in health, two days together, having such a circle ofacquaintance of the best rank, that he constantly dined with one orother, by a kind of rotation.FOOTNOTES:[1] Jacob.[2] From the information of a gentleman personally acquaintedwith Mr. Southern, who desires to have his name conceal'd.       *       *       *       *       *The Revd. Mr. JAMES MILLER.This gentleman was born in the year 1703. He was the son of a clergyman,who possessed two considerable livings in Dorsetshire[1]. He receivedhis education at Wadham-College in Oxford, and while he was resident inthat university he composed part of his famous Comedy called the Humoursof Oxford, acted in the year 1729, by the particular recommendation ofMrs. Oldfield.This piece, as it was a lively representation of the follies and vicesof the students of that place, procured the author many enemies.Mr. Miller was designed by his relations to be bred to business, whichhe declined, not being able to endure the servile drudgery it demanded.He no sooner quitted the university than he entered into holy orders,and was immediately preferred to be lecturer in Trinity-College inConduit-Street, and preacher of Roehampton-Chapel. These livings weretoo inconsiderable to afford a genteel subsistence, and therefore it maybe supposed he had recourse to dramatic writing to encrease hisfinances. This kind of composition, however, being reckoned by some veryforeign to his profession, if not inconsistent with it, was thought tohave retarded his preferment in the church. Mr. Miller was likewiseattached to the High-Church interest, a circumstance in the times inwhich he lived, not very favourable to preferment. He was so honesthowever in these principles, that upon a large offer being made him bythe agents for the ministry in the time of a general opposition, he hadvirtue sufficient to withstand the temptation, though his circumstancesat that time were far from being easy. Mr. Miller often confessed tosome of his friends, that this was the fiery trial of his constancy. Hehad received by his wife a very genteel fortune, and a tenderness forher had almost overcome his resolutions; but he recovered again to hisformer firmness, when upon hinting to his wife, the terms upon whichpreferment might be procured, she rejected them with indignation; and hebecame ashamed of his own wavering. This was an instance of honour, fewof which are to be met with in the Lives of the Poets, who have been toogenerally of a time-serving temper, and too pliant to all the folliesand vices of their age. But though Mr. Miller would not purchasepreferment upon the terms of writing for the ministry, he was content tostipulate, never to write against them, which proposal they rejected intheir turn.About a year before Mr. Miller's death, which happened in 1743, he waspresented by Mr. Cary of Dorsetshire, to the profitable living of Upsun,his father had before possess'd, but which this worthy man lived notlong to enjoy; nor had he ever an opportunity of making that provisionfor his family he so much sollicited; and which he even disdained to doat the expence of his honour.Mr. Miller's dramatic works are,I. Humours of Oxford, which we have already mentioned.II. The Mother-in-Law, or the Doctor the Disease; a Comedy, 1733.III. The Man of Taste, a Comedy; acted in the year 1736, which had a runof 30 nights[2].IV. Universal Passion, a Comedy, 1736.V. Art and Nature, a Comedy, 1737.VI. The Coffee-House, a Farce, 1737.VII. An Hospital for Fools, a Farce, 1739.VIII. The Picture, or Cuckold in Conceit.IX. Mahomet the Impostor, a Tragedy; during the run of this play theauthor died.X. Joseph and his Brethren; a sacred Drama.Mr. Miller was author of many occasional pieces in poetry, of which hisHarlequin Horace is the most considerable. This Satire is dedicated toMr. Rich, the present manager of Covent-Garden Theatre, in which with anironical severity he lashes that gentleman, in consequence of someoffence Mr. Rich had given him.Mr. Miller likewise published a volume of Sermons, all written with adistinguished air of piety, and a becoming zeal for the interest of truereligion; and was principally concerned in the translation of Moliere'scomedies, published by Watts.Our author left behind him a son, whose profession is that of a seasurgeon. Proposals for publishing his Poems have been inserted in theGentleman's Magazine, with a specimen, which does him honour. Theprofits of this subscription, are to be appropriated to his mother, whomhe chiefly supported, an amiable instance of filial piety.FOOTNOTES:[1] The account of this gentleman is taken from the information of his    widow.[2] These two pieces were brought on the stage, without the author's    name being known; which, probably, not a little contributed to their    success; the care of the rehearsals being left to Mr. Theo. Cibber,    who played the characters of the Man of Taste, and Squire    Headpiece.       *       *       *       *       *Mr. NICHOLAS AMHURST.This gentleman, well known to the world, by the share he had in thecelebrated anti-court paper called The Craftsman, was born in Marden inKent, but in what year we cannot be certain. Mr. Amhurst's grandfatherwas a clergyman, under whose protection and care he received hiseducation at Merchant-Taylors school. Having received there therudiments of learning, he was removed to St. John's College, Oxford,from which, on account of the libertinism of his principles, and someoffence he gave to the head of that college, it appears, he was ejected.We can give no other account of this affair, than what is drawn from Mr.Amhurst's dedication of his poems to Dr. Delaune, President of St.John's College in Oxford. This dedication abounds with mirth andpleasantry, in which he rallies the Dr. with very pungent irony, andhints at the causes of his disgrace in that famous college. In page 10,of his dedication, he says,'You'll pardon me, good sir, if I think it necessary for your honour tomention the many heinous crimes for which I was brought to shame. Nonewere indeed publicly alledged against me at that time, because it mightas well be done afterwards; sure old Englishmen can never forget thatthere is such a thing as hanging a man for it, and trying himafterwards: so fared it with me; my prosecutors first proved me, by anundeniable argument, to be no fellow of St. John's College, and then tobe--the Lord knows what.'My indictment may be collected out of the faithful annals of commonfame, which run thus,'Advices from Oxford say, that on the 29th of June, 1719, one NicholasAmhurst of St. John's College was expelled for the following reasons;'Imprimis, For loving foreign turnips and Presbyterian bishops.'Item, For ingratitude to his benefactor, that spotless martyr, SirWilliam Laud.'Item, For believing that steeples and organs are not necessary tosalvation.'Item, For preaching without orders, and praying without a commission.'Item, For lampooning priestcraft and petticoatcraft.'Item, For not lampooning the government and the revolution.'Item, For prying into secret history.'My natural modesty will not permit me, like other apologists, toVindicate myself in any one particular, the whole charge is so artfullydrawn up, that no reasonable person would ever think the better of me,should I justify myself 'till doomsday.' Towards the close of thededication, he takes occasion to complain of some severities usedagainst him, at the time of his being excluded the college. 'But I mustcomplain of one thing, whether reasonable or not, let the world judge.When I was voted out of your college, and the nusance was therebyremoved, I thought the resentments of the holy ones would have proceededno further; I am sure the cause of virtue and sound religion I wasthought to offend, required no more; nor could it be of any possibleadvantage to the church, to descend to my private affairs, and stir upmy creditors in the university to take hold of me at a disadvantage,before I could get any money returned; but there are some persons in theworld, who think nothing unjust or inhuman in the prosecution of theirimplacable revenge.'It is probable, that upon this misfortune happening to our author, herepaired to the capital, there to retrieve his ruined affairs. We findhim engaged deeply in the Craftsman, when that paper was in itsmeridian, and when it was more read and attended to than any politicalpaper ever published in England, on account of the assistance given toit by some of the most illustrious and important characters of thenation. It is said, that ten thousand of that paper have been sold inone day.The Miscellanies of Mr. Amhurst, the greatest part of which were writtenat the university, consist chiefly of poems sacred and profane,original, paraphrased, imitated, and translated; tales, epigrams,epistles, love-verses, elegies, and satires. The Miscellany begins witha beautiful paraphrase on the Mosaic Account of the Creation; and endswith a very humorous tale upon the discovery of that useful utensil, ABottle-Screw.Mr. Amhurst died of a fever at Twickenham, April 27, 1742. Our poet hada great enmity to the exorbitant demands, and domineering spirit of theHigh-Church clergy, which he discovers by a poem of his, called, Theconvocation, in five cantos; a kind of satire against all the writers,who shewed themselves enemies of the bishop of Bangor. He translated TheResurrection, and some other of Mr. Addison's Latin pieces.He wrote an epistle (with a petition in it) to Sir John Blount, Bart.one of the directors of the South-Sea Company, 1726.Oculus Britanniae, an Heroi-panegyrical Poem, on the University ofOxford, 8vo. 1724.In a poem of Mr. Amhurst's, called, An Epistle from the PrincessSobiesky to the Chevalier de St. George, he has the following nervouslines, strongly expressive of the passion of love.  Relentless walls and bolts obstruct my way,  And, guards as careless, and as deaf as they;  Or to my James thro' whirlwinds I would, go,  Thro' burning deserts, and o'er alps of snow,  Pass spacious roaring, oceans undismay'd,  And think the mighty dangers well repaid.       *       *       *       *       *Mr. GEORGE LILLO.Was by profession a jeweller. He was born in London, on the 4th of Feb.1693. He lived, as we are informed, near Moorgate, in the sameneighbourhood where he received his birth, and where he was alwaysesteemed as a person of unblemished character. 'Tis said, he waseducated in the principles of the dissenters: be that as it will, hismorals brought no disgrace on any sect or party. Indeed his principalattachment was to the muses.His first piece, brought on the stage, was a Ballad Opera, calledSylvia; or, The Country Burial; performed at the Theatre Royal inLincoln's-Inn Fields, but with no extraordinary success, in the year1730. The year following he brought his play, called The LondonMerchant; or, The True Story of George Barnwell, to Mr. Cibber junior;(then manager of the summer company, at the Theatre Royal in Drury-Lane)who originally played the part of Barnwell.--The author was not thenknown. As this was almost a new species of tragedy, wrote on a veryuncommon subject, he rather chose it should take its fate in the summer,than run the more hazardous fate of encountering the winter criticks.The old ballad of George Barnwell (on which the story was founded) wason this occasion reprinted, and many thousands sold in one day. Manygaily-disposed spirits brought the ballad with them to the play,intending to make their pleasant remarks (as some afterwards owned) andludicrous comparisons between the antient ditty and the modern drama.But the play was very carefully got up, and universally allowed to bewell performed. The piece was thought to be well conducted, and thesubject well managed, and the diction proper and natural; never low, andvery rarely swelling above the characters that spoke. Mr. Pope, amongother persons, distinguished by their rank, or particular publick merit,had the curiosity to attend the performance, and commended the actors,and the author; and remarked, if the latter had erred through the wholeplay, it was only in a few places, where he had unawares led himselfinto a poetical luxuriancy, affecting to be too elevated for thesimplicity of the subject. But the play, in general, spoke so much tothe heart, that the gay persons before mentioned confessed, they weredrawn in to drop their ballads, and pull out their handkerchiefs. It metwith uncommon success; for it was acted above twenty times in the summerseason to great audiences; was frequently bespoke by some eminentmerchants and citizens, who much approved its moral tendency: and, inthe winter following, was acted often to crowded houses: And all theroyal family, at several different times, honoured it with theirappearance. It gained reputation, and brought money to the poet, themanagers, and the performers. Mr. Cibber, jun. not only gave the authorhis usual profits of his third days, &c. but procured him abenefit-night in the winter season, which turned out greatly to hisadvantage; so that he had four benefit-nights in all for that piece; bythe profits whereof, and his copy-money, he gained several hundredpounds. It continued a stock-play in Drury-Lane Theatre till Mr. Cibberleft that house, and went to the Theatre in Covent-Garden. It was oftenacted in the Christmas and Easter holidays, and judged a properentertainment for the apprentices, &c. as being a more instructive,moral, and cautionary drama, than many pieces that had been usuallyexhibited on those days, with little but farce and ribaldry torecommend them.A few years after, he brought out his play of The Christian Hero at theTheatre Royal in Drury-Lane.And another Tragedy called Elmerick.His tragedy of three acts, called Fatal Curiosity, founded on an oldEnglish story, was acted with success at the Hay-Market, in 1737.He wrote another tragedy, never yet acted, called Arden of Feversham.He was a man of strict morals, great good-nature, and sound sense, withan uncommon share of modesty.He died Sept. 3. 1739. and was buried in the vault of Shoreditch church.       *       *       *       *       *Mr. CHARLES JOHNSON.Mr. Charles Johnson was designed for the law; but being an admirer ofthe muses, turned his thoughts to dramatic writing; and luckily being anintimate of Mr. Wilks, by the assistance of his friendship, Mr. Johnsonhad several plays acted, some of which met with success. He was aconstant attendant at Will's and Button's coffee houses, which were theresort of most of the men of taste and literature, during the reigns ofqueen Anne and king George the first. Among these he contracted intimacyenough to intitle him to their patronage, &c on his benefit-nights; bywhich means he lived (with oeconomy) genteelly. At last he married ayoung widow, with a tolerable fortune, and set up a tavern inBow-street, which he quitted on his wife's dying, and lived privately onthe small remainder of his fortune.He died about the year 1744. His parts were not very brilliant; but hisbehaviour was generally thought inoffensive; yet he escaped not thesatire of Mr. Pope, who has been pleased to immortalize him in hisDunciad.His dramatic pieces are,1. The Gentleman Cully, a Comedy: acted at the Theatre-Royal,Covent-Garden, 1702.2. Fortune in her Wits, a Comedy; 1705. It is a very indifferenttranslation of Mr. Cowley's Naufragium Joculare.3. The Force of Friendship, a Tragedy, 1710.4. Love in a Chest, a Farce, 1710.5. The Wife's Relief; or, the Husband's Cure; a Comedy. It is chieflyborrowed from Shirley's Gamester, 1711.6. The Successful Pirate, a Tragi-Comedy, 1712.7. The Generous Husband; or, the Coffee-house Politician; a Comedy,1713.8. The Country Lasses; or, the Custom of the Manor; a Comedy, 1714.9. Love and Liberty; a Tragedy, 1715.10. The Victim; a Tragedy, 1715.11. The Sultaness; a Tragedy, 1717.12. The Cobler of Preston; a Farce of two Acts, 1717.13. Love in a Forest; a Comedy, 1721. Taken from Shakespear's Comedy, Asyou like it.14. The Masquerade; a Comedy, 1723.15. The Village Opera, 1728.16. The Ephesian Matron; a Farce of one Act, 1730.17. Celia; or, the Perjured Lovers; a Tragedy, 1732.       *       *       *       *       *PHILIP FROWDE, Esq;This elegant poet was the son of a gentleman who had beenpost-master-general in the reign of queen Anne. Where our authorreceived his earliest instructions in literature we cannot ascertain;but, at a proper time of life, he was sent to the university of Oxford,where he had the honour of being particularly distinguished by Mr.Addison, who took him under his immediate protection. While he remainedat that university, he became author of several poetical performances;some of which, in Latin, were sufficiently elegant and pure, to intitlethem to a place in the Musae Anglicanae, published by Mr. Addison; anhonour so much the more distinguished, as the purity of the Latin poemscontained in that collection, furnished the first hint to Boileau of thegreatness of the British genius. That celebrated critick of Franceentertained a mean opinion of the English poets, till he occasionallyread the Musae Anglicanae; and then he was persuaded that they who couldwrite with so much elegance in a dead language, must greatly excel inthat which was native to them.Mr. Frowde has likewise obliged the publick with two tragedies; the Fallof Saguntum, dedicated to sir Robert Walpole; and Philotas, addressed tothe earl of Chesterfield. The first of these performances, so far as weare able to judge, has higher merit than the last. The story is moreimportant, being the destruction of a powerful city, than the fall of asingle hero; the incidents rising out of this great event are likewiseof a very interesting nature, and the scenes in many places are notwithout passion, though justly subject to a very general criticism, thatthey are written with too little. Mr. Frowde has been industrious inthis play to conclude his acts with similes, which however exceptionablefor being too long and tedious for the situations of the characters whoutter them, yet are generally just and beautiful. At the end of thefirst act he has the following simile upon sedition:  Sedition, thou art up; and, in the ferment,  To what may not the madding populace,  Gathered together for they scarce know what,  Now loud proclaiming their late, whisper'd grief,  Be wrought at length? Perhaps to yield the city.  Thus where the Alps their airy ridge extend,  Gently at first the melting snows descend;  From the broad slopes, with murm'ring lapse they glide  In soft meanders, down the mountain's side;  But lower fall'n streams, with each other crost,  From rock to rock impetuously are tost,  'Till in the Rhone's capacious bed they're lost.  United there, roll rapidly away,  And roaring, reach, o'er rugged rocks, the sea.In the third act, the poet, by the mouth of a Roman hero, gives thefollowing concise definition of true courage.  True courage is not, where fermenting spirits  Mount in a troubled and unruly stream;  The soul's its proper seat; and reason there  Presiding, guides its cool or warmer motions.The representation of besiegers driven back by the impetuosity of theinhabitants, after they had entered a gate of the city, is stronglypictured by the following simile.  Imagine to thyself a swarm of bees  Driv'n to their hive by some impending storm,  Which, at its little pest, in clustering heaps,  And climbing o'er each other's backs they enter.  Such was the people's flight, and such their haste  To gain the gate.We have observed, that Mr. Frowde's other tragedy, called Philotas, wasaddressed to the earl of Chesterfield; and in the dedication he takescare to inform his lordship, that it had obtained his privateapprobation, before it appeared on the stage. At the time of its beingacted, lord Chesterfield was then embassador to the states-general, andconsequently he was deprived of his patron's countenance during therepresentation. As to the fate of this play, he informs his lordship, itwas very particular: "And I hope (says he) it will not be imputed asvanity to me, when I explain my meaning in an expression of Juvenal,Laudatur & al-get." But from what cause this misfortune attended it, wecannot take upon us to say.Mr. Frowde died at his lodgings in Cecil-street in the Strand, on the19th of Dec. 1738. In the London Daily Post 22d December, the followingamiable character is given of our poet:"But though the elegance of Mr. Frowde's writings has recommended him tothe general publick esteem, the politeness of his genius is the leastamiable part of his character; for he esteemed the talents of wit andlearning, only as they were, conducive to the excitement and practice ofhonour and humanity. Therefore,"with a soul chearful, benevolent, and virtuous, he was in conversationgenteelly delightful; in friendship punctually sincere; in deathchristianly resigned. No man could live more beloved; no private mancould die more lamented."       *       *       *       *       *Mrs. MARY CHANDLER,Was born at Malmsbury in Wiltshire, in the year 1687, of worthy andreputable parents; her father, Mr. Henry Chandler, being minister, manyyears, of the congregation of protestant dissenters in Bath, whoseintegrity, candour, and catholick spirit, gained him the esteem andfriendship of all ranks and parties. She was his eldest daughter, andtrained up carefully in the principles of religion and virtue. But asthe circumstances of the family rendered it necessary that she should bebrought up to business, she was very early employed in it, and incapableof receiving that polite and learned education which she often regrettedthe loss of, and which she afterwards endeavoured to repair bydiligently reading, and carefully studying the best modern writers, andas many as she could of the antient ones, especially the poets, as faras the best translations could assist her.Amongst these, Horace was her favourite; and how just her sentimentswere of that elegant writer, will fully appear from her own words, in aletter to an intimate friend, relating to him, in which she thusexpresses herself: "I have been reading Horace this month past, in thebest translation I could procure of him. O could I read his finesentiments cloathed in his own dress, what would I, what would I notgive! He is more my favorite than Virgil or Homer. I like his subjects,his easy manner. It is nature within my view. He doth not lose me infable, or in the clouds amidst gods and goddesses, who, more brutishthan myself, demand my homage, nor hurry me into the noise and confusionof battles, nor carry me into inchanted circles, to conjure with witchesin an unknown land, but places me with persons like myself, and incountries where every object is familiar to me. In short, his preceptsare plain, and morals intelligible, though not always so perfect as onecould have wished them. But as to this, I consider when and where helived."The hurries of life into which her circumstances at Bath threw her, satfrequently extremely heavy upon a mind so intirely devoted to books andcontemplation as hers was; and as that city, especially in the seasons,but too often furnished her with characters in her own sex that wereextremely displeasing to her, she often, in the most passionate manner,lamented her fate, that tied her down to so disagreeable a situation;for she was of so extremely delicate and generous a soul, that theimprudences and faults of others gave her a very sensible pain, thoughshe had no other connexion with, or interest in them, but what arosefrom the common ties of human nature. This made her occasionalretirements from that place to the country-seats of some of herpeculiarly intimate and honoured friends, doubly delightful to her, asshe there enjoyed the solitude she loved, and could converse, withoutinterruption, with those objects of nature, that never failed to inspireher with the most exquisite satisfaction. One of her friends, whom shehighly honoured and loved, and of whose hospitable house, and pleasantgardens, she was allowed the freest use, was the late excellent Mrs.Stephens, of Sodbury in Gloucestershire, whose feat she celebrated in apoem inscribed to her, inserted in the collection she published. A lady,that was worthy of the highest commendation her muse could bestow uponher. The fine use she made of solitude, the few following lines me wroteon it, will be an honourable testimony to her.  Sweet solitude, the Muses dear delight,  Serene thy day, and peaceful is thy night!  Thou nurse of innocence, fair virtue's friend,  Silent, tho' rapturous, pleasures thee attend.  Earth's verdant scenes, the all surrounding skies  Employ my wondring thoughts, and feast my eyes,  Nature in ev'ry object points the road,  Whence contemplation wings my soul to God.  He's all in all. His wisdom, goodness, pow'r,  Spring in each blade, and bloom in ev'ry flow'r,  Smile o'er the meads, and bend in ev'ry hill,  Glide in the stream, and murmur in the rill  All nature moves obedient to his will.  Heav'n shakes, earth trembles, and the forests nod,  When awful thunders speak the voice of God.However, notwithstanding her love of retirement, and the happyimprovement she knew how to make of it, yet her firm belief that herstation was the appointment of providence, and her earnest desire ofbeing useful to her relations, whom she regarded with the warmestaffection, brought her to submit to the fatigues of her business, towhich, during thirty-five years, she applied herself with, the utmostdiligence and care.Amidst such perpetual avocations, and constant attention to business,her improvements in knowledge, and her extensive acquaintance with thebest writers, are truly surprising. But she well knew the worth of time,and eagerly laid hold of all her leisure hours, not to lavish them awayin fashionable unmeaning amusements; but in the pursuit of what shevalued infinitely more, those substantial acquisitions of true wisdomand goodness, which she knew were the noblest ornaments of thereasonable mind, and the only sources of real and permanent happiness:and she was the more desirous of this kind of accomplishments, as shehad nothing in her shape to recommend her, being grown, by an accidentin her childhood, very irregular in her body, which she had resolutionenough often to make the subject of her own pleasantry, drawing thiswise inference from it, "That as her person would not recommend her, shemust endeavour to cultivate her mind, to make herself agreeable."And indeed this she did with the greatest care; and she had so manyexcellent qualities in her, that though her first appearance could nevercreate any prejudice in her favour, yet it was impossible to know herwithout valuing and esteeming her.Wherever she professed friendship, it was sincere and cordial to theobjects of it; and though she admired whatever was excellent in them,and gave it the commendations it deserved, yet she was not blind totheir faults, especially if such as she apprehended to be inconsistentwith the character of integrity and virtue. As she thought one of thenoblest advantages of real friendship, was the rendering it serviceablemutually to correct, polish, and perfect the characters of those whoprofessed it, and as she was not displeased to be kindly admonishedherself for what her friends thought any little disadvantage to hercharacter, so she took the same liberty with others; but used thatliberty with such a remarkable propriety, tenderness, and politeness, asmade those more sincerely esteem her, with whom she used the greatestfreedom, and has lost her no intimacy but with one person, with whom,for particular reasons, she thought herself obliged to break off allcorrespondence.Nor could one, who had so perfect a veneration and love for religion andvirtue, fail to make her own advantage of the admonitions and reproofsshe gave to others: and she often expressed a very great pleasure, thatthe care she had of those young persons, that were frequently committedto her friendship, put her upon her guard, as to her own temper andconduct, and on a review of her own actions, lest she should any waygive them a wrong example, or omit any thing that was really for theirgood. And if she at any time reflected, that her behaviour to others hadbeen wrong, she, with the greatest ease and frankness, asked the pardonof those she had offended; as not daring to leave to their wrongconstruction any action of hers, lest they should imagine that sheindulged to those faults for which she took the liberty of reprovingthem. Agreeable to this happy disposition of mind, she gave, in anoff-hand manner, the following advice to an intimate friend, who hadseveral children, whom she deservedly honoured, and whom she could notesteem and love beyond his real merits.  To virtue strict, to merit kind,  With temper calm, to trifles blind,  Win them to mend the faults they see,  And copy prudent rules from thee.  Point to examples in their sight,  T'avoid, and scorn, and to delight.  Then love of excellence inspire,  By hope their emulation fire,  You'll gain in time your own desire.She used frequently to complain of herself, as naturally eager, anxious,and peevish. But, by a constant cultivation of that benevolentdisposition, that was never inwrought in any heart in a stronger andmore prevailing manner than in hers, she, in a good measure, dispossestherself of those inward sources of uneasiness, and was pleased with thevictory she had gained over herself, and continually striving to renderit more absolute and complete.Her religion was rational and prevalent. She had, in the former part ofher life, great doubts about christianity, during which state ofuncertainty, she was one of the most uneasy and unhappy persons living.But her own good sense, her inviolable attachment to religion andvirtue, her impartial inquiries, her converse with her believingfriends, her study of the best writers in defence of christianity, andthe observations she made on the temper and conduct, the fall and ruinof some that had discarded their principles, and the irregularities ofothers, who never attended to them, fully at last released her from allher doubts, and made her a firm and established christian. The immediateconsequence of this was, the return of her peace, the possession ofherself, the enjoyment of her friends, and an intire freedom from theterror of any thing that could befall her in the future part of herexistence. Thus she lived a pleasure to all who knew her, and being, atlength, resolved to disengage herself from the hurries of life, and wrapherself up in that retirement she was so fond of, after having gainedwhat she thought a sufficient competency for one of her moderatedesires, and in that station that was allotted her, and settled heraffairs to her own mind, she finally quitted the world, and in a manneragreeable to her own wishes, without being suffered to lie long inweakness and pain, a burthen to herself, or those who attended her:dying after about two days illness, in the 58th year of her age, Sept.11, 1745.She thought the disadvantages of her shape were such, as gave her noreasonable prospect of being happy in a married state, and thereforechose to continue single. She had, however, an honourable offer from acountry gentleman of worth and large fortune, who, attracted merely bythe goodness of her character, took a journey of an hundred miles tovisit her at Bath, where he made his addresses to her. But she convincedhim that such a match could neither be for his happiness, or her own.She had, however, something extremely agreeable and pleasing in herface, and no one could enter into any intimacy of conversation with her,but he immediately lost every disgust towards her, that the firstappearance of her person tended to excite in him.She had the misfortune of a very valetudinary constitution, owing, insome measure, probably to the irregularity of her form. At last, aftermany years illness, she entered, by the late ingenious Dr. Cheney'sadvice, into the vegetable diet, and indeed the utmost extremes of it,living frequently on bread and water; in which she continued so long, asrendered her incapable of taking any more substantial food when sheafterwards needed it; for want of which she was so weak as not to beable to support the attack of her last disorder, and which, I doubt not,hastened on her death. But it must be added, in justice to hercharacter, that the ill state of her health was not the only orprincipal reason that brought her to, and kept her fixed in herresolution, of attempting, and persevering in this mortifying diet. Theconquest of herself, and subjecting her own heart more intirely to thecommand of her reason and principles, was the object she had in especialview in this change of her manner of living; as being firmly persuaded,that the perpetual free use of animal food, and rich wines, tends so toexcite and inflame the passions, as scarce to leave any hope or chance,for that conquest of them which she thought not only religion requires,but the care of our own happiness, renders necessary. And the effect ofthe trial, in her own case, was answerable to her wishes; and what shesays of herself in her own humorous epitaph,  _That time and much thought had all passion extinguish'd_,was well known to be true, by those who were most nearly acquainted withher. Those admirable lines on _Temperance_, in her Bath poem, she pennedfrom a very feeling experience of what she found by her own regard toit, and can never be read too often, as the sense is equal to thegoodness of the poetry.  Fatal effects of luxury and ease!  We drink our poison, and we eat disease,  Indulge our senses at our reason's cost,  Till sense is pain, and reason hurt, or lost.  Not so, O temperance bland! when rul'd by thee,  The brute's obedient, and the man is free.  Soft are his slumbers, balmy is his rest,  His veins not boiling from the midnight feast.  Touch'd by Aurora's rosy hand, he wakes  Peaceful and calm, and with the world partakes  The joyful dawnings of returning day,  For which their grateful thanks the whole creation pay,  All but the human brute. 'Tis he alone,  Whose works of darkness fly the rising sun.  'Tis to thy rules, O temperance, that we owe  All pleasures, which from health and strength can flow,  Vigour of body, purity of mind,  Unclouded reason, sentiments refin'd,  Unmixt, untainted joys, without remorse,  Th' intemperate sinner's never-failing curse.She was observed, from her childhood, to have a fondness for poetry,often entertaining her companions, in a winter's evening, with riddlesin verse, and was extremely fond, at that time of life, of Herbert'spoems. And this disposition grew up with her, and made her apply, in herriper years, to the study of the best of our English poets; and beforeshe attempted any thing considerable, sent many small copies of verses,on particular characters and occasions, to her peculiar friends. Herpoem on the Bath had the full approbation of the publick; and what setsit above censure, had the commendation of Mr. Pope, and many others ofthe first rank, for good sense and politeness. And indeed there are manylines in it admirably penn'd, and that the finest genius need not to beashamed of. It hath ran through several editions; and, when firstpublished, procured her the personal acknowledgments of several of thebrightest quality, and of many others, greatly distinguished as the bestjudges of poetical performances.She was meditating a nobler work, a large poem on the Being andAttributes of God, which was her favourite subject; and, if one mayjudge by the imperfect pieces of it, which she left behind her in herpapers, would have drawn the publick attention, had she liv'd to finishit.She was peculiarly happy in her acquaintance, as she had good senseenough to discern that worth in others she justly thought was thefoundation of all real friendship, and was so happy as to be honouredand loved as a friend, by those whom she would have wished to beconnected with in that sacred character. She had the esteem of that mostexcellent lady, who was superior to all commendation, the late dutchessof Somerset, then countess of Hertford, who hath done her the honour ofseveral visits, and allowed her to return them at the Mount ofMarlborough. Mr. Pope favoured her with his at Bath, and complimentedher for her poem on that place. Mrs. Rowe, of Froom, was one of herparticular friends. 'Twould be endless to name all the persons ofreputation and fortune whom she had the pleasure of being intimatelyacquainted with. She was a good woman, a kind relation, and a faithfulfriend. She had a real genius for poetry, was a most agreeablecorrespondent, had a large fund of good sense, was unblemished in hercharacter, lived highly esteemed, and died greatly lamented,_FINIS_.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Lives of the Poets of GreatBritain and Ireland (1753),Vol. V., by Theophilus Cibber*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LIVES OF THE POETS ******** This file should be named 12090.txt or 12090.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/2/0/9/12090/Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Carol David and PG Distributed ProofreadersUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALLThe Project Gutenberg EBook of Tartarin de Tarascon, by Alphonse DaudetThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: Tartarin de TarasconAuthor: Alphonse DaudetRelease Date: January 11, 2004 [EBook #10687]Language: French (with English)Character set encoding: ISO Latin-1*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TARTARIN DE TARASCON ***Produced by Ted Garvin, Renald Levesque and PG Distributed ProofreadersTARTARIN DE TARASCONPARALPHONSE DAUDETWITH INTRODUCTION, NOTES,  AND EXERCISESBYBARRY CERFASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF ROMANCE LANGUAGES INTHE UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSINPREFACEThe test of this edition is reprinted without alteration from that of the"Collection Guillaume" (E. Flammarion, Paris, publisher)."Tartarin de Tarascon" should be read by high-school students at the endof their second or in their third year and by college students at the endof the first or in the second year.It is with great pleasure that I express my indebtedness for manysuggestions to my friend Professor W.F. Giese of the University ofWisconsin.B.C.MADISON, WISCONSINCONTENTSINTRODUCTIONBIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTETEXT  PREMIER EPISODE: A TARASCON    I. Le jardin du baobab.   II. Coup d'oeil general jete sur la bonne ville de Tarascon; les       chasseurs de Casquettes.  III. Nan! nan! nan! Suite du coup d'oeil general jete sur la bonne ville       de Tarascon.   IV. Ils!!!    V. Quand Tartarin de Tarascon allait au cercle.   VI. Les deux Tartarins.  VII. Les Europeens a Shang-hai. Le Haut Commerce. Les Tartares. Tartarin       de Tarascon serait-il un imposteur? Le mirage. VIII. La menagerie Mitaine. Un lion de l'Atlas a Tarascon. Terrible et       solennelle entrevue!   IX. Singuliers effets du mirage.    X. Avant le depart.   XI. Des coups d'epee, messieurs, des coups d'epee, mais pas de coups       d'epingle!  XII. De ce qui fut dit dans la petite maison du baobab. XIII. Le depart.  XIV. Le port de Marseille. Embarque! embarque!  DEUXIEME EPISODE CHEZ LES TEURS    I. La traversee. Les cinq positions de la chechia. Le soir du       troisieme jour. Misericorde!   II. Aux armes! aux armes!  III. Invocation a Cervantes. Debarquement. Ou sont les Teurs? Pas de       Teurs.       Desillusion.   IV. Le premier affut.    V. Pan! Pan!   VI. Arrivee de la femelle. Terrible combat. Le Rendez-vous des Lapins.  VII. Histoire d'un omnibus, d'une Mauresque et d'un chapelet de fleurs       De Jasmin. VIII. Lions de l'Atlas, dormez!   IX. Le prince Gregory du Montenegro.    X. Dis-moi le nom de ton pere, et je te dirai le nom de cette fleur.   XI. Sidi Tart'ri ben Tart'ri.  XII. On nous ecrit de Tarascon.  TROISIEME EPISODE: CHEZ LES LIONS    I. Les diligences deportees.   II. Ou l'on voit passer un petit monsieur.  III. Un couvent de lions.   IV. La caravane en marche.    V. L'affut du soir dans un bois de lauriers-roses.   VI. Enfin!  VII. Catastrophes sur catastrophes. VIII. Tarascon! Tarascon!NOTESEXERCISESINTRODUCTIONALPHONSE DAUDET(_Nimes, May 13, 1840; Paris, December 16, 1897_)Alphonse Daudet was born in the ancient Provencal city of Nimes, near theRhone, May 13, 1840. In this same year Emile Zola, destined like Daudet topass his youth in Provence, was born at Paris.As a result of the commercial upheaval which attended the revolution of1848, Daudet's father, a wealthy silk manufacturer, was ruined. After ahard struggle he was forced to give up his business at Nimes and moved toLyons (1849). He was not successful here, and finally, in 1856, the familywas broken up. The sons now had to shift for themselves.These first sixteen years of Alphonse Daudet's life were far from unhappy.He had found delight in exploring the abandoned factory at Nimes. Hisschool days at Lyons were equally agreeable  to the young vagabond. Hisstudies occupied him little; he loved to wander through the streets of thegreat city, finding everywhere food for fanciful speculation. He wouldfollow a person he did not know, scrutinizing his every movement, andstriving to lose his own identity in that of the other, to live theother's life. His frequent days of truancy he spent in these idle rambles,or in drifting down the river. Literary ambition had already seized him;he had written a novel (of which no trace remains) and numerous verses.Notwithstanding his lack of application to study, he had succeeded incompleting the course of the _lycee_.In 1856 when it became certain that the father could no longer care forthe family, the mother and daughter took refuge in the home of relatives;Ernest, the older of the two surviving sons, sought his fortune in theliterary circles of Paris; and Alphonse accepted a position as "master ofthe study hall" (_maitre d'etudes, pion_) at the college of Alais in theCevennes. The boy was too young, too delicate, and too sensitive to beable to endure the mental suffering and humiliation to which he wassubjected at the hands of the bullies of this school.[1] After a year ofmartyrdom he set out on his terrible journey to Paris. Here he waswelcomed by his brother Ernest.[Footnote 1: See "Le Petit Chose," "Little What's-His-Name."]The two brothers had always felt and always continued to feel the closestsympathy for each other. Ernest believed in Alphonse's genius more than inhis own, and bestowed on his younger brother the motherly devotion whichAlphonse so gratefully  and tenderly acknowledges in "Le Petit Chose," hisromantic autobiography, where Ernest appears as "ma mere Jacques."The first years in Paris were the darkest in the brothers' lives. Theycould earn scarcely enough to satisfy their most pressing needs, but bothwere happy, since they were in Paris. Before Alphonse's arrival Ernest hadsecured regular employment on a newspaper. Alphonse was longing forrecognition as a poet, but to earn his living he was forced to turn toprose. His contributions to _Le Figaro_ and other newspapers soon made himknown. He wrote little and carefully, nor did he forget his literaryideals even when poverty might have excused hurried productions in thestyle best calculated to sell. His literary conscience was as strong underthe trying circumstances of his debut as later when success broughtindependence.[2][Footnote 2: See E. Daudet, "_Mon Frere et moi_," pp. 151-152. Daudetfrequently says of himself that he was by nature an improviser, that thelabor of meticulous composition to which he forced himself was a torture,yet he remained always true to his ideal.]During this period he lived among the Bohemians of the Parisian world ofletters; but, though he shared their joys and sorrows, he seems to haveemerged unscathed from the dangers of such an existence. Zola met Daudetat this time and has left us an attractive picture of him: "He was in theemploy of a successful newspaper, he used to bring in his article, receivehis remuneration, and disappear with the nonchalance of a young god, sunkin poetry, far from the petty cares of this world. He was living, I think,outside of the city, in a remote corner with other poets, a band of joyousBohemians. He was beautiful, with the delicate, nervous beauty of anArabian horse, an ample mane, a silky divided beard, large eyes, a thinnose, a passionate mouth, and, to crown all that, a certain flash oflight, a breath of tender voluptuousness, which bathed his whole face in asmile that was both roguish and sensual. There was in him something of theParisian Street gamin and something of the Oriental woman."[1][Footnote 1: "Les Romanciers naturalistes," pp. 256-257.]Daudet's first volume was a collection of verse, "Les Amoureuses" (1858,published by Tardieu, a Provencal). These simple poems are charming intheir freshness and naivete, and established Daudet's reputation as awriter of light verse. The whole volume, and especially "Les Prunes,"attracted the attention of the Empress Eugenie. At her solicitation Daudetwas made one of the secretaries of the powerful Duke of Morny, presidentof the _corps legislatif_ (1860). His duties were purely nominal. He nowhad money enough to keep the wolf from his door and was free to devotehimself to literature.It was at this time that the stage began to attract him. His first play,"La Derniere Idole," was produced at the Odeon in 1862. Almost every otheryear between 1862 and 1892 a new play, on untried themes, or adapted fromone of his novels and usually written in collaboration, appeared at aParisian theater. Of all these only one, "L'Arlesienne" (1872), is worthyof its author.Already in 1859, as a result of the suffering of the preceding years andlack of precautions, his health had begun to fail. He spent the winters of1861-1864 in Algeria, Corsica, and Provence.  These voyages were of vitalimportance in his development.  He learned something of the world andbecame better fitted to study conditions in his own narrow sphere; at thesame time he acquired the power of vigorous description and collectedmaterial for some of his finest short stories and for the Tartarin series.A portion of the summer of 1861 he dreamed away in an abandoned mill[1]near Fontvieille, between Tarascon and Arles. From here he sent to theParisian newspapers _L'Evenement_ and _Le Figaro_ those delightful storiesand sketches which were gathered and published in 1869 under the title"Lettres de mon moulin." Of all the many volumes of Daudet's collectedworks this is the most satisfying: it is here that the distinctiveproducts of his genius are to be sought; and it is on these stories, witha few from later collections, and on "Tartarin de Tarascon," that hisclaim to immortality will finally rest. It is here that we find several ofhis most excellent stories: "Le Secret de maitre Cornille", "La Chevre deM. Seguin", "La Mule du pape", "Le Cure de Cucugnan", "L'Elixir dureverend pere Gaucher" and others.[Footnote 1: Daudet did not live in the mill which he has made famous, buthe spent there "de longues journees"; he never owned it, but the deedwhich serves so picturesquely as preface to his book is not entirelyapocryphal. See "Trente Ans de Paris," p. 164.]In 1865, at the death of Morny, he gave up his secretaryship and appliedhimself exclusively to literature.In 1866 he met Julie Allard, and early the next year they were married. Tohis wife, a lady of exquisite taste, Daudet owed unfailing encouragementand competent, sympathetic criticism."Le Petit Chose," his first long work, had been begun in 1866 during hisstay in Provence; it was published in 1868. The first part, which is ofgreat interest, is largely autobiographical and covers the childhood andyouth of the writer up to his first years in Paris; the second part is acolorless romance of no particular merit. Daudet himself confessed thatthe work had been written too soon and with too little reflection. "I wishI had waited," he said; "something good might have been written on myyouth".[1][Footnote 1: See "Trente Ans de Paris," pp. 75, 85, and Sherard, "AlphonseDaudet," p. 301.]"Tartarin de Tarascon" was written in 1869.Success and happiness had crowned Daudet's efforts. He was spending histime in all tranquility, now at Paris, now at Champrosay, where heoccupied the house of the painter Delacroix. Suddenly in July, 1870, thewar cloud burst. Daudet lay stretched out on his bed fretfully nursing abroken leg. On his recovery he shouldered his gun and joined in thehopeless defense of Paris.It was the war that killed the old Daudet and brought into existence thenew. Before the war, Daudet himself confesses it, he had lived free fromcare, singing and trifling, heedless of the vexing problems of society andthe world, his heart aglow with the fire of the sun of his nativeProvence. The war awakened in our sensitive poet a seriousness of purposewhich harmonized but little with his native genius. Among his friends henever lost his old-time buoyant gaiety; but his works from now on showonly a trace of it. The charming "Belle-Nivernaise" (1886), a few"tarasconades," a gleam here and there in all his works, remind us of ourold friend and plead for our sympathy with the new.During the next few years he added to his reputation as a writer of shortstories; to this period belong several collections of tales and sketches:"Lettres a un absent" (1871), "Contes du lundi" (1873), "Les Femmesd'artistes" (1874), "Robert Helmont" (1874). A few of the stories arestill more or less in the manner of the "Lettres de mon moulin" ("Le Papeest mort," "Un Reveillon dans le marais," "Les Emotions d'un perdreaurouge"), but all these volumes, except "Les Femmes d'artistes," areinspired by the war. The playfulness of the youthful Daudet is stillapparent here and there in the war stories ("La Pendule de Bougival," "LesPetits Pates"), but a sterner tone is prevalent.The great novels which now follow are the fruit of meditation, theripening process which the war precipitated, and which was fed from theflame of Flaubert, Goncourt, Zola, and others. Neglecting almost entirelythose elements of his genius which came to him as his birthright, hedevotes himself henceforth to a study of the problems of life. OurProvencal cicada has a purpose now: nothing else than the reformation ofall social abuses. He does not single out one and attack it time aftertime, but he springs restlessly from one to another, directing high andlow his relentless inquiry."Fromont jeune et Risler aine" (1874) is the first of Daudet's greatnovels and one of his strongest studies. Sidonie, the daughter of humblebourgeois parents, is filled with a longing for luxury and socialprominence. She succeeds in becoming the wife of Fromont, a simple, honestworkman whose talent and industry have brought him wealth. Sidonie'sunscrupulousness in the pursuit of her object spreads ruin. Risler, thepartner of Fromont, withdraws large sums from the common treasury tosatisfy the extravagant desires of Sidonie whom he loves. Fromont's  eyesare at last opened; he finds the firm, which had always been his pride, onthe verge of bankruptcy; he discovers the perfidy of Sidonie and attemptsto force her to beg on her knees the forgiveness of Risler'slong-suffering wife. Sidonie flees and becomes a concert-hall singer. Herrevenge is complete when by means of a letter she proves to Fromont thatshe has corrupted his much-loved younger brother. Fromont hangs himself.Outside the main current of the plot Daudet sketches one of the littledramas of humble life of which he was so fond: the story of Delobelle, animpoverished actor who lives for his art while his devoted wife anddaughter Desiree patiently ply the needle to earn bread.Daudet up to this time had been recognized as the greatest of Frenchshort-story writers. The success of "Fromont jeune et Risler aine" wasimmediate, and in his succeeding novels he confirmed more and more surelyhis right to a place in the front rank of French novelists.From this story of the life of the _petite bourgeoisie_ he turns to awider field. The Bohemia of Paris, a glimpse of the country, andespecially the life of the artisan, fill "Jack" (1876). Daudet had knownthe real Jack at Champrosay in 1868. In the novel Jack is the illegitimateson of Ida de Barency, a shallow demi-mondaine who is passionately devotedto the boy but brings to him nothing but misfortune. Jack begins hissuffering in a wretched school where his mother has placed him after theJesuits had refused to receive him. This school is supported by thetuition fees of boys from tropical countries, _petits pays chauds_, asMoronval, the villainous director, calls them. The teachers belong to thatclass of _rates_, artistic and literary failures, whom Daudet learned toknow well during his first years in Paris. One of these _rates_ captivatesIda de Barency, and Jack's life of misery continues. Despite his physicalunfitness, he is sent to labor in the shipbuilding yards at Indret,suffers tortures in the stoking room of an ocean steamer, is wrecked, andreturns to France in a piteous condition. His love for Cecile,granddaughter of a gentle country doctor, is rapidly making a man of him,when his mother enters again into his life and the poor boy dies miserablyin a hospital, killed by despair rather than by disease.This is perhaps the most powerful of Daudet's novels; it is certainly themost harrowing. The tragedy of the whole is only slightly relieved by theinterweaving of the romance of good Belisaire, the hawker, one of Jack'sfew friends."Le Nabab" (1878) is concerned with politics, the richer bourgeoisie, andthe aristocracy. Jansoulet, the "nabob," returns from Tunis with a largefortune and immediately becomes the prey of parasites. He is made theenemy of the banker Hemerlingue through the social rivalry of their wives.He is elected _depute_ from Corsica. The legality of the election isquestioned. Jansoulet is supported by the prime minister, the duc de Mora,but the latter dies suddenly, Jansoulet's election is declared invalid,and he dies from a stroke of apoplexy.Despite the protest of the author, contemporaries found originals for anumber of the characters of this novel. The duc de Mora is Morny, andseveral others have been identified with greater or less certainty.Felicia Ruys is perhaps Sarah Bernhardt.The purely romantic element of the work is found in the story of Paul deGery and the Joyeuse family, a secondary plot having no vital connectionwith the main story.In "Les Rois en exil" (1880) Daudet explores a new vein in contemporarysociety. He explains that the idea of the work occured to him one Octoberevening when, standing in the Place du Carrousel, he was contemplating theruins of the Tuileries. The wreck of the Empire brought to his mind avision of the dethroned monarchs whom he had seen spending their exile inParis: the Duke of Brunswick, the blind King of Hanover and the devotedPrincess Frederica, Queen Isabella of Spain, and others. "This is the workwhich cost me most effort," Daudet says, and the reason is not far toseek. He had always painted "from life," and the difficulties incident togaining an entrance into the intimacy of even dethroned monarchs werealmost insurmountable. The novelist's acquaintances were appealed to, fromhouse-furnishers to diplomats. The story of the composition of "Les Roisen exil" is an interesting study of Daudet's methods, his inexorableinsistence on truth, even to the most minute details.As usual, the characters are sharply contrasted. Christian, the exiledking of Illyria, is detestably weak; Frederique, his wife devoting herselfcompletely to the interests of her son, Zara, struggles with the aid ofthe faithful preceptor, Meraut, to prepare the prince for a throne whichhe is never to ascend. Of all the characters that appear in Daudet'snovels it is perhaps Frederique whose appeal to the reader is strongest,and Frederique is almost entirely the product of the author's imagination.We cannot but regret the many visions such as Frederique which wererefused admittance to Daudet's essentially romantic mind by theuncompromising laws of a realism which he had mistakenly accepted as hisguide.The composition of "Les Rois en exil" is defective, but its charm isgreat. In "Numa Roumestan" (1881) the technique is better. Daudet's firstintention was to entitle this work "Nord et midi," his idea being tocontrast the north with the south, a theme for which he always had apredilection. Numa is a refined Tartarin; Daudet sends him to Paris, andstudies the result. Numa carries all before him by his robust vigor andgeniality. The "mirage" effects of the southern sun pursue him to Paris;quick to promise out of the fullness of his hearty enthusiasm, heencourages and disappoints those who trust themselves to him. He deceiveshis wife, begs her forgiveness with abundant tears, and in a disgustingmanner deceives her a second time. The book ends with the picture ofRosalie Roumestan bending over her new-born son. "Will you be a liar too?"She asks. "Will you be a Roumestan, tell me?""L'Evangeliste" (1883), a psychological study rather than a novel, is aheartbreaking picture of the inhumanity of religious fanaticism. "Sapho"(1884) is so essentially French in spirit that it can hardly be understoodby American readers. Daudet dedicates it "To my sons when they aretwenty." It is intended as a lesson, and if naturalistic works ever cancarry a lesson this one certainly does. It is a striking picture of theevils of _faux menages_. On the whole "Sapho" is disagreeable, yet of thenovels it seems to be Daudet's masterpiece, perhaps because it is the mostromantic.  The truth may be photographed in its most minute realisticdetails, as in Zola, or it may be colored by poetic fancy; this hashappened in "Numa Roumestan" and especially in "Sapho," the two novels ofDaudet which appear most likely to live. In "Sapho" there is a tender notewhich is lacking in "Jack" and in "Fromont jeune et Risler aine"; Daudet'snature fitted him to inspire pity rather than indignation. And we mustremember that while writing "Sapho" he had in mind the future of his ownsons. He looks forward, and in hope of a fortunate issue tells frankly, ina kindly manner, a true story  which he hopes may be fruitful of goodresults. If, instead of assuming the role of inquisitorial censor,naturalists would show sympathy for erring mankind, if they would lookforward with hope instead of fixing their horrified eyes on the present orthe past, their judgments would not tend to make us give up in despair,but might encourage and instruct. "Sapho" is the last of the great novels."L'Immortel" (1888) is a weak and unjust satire directed against theFrench Academy. "Rose et Ninette" (1892) is a study of the evils ofdivorce; "La Petite Paroisse" (1895), the only one of the novels with ahappy outcome, is a study of jealousy.  In "Soutien de famille" (1898,posthumous) two brothers are contrasted; the older, as a matter of courserecognized as the head of the family, is weak, and the younger is the real"prop of the family."Just after "Sapho" (1884) Daudet's health had begun to decline. Long yearsof suffering follow, but, although in almost constant pain, theindefatigable worker remains at his desk.In "Souvenirs d'un homme de lettres" (1888) and "Trente Ans de Paris"(1888) Daudet tells the story of his life and literary activity. It isthrough these works that we become intimately acquainted with our author,and we are not disillusioned. "Entre les frises et la rampe" (1893)contains studies of the stage and its people.       *       *       *       *       *Daudet claimed to be an independent,[1] and was indignant when an attemptwas made to class him with any school. He was certainly independent in hisyouth, but in his second period, after the war, he became a realist withFlaubert and Zola and an impressionist with Goncourt.[Footnote 1: He consistently refused to have his name placed in candidacybefore the Academy. In a foreword prefixed to "L'Immortel" he declares:"Je ne me presente pas, je ne me suis jamais presente, je ne mepresenterai jamais a l'Academie."]It is, however, the southerner in Daudet that remains most pleasing. It isin those works which are directly inspired by his native land of dreamsthat he is most completely himself, and therefore most charming. It ishere that he discloses his kinship with Musset. With all the delicacy ofMusset and at the same time a saneness which Musset did not alwayspossess, what might he not have accomplished if he had only continued ashe began? Even as it is, the best Daudet is the young Daudet, the brotherof Musset. In his so-called great works, the long novels where questionsof the day are fearlessly treated yet never solved, the works which arefrequently considered his surest claim to immortality, we have an entirelydifferent Daudet, excellent of course, and strong too if you like, but notthe Daudet that nature had intended to produce.Surely it would have been better if he had never gone to Paris, but, likehis friend Mistral, had remained in Provence and devoted his essentiallypoetic genius to an expression of the spirit of the south. His keenlysensitive nature was too delicate for intercourse with the virility of aZola or the subtlety of a Goncourt. Paris made of him a realist, and theworld lost by the transformation.Daudet's love for his native land was intense. Its images were everpresent to him; its poetry haunted him throughout his life. He urged youngmen ambitious of literary laurels to remain in their native provinces, todraw their inspiration from the soil, confident that something great andbeautiful would result. Why did he not take for himself the counsel he soincessantly offered to others? An untiring curiosity which accompanied aremarkable acuteness of all the senses, and an emotional and intellectualreceptivity which rendered him quickly and profoundly  impressionable,equipped Daudet to express the poetic spirit of the south in its epic aswell as its lyric qualities. He was aware of this himself. "I believe thatI shall carry away with me," he said, "many curious observations on myrace, its virtues, its faults".[1] And in speaking of the "Lettres de monmoulin," the only volume of his works in which his southern nature isgiven free rein, he says many years after its publication, after he hadwritten his best novels, "That is still my favorite book."[Footnote 1: Leon Daudet, "Alphonse Daudet," p. 183; read the wholechapter. "En lisant Eugenie de Guerin, je m'ecrie: 'Pourquoi n'avoir pastous vecu chez nous, dans nos coins?' Comme nos esprits y auraient gagneau point de vue de l'originalite au sens etymologique du mot, c'est-a-direvertu d'origine."--"Notes sur la vie," p. 141.]Daudet's remarkable power of observation was innate. From his youth heexercised this instinct and carried a notebook in which he set downimpressions, studies, and sketches of characters  and scenes. Thesenotebooks proved to be of inestimable value to the realist; and thenatural inclination to seek the naked truth, to which they bear witness,strengthened the determination of the postbellum Daudet to enter the ranksof the sociological novelists. So far as possible, he borrowed everydetail of character and environment from real life; almost all hischaracters represent real persons whom he studied with a view of usingthem in his books. Daudet's is a microscopic, notebook realism quitedifferent from the universal verity of Balzac, but there are many pagesprompted by an exquisite sympathy or a violent passion in which theindomitable personality of the author breaks through the impassivenessimposed by the accepted masters of the craft. Sadness is the prevailingtone in his work, the sort of sadness that proceeds from pity. Wheresadness does not dominate in Daudet, irony takes its place. These twoqualities, sadness which is inspired by pity for human suffering and ironywhich betrays impatience with human folly, these two qualities which arethe heart and soul of Daudet's work are the enemies of that impassivenesswhich is the indispensable attitude of the realist, and which Daudet triedin vain to acquire.Paris, the war, his intercourse with Flaubert and Goncourt and Zola, werethe influences, then, that transformed Daudet, most easily susceptible toimpressions from without. The Daudet of the great novels is not the realDaudet, however; the real Daudet is the author of "Les Amoureuses," of the"Lettres de mon moulin," and of "Tartarin de Tarascon."But even in the "Tartarin" series he is not entirely himself. The purestream of his native simplicity and naivete is already  tinged with theworldly-wiseness of the Parisian. In the "Lettres de mon moulin" thewriter is still in sympathy with his native land, while in the earliest ofthe "Tartarin" series, "Tartarin de Tarascon," there is already a spiritof disdainful raillery which Daudet learned in Paris. Tarascon was piquedwhen "Tartarin de Tarascon" appeared. Indeed, there is more than a littlein the book that may well offend local pride.In "Numa Roumestan" the satire is still less sympathetic and lessgood-natured. Numa is utterly detestable. He is a visionary; we readilyforgive such a weakness, and we are amused by this characteristic trait ofthe south in Bompard and Tartarin. These two are visionaries and liars;they are cowards too, boastful and conceited. But they have never had thehappiness of others in their hands. If a true child of the south, such asTartarin or Bompard, were placed in a position of trust, he would notprove equal to the occasion and the result would be a Numa Roumestan. Thatis Daudet's verdict, and certainly his decision is not flattering to thesouth. Is this the decision of the better Daudet? is it not a ParisianDaudet, whose sympathy for his native land has been warped by the play ofParisian mockery on his sensitive, easily convinced nature?It is precisely in "Numa Roumestan," where he is making his most completestudy of the character of the southerner, that Daudet is most pessimistic.Le Quesnoy, the worthy northerner, deceives his wife as does Numa, thelying southerner. The spirit of the novel is epitomized in such sentimentsas "Joie de rue, douleur de maison," "Au nord au midi--tous pareils,traitres et parjures," "Grand homme pour tout le monde excepte pour safemme." A decided pessimism pervades the great novels. Optimistic  Daudetis frequently said to be. He was truly so by nature, he is so in the"Lettres de mon moulin" and in all his work before the war, but hispessimism is unquestionable in the great novels.Surely nature did not intend Daudet to become a pessimist; he lovedmankind, he had many devoted friends and no enemies. He carried happinesswherever he went. The attic of Auteuil, the rendezvous of the Goncourtgroup, is dark and gloomy. A serious, mirthless band surrounds thearmchair of the patriarch. The door opens and Daudet enters. Old Goncourtrises to greet him: "Eh bien! mon petit, ca va?" "Assez bien, monGoncourt" is the reply. The terrible malady has already seized the youngerman, but he still radiates life and cheer: his lightness of heart dispelsthe gravity of the company; little by little his animation is communicatedto them all, and the attic resounds with peals of laughter.It was always so. The sympathy of Daudet, the man, was unfailing; his pityFor the weak, his love for his family and friends, his hatred of villainy,were boundless. He delighted in little acts of charity the source of whichremained unknown to the world and even to the recipient."My father said to me again and again," Leon Daudet tells us, "I shouldlike, after I have accomplished my task, to set myself up as a merchant ofhappiness. My reward would be in my success!" This longing, so entirelycharacteristic of the man, is manifest everywhere in his earlier work,only rarely in the great novels; unfortunately the great novels were his"task."If only he had continued as he began, if only he had remained the poet ofthe "Lettres de mon moulin"; if only he had not been led astray by his"task," he might have brought to the world of readers that happiness whichhe brought to his few friends in the attic of Auteuil.       *       *       *       *       *We are told the story of the publication of "Tartarin de Tarascon" [1] byDaudet himself in his "Trente Ans de Paris." It began to appear in the_Petit Moniteur universel_, but did not appeal to the readers of thispopular newspaper.[Footnote 1: The other books of the "Tartarin" series are inferior to"Tartarin de Tarascon" (1872). "Tartarin sur les Alpes" (1885) relates theadventures of the hero while climbing the great mountains of Switzerlandin order to prove that he is worthy of remaming P.C.A. (_President du ClubAlpin de Tarascon._) In "La Defense de Tarascon" (1886, only a dozen pageslong) we have a characteristic picture of the city preparing to resist theGerman invasion. "Port-Tarascon" (1890) is the last and poorest of theseries. Tartarin leads his compatriots in a colonizing expedition to theSouth Seas, and then brings them home again. Finally, in self-inflictedexile, "across the bridge" in Beaucaire (cf. note to _13_ 28), the greatman dies.]Publication was interrupted after some ten installments, and the work wascarried to the _Figaro_, by whose more aristocratic clientele literaryirony was not unappreciated. The hero was first called _Chapatin_, then_Barbarin_ (cf. note to _56_ 12), and finally _Tartarin_. "Tartarin deTarascon" is a _galejado, une plaisanterie, un eclat de rire_. ContinuingDaudet says: "Only one who was raised in southern France, or knows itthoroughly, can appreciate how frequently the Tartarin type is to be metthere, and how under the generous sun of Tarascon, which warms andelectrifies, the natural drollery of mind and imagination is led astrayinto monstrous exaggerations, in form and dimension as various as bottlegourds."Daudet, like our Dickens, succeeded in producing characters invested withsuch reality that in the minds of readers they become veritable beings. Ofall his creations Tartarin is the most widely known, and the world'sconception of a French southerner is derived from the portrait of thishero.As is usual in the works of Daudet, the character of Tartarin is notwholly fictitious. The home of the cap-hunters was really not Tarascon,but a village five or six leagues away on the other side of the Rhone. Itwas from this village, and in company with the prototype of Tartarin, thatDaudet set out for Africa in 1861, chiefly to recover his health andincidentally to hunt lions. The novel is a souvenir of the author'ssojourn in the home of the real Tartarin and of the trip which the twomade together[1], the whole being greatly modified by the play of thenovelist's Provencal imagination.[Footnote 1: See the following notes of this edition for evidence of theextent to which Daudet used the notes jotted down in Africa in thecomposition of "Tartarin": _70_ 21, _73_ 27, _81_ 5-6. See also "Souvenirsd'un homme de lettres," p. 44, where he speaks of the notebook from whichhe extracted "Tartarin" and other works.]To appreciate "Tartarin de Tarascon" is not easy for a foreigner; and byforeigners is meant all those who have not lived in and do not knowProvence. Americans and Parisians (see pages 16-17) look on Tartarin andhis compatriots as mere liars.They are not liars: they are suffering simply from the effects of amirage. To understand what is meant by a mirage, you must go to the southof France. There you will find a magic sun which transforms everything,which takes a molehill and makes of it a mountain. Go to Tarascon, seekout a man who almost went to Shanghai, look steadfastly at him, and if thesouthern sun is shining upon him you will soon be convinced that he hasactually gone to Shanghai.In reading "Tartarin de Tarascon," therefore, remember that Tartarin'sworld is small and his imagination large; that he never lies, though herarely tells the truth. Do not make the mistake of thinking Tartarin alunatic. Just as his immortal predecessor Don Quixote was thoroughly saneexcept in that which touched the realm of chivalry, so Tartarin is anormal Frenchman except when he is under the influence of the southernmirage.       *       *       *       *       *Daudet says in "Trente Ans de Paris," page 142, that the home of the realTartarin was five or six miles from Tarascon on the other side of theRhone. In an article which appeared in "Les Annales," July 6, 1913,Charles Le Goffic tells of a visit to the house in Tarascon known as _lamaison de Tartarin_, and reports a conversation he had with Mistral, thegreat Provencal poet, an intimate friend of Daudet. Mistral said that thereal Tartarin lived at Nimes, eighteen miles from Tarascon, to the west ofthe Rhone, and was no other than Raynaud, Daudet's own cousin. "Raynaud,"Mistral told Le Goffic, "had travelled among the _Teurs_ and talked aboutnothing but his lion hunts; he talked about them with his lower lipextended so as to form a terrible pout (_moue_), which gave a character ofgood-natured ferocity to the little gentleman's honest face.Raynaud recognized himself in Tartarin and became very angry with Daudet;the reconciliation between the cousins was not effected till toward theend of the novelist's life."BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTEA definitive edition of the works of Daudet has been published byHoussiaux, in octavo, 1899 ff. (18 volumes). Convenient editions of mostof them are published by Flammarion, Lemerre, Fasquelle, and others.The best sources for the study of Daudet's life and works are his _TrenteAns de Paris, Souvenirs d'un homme de lettres, Notes sur la vie_ (Paris,1899), his brother Ernest's _Mon Frere et moi_ (Paris, 1882), and his sonLeon's _Alphonse Daudet_ (Paris, 1898).The following may also be consulted:J. BRIVOIS, _Essai de bibliographie des oeuvres de M. Alphonse Daudet_,Paris, 1895.H. CEARD, introduction to the definitive edition.B. DIEDERICH, _Alphonse Daudet_, Berlin, 1900.R. DOUMIC, in _Portraits d'ecrivains_ and _Etudes sur la litteraturefrancaise_, Vol. III.HENRY JAMES, in _Partial Portraits_.J. LEMAITRE, in _Les Contemporains_, Vol. II.R. H. SHERARD, _Alphonse Daudet_, London, 1894.B. W. WELLS, in _A Century of French Fiction_, New York, 1903.E. ZOLA, in _Les Romanciers naturalistes_.The illustrations in the following articles are of interest:J. A. HAMMERTON, "The Town of Tartarin," in _The Critic_, vol. 47, pp 317ff.A. B. MAURICE, "The Trail of Tartarin," in _The Bookman_, vol. 14, pp. 128ff.; vol. 15, pp. 520 ff.WORKS OF ALPHONSE DAUDETPOEMS, NOVELS, TALES, AND SKETCHESLes Amoureuses, poemes et fantaisies (including La Double Conversion, LeRomandu Chaperon rouge, and other poems) 1857-1861.Le Petit Chose, 1868.Lettres de mon moulin, 1869.Lettres a un absent, 1871.Aventures prodigieuses de Tartarin de Tarascon, 1872.Contes du lundi, 1873.Les Femmes d'artistes, premiere serie (not continued), 1874.Fromont jeune et Risler aine, 1874.Robert Helmont, 1874.Jack, 1876.Le Nabab, 1877.Les Rois en exil, 1879.Numa Roumestan, 1881.L'Evangeliste, 1883.Sapho, 1884.Tartarin sur les Alpes, 1885.La Belle Nivernaise, 1886.La Defense de Tarascon, 1886.Trente Ans de Paris, 1888.L'Immortel, 1888.Souvenirs d'un homme de lettres, 1888.Port Tarascon, 1890.Rose et Ninette, 1892.Entre les frises et la rampe, 1894.La Petite Paroisse, 1895.La Fedor, 1897.Le Tresor d'Arlatan, 1897.Soutien de famille, 1898.Notes sur la vie, publie par Mme A. Daudet, 1899.PLAYSLa Derniere Idole, 1862 (with E. L'Epine).Les Absents, 1864.L'oeillet blanc, 1865 (with E. Manuel).Le Frere aine, 1867 (with E. Manuel).Le Sacrifice, 1869.Lise Tavernier, 1872.L'Arlesienne, 1872.Fromont jeune et Risler aine, 1876 (with A. Belot).Le Char, 1878 (with P. Arene).Le Nabab, 1880 (with P. Elzear).Jack, 1881 (with H. Lafontaine).Sapho, 1885 (with A. Belot).Numa Roumestan, 1887.La Lutte pour la vie, 1889 (taken from "L'Immortel").l'Obstacle, 1890.La Menteuse, 1892 (with L. Hennique).A MON AMIGONZAGUE PRIVATNOTE: Although the whole book is a single page, the original page numbershave been retained, as well as the line numbers, for reference to the NOTEsections at the end of this book. The HTML version of this book allows youto travel back and forth between the text and the notes, through the useof dynamic links. For students who want to make a serious dissection ofthe book, the HTML version will probably be more convenient. For thereaders who simply want to enjoy reading the text, we hope that thenumbers will be no more than a minor annoyance.Renald Levesque, for DISTRIBUTED PROOFREADERS AND GUTENBERG PROJECT.TARTARIN DE TARASCON_En France tout le mondeest un peu de Tarascon_.PREMIER EPISODEA TARASCONILe jardin du baobab.Page 1Ma premiere visite a Tartarin de Tarascon est restee dansma vie comme une date inoubliable; il y a douze ou quinze ansde cela, mais je m'en souviens mieux que d'hier. L'intrepideTartarin habitait alors, a l'entree de la ville, la troisieme maison[5]a main gauche sur le chemin d'Avignon. Jolie petite villa tarasconnaiseavec jardin devant, balcon derriere, des murs tresblancs, des persiennes vertes, et sur le pas de la porte unenichee de petits Savoyards jouant a la marelle ou dormant aubon soleil, la tete sur leurs boites a cirage.[10]Du dehors, la maison n'avait l'air de rien.Jamais on ne se serait cru devant la demeure d'un heros.Mais quand on entrait, coquin de sort!...De la cave au grenier, tout le batiment avait l'air heroique,meme le jardin!...[15]O le jardin de Tartarin, il n'y en avait pas deux comme celui-la enEurope. Pas un arbre du pays, pas une fleur de France;rien que des plantes exotiques, des gommiers, des calebassiers,des cotonniers, des cocotiers, des manguiers, des bananiers, desPage 2.palmiers, un baobab, des nopals, des cactus, des figuiers deBarbarie, a se croire en pleine Afrique centrale, a dix mille lieuesde Tarascon. Tout cela, bien entendu, n'etait pas de grandeurnaturelle; ainsi les cocotiers n'etaient guere plus gros que des[5]betteraves, et le baobab (_arbre geant, arbos gigantea_) tenait al'aise dans un pot de reseda; mais c'est egal! pour Tarasconc'etait deja bien joli, et les personnes de la ville, admises ledimanche a l'honneur de contempler le baobab de Tartarin, s'enretournaient pleines d'admiration.[10]Pensez quelle emotion je dus eprouver ce jour-la en traversantce jardin mirifique!... Ce fut bien autre chose quand onm'introduisit dans le cabinet du heros.Ce cabinet, une des curiosites de la ville, etait au fond dujardin, ouvrant de plain-pied sur le baobab par une porte[15]vitree.Imaginez-vous une grande salle tapissee de fusils et de sabres,depuis en haut jusqu'en bas; toutes les armes de tous les paysdu monde: carabines, rifles, tromblons, couteaux corses,couteaux catalans, couteaux-revolvers, couteaux-poignards, krish[20]malais, fleches caraibes, fleches de silex, coups-de-poing,casse-tete, massues hottentotes, lazos mexicains, est-ce que je sais!Par la-dessus, un grand soleil feroce qui faisait luire l'acierdes glaives et les crosses des armes a feu, comme pour vousdonner encore plus la chair de poule.... Ce qui rassurait un[25]peu pourtant, c'etait le bon air d'ordre et de proprete qui regnaitsur toute cette yataganerie. Tout y etait range, soigne, brosse,etiquete comme dans une pharmacie; de loin en loin, un petitecriteau bonhomme sur lequel on lisait:_Fleches empoisonnees, n'y touchez pas!_[30]Ou:_Armes chargees, mefiez-vous!_Sans ces ecriteaux, jamais je n'aurais ose entrer.Page 3Au milieu du cabinet, il y avait un gueridon. Sur le gueridon,un flacon de rhum, une blague turque, les Voyages du capitaineCook, les romans de Cooper, de Gustave Aimard, des recits dechasse a l'ours, chasse au faucon, chasse a l'elephant,[5]Etc.... Enfin, devant le gueridon, un homme etait assis, dequarante a quarante-cinq ans, petit, gros, trapu, rougeaud, enbras de chemise, avec des calecons de flanelle, une forte barbecourte et des yeux flamboyants, d'une main il tenait un livre,de l'autre il brandissait une enorme pipe a couvercle de fer, et,[10]tout en lisant je ne sais quel formidable recit de chasseurs dechevelures, il faisait, en avancant sa levre inferieure, une moueterrible, qui donnait a sa brave figure de petit rentier tarasconnaisce meme caractere de ferocite bonasse qui regnait danstoute la maison.[15]Cet homme, c'etait Tartarin, Tartarin de Tarascon, l'intrepide,le grand, l'incomparable Tartarin de Tarascon.II_Coup d'oeil generaljete sur la bonne ville de Tarascon;les chasseurs de casquettes._Au temps dont je vous parle, Tartarin de Tarascon n'etaitpas encore le Tartarin qu'il est aujourd'hui, le grand Tartarinde Tarascon, si populaire dans tout le midi de la France. Pourtant[20]--meme a cette epoque--c'etait deja le roi de Tarascon.Disons d'ou lui venait cette royaute.Vous saurez d'abord que la-bas tout le monde est chasseur,depuis le plus grand jusqu'au plus petit. La chasse est la passion desTarasconnais, et cela depuis les temps mythologiques[25]ou la Tarasque faisait les cent coups dans les marais de la villeet ou les Tarasconnais d'alors organisaient des battues contreelle. Il y a beau jour, comme vous voyez.Page 4Donc, tous les dimanches matin, Tarascon prend les armes etsort de ses murs, le sac au dos, le fusil sur l'epaule, avec untremblement de chiens, de furets, de trompes, de cors de chasse.C'est superbe a voir.... Par malheur, le gibier manque, il[5]manque absolument.Si betes que soient les betes, vous pensez bien qu'a la longueelles ont fini par se mefier.A cinq lieues autour de Tarascon, les terriers sont vides, lesnids abandonnes. Pas un merle, pas une caille, pas le moindre[10]lapereau, pas le plus petit cul-blanc.Elles sont cependant bien tentantes, ces jolies collinettestarasconnaises, toutes parfumees de myrte, de lavande, de romarin;et ces beaux raisins muscats gonfles de sucre, qui s'echelonnentan bord du Rhone, sont diablement appetissants aussi....[15]Oui, mais il y a Tarascon derriere, et dans le petit monde dupoil et de la plume, Tarascon est tres mal note. Les oiseauxde passage eux-memes l'ont marque d'une grande croix sur leursfeuilles de route, et quand les canards sauvages, descendant versla Camargue en longs triangles, apercoivent de loin les clochers[20]de la ville, celui qui est en tete se met a crier bien fort: "VoilaTarascon!... voila Tarascon!" et toute la bande fait uncrochet.Bref, en fait de gibier, il ne reste plus dans le pays qu'unvieux coquin de lievre, echappe comme par miracle aux septembrisades[25]tarasconnaises et qui s'entete a vivre la! A Tarascon,ce lievre est tres connu. On lui a donne un nom. Il s'appelle_le Rapide_. On sait qu'il a son gite dans la terre de M. Bompard,--cequi, par parenthese, a double et meme triple le prix decette terre,--mais on n'a pas encore pu l'atteindre.[30]A l'heure qu'il est meme, il n'y a plus que deux ou troisenrages qui s'acharnent apres lui.Les autres en ont fait leur deuil, et _le Rapide_ est passe depuislongtemps a l'etat de superstition locale, bien que le TarasconnaisPage 5soit tres peu superstitieux de sa nature et qu'il mange les hirondellesen salmis, quand il en trouve.--Ah ca! me direz-vous, puisque le gibier est si rare a Tarascon,qu'est-ce que les chasseurs tarasconnais font donc tous les[5]dimanches?Ce qu'ils font?Eh mon Dieu! ils s'en vont en pleine campagne, a deux outrois lieues de la ville. Ils se reunissent par petits groupes decinq ou six, s'allongent tranquillement a l'ombre d'un puits, d'un[10]vieux mur, d'un olivier, tirent de leurs carniers un bon morceaude boeuf en daube, des oignons crus, un _saucissot_, quelquesanchois, et commencent un dejeuner interminable, arrose d'unde ces jolis vins du Rhone qui font rire et qui font chanter.Apres quoi, quand on est bien leste, on se leve, on siffle les[15]chiens, on arme les fusils, et on se met en chasse. C'est a direque chacun de ces messieurs prend sa casquette, la jette en l'airde toutes ses forces, et la tire au vol avec du 5, du 6, ou du2,--selon les conventions.Celui qui met le plus souvent dans sa casquette est proclame[20]roi de la chasse, et rentre le soir en triomphateur a Tarascon,la casquette criblee au bout du fusil, au milieu des aboiementset des fanfares.Inutile de vous dire qu'il se fait dans la ville un grand commercede casquettes de chasse. Il y a meme des chapeliers qui[25]vendent des casquettes trouees et dechirees d'avance a l'usagedes maladroits, mais on ne connait guere que Bezuquet, lepharmacien, qui leur en achete. C'est deshonorant!Comme chasseur de casquettes, Tartarin de Tarascon n'avaitpas son pareil. Tous les dimanches matin, il partait avec une[30]casquette neuve: tous les dimanches soir, il revenait avec uneloque. Dans la petite maison du baobab, les greniers etaientpleins de ces glorieux trophees. Aussi, tous les Tarasconnais lereconnaissent-ils pour leur maitre, et comme Tartarin savait aPage 6fond le code du chasseur, qu'il avait lu tous les traites, tous lesmanuels de toutes les chasses possibles, depuis la chasse a lacasquette jusqu'a la chasse au tigre birman, ces messieurs enavaient fait leur grand justicier cynegetique et le prenaient pour[5]arbitre dans toutes leurs discussions.Tous les jours, de trois a quatre, chez I'armurier Costecaldeon voyait un gros homme, grave et la pipe aux dents, assis surun fauteuil de cuir vert, au milieu de la boutique pleine de chasseursde casquettes, tous debout et se chamaillant. C'etait Tartarin[10]de Tarascon qui rendait la justice, Nemrod double deSalomon.III_Nan! Nan! Nan!Suite du coup d'oeil general jete sur labonne ville de Tarascon._A la passion de la chasse, la forte race tarasconnaise joint uneautre passion: celle des romances. Ce qui se consomme deromances dans ce petit pays, c'est a n'y pas croire. Toutes les[15]vieilleries sentimentales qui jaunissent dans les plus vieux cartons,on les retrouve a Tarascon en pleine jeunesse, en pleineclat. Elles y sont toutes, toutes. Chaque famille a la sienne,et dans la ville cela se sait. On sait, par exemple, que celle dupharmacien Bezuquet, c'est:[20]      Toi, blanche etoile que j'adore;Celle de l'armurier Costecalde:          Veux-tu venir au pays des cabanes?Celle du receveur de l'enregistrement:          Si j'etais-t-invisible, personne n'me verrait.               (_Chansonnette comique_)Page 7Et ainsi de suite pour tout Tarascon. Deux ou trois fois parsemaine, on se reunit les uns chez les autres et on se _les_ chante.Ce qu'il y a de singulier, c'est que ce sont toujours les memes,et que, depuis si longtemps qu'ils se les chantent, ces braves[5]Tarasconnais n'ont jamais envie d'en changer. On se les leguedans les familles, de pere en fils, et personne n'y touche; c'estsacre. Jamais meme on ne s'en emprunte. Jamais il ne viendraita l'idee des Costecalde de chanter celle des Bezuquet, niaux Bezuquet de chanter celle des Costecalde. Et pourtant[10]vous pensez s'ils doivent les connaitre depuis quarante ans qu'ilsse les chantent. Mais non! chacun garde la sienne et tout lemonde est content.Pour les romances comme pour les casquettes, le premierde la ville etait encore Tartarin. Sa superiorite sur ses concitoyens[15]consistait en ceci: Tartarin de Tarascon n'avait pas lasienne. Il les avait toutes.Toutes!Seulement c'etait le diable pour les lui faire chanter. Revenude bonne heure des succes de salon, le heros tarasconnais aimait[20]bien mieux se plonger dans ses livres de chasse ou passer sasoiree au cercle que de faire le joli coeur devant un piano deNimes, entre deux bougies de Tarascon. Ces parades musicaleslui semblaient au-dessous de lui.... Quelquefois cependant,quand il y avait de la musique a la pharmacie Bezuquet, il entrait[25]comme par hasard, et apres s'etre bien fait prier, consentaita dire le grand duo de _Robert le Diable_, avec madameBezuquet la mere.... Qui n'a pas entendu cela n'a jamaisrien entendu.... Pour moi, quand je vivrais cent ans, je verraistoute ma vie le grand Tartarin s'approchant du piano d'un[30]pas solennel, s'accoudant, faisant sa moue, et sous le reflet vertdes bocaux de la devanture, essayant de donner a sa bonneface l'expression satanique et farouche de Robert le Diable.A peine avait-il pris position, tout de suite le salon fremissait;Page 8on sentait qu'il allait se passer quelque chose de grand....Alors, apres un silence, madame Bezuquet la mere commencaiten s'accompagnant:          Robert, toi que j'aime[5]       Et qui recus ma foi,          Tu vois mon effroi (_bis_),          Grace pour toi-meme          Et grace pour moi.A voix basse, elle ajoutait: "A vous, Tartarin," et Tartarin[10]de Tarascon, le bras tendu, le poing ferme, la narine fremissantedisait par trois fois d'une voix formidable, qui roulaitcomme un coup de tonnerre dans les entrailles du piano:"Non!... non!... non!..." ce qu'en bon Meridionalil prononcait: "Nan!... nan!... nan!..." Sur quoi[15]madame Bezuquet la mere reprenait encore une fois:          Grace pour toi-meme          Et grace pour moi.--"Nan!... nan!... nan!..." hurlait Tartarin deplus belle, et la chose en restait la.... Ce n'etait pas long,[20]comme vous voyez: mais c'etait si bien jete, si bien mime, sidiabolique, qu'un frisson de terreur courait dans la pharmacie,et qu'on lui faisait recommencer ses: "Nan!... nan!" quatreet cinq fois de suite.La-dessus Tartarin s'epongeait le front, souriait aux dames,[25]clignait de l'oeil aux hommes, et, se retirant sur son triomphe,s'en allait dire au cercle d'un petit air negligent: "Je viens dechez les Bezuquet chanter le duo de _Robert le Diable!_"Et le plus fort, c'est qu'il le croyait!...IV_Ils!!!_Page 9C'est a ces differents talents que Tartarin de Tarascon devaitsa haute situation dans la ville.Du reste, c'est une chose positive que ce diable d'hommeavait su prendre tout le monde.[5]A Tarascon, l'armee etait pour Tartarin. Le brave commandantBravida, capitaine d'habillement en retraite, disait de lui:"C'est un lapin!" et vous pensez que le commandant s'y connaissaiten lapins, apres en avoir tant habille.La magistrature etait pour Tartarin. Deux ou trois fois, en[10]plein tribunal, le vieux president Ladeveze avait dit, parlantde lui:"C'est un caractere!"Enfin le peuple etait pour Tartarin. Sa carrure, sa demarche,son air, un air de bon cheval de trompette qui ne craignait pas[15]le bruit, cette reputation de heros qui lui venait on ne sait d'ou,quelques distributions de gros sous et de taloches aux petitsdecrotteurs etales devant sa porte, en avaient fait le lord Seymourde l'endroit, le Roi des halles tarasconnaises. Sur les quais, le dimanchesoir, quand Tartarin revenait de la chasse, la casquette[20]an bout du canon, bien sangle dans sa veste de futaine, lesportefaix du Rhone s'inclinaient pleins de respect, et se montrant ducoin de l'oeil les biceps gigantesques qui roulaient sur ses bras,ils se disaient tout has les uns aux autres avec admiration:"C'est celui-la qui est fort!... Il a DOUBLES MUSCLES!"[25]DOUBLES MUSCLES!Il n'y a qu'a Tarascon qu'on entend de ces choses-la!Et pourtant, en depit de tout, avec ses nombreux talents, sesdoubles muscles, la faveur populaire et l'estime si precieusedu brave commandant Bravida, ancien capitaine d'habillement,[30]Tartarin n'etait pas heureux; cette vie de petite ville lui pesait,Page 10l'etouffait. Le grand homme de Tarascon s'ennuyait a Tarascon.Le fait est que pour une nature heroique comme la sienne, pourune ame aventureuse et folle qui ne revait que batailles, coursesdans les pampas, grandes chasses, sables du desert, ouragans[5]et typhons, faire tous les dimanches une battue a la casquetteet le reste du temps rendre la justice chez l'armurier Costecalde,ce n'etait guere.... Pauvre cher grand homme! A la longue,Il y aurait eu de quoi le faire mourir de consomption.En vain, pour agrandir ses horizons, pour oublier un peu le[10]cercle et la place du Marche, en vain s'entourait-il de baobabset autres vegetations africaines; en vain entassait-il armes surarmes, krish malais sur krish malais; en vain se bourrait-il delectures romanesques, cherchant, comme l'immortel don Quichotte,a s'arracher par la vigueur de son reve aux griffes de[15]l'impitoyable realite.... Helas! tout ce qu'il faisait pourapaiser sa soif d'aventures ne servait qu'a l'augmenter. La vuede toutes ses armes l'entretenait dans un etat perpetuel decolere et d'excitation. Ses rifles, ses fleches, ses lazos lui criaient:"Bataille! bataille!" Dans les branches de son baobab, le vent[20]des grands voyages soufflait et lui donnait de mauvais conseils.Pour l'achever, Gustave Aimard et Fenimore Cooper....Oh! par les lourdes apres-midi d'ete quand il etait seul a lirean milieu de ses glaives, que de fois Tartarin s'est leve enrugissant; que de fois il a jete son livre et s'est precipite sur le mur[25]pour decrocher une panoplie!Le pauvre homme oubliait qu'il etait chez lui a Tarascon, avecun foulard de tete et des calecons, il mettait ses lectures enactions, et, s'exaltant au son de sa propre voix, criait en brandissantune hache ou un tomahawk:[30]"Qu'ils y viennent maintenant!"_Ils?_ Qui, _Ils?_Tartarin ne le savait pas bien lui-meme.... _Ils!_ c'etaittout ce qui attaque, tout ce qui combat, tout ce qui mord, toutPage 11ce qui griffe, tout ce qui scalpe, tout ce qui hurle, tout ce quirugit.... _Ils!_ c'etait I'Indien Sioux dansant autour du poteaude guerre ou le malheureux blanc est attache.C'etait l'ours gris des montagnes Rocheuses qui se dandine,[5]et qui se leche avec une langue pleine de sang. C'etait encorele Touareg du desert, le pirate malais, le bandit des Abruzzes...._Ils_ enfin, c'etait _ils!_ ... c'est-a-dire la guerre, les voyages,l'aventure, la gloire.Mais, helas! I'intrepide Tarasconnais avait beau _les_ appeler,[10]_les_ defier ... _ils_ ne venaient jamais.... Pecaire! qu'est-cequ'_ils_ seraient venus faire a Tarascon?Tartarin cependant _les_ attendait toujours;--surtout le soiren allant au cercle.V_Quand Tartarin allait au cercle._Le chevalier du Temple se disposant a faire une sortie contre[15]l'infidele qui l'assiege, le _tigre_ chinois s'equipant pour labataille,le guerrier comanche entrant sur le sentier de la guerre, toutcela n'est rien aupres de Tartarin de Tarascon s'armant de pieden cap pour aller au cercle, a neuf heures du soir, une heureapres les clairons de la retraite.[20]Branle-has de combat! comme disent les matelots.A la main gauche, Tartarin prenait un coup-de-poing a pointesde fer, a la main droite une canne a epee; dans la poche gauche,un casse-tete; dans la poche droite, un revolver. Sur la poitrine,entre drap et flanelle, un krish malais. Par exemple, jamais de[25]fleche empoisonnee; ce sont des armes trop deloyales!...Avant de partir, dans le silence et l'ombre de son cabinet, ils'exercait un moment, se fendait, tirait au mur, faisait jouer sesmuscles; puis, il prenait son passe-partout, et traversait le jardin,gravement, sans se presser.--A l'anglaise, messieurs, a l'anglaise![30]c'est le vrai courage.--Au bout du jardin, il ouvrait laPage 12lourde porte de fer. Il l'ouvrait brusquement, violemment, defacon a ce qu'elle allat battre en dehors contre la muraille....S'_ils_ avaient ete derriere, vous pensez quelle marmelade!...Malheureusement, _ils_ n'etaient pas derriere.[5]La porte ouverte, Tartarin sortait, jetait vite un coup d'oeil dedroite et de gauche, fermait la porte a double tour et vivement.Puis en route.Sur le chemin d'Avignon, pas un chat. Portes closes, fenetres eteintes.Tout etait noir. De loin en loin un reverbere,[10]clignotant dans le brouillard du Rhone....Superbe et calme, Tartarin de Tarascon s'en allait ainsi dansla nuit, faisant sonner ses talons en mesure, et du bout ferre desa canne arrachant des etincelles aux paves.... Boulevards,grandes rues ou ruelles, il avait soin de tenir toujours le milieu[15]de la chaussee, excellente mesure de precaution qui vous permetde voir venir le danger, et surtout d'eviter ce qui, le soir, dansles rues de Tarascon, tombe quelquefois des fenetres. A lui voirtant de prudence, n'allez pas croire au moins que Tartarin eutpeur.... Non! seulement il se gardait.[20]La meilleure preuve que Tartarin n'avait pas peur, c'est qu'aulieu d'aller au cercle par le cours, il y allait par la ville,c'est-a-dire, par le plus long, par le plus noir, par un tas de vilainespetites rues au bout desquelles on voit le Rhone luire sinistrement.Le pauvre homme esperait toujours qu'au detour d'un de ces[25]coupe-gorge _ils_ allaient s'elancer de I'ombre et lui tomber sur ledos. _Ils_ auraient ete bien recus, je vous en reponds.... Mais,helas! par une derision du destin, jamais, au grand jamais,Tartarin de Tarascon n'eut la chance de faire une mauvaiserencontre. Pas meme un chien, pas meme un ivrogne. Rien![30]Parfois cependant une fausse alerte. Un bruit de pas, des voixEtouffees.... "Attention!" se disait Tartarin, et il restait plantesur place, scrutant I'ombre, prenant le vent, appuyant son oreillecontre terre a la mode indienne.... Les pas approchaient.Page 13Les voix devenaient distinctes.... Plus de doutes! _Ils_ arrivaient...._Ils_ etaient la.  Deja Tartarin, l'oeil en feu, la poitrinehaletante, se ramassait sur lui-meme comme un jaguar, etse preparait a bondir en poussant son cri de guerre ... quand[5]tout a coup, du sein de l'ombre, il entendait de bonnes voixtarasconnaises l'appeler bien tranquillement:"Te! ve! ... c'est Tartarin.... Et adieu, Tartarin!"Malediction! c'etait le pharmacien Bezuquet avec sa famillequi venait de chanter _la sienne_ chez les Costecalde.--"Bonsoir![10]bonsoir!" grommelait Tartarin, furieux de sa meprise, et,farouche, la canne haute, il s'enfoncait dans la nuit.Arrive dans la rue du cercle, l'intrepide Tarasconnais attendaitencore un moment en se promenant de long en large devantla porte avant d'entrer.... A la fin, las de _les_ attendre et certain[15]qu'_ils_ ne se montreraient pas, il jetait un dernier regard dedefi dans l'ombre, et murmurait avec colere:"Rien!... rien!... jamais rien!"La-dessus le brave homme entrait faire son besigue avec lecommandant.VI_Les deux Tartarins_.[20]Avec cette rage d'aventures, ce besoin d'emotions fortes, cettefolie de voyages, de courses, de diable au vert, comment diantrese trouvait-il que Tartarin de Tarascon n'eut jamais quitteTarascon?Car c'est un fait. Jusqu'a l'age de quarante-cinq ans, l'intrepide[25]Tarasconnais n'avait pas une fois couche hors de sa ville.Il n'avait pas meme fait ce fameux voyage a Marseille, que toutbon Provencal se paie a sa majorite. C'est au plus s'il connaissaitBeaucaire, et cependant Beaucaire n'est pas bien loin deTarascon, puisqu'il n'y a que le pont a traverser Malheureusement[30]ce diable de pont a ete si souvent emporte par les coupsPage 14de vent, il est si long, si frele, et le Rhone a tant de largeur acet endroit que, ma foi! vous comprenez.... Tartarin deTarascon preferait la terre ferme.C'est qu'il faut bien vous l'avouer, il y avait dans notre heros[5]deux natures tres distinctes. "Je sens deux hommes en moi",a dit je ne sais quel Pere de l'Eglise. Il l'eut dit vrai de Tartarinqui portait en lui l'ame de don Quichotte, les memes elanschevaleresques, le meme ideal heroique, la meme folie du romanesqueet du grandiose; mais malheureusement n'avait pas le[10]corps du celebre hidalgo, ce corps osseux et maigre, ce pretextede corps, sur lequel la vie materielle manquait de prise, capablede passer vingt nuits sans deboucler sa cuirasse et quarante-huitheures avec une poignee de riz.... Le corps de Tartarin, aucontraire, etait un brave homme de corps, tres gras, tres lourd,[15]tres sensuel, tres douillet, tres geignard, plein d'appetits bourgeoiset d'exigences domestiques, le corps ventru et court surpattes de l'immortel Sancho Panca.Don Quichotte et Sancho Panca dans le meme homme! vouscomprenez quel mauvais menage ils y devaient faire! quels combats![20]quels dechirements!... O le beau dialogue a ecrirepour Lucien ou pour Saint-Evremond, un dialogue entre lesdeux Tartarins, le Tartarin-Quichotte et le Tartarin-Sancho!Tartarin-Quichotte s'exaltant aux recits de Gustave Aimard etcriant: "Je pars!"[25]Tartarin-Sancho ne pensant qu'aux rhumatismes et disant:"Je reste."TARTARIN-QUICHOTTE, tres exalte:Couvre-toi de gloire, Tartarin.TARTARIN-SANCHO, tres calme:[30]Tartarin, couvre-toi de flanelle.TARTARIN-QUICHOTTE, de plus en plus exalte:O les bons rifles a deux coups! o les dagues, les lazos, lesmocassins!Page 15TARTARIN-SANCHO, de plus en plus calme:O les bons gilets tricotes! les bonnes genouilleres bienchaudes! o les braves casquettes a oreillettes!TARTARIN-QUICHOTTE, hors de lui:[5]Une hache! qu'on me donne une hache!TARTARIN-SANCHO, sonnant la bonne:Jeannette, mon chocolat.La-dessus Jeannette apparait avec un excellent chocolat, chaud,moire, parfume, et de succulentes grillades a l'anis, qui font rire[10]Tartarin-Sancho en etouffant les cris de Tartarin-Quichotte.Et voila comme il se trouvait que Tartarin de Tarasconn'eut jamais quitte Tarascon.VII_Les Europeens a Shang-Hai.Le Haut Commerce. Les Tartares.Tartarin de Tarascon serait-il un imposteur?Le mirage._Une fois cependant Tartarin avait failli partir, partir pourun grand voyage.[15]Les trois freres Garcio-Camus, des Tarasconnais etablis aShang-Hai, lui avaient offert la direction d'un de leurs comptoirsla-bas. Ca, par exemple, c'etait bien la vie qu'il lui fallait. Desaffaires considerables, tout un monde de commis a gouverner,des relations avec la Russie, la Perse, la Turquie d'Asie, enfin[20]le Haut Commerce.Dans la bouche de Tartarin, ce mot de Haut Commerce vousapparaissait d'une hauteur!...La maison de Garcio-Camus avait en outre cet avantagequ'on y recevait quelquefois la visite des Tartares. Alors vite[25]on fermait les portes. Tous les commis prenaient les armes, onPage 16hissait le drapeau consulaire, et pan! pan! par les fenetres surles Tartares.Avec quel enthousiasme Tartarin-Quichotte sauta sur cetteproposition, je n'ai pas besoin de vous le dire; par malheur[5]Tartarin Sancho n'entendait pas de cette oreille la, et, comme iletait le plus fort, l'affaire ne put pas s'arranger. Dans la villeon en parla beaucoup. Partira-t-il? ne partira-t-il pas? Parionsque si, parions que non. Ce fut un evenement.... En fin decompte, Tartarin ne partit pas, mais toutefois cette histoire lui[10]fit beaucoup d'honneur. Avoir failli aller a Shang-Hai ou y etrealle, pour Tarascon, c'etait tout comme. A force de parler duvoyage de Tartarin, on finit par croire qu'il en revenait, et lesoir, au cercle, tous ces messieurs lui demandaient des renseignementssur la vie a Shang-Hai, sur les moeurs, le climat, l'opium,[15]le Haut Commerce.Tartarin, tres bien renseigne, donnait de bonne grace lesdetails qu'on voulait, et, a la longue, le brave homme n'etait pasbien sur lui meme de n'etre pas alle a Shang-Hai, si bien qu'enracontant pour la centieme fois la descente des Tartares, il en[20]arrivait a dire tres naturellement "Alors, je fais armer mescommis, je hisse le pavillon consulaire, et pan! pan! par lesfenetres, sur les tartares." En entendant cela, tout le cerclefremissait....--Mais alors, votre Tartarin n'etait qu'un affreux menteur.[25]--Non! mille fois non! Tartarin n'etait pas un menteur....--Pourtant, il devait bien savoir qu'il n'etait pas alle aShang-Hai!--Eh! sans doute, il le savait. Seulement....Seulement, ecoutez bien ceci. Il est temps de s'entendre une[30]fois pour toutes sur cette reputation de menteurs que les gensdu Nord ont faite aux Meridionaux. Il n'y a pas de menteursdans le Midi, pas plus a Marseille qu'a Nimes, qu'a Toulousequ'a Tarascon. L'homme du Midi ne ment pas, il se trompe.Page 17Il ne dit pas toujours la verite, mais il croit la dire.... Sonmensonge a lui, ce n'est pas du mensonge, c'est une espece demirage....Oui, du mirage!... Et pour bien me comprendre, allez-vous-en[5]dans le Midi, et vous verrez. Vous verrez ce diable de pays oule soleil transfigure tout, et fait tout plus grand que nature. Vousverrez ces petites collines de Provence pas plus hautes que labutte Montmartre et qui vous paraitront gigantesques, vousverrez la Maison carree de Nimes,--un petit bijou d'etagere,[10]--qui vous semblera aussi grande que Notre-Dame. Vous verrez.Ah! le seul menteur du Midi, s'il y en a un, c'est leSoleil.... Tout ce qu'il touche, il l'exagere!... Qu'est-ce quec'etait que Sparte aux temps de sa splendeur? Une bourgade.Qu'est ce que c'etait qu'Athenes? Tout au plus une[15]sous-prefecture ... et pourtant dans l'histoire elles nous apparaissentcomme des villes enormes. Voila ce que le soleil ena fait....Vous etonnerez-vous apres cela que le meme soleil, tombantsur Tarascon, ait pu faire d'un ancien capitaine d'habillement[20]comme Bravida, le brave commandant Bravida, d'un navet unbaobab, et d'un homme qui avait failli aller a Shang-Hai unhomme qui y etait alle?VIII_La menagerie Mitaine.Un lion de l'Atlas a Tarascon.Terrible et solennelle entrevue_.Et maintenant que nous avons montre Tartarin de Tarasconcomme il etait en son prive, avant que la gloire l'eut baise au[25]front et coiffe du laurier seculaire, maintenant que nous avonsraconte cette vie heroique dans un milieu modeste, ses joies, sesdouleurs, ses reves, ses esperances, hatons-nous d'arriver auxPage 18grandes pages de son histoire et au singulier evenement quidevait donner l'essor a cette incomparable destinee.C'etait un soir, chez l'armurier Costecalde. Tartarin deTarascon etait en train de demontrer a quelques amateurs le[5]maniement du fusil a aiguille, alors dans toute sa nouveaute....Soudain la porte s'ouvre, et un chasseur de casquettes se precipiteeffare dans la boutique, en criant: "Un lion!... unlion!..." Stupeur generale, effroi, tumulte, bousculade. Tartarincroise la baionnette, Costecalde court fermer la porte. On[10]entoure le chasseur, on l'interroge, on le presse, et voici cequ'on apprend: la menagerie Mitaine, revenant de la foire deBeaucaire, avait consenti a faire une halte de quelques jours aTarascon et venait de s'installer sur la place du chateau avec untas de boas, de phoques, de crocodiles et un magnifique lion[15]de l'Atlas.Un lion de l'Atlas a Tarascon! Jamais, de memoire d'homme,pareille chose ne s'etait vue. Aussi comme nos braves chasseursde casquettes se regardaient fierement! quel rayonnement surleurs males visages, et, dans tous les coins de la boutique Costecalde,[20]quelles bonnes poignees de mains silencieusement echangees!L'emotion etait si grande, si imprevue, que personne netrouvait un mot a dire....Pas meme Tartarin. Pale et fremissant, le fusil a aiguilleencore entre les mains, il songeait debout devant le comptoir....[25]Un lion de l'Atlas, la, tout pres, a deux pas! Un lion! c'est-a-direla bete heroique et feroce par excellence, le roi des fauves,le gibier de ses reves, quelque chose comme le premier sujet decette troupe ideale qui lui jouait de si beaux drames dans sonimagination....[30]Un lion, mille dieux!...Et de l'Atlas encore!!! C'etait plus que le grand Tartarinn'en pouvait supporter....Tout a coup un paquet de sang lui monta au visage.Page 19Ses yeux flamberent. D'un geste convulsif il jeta le fusil aaiguille sur son epaule, et, se tournant vers le brave commandantBravida, ancien capitaine d'habillement, il lui dit d'une voixde tonnerre: "Allons voir ca, commandant."[5]--"He! be ... he! be ... Et mon fusil!... mon fusila aiguille que vous emportez!..." hasarda timidement leprudent Costecalde; mais Tartarin avait tourne la rue, et derrierelui tous les chasseurs de casquettes emboitant fierementle pas.[10]Quand ils arriverent a la menagerie, il y avait deja beaucoupde monde. Tarascon, race heroique, mais trop longtemps priveede spectacles a sensations, s'etait rue sur la baraque Mitaineet l'avait prise d'assaut. Aussi la grosse madame Mitaine etaitbien contente.... En costume kabyle, les bras nus jusqu'au[15]coude, des bracelets de fer aux chevilles, une cravache dans unemain, dans l'autre un poulet vivant, quoique plume, l'illustredame faisait les honneurs de la baraque aux Tarasconnais, etcomme elle avait _doubles muscles_, elle aussi, son succes etaitpresque aussi grand que celui de ses pensionnaires.[20]L'entree de Tartarin, le fusil sur l'epaule, jeta un froid.Tous ces braves Tarasconnais, qui se promenaient bien tranquillementdevant les cages, sans armes, sans mefiance, sansmeme aucune idee de danger, eurent un mouvement de terreur asseznaturel en voyant leur grand Tartarin entrer dans la baraque avec son[25]formidable engin de guerre. Il y avait doncquelque chose a craindre, puisque lui, ce heros.... En un clind'oeil, tout le devant des cages se trouva degarni. Les enfantscriaient de peur, les dames regardaient la porte. Le pharmacienBezuquet s'esquiva, en disant qu'il allait chercher son fusil....[30]Peu a peu cependant, l'attitude de Tartarin rassura les courages.Calme, la tete haute, l'intrepide Tarasconnais fit lentementle tour de la baraque, passa sans s'arreter devant la baignoire duphoque, regarda d'un oeil dedaigneux la longue caisse pleine dePage 20son ou le boa digerait son poulet cru, et vint enfin se planterdevant la cage du lion....Terrible et solennelle entrevue! le lion de Tarascon et le lionde l'Atlas en face l'un de l'autre.... D'un cote, Tartarin,[5]debout, le jarret tendu, les deux bras appuyes sur son rifle; del'autre, le lion, un lion gigantesque, vautre dans la paille, l'oeilclignotant, l'air abruti, avec son enorme mufle a perruque jaunepose sur les pattes de devant.... Tous deux calmes et seregardant.[10]Chose singuliere! soit que le fusil a aiguille lui eut donne del'humeur, soit qu'il eut flaire un ennemi de sa race, le lion, quijusque-la avait regarde les Tarasconnais d'un air de souverainmepris en leur baillant au nez a tous, le lion eut tout a coup unmouvement de colere. D'abord il renifla, gronda sourdement,[15]ecarta ses griffes, etira ses pattes; puis il se leva, dressa la tete,secoua sa criniere, ouvrit une gueule immense et poussa versTartarin un formidable rugissement.Un cri de terreur lui repondit. Tarascon, affole, se precipitavers les portes. Tous, femmes, enfants, portefaix, chasseurs de[20]casquettes, le brave commandant Bravida lui-meme.... Seul,Tartarin de Tarascon ne bougea pas.... Il etait la, ferme etresolu, devant la cage, des eclairs dans les yeux et cette terriblemoue que toute la ville connaissait.... Au bout d'un moment,quand les chasseurs de casquettes, un peu rassures par son attitude[25]et la solidite des barreaux, se rapprocherent de leur chef,ils entendirent qu'il murmurait, en regardant le lion: "Ca, oui,c'est une chasse."Ce jour-la, Tartarin de Tarascon n'en dit pas davantage....IX_Singuliers effets du mirage_.Page 21Ce jour-la, Tartarin de Tarascon n'en dit pas davantage; maisle malheureux en avait deja trop dit....Le lendemain, il n'etait bruit dans la ville que du prochaindepart de Tartarin pour l'Algerie et la chasse aux lions. Vous[5]etes tous temoins, chers lecteurs, que le brave homme n'avaitpas souffle mot de cela; mais vous savez, le mirage....Bref, tout Tarascon ne parlait que de ce depart.Sur le cours, au cercle, chez Costecalde, les gens s'abordaientd'un air effare:[10]"Et autrement, vous savez la nouvelle, au moins?--Et autrement, quoi donc?... le depart de Tartarin, aumoins?"Car a Tarascon toutes les phrases commencent par _et autrement_,qu'on prononce _autremain_, et finissent par _au moins_, qu'on[15]prononce _an mouain_. Or, ce jour-la, plus que tous les autres,les _au mouain_ et les _autremain_ sonnaient a faire trembler lesvitres.L'homme le plus surpris de la ville, en apprenant qu'il allaitpartir pour l'Afrique, ce fut Tartarin. Mais voyez ce que c'est[20]que la vanite! Au lieu de repondre simplement qu'il ne partaitpas du tout, qu'il n'avait jamais eu l'intention de partir, le pauvreTartarin--la premiere fois qu'on lui parla de ce voyage--fitd'un petit air evasif: "He!... he!... peut-etre ... je nedis pas." La seconde fois, un peu plus familiarise avec cette[25]idee, il repondit: "C'est probable." La troisieme fois: "C'estcertain!"Enfin, le soir, au cercle et chez les Costecalde, entraine parle punch aux oeufs, les bravos, les lumieres; grise par le succesPage 22que l'annonce de son depart avait eu dans la ville, le malheureuxdeclara formellement qu'il etait las de chasser la casquette etqu'il allait, avant peu, se mettre a la poursuite des grands lionsde l'Atlas.[5]Un hourra formidable accueillit cette declaration. La-dessus,nouveau punch aux oeufs, poignees de mains, accolades et serenadeaux flambeaux jusqu'a minuit devant la petite maison dubaobab.C'est Tartarin-Sancho qui n'etait pas content! Cette idee de[10]voyage en Afrique et de chasse au lion lui donnait le frisson paravance, et, en rentrant au logis, pendant que la serenade d'honneursonnait sous leurs fenetres, il fit a Tartarin-Quichotte unescene effroyable, l'appelant toque, visionnaire, imprudent, triplefou, lui detaillant par le menu toutes les catastrophes qui l'attendaient[15]dans cette expedition, naufrages, rhumatismes, fievreschaudes, dysenteries, peste noire, elephantiasis, et le reste....En vain Tartarin-Quichotte jurait-il de ne pas faire d'imprudences,qu'il se couvrirait bien, qu'il emporterait tout ce qu'ilfaudrait, Tartarin-Sancho ne voulait rien entendre. Le pauvre[20]homme se voyait deja dechiquete par les lions, englouti dans lessables du desert comme feu Cambyse, et l'autre Tartarin neparvint a l'apaiser un peu qu'en lui expliquant que ce n'etaitpas pour tout de suite, que rien ne pressait et qu'en fin decompte ils n'etaient pas encore partis.[25]Il est bien clair, en effet, que l'on ne s'embarque pas pourune expedition semblable sans prendre quelques precautionsIl faut savoir ou l'on va, que diable! et ne pas partir commeun oiseau....Avant toutes choses, le Tarasconnais voulut lire les recits des[30]grands touristes africains, les relations de Mungo-Park, de Caille,du docteur Livingstone, d'Henri Duveyrier.La, il vit que ces intrepides voyageurs, avant de chausser leurssandales pour les excursions lointaines, s'etaient prepares dePage 23longue main a supporter la faim, la soif, les marches forcees,les privations de toutes sortes. Tartarin voulut faire comme eux,et, a partir de ce jour-la, ne se nourrit plus que d'_eau bouillie_.--Ce qu'on appelle _eau bouillie_, a Tarascon, c'est quelques tranches[5]de pain noyees dans de l'eau chaude, avec une gousse d'ail, unpeu de thym, un brin de laurier.--Le regime etait severe, etvous pensez si le pauvre Sancho fit la grimace....A l'entrainement par l'eau bouillie Tartarin de Tarascon joignitd'autres sages pratiques. Ainsi, pour prendre l'habitude des[10]longues marches, il s'astreignit a faire chaque matin son tour deville sept ou huit fois de suite, tantot au pas accelere, tantot aupas gymnastique, les coudes au corps et deux petits cailloux blancsdans la bouche, selon la mode antique.Puis, pour se faire aux fraicheurs nocturnes, aux brouillards,[15]a la rosee, il descendait tous les soirs dans son jardin et restaitla jusqu'a des dix et onze heures, seul avec son fusil, a l'affutderriere le baobab....Enfin, tant que la menagerie Mitaine resta a Tarascon,les chasseurs de casquettes attardes chez Costecalde purent[20]voir dans l'ombre, en passant sur la place du Chateau, unhomme mysterieux se promenant de long en large derriere labaraque.C'etait Tartarin de Tarascon, qui s'habituait a entendre sansfremir les rugissements du lion dans la nuit sombre.X_Avant le depart_.[25]Pendant que Tartarin s'entrainait ainsi par toute sorte demoyens heroiques, tout Tarascon avait les yeux sur lui; on nes'occupait plus d'autre chose. La chasse a la casquette ne battaitplus que d'une aile, les romances chomaient. Dans la pharmacieBezuquet le piano languissait sous une housse verte, etPage 24les mouches cantharides sechaient dessus, le ventre en l'air....L'expedition de Tartarin avait arrete tout.Il fallait voir le succes du Tarasconnais dans les salons. Onse l'arrachait, on se le disputait, on se l'empruntait, on se le[5]volait. Il n'y avait pas de plus grand honneur pour les damesque d'aller a la menagerie Mitaine au bras de Tartarin, et de sefaire expliquer devant la cage du lion comment on s'y prenaitpour chasser ces grandes betes, ou il fallait viser, a combien depas, si les accidents etaient nombreux, etc., etc.[10]Tartarin donnait toutes les explications qu'on voulait. Il avaitlu Jules Gerard et connaissait la chasse au lion sur le bout dudoigt, comme s'il l'avait faite. Aussi parlait-il de ces choses avecune grande eloquence.Mais ou il etait le plus beau, c'etait le soir a diner chez le[15]president Ladeveze ou le brave commandant Bravida, anciencapitaine d'habillement, quand on apportait le cafe et que, toutesles chaises se rapprochant, on le faisait parler de ses chassesfutures....Alors, le coude sur la nappe, le nez dans son moka, le heros[20]racontait d'une voix emue tous les dangers qui l'attendaientla-has. Il disait les longs affuts sans lune, les marais pestilentiels,les rivieres empoisonnees par la feuille du laurier-rose, lesneiges, les soleils ardents, les scorpions, les pluies de sauterelles;il disait aussi les moeurs des grands lions de l'Atlas, leur facon[25]de combattre, leur vigueur phenomenale et leur ferocite autemps du rut....Puis, s'exaltant a son propre recit, il se levait de table, bondissaitau milieu de la salle a manger, imitant le cri du lion, le[30]bruit d'une carabine, pan! pan! le sifflement d'une balle explosible,pfft! pfft! gesticulait, rugissait, renversait les chaises....Autour de la table, tout le monde etait pale. Les hommes seregardaient en hochant la tete, les dames fermaient les yeux avecde petits cris d'effroi, les vieillards brandissaient leurs longuesPage 26cannes belliqueusement, et, dans la chambre a cote, les petitsgarconnets qu'on couche de bonne heure, eveilles en sursautpar les rugissements et les coups de feu, avaient grand'peur etdemandaient de la lumiere.[5]En attendant, Tartarin ne partait pas.XI_Des coups d'epee, Messieurs, des coups d'epee....Mais pas de coups d'epingle!_Avait-il bien reellement l'intention de partir?... Questiondelicate, et a laquelle l'historien de Tartarin serait fort embarrassede repondre.Toujours est-il que la menagerie Mitaine avait quitte Tarascon[10]depuis plus de trois mois, et le tueur de lions ne bougeait pas....Apres tout, peut-etre le candide heros, aveugle par un nouveaumirage, se figurait-il de bonne foi qu'il etait alle en Algerie.Peut-etre qu'a force de raconter ses futures chasses, il s'imaginaitles avoir faites, aussi sincerement qu'il s'imaginait avoir[15]hisse le drapeau consulaire et tire sur les Tartares, pan! pan! aShang-Hai.Malheureusement, si cette fois encore Tartarin de Tarasconfut victime du mirage, les Tarasconnais ne le furent pas. Lorsqu'aubout de trois mois d'attente, on s'apercut que le chasseur[20]n'avait pas encore fait une malle, on commenca a murmurer."Ce sera comme pour Shang-Hai!" disait Costecalde en souriant.Et le mot de l'armurier fit fureur dans la ville; car personnene croyait plus en Tartarin.Les naifs, les poltrons, des gens comme Bezuquet, qu'une[25]puce aurait mis en fuite et qui ne pouvaient pas tirer un coupde fusil sans fermer les yeux, ceux-la surtout etaient impitoyables.Au cercle, sur l'esplanade, ils abordaient le pauvre Tartarin avecde petits airs goguenards.Page 27"Et _autremain_, pour quand ce voyage?" Dans la boutiqueCostecalde, son opinion ne faisait plus foi. Les chasseurs decasquettes reniaient leur chef!Puis les epigrammes s'en melerent. Le president Ladeveze,[5]qui faisait volontiers en ses heures de loisir deux doigts de coura la muse provencale, composa dans la langue du cru une chansonqui eut beaucoup de succes. Il etait question d'un certaingrand chasseur appele maitre Gervais, dont le fusil redoutabledevait exterminer jusqu'au dernier tous les lions d'Afrique. Par[10]malheur ce diable de fusil etait de complexion singuliere: _on lechargeait toujours, il ne partait jamais_.Il ne partait jamais! vous comprenez l'allusion....En un tour de main, cette chanson devint populaire; et quandTartarin passait, les portefaix du quai, les petits decrotteurs de[15]devant sa porte chantaient en choeur:_Lou fusiou de mestre GervaiToujou lou cargon, toujou lou cargon,Lou fusiou de mestre GervaiToujou lou cargon, part jamai_.[20]Seulement cela se chantait de loin, a cause des doubles muscles.O fragilite des engouements de Tarascon!...Le grand homme, lui, feignait de ne rien voir, de ne rien entendre;mais au fond cette petite guerre sourde et venimeusel'affligeait beaucoup; il sentait Tarascon lui glisser dans la main,[25]la faveur populaire aller a d'autres, et cela le faisait horriblementsouffrir.Ah! la grande gamelle de la popularite, il fait bon s'asseoirdevant, mais quel echaudement quand elle se renverse!...En depit de sa souffrance, Tartarin souriait et menait paisiblement[30]sa meme vie, comme si de rien n'etait.Quelquefois cependant ce masque de joyeuse insouciance,qu'il s'etait par fierte colle sur le visage, se detachait subitement.Alors, au lieu du rire, on voyait l'indignation et la douleur....Page 28C'est ainsi qu'un matin que les petits decrotteurs chantaientsous ses fenetres: _Lou fusiou de mestre Gervai_, les voix de cesmiserables arriverent jusqu'a la chambre du pauvre grand hommeen train de se raser devant sa glace. (Tartarin portait toute sa[5]barbe, mais, comme elle venait trop forte, il etait oblige de lasurveiller.)Tout a coup la fenetre s'ouvrit violemment et Tartarin apparuten chemise, en serre-tete, barbouille de bon savon blanc,brandissant son rasoir et sa savonnette, et criant d'une voix[10]formidable:"Des coups d'epee, messieurs, des coups d'epee!... Maispas de coups d'epingle!"Belles paroles dignes de l'histoire, qui n'avaient que le tort des'adresser a ces petits _fouchtras_, hauts comme leurs boites a[15]cirage, et gentilhommes tout a fait incapables de tenir une epee!XII_De ce qui fut dit dans la petite maison du baobab_.Au milieu de la defection generale, l'armee seule tenait bonpour Tartarin.Le brave commandant Bravida, ancien capitaine d'habillement,continuait a lui marquer la meme estime: "C'est un lapin!"[20]s'entetait-il a dire, et cette affirmation valait bien, j'imagine,Celle du pharmacien Bezuquet.... Pas une fois le brave commandantn'avait fait allusion au voyage en Afrique; pourtant, quandla clameur publique devint trop forte, il se decida a parler.Un soir, le malheureux Tartarin etait seul dans son cabinet,[25]pensant a des choses tristes, quand il vit entrer le commandant,grave, gante de noir, boutonne jusqu'aux oreilles."Tartarin," fit l'ancien capitaine avec autorite, "Tartarin, ilfaut partir!" Et il restait debout dans l'encadrement de la porte,--rigide et grand comme le devoir.Page 29Tout ce qu'il y avait dans ce "Tartarin, il faut partir!" Tartarinde Tarascon le comprit.Tres pale, il se leva, regarda autour de lui d'un oeil attendri cejoli cabinet, bien clos, plein de chaleur et de lumiere douce, ce[5]large fauteuil si commode, ses livres, son tapis, les grands storesblancs de ses fenetres, derriere lesquels tremblaient les branchesgreles du petit jardin, puis, s'avancant vers le brave commandant,il lui prit la main, la serra avec energie, et d'une voix ou roulaientdes larmes, stoique cependant, il lui dit "Je partirai, Bravida!"[10]Et il partit comme il l'avait dit. Seulement pas encore toutde suite ... il lui fallut le temps de s'outiller.D'abord il commanda chez Bompard deux grandes malles doubleesde cuivre, avec une longue plaque portant cette inscription:TARTARIN DE TARASCONCAISSE D'ARMES.Le doublage et la gravure prirent beaucoup de temps. Il[15]commanda aussi chez Tastavin un magnifique album de voyagepour ecrire son journal, ses impressions, car enfin on a beauchasser le lion, on pense tout de meme en route.Puis il fit venir de Marseille toute une cargaison de conservesalimentaires, du pemmican en tablettes pour faire du bouillon,[20]une tente-abri d'un nouveau modele, se montant et se demontanta la minute, des bottes de marin, deux parapluies, un waterproof,des lunettes bleues pour prevenir les ophtalmies. Enfinle pharmacien Bezuquet lui confectionna une petite pharmacieportative bourree de sparadrap, d'arnica, de camphre, de vinaigre[25]des quatre-voleurs.Pauvre Tartarin! ce qu'il en faisait, ce n'etait pas pour lui;mais il esperait, a force de precautions et d'attentions delicates,apaiser la fureur de Tartarin-Sancho, qui, depuis que le departetait decide, ne decolerait ni de jour ni de nuit.XIII_Le depart_.Page 30Enfin il arriva, le jour solennel, le grand jour.Des l'aube, tout Tarascon etait sur pied, encombrant le chemind'Avignon et les abords de la petite maison du baobab.Du monde aux fenetres, sur les toits, sur les arbres; des[5]mariniers du Rhone, des portefaix, des decrotteurs, des bourgeois,des ourdisseuses, des taffetassieres, le cercle, enfin toutela ville; puis aussi des gens de Beaucaire qui avaient passe lepont, des maraichers de la banlieue, des charrettes a grandesbaches, des vignerons hisses sur de belles mules attifees de[10]rubans, de flots, de grelots, de noeuds, de sonnettes, et meme,de loin en loin, quelques jolies filles d'Arles venues en croupede leur galant, le ruban d'azur autour de la tete, sur de petitschevaux de Camargue gris de fer.Toute cette foule se pressait, se bousculait devant la porte[15]de Tartarin, ce bon M. Tartarin, qui s'en allait tuer des lionschez les _Teurs_.Pour Tarascon, l'Algerie, l'Afrique, la Grece, la Perse, laTurquie, la Mesopotamie, tout cela forme un grand pays tresvague, presque mythologique, et cela s'appelle les _Teurs_ (les[20]Turcs).Au milieu de cette cohue, les chasseurs de casquettes allaientet venaient, fiers du triomphe de leur chef, et tracant sur leurpassage comme des sillons glorieux.Devant la maison du baobab, deux grandes brouettes. De[25]temps en temps, la porte s'ouvrait, laissant voir quelques personnesqui se promenaient gravement dans le petit jardin. Deshommes apportaient des malles, des caisses, des sacs de nuit,qu'ils empilaient sur les brouettes.A chaque nouveau colis, la foule fremissait. On se nommait[30]les objets a haute voix. "Ca, c'est la tente-abri.... Ca, cePage 30sont les conserves ... la pharmacie ... les caisses d'armes...."Et les chasseurs de casquettes donnaient des explications.Tout a coup, vers dix heures, il se fit un grand mouvementdans la foule. La porte du jardin tourna sur ses gonds[5]violemment."C'est lui! ... c'est lui!" criait-on.C'etait lui....Quand il parut sur le seuil, deux cris de stupeur partirent dela foule:[10]"C'est un _Teur!_...--Il a des lunettes!"Tartarin de Tarascon, en effet, avait cru de son devoir, allanten Algerie, de prendre le costume algerien. Large pantalonbouffant en toile blanche, petite veste collante a boutons de[15]metal, deux pieds de ceinture rouge autour de l'estomac, le counu, le front rase, sur sa tete une gigantesque _chechia_ (bonnetrouge) et un flot bleu d'une longueur!... Avec cela, deuxlourds fusils, un sur chaque epaule, un grand couteau de chassea la ceinture, sur le ventre une cartouchiere, sur la hanche un[20]revolver se balancant dans sa poche de cuir. C'est tout....Ah! pardon, j'oubliais les lunettes, une enorme paire de lunettesbleues qui venaient la bien a propos pour corriger ce qu'ily avait d'un pen trop farouche dans la tournure de notre heros!"Vive Tartarin! ... vive Tartarin!" hurla le peuple. Le[25]grand homme sourit, mais ne salua pas, a cause de ses fusilsqui le genaient. Du reste, il savait maintenant a quoi s'en tenirsur la faveur populaire; peut-etre meme qu'au fond de son ameil maudissait ses terribles compatriotes, qui l'obligeaient a partir,a quitter son joli petit chez lui aux murs blancs, aux persiennes[30]vertes.... Mais cela ne se voyait pas.Calme et fier, quoiqu'un peu pale, il s'avanca sur la chaussee,regarda ses brouettes, et, voyant que tout etait bien, prit gaillardementle chemin de la gare, sans meme se retourner unePage 31fois vers la maison du baobab. Derriere lui marchaient le bravecommandant Bravida, ancien capitaine d'habillement, le presidentLadeveze, puis l'armurier Costecalde et tous les chasseurs decasquettes, puis les brouettes, puis le peuple.[5]Devant l'embarcadere, le chef de gare l'attendait,--un vieilAfricain de 1830, qui lui serra la main plusieurs fois avec chaleur.L'express Paris-Marseille n'etait pas encore arrive. Tartarinet son etat-major entrerent dans les salles d'attente. Pour eviterl'encombrement, derriere eux le chef de gare fit fermer les grilles.[10]Pendant un quart d'heure, Tartarin se promena de long enlarge dans les salles, au milieu des chasseurs de casquettes. Illeur parlait de son voyage, de sa chasse, promettant d'envoyerdes peaux. On s'inscrivait sur son carnet pour une peau commepour une contredanse.[15]Tranquille et doux comme Socrate au moment de boire lacigue, l'intrepide Tarasconnais avait un mot pour chacun, unsourire pour tout le monde. Il parlait simplement, d'un airaffable; on aurait dit qu'avant de partir, il voulait laisser derrierelui comme une trainee de charme, de regrets, de bons souvenirs.[20]D'entendre leur chef parler ainsi, tous les chasseurs de casquettesavaient des larmes, quelques-uns meme des remords, comme lepresident Ladeveze et le pharmacien Bezuquet.Des hommes d'equipe pleuraient dans des coins. Dehors, lepeuple regardait a travers les grilles, et criait: "Vive Tartarin!"[25]Enfin la cloche sonna. Un roulement sourd, un sifflet dechirantebranla, les voutes.... En voiture! en voiture!"Adieu, Tartarin!... adieu, Tartarin!...--Adieu, tous!..." murmura le grand homme, et sur lesjoues du brave commandant Bravida il embrassa son cher[30]Tarascon.Puis il s'elanca sur la voie, et monta dans un wagon plein deParisiennes, qui penserent mourir de peur en voyant arriver cethomme etrange avec tant de carabines et de revolvers.XIV_Le port de Marseille. Embarque! Embarque!_Page 32Le 1er decembre 186..., a l'heure de midi, par un soleil d'hiverprovencal, un temps clair, luisant, splendide, les Marseillaiseffares virent deboucher sur la Canebiere un _Teur_, oh mais, un_Teur!..._ Jamais ils n'en avaient vu un comme celui-la; et[5]pourtant, Dieu sait s'il en manque a Marseille, des _Teurs!_Le _Teur_ en question,--ai-je besoin de vous le dire?--c'etaitTartarin, le grand Tartarin de Tarascon, qui s'en allait le longdes quais, suivi de ses caisses d'armes, de sa pharmacie, de sesconserves, rejoindre l'embarcadere de la compagnie Touache, et[10]le paquebot le _Zouave_, qui devait l'emporter la-bas.L'oreille encore pleine des applaudissements tarasconnais,grise par la lumiere du ciel, l'odeur de la mer, Tartarin rayonnantmarchait, ses fusils sur l'epaule, la tete haute, regardant detous ses yeux ce merveilleux port de Marseille qu'il voyait pour[15]la premiere fois, et qui l'eblouissait.... Le pauvre hommecroyait rever. Il lui semblait qu'il s'appelait Sinbad le Marin, etqu'il errait dans une de ces villes fantastiques comme il y en adans les _Mille et une nuits._C'etait a perte de vue un fouillis de mats, de vergues, se[20]croisant dans tous les sens. Pavillons de tous les pays, russes,grecs, suedois, tunisiens, americains.... Les navires au ras duquai, les beaupres arrivant sur la berge comme des rangees debaionnettes. Au-dessous les naiades, les deesses, les saintesvierges et autres sculptures de bois peint qui donnent le nom au[25]vaisseau; tout cela mange par l'eau de mer, devore, ruisselant,moisi.... De temps en temps, entre les navires, un morceaude mer, comme une grande moire tachee d'huile.... Dansl'enchevetrement des vergues, des nuees de mouettes faisant dejolies taches sur le ciel bleu, des mousses qui s'appelaient dans[30]toutes les langues.Page 33Sur le quai, au milieu des ruisseaux qui venaient des savonneries,verts, epais, noiratres, charges d'huile et de soude, toutun peuple de douaniers, de commissionnaires, de portefaix avecleurs _bogheys_ atteles de petits chevaux corses.[5]Des magasins de confections bizarres, des baraques enfumeesou les matelots faisaient leur cuisine, des marchands de pipes,des marchands de singes, de perroquets, de cordes, de toiles avoiles, des bric-a-brac fantastiques ou s'etalaient pele-mele devieilles coulevrines, de grosses lanternes dorees, de vieux palans,[10]de vieilles ancres edentees, vieux cordages, vieilles poulies, vieuxportevoix, lunettes marines du temps de Jean Bart et de Duguay-Trouin. Desvendeuses de moules et de clovisses accroupies etpiaillant a cote de leurs coquillages. Des matelots passant avecdes pots de goudron, des marmites fumantes, de grands paniers[15]pleins de poulpes qu'ils allaient laver dans l'eau blanchatre desfontaines.Partout, un encombrement prodigieux de marchandises detoute espece: soieries, minerais, trains de bois, saumons deplomb, draps, sucres, caroubes, colzas, reglisses, cannes a sucre.[20]L'Orient et l'Occident pele-mele. De grands tas de fromages deHollande que les Genoises teignaient en rouge avec leurs mains.La-has, le quai au ble; les portefaix dechargeant leurs sacssur la berge du haut de grands echafaudages. Le ble, torrentd'or, qui roulait au milieu d'une fumee blonde. Des hommes en[25]fez rouge, le criblant a mesure dans de grands tamis de peaud'ane, et le chargeant sur des charrettes qui s'eloignaient suiviesd'un regiment de femmes et d'enfants avec des balayetteset des paniers a glanes.... Plus loin, le bassin de carenage,les grands vaisseaux couches sur le flanc et qu'on flambait avec[30]des broussailles pour les debarrasser des herbes de la mer, lesvergues trempant dans l'eau, l'odeur de la resine, le bruit assourdissantdes charpentiers doublant la coque des navires avecde grandes plaques de cuivre.Page 34Parfois, entre les mats, une eclaircie. Alors Tartarin voyaitl'entree du port, le grand va-et-vient des navires, une fregateanglaise partant pour Malte, pimpante et bien lavee, avec desofficiers en gants jaunes, ou bien un grand brick marseillais[5]demarrant au milieu des cris, des jurons, et a l'arriere un groscapitaine en redingote et chapeau de soie, commandant la manoeuvreen provencal. Des navires qui s'en allaient en courant,toutes voiles dehors. D'autres la-has, bien loin, qui arrivaientlentement, dans le soleil, comme en l'air.[10]Et puis tout le temps un tapage effroyable, roulement decharrettes, ce "oh! hisse!" des matelots, jurons, chants, sifflets debateaux a vapeur, les tambours et les clairons du fort Saint-Jean,du fort Saint-Nicolas, les cloches de la Major, des Accoules,de Saint-Victor; par la-dessus le mistral qui prenait tous ces[15]bruits, toutes ces clameurs, les roulait, les secouait, les confondaitavec sa propre voix et en faisait une musique folle, sauvage,heroique comme la grande fanfare du voyage, fanfare qui donnaitenvie de partir, d'aller loin, d'avoir des ailes.C'est au son de cette belle fanfare que l'intrepide Tartarin de[20]Tarascon s'embarqua pour le pays des lions!...DEUXIEME EPISODECHEZ LES TEURSI_La traversee. Les cinq positions de la chechia.Le soir du troisieme jour.Misericorde._Page 35Je voudrais, mes chers lecteurs, etre peintre et grand peintrepour mettre sous vos yeux, en tete de ce second episode, lesdifferentes positions que prit la _chechia_ de Tartarin de Tarascon,dans ces trois jours de traversee qu'elle fit a bord du _Zouave_,[5]entre la France et l'Algerie.Je vous la montrerais d'abord au depart sur le pont, heroiqueet superbe comme elle etait, aureolant cette belle tete tarasconnaise.Je vous la montrerais ensuite a la sortie du port,quand le _Zouave_ commence a caracoler sur les lames: je vous[10]la montrerais fremissante, etonnee, et comme sentant deja lespremieres atteintes de son mal.Puis, dans le golfe du Lion, a mesure qu'on avance au largeet que la mer devient plus dure, je vous la ferais voir aux prisesavec la tempete, se dressant effaree sur le crane du heros, et son[15]grand flot de laine bleue qui se herisse dans la brume de meret la bourrasque.... Quatrieme position. Six heures du soir,en vue des cotes corses. L'infortunee _chechia_ se penche par-dessusle bastingage et lamentablement regarde et sonde la mer....Enfin, cinquieme et derniere position, au fond d'une etroite cabine,[20]dans un petit lit qui a l'air d'un tiroir de commode, quelque chosed'informe et de desole roule en geignant sur l'oreiller. C'est laPage 36_chechia_, l'heroique _chechia_ du depart, reduite maintenant au vulgaireetat de casque a meche et s'enfoncant jusqu'aux oreillesd'une tete de malade bleme et convulsionnee....Ah! si les Tarasconnais avaient pu voir leur grand Tartarin[5]couche dans son tiroir de commode sous le jour blafard et tristequi tombait des hublots, parmi cette odeur fade de cuisine etde bois mouille, l'ecoeurante odeur du paquebot; s'ils l'avaiententendu raler a chaque battement de l'helice, demander du thetoutes les cinq minutes et jurer contre le garcon avec une petite[10]voix d'enfant, comme ils s'en seraient voulu de l'avoir oblige aPartir.... Ma parole d'historien! le pauvre _Teur_ faisait pitie.Surpris tout a coup par le mal, l'infortune n'avait pas eu lecourage de desserrer sa ceinture algerienne, ni de se defublerde son arsenal. Le couteau de chasse a gros manche lui cassait[15]la poitrine, le cuir de son revolver lui meurtrissait les jambes.Pour l'achever, les bougonnements de Tartarin-Sancho, qui necessait de geindre et de pester:"Imbecile, va!... Je te l'avais bien dit!... Ah! tu asvoulu aller en Afrique ... Eh bien, te! la voila l'Afrique!...[20]Comment la trouves-tu?"Ce qu'il y avait de plus cruel, c'est que du fond de sa cabineet de ses gemissements, le malheureux entendait les passagersdu grand salon rire, manger, chanter, jouer aux cartes. Lasociete etait aussi joyeuse que nombreuse a bord du _Zouave_.[25]Des officiers qui rejoignaient leurs corps, des dames de l'_Alcazar_de Marseille, des cabotins, un riche musulman qui revenaitde la Mecque, un prince montenegrin tres farceur qui faisaitdes imitations de Ravel et de Gil Peres.... Pas un de cesgens-la n'avait le mal de mer, et leur temps se passait a boire[30]du Champagne avec le capitaine du _Zouave_, un bon gros vivantde Marseillais, qui avait menage a Alger et a Marseille, etrepondait au joyeux nom de Barbassou.Page 37Tartarin de Tarascon en voulait a tous ces miserables. Leurgaiete redoublait son mal....Enfin, dans l'apres-midi du troisieme jour, il se fit a bord dunavire un mouvement extraordinaire qui tira notre heros de sa[5]longue torpeur. La cloche de l'avant sonnait. On entendait lesgrosses bottes des matelots courir sur le pont."Machine en avant!... machine en arriere!" criait la voixenrouee du capitaine Barbassou.Puis "Machine, stop!" Un grand arret, une secousse, et[10]plus rien.... Rien que le paquebot se balancant silencieusementde droite a gauche, comme un ballon dans l'air....Cet etrange silence epouvanta le Tarasconnais."Misericorde! nous sombrons!" cria-t-il d'une voix terrible,et, retrouvant ses forces par magie, il bondit de sa couchette,[15]et se precipita sur le pont avec son arsenal.II_Aux armes! Aux armes!_On ne sombrait pas, on arrivait.Le _Zouave_ venait d'entrer dans la rade, une belle rade auxeaux noires et profondes, mais silencieuse, morne, presquedeserte. En face, sur une colline, Alger la blanche avec ses[20]petites maisons d'un blanc mat qui descendent vers la mer,serrees les unes contre les autres. Un etalage de blanchisseusesur le coteau de Meudon. Par la-dessus un grand ciel de satinbleu, oh! mais si bleu!...L'illustre Tartarin, un peu remis de sa frayeur, regardait le[25]paysage, en ecoutant avec respect le prince montenegrin, qui,debout a ses cotes, lui nommait les differents quartiers de la ville,la Casbah, la ville haute, la rue Bab-Azoun. Tres bien eleve, ceprince montenegrin, de plus connaissant a fond l'Algerie etparlant l'arabe couramment. Aussi Tartarin se proposait-il dePage 38cultiver sa connaissance.... Tout a coup, le long du bastingagecontre lequel ils etaient appuyes, le Tarasconnais apercoitune rangee de grosses mains noires qui se cramponnaient pardehors. Presque aussitot une tete de negre toute crepue apparait[5]devant lui, et, avant qu'il ait eu le temps d'ouvrir la bouche,le pont se trouve envahi de tous cotes par une centaine de forbans,noirs, jaunes, a moitie nus, hideux, terribles.Ces forbans-la, Tartarin les connaissait.... C'etaient eux,c'est-a-dire ILS, ces fameux ILS qu'il avait si souvent cherches la[10]nuit dans les rues de Tarascon. Enfin ILS se decidaient donca venir!... D'abord la surprise le cloua sur place. Mais quand ilvit les forbans se precipiter sur les bagages, arracher la bachequi les recouvrait, commencer enfin le pillage du navire, alors[15]le heros se reveilla, et degainant son couteau de chasse: "Auxarmes! aux armes!" cria-t-il aux voyageurs, et le premier detous, il fondit sur les pirates."_Ques aco?_ qu'est-ce qu'il y a? qu'est-ce que vous avez?"fit le capitaine Barbassou, qui sortait de l'entrepont.[20]"Ah! vous voila, capitaine!... vite, vite, armez vos hommes.--He! pourquoi faire, _boun Diou?_--Mais vous ne voyez donc pas...?--Quoi donc?...--La ... devant vous ... les pirates...."[25]Le capitaine Barbassou le regardait tout ahuri. A ce moment,un grand diable de negre passait devant eux, en courant, avecla pharmacie du heros sur son dos:"Miserable!... attends-moi!..." hurla le Tarasconnais;et il s'elanca, la dague en avant.[30]Barbassou le rattrapa au vol, et, le retenant par sa ceinture:"Mais restez donc tranquille, tron de ler!... Ce ne sontpas des pirates.... Il y a longtemps qu'il n'y en a plus dePirates.... Ce sont des portefaix.Page 39--Des portefaix!...--He! oui, des portefaix, qui viennent chercher les bagagespour les porter a terre.... Rengainez donc votre coutelas,donnez-moi votre billet, et marchez derriere ce negre, un brave[5]garcon, qui va vous conduire a terre, et meme jusqu'a l'hotel sivous le desirez!..."Un peu confus, Tartarin donna son billet, et, se mettant ala suite du negre, descendit par le tire-vieille dans une grossebarque qui dansait le long du navire. Tous ses bagages y[10]etaient deja, ses malles, caisses d'armes, conserves alimentaires;comme ils tenaient toute la barque, on n'eut pas besoin d'attendred'autres voyageurs. Le negre grimpa sur les malles ets'y accroupit comme un singe, les genoux dans ses mains. Unautre negre prit les rames.... Tous deux regardaient Tartarin[15]en riant et montrant leurs dents blanches.Debout a l'arriere, avec cette terrible moue qui faisait la terreurde ses compatriotes, le grand Tarasconnais tourmentait fievreusementle manche de son coutelas; car, malgre ce qu'avaitpu lui dire Barbassou, il n'etait qu'a moitie rassure sur les intentions[20]de ces portefaix a peau d'ebene, qui ressemblaient si peuaux braves portefaix de Tarascon....Cinq minutes apres, la barque arrivait a terre, et Tartarinposait le pied sur ce petit quai barbaresque, ou trois cents ansauparavant, un galerien espagnol nomme Michel Cervantes preparait[25]--sous le baton de la chiourme algerienne--un sublimeroman qui devait s'appeler _Don Quichotte_!III_Invocation a Cervantes. Debarquement.Ou sont les Teurs? Pas de Teurs.Desillusion._Page 40O Michel Cervantes Saavedra, si ce qu'on dit est vrai, qu'auxlieux ou les grands hommes ont habite quelque chose d'eux-memeserre et flotte dans l'air jusqu'a la fin des ages, ce quirestait de toi sur la plage barbaresque dut tressaillir de joie en[5]voyant debarquer Tartarin de Tarascon, ce type merveilleuxdu Francais du Midi en qui s'etaient incarnes les deux heros deton livre, Don Quichotte et Sancho Panca....L'air etait chaud ce jour-la. Sur le quai ruisselant de soleil,cinq ou six douaniers, des Algeriens attendant des nouvelles de[10]France, quelques Maures accroupis qui fumaient leurs longuespipes, des matelots maltais ramenant de grands filets ou desmilliers de sardines luisaient entre les mailles comme de petitespieces d'argent.Mais a peine Tartarin eut-il mis pied a terre, le quai s'anima,[15]changea d'aspect. Une bande de sauvages, encore plus hideuxque les forbans du bateau, se dressa d'entre les cailloux de laberge et se rua sur le debarquant. Grands Arabes tout nus sousdes couvertures de laine, petits Maures en guenilles, Negres,Tunisiens, Mahonnais, M'zabites, garcons d'hotel en tablier[20]blanc, tous criant, hurlant, s'accrochant a ses habits, se disputantses bagages, l'un emportant ses conserves, l'autre sa pharmacie,et, dans un charabia fantastique, lui jetant a la tete desnoms d'hotel invraisemblables....Etourdi de tout ce tumulte, le pauvre Tartarin allait, venait,[25]pestait, jurait, se demenait, courait apres ses bagages, et, nesachant comment se faire comprendre de ces barbares, lesharanguait en francais, en provencal, et meme en latin, dulatin de Pourceaugnac, _rosa, la rose, bonus, bona, bonum_, toutPage 41ce qu'il savait.... Peine perdue. On ne l'ecoutait pas....Heureusement qu'un petit homme, vetu d'une tunique a colletjaune, et arme d'une longue canne de compagnon, intervintcomme un dieu d'Homere dans la melee, et dispersa toute cette[5]racaille a coups de baton. C'etait un sergent de ville algerien.Tres poliment, il engagea Tartarin a descendre a l'hotel del'Europe, et le confia a des garcons de l'endroit qui l'emmenerent,lui et ses bagages, en plusieurs brouettes.Aux premiers pas qu'il fit dans Alger, Tartarin de Tarascon[10]ouvrit de grands yeux. D'avance il s'etait figure uneville orientale, feerique, mythologique, quelque chose tenant lemilieu entre Constantinople et Zanzibar.... Il tombait enplein Tarascon.... Des cafes, des restaurants, de largesrues, des maisons a quatre etages, une petite place macadamisee[15]ou des musiciens de la ligne jouaient des polkas d'Offenbach,des messieurs sur des chaises buvant de la biere avecdes echaudes, des dames, quelques lorettes, et puis des militaires,encore des militaires, toujours des militaires ... et pasun _Teur!..._ Il n'y avait que lui.... Aussi, pour traverser[20]la place, se trouva-t-il un peu gene. Tout le monde le regardait.Les musiciens de la ligne s'arreterent, et la polka d'Offenbachresta un pied en l'air.Les deux fusils sur l'epaule, le revolver sur la hanche, faroucheet majestueux comme Robinson Crusoe, Tartarin passa[25]gravement au milieu de tous les groupes; mais en arrivant al'hotel ses forces l'abandonnerent. Le depart de Tarascon, leport de Marseille, la traversee, le prince montenegrin, les pirates,tout se brouillait et roulait dans sa tete.... Il fallut le montera sa chambre, le desarmer, le deshabiller.... Deja meme on[30]parlait d'envoyer chercher un medecin; mais, a peine sur l'oreiller,le heros se mit a ronfler si haut et de si bon coeur, que l'hotelierjugea les secours de la science inutiles, et tout le monde se retiradiscretement.IV_Le premier affut._Page 42Trois heures sonnaient a l'horloge du Gouvernement, quandTartarin se reveilla. Il avait dormi toute la soiree, toute la nuit,toute la matinee, et meme un bon morceau de l'apres-midi; ilfaut dire aussi que depuis trois jours la _chechia_ en avait vu de[5]rudes!...La premiere pensee du heros, en ouvrant les yeux, fut celle-ci:"Je suis dans le pays du lion!" pourquoi ne pas le dire? acette idee que les lions etaient la tout pres, a deux pas, etpresque sous la main, et qu'il allait falloir en decoudre, brr! ... un[10]froid mortel le saisit, et il se fourra intrepidement soussa couverture.Mais, au bout d'un moment, la gaiete du dehors, le ciel sibleu, le grand soleil qui ruisselait dans la chambre, un bon petitdejeuner qu'il se fit servir au lit, sa fenetre grande ouverte sur[15]la mer, le tout arrose d'un excellent flacon de vin de Crescia,lui rendit bien vite son ancien heroisme. "Au lion! au lion!"cria-t-il en rejetant sa couverture, et il s'habilla prestement.Voici quel etait son plan: sortir de la ville sans rien dire apersonne, se jeter en plein desert, attendre la nuit, s'embusquer,[20]et, au premier lion qui passerait, pan! pan!... Puis revenirle lendemain dejeuner a l'hotel de l'Europe, recevoir les felicitationsdes Algeriens et freter une charrette pour aller chercherl'animal.Il s'arma donc a la hate, roula sur son dos la tente-abri dont[25]le gros manche montait d'un bon pied au-dessus de sa tete, etraide comme un pieu, descendit dans la rue. La, ne voulantdemander sa route a personne de peur de donner l'eveil surses projets, il tourna carrement a droite, enfila jusqu'an boutles arcades Bab-Azoun, ou du fond de leurs noires boutiques[30]des nuees de juifs algeriens le regardaient passer, embusquesPage 43dans un coin comme des araignees; traversa la place du Theatre,prit le faubourg et enfin la grande route poudreuse de Mustapha.Il y avait sur cette route un encombrement fantastique. Omnibus,fiacres, corricolos, des fourgons du train, de grandes charrettes[5]de foin trainees par des boeufs, des escadrons de chasseursd'Afrique, des troupeaux de petits anes microscopiques, desnegresses qui vendaient des galettes, des voitures d'Alsaciensemigrants, des spahis en manteaux rouges, tout cela defilantdans un tourbillon de poussiere, au milieu des cris, des chants,[10]des trompettes, entre deux haies de mechantes baraques oul'on voyait de grandes Mahonnaises se peignant devant leursportes, des cabarets pleins de soldats, des boutiques de bouchers,D'equarrisseurs...."Qu'est-ce qu'ils me chantent donc avec leur Orient?" pensait[15]le grand Tartarin; "il n'y a pas meme tant de _Teurs_ qu'aMarseille."Tout a coup, il vit passer pres de lui, allongeant ses grandesjambes et rengorge comme un dindon, un superbe chameau.Cela lui fit battre le coeur.[20]Des chameaux deja! Les lions ne devaient pas etre loin; et,en effet, au bout de cinq minutes, il vit arriver vers lui, le fusilsur l'epaule, toute une troupe de chasseurs de lions."Les laches!" se dit notre heros en passant a cote d'eux,"les laches! Aller au lion par bandes, et avec des chiens!..."[25]Car il ne se serait jamais imagine qu'en Algerie on put chasserautre chose que des lions. Pourtant ces chasseurs avaient desi bonnes figures de commercants retires, et puis cette faconde chasser le lion avec des chiens et des carnassieres etait sipatriarcale, que le Tarasconnais, un peu intrigue, crut devoir[30]aborder un de ces messieurs."Et autrement, camarade, bonne chasse?--Pas mauvaise," repondit l'autre en regardant d'un oeileffare l'armement considerable du guerrier de Tarascon.Page 44"Vous avez tue?--Mais oui ... pas mal ... voyez plutot." Et le chasseur algerienmontrait sa carnassiere, toute gonflee de lapins et de becasses."Comment ca! votre carnassiere?... vous les mettez dans[5]votre carnassiere?--Ou voulez-vous donc que je les mette?--Mais alors, c'est ... c'est des tout petits....--Des petits et puis des gros," fit le chasseur. Et commeil etait presse de rentrer chez lui, il rejoignit ses camarades a[10]grandes enjambees.L'intrepide Tartarin en resta plante de stupeur au milieu dela route.... Puis, apres un moment de reflexion: "Bah!"se dit-il, "ce sont des blagueurs.... Ils n'ont rien tue duTout...." et il continua son chemin.[15]Deja les maisons se faisaient plus rares, les passants aussi.La nuit tombait, les objets devenaient confus... Tartarin deTarascon marcha encore une demi-heure. A la fin il s'arreta....C'etait tout a fait la nuit. Nuit sans lune, criblee d'etoiles.Personne sur la route.... Malgre tout, le heros pensa que[20]les lions n'etaient pas des diligences et ne devaient pas volontierssuivre le grand chemin. Il se jeta a travers champs....A chaque pas des fosses, des ronces, des broussailles. N'importe!il marchait toujours.... Puis tout a coup, halte! "Ily a du lion dans l'air par ici," se dit notre homme, et il renifla[25]fortement de droite et de gauche.V_Pan! Pan!_C'etait un grand desert sauvage, tout herisse de plantesbizarres, de ces plantes d'Orient qui ont l'air de betes mechantes.Sous le jour discret des etoiles, leur ombre agrandie s'etirait parterre en tous sens. A droite, la masse confuse et lourde d'unePage 45montagne, l'Atlas peut-etre!... A gauche, la mer invisible,qui roulait sourdement.... Un vrai gite a tenter les fauves....Un fusil devant lui, un autre dans les mains, Tartarin deTarascon mit un genou en terre et attendit.... Il attendit une[5]heure, deux heures.... Rien!... Alors il se souvint que, dansses livres, les grands tueurs de lions n'allaient jamais a la chassesans emmener un petit chevreau qu'ils attachaient a quelquespas devant eux et qu'ils faisaient crier en lui tirant la patteavec une ficelle. N'ayant pas de chevreau, le Tarasconnais eut[10]l'idee d'essayer des imitations, et se mit a beler d'une voixchevrotante: "Me! Me!..."D'abord tres doucement, parce qu'au fond de l'ame il avaittout de meme un peu peur que le lion l'entendit ... puis, voyantque rien ne venait, il bela plus fort: "Me!... Me!..."[15]Rien encore!... Impatiente, il reprit de plus belle et plusieursfois de suite: "Me!... Me!... Me!..." avec tant depuissance que ce chevreau finissait par avoir l'air d'un boeuf....Tout a coup, a quelques pas devant lui, quelque chose denoir et de gigantesque s'abattit. Il se tut.... Cela se baissait, flairait[20]la terre, bondissait, se roulait, partait au galop, puis revenaitet s'arretait net ... c'etait le lion, a n'en pas douter!...Maintenant on voyait tres bien ses quatre pattes courtes, saformidable encolure, et deux yeux, deux grands yeux qui luisaient dansl'ombre.... En joue! feu! pan! pan!... C'etait[25]fait. Puis tout de suite un bondissement en arriere, et le coutelasde chasse au poing.Au coup de feu du Tarasconnais, un hurlement terriblerepondit."Il en a!" cria le bon Tartarin, et, ramasse sur ses fortes[30]jambes, il se preparait a recevoir la bete; mais elle en avait plusque son compte et s'enfuit au triple galop en hurlant.... Luipourtant ne bougea pas. Il attendait la femelle ... toujourscomme dans ses livres!Page 46Par malheur la femelle ne vint pas. Au bout de deux outrois heures d'attente, le Tarasconnais se lassa. La terre etaithumide, la nuit devenait fraiche, la bise de mer piquait."Si je faisais un somme en attendant le jour?" se dit-il, et,[5]pour eviter les rhumatismes, il eut recours a la tente-abri....Mais voila le diable! cette tente-abri etait d'un systeme si ingenieux,si ingenieux, qu'il ne put jamais venir a bout de l'ouvrir.Il eut beau s'escrimer et suer pendant une heure, la damneetente ne s'ouvrit pas.... Il y a des parapluies qui, par des[10]pluies torrentielles, s'amusent a vous jouer de ces tours-la....De guerre lasse, le Tarasconnais jeta l'ustensile par terre, et secoucha dessus, en jurant comme un vrai Provencal qu'il etait."_Ta, ta, ra, ta, Tarata!_....--_Ques aco?..._" fit Tartarin, s'eveillant en sursaut.[15]C'etaient les clairons des chasseurs d'Afrique qui sonnaientla diane, dans les casernes de Mustapha.... Le tueur delions, stupefait, se frotta les yeux.... Lui qui se croyait enplein desert!... Savez-vous ou il etait...? Dans un carred'artichauts, entre un plant de choux-fleurs et un plant de[20]betteraves.Son Sahara avait des legumes.... Tout pres de lui, sur lajolie cote verte de Mustapha superieur, des villas algeriennes,toutes blanches, luisaient dans la rosee du jour levant: on seserait cru aux environs de Marseille, au milieu des _bastides_ et[25]des _bastidons_.La physionomie bourgeoise et potagere de ce paysage endormietonna beaucoup le pauvre homme, et le mit de fort mechantehumeur."Ces gens-la sont fous," se disait-il, "de planter leurs artichauts dans[30]le voisinage du lion.... car enfin, je n'ai pas reve....Les lions viennent jusqu'ici.... En voila la preuve...."La preuve, c'etaient des taches de sang que la bete en fuyantavait laissees derriere elle. Penche sur cette piste sanglante, l'oeilPage 47aux aguets, le revolver au poing, le vaillant Tarasconnais arriva,d'artichaut en artichaut, jusqu'a un petit champ d'avoine....De l'herbe foulee, une mare de sang, et, au milieu de la mare,couche sur le flanc avec une large plaie a la tete, un....[5]Devinez quoi!..."Un lion, parbleu!..."Non! un ane, un de ces tout petits anes qui sont si communsen Algerie et qu'on designe la-bas sous le nom de _bourriquots_.VI_Arrivee de la femelle. Terrible combat.Le Rendez-vous des Lapins._Le premier mouvement de Tartarin a l'aspect de sa malheureuse[10]victime fut un mouvement de depit. Il y a si loin en effetd'un lion a un _bourriquot!_.... Son second mouvement fut touta la pitie. Le pauvre bourriquot etait si joli; il avait l'air si bon!La peau de ses flancs, encore chaude, allait et venait comme unevague. Tartarin s'agenouilla, et du bout de sa ceinture algerienne[15]essaya d'etancher le sang de la malheureuse bete; et cegrand homme soignant ce petit ane, c'etait tout ce que vouspouvez imaginer de plus touchant.Au contact soyeux de la ceinture, le bourriquot, qui avaitencore pour deux liards de vie, ouvrit son grand oeil gris, remua[20]deux ou trois fois ses longues oreilles comme pour dire:"Merci!... merci!..." Puis une derniere convulsion l'agitade tete en queue et il ne bougea plus."Noiraud! Noiraud!" cria tout a coup une voix etrangleepar l'angoisse. En meme temps dans un taillis voisin les branches[25]remuerent.... Tartarin n'eut que le temps de se relever etde se mettre en garde.... C'etait la femelle!Elle arriva, terrible et rugissante, sous les traits d'une vieilleAlsacienne en marmotte, armee d'un grand parapluie rouge etPage 48reclamant son ane a tous les echos de Mustapha. Certes il auraitmieux valu pour Tartarin avoir affaire a une lionne en furiequ'a cette mechante vieille.... Vainement le malheureux essayade lui faire entendre comment la chose s'etait passee; qu'il avait[5]pris Noiraud pour un lion.... La vieille crut qu'on voulait semoquer d'elle, et poussant d'energiques "tarteifle!" tomba surle heros a coups de parapluie. Tartarin, un peu confus, sedefendait de son mieux, parait les coups avec sa carabine,suait, soufflait, bondissait, criait:--"Mais Madame ... mais[10]Madame...."Va te promener! Madame etait sourde, et sa vigueur leprouvait bien.Heureusement un troisieme personnage arriva sur le champde bataille. C'etait le mari de l'Alsacienne, Alsacien lui-meme[15]et cabaretier; de plus, fort bon comptable. Quand il vit a qui ilavait affaire, et que l'assassin ne demandait qu'a payer le prixde la victime, il desarma son epouse et l'on s'entendit.Tartarin donna deux cents francs: l'ane en valait bien dix.C'est le prix courant des _bourriquots_ sur les marches arabes.[20]Puis on enterra le pauvre Noiraud au pied d'un figuier, etl'Alsacien, mis en bonne humeur par la couleur des dourostarasconnais, invita le heros a venir rompre une croute a soncabaret, qui se trouvait a quelques pas de la, sur le bord de lagrande route.[25]Les chasseurs algeriens venaient y dejeuner tous les dimanchescar la plaine etait giboyeuse et a deux lieues autourde la ville il n'y avait pas de meilleur endroit pour les lapins."Et les lions?" demanda Tartarin.L'Alsacien le regarda, tres etonne: "Les lions?[30]--Oui ... les lions ... en voyez-vous quelquefois?" repritle pauvre homme avec un peu moins d'assurance.Le cabaretier eclata de rire:Page 49"Ah! ben! merci.... Des lions ... pourquoi faire?...--Il n'y en a donc pas en Algerie?...--Ma foi! je n'en ai jamais vu.... Et pourtant voila vingtans que j'habite la province. Cependant je crois bien avoir[5]entendu dire.... Il me semble que les journaux.... Maisc'est beaucoup plus loin, la-bas, dans le Sud...."A ce moment, ils arrivaient au cabaret. Un cabaret de banlieue,comme on en voit a Vanves ou a Pantin, avec un rameautout fane au-dessus de la porte, des queues de billard peintes[10]sur les murs et cette enseigne inoffensive:AU RENDEZ-VOUS DES LAPINSLe Rendez-vous des Lapins!... O Bravida, quel souvenir!VII_Histoire d'un omnibus, d'une Mauresqueet d'un chapelet de fleurs de jasmin._Cette premiere aventure aurait eu de quoi decourager biendes gens; mais les hommes trempes comme Tartarin ne se[15]laissent pas facilement abattre."Les lions sont dans le Sud," pensa le heros; "eh bien!j'irai dans le Sud."Et des qu'il eut avale son dernier morceau, il se leva, remerciason hote, embrassa la vieille sans rancune, versa une derniere[20]larme sur l'infortune Noiraud, et retourna bien vite a Alger avecla ferme intention de boucler ses malles et de partir le jourmeme pour le Sud.Malheureusement la grande route de Mustapha semblait s'etreallongee depuis la veille: il faisait un soleil, une poussiere! La[25]tente-abri etait d'un lourd!... Tartarin ne se sentit pas lePage 50courage d'aller a pied jusqu'a la ville, et le premier omnibus quipassa, il fit signe et monta dedans....Ah! pauvre Tartarin de Tarascon! Combien il aurait mieuxfait pour son nom, pour sa gloire, de ne pas entrer dans cette[5]fatale guimbarde et de continuer pedestrement sa route, au risquede tomber asphyxie sous le poids de l'atmosphere, de la tente-abriet de ses lourds fusils rayes a doubles canons....Tartarin etant monte, L'omnibus fut complet. Il y avait aufond, le nez dans son breviaire, un vicaire d'Alger a grande[10]barbe noire. En face, un jeune marchand maure, qui fumait degrosses cigarettes. Puis, un matelot maltais, et quatre ou cinqMauresques masquees de linges blancs, et dont on ne pouvaitvoir que les yeux. Ces dames venaient de faire leurs devotionsan cimetiere d'Abd-el-Kader; mais cette visite funebre ne semblait[15]pas les avoir attristees. On les entendait rire et jacasserentre elles sous leurs masques, en croquant des patisseries.Tartarin crut s'apercevoir qu'elles le regardaient beaucoup.Une surtout, celle qui etait assise en face de lui, avait planteson regard dans le sien, et ne le retira pas de toute la route.[20]Quoique la dame fut voilee, la vivacite de ce grand oeil noirallonge par le k'hol, un poignet delicieux et fin charge de braceletsd'or qu'on entrevoyait de temps en temps entre les voiles,tout, le son de la voix, les mouvements gracieux, presque enfantinsde la tete, disait qu'il y avait la-dessous quelque chose de[25]jeune, de joli, d'adorable ... Le malheureux Tartarin nesavait ou se fourrer. La caresse muette de ces beaux yeuxd'Orient le troublait, l'agitait, le faisait mourir; il avait chaud,il avait froid....Pour l'achever, la pantoufle de la dame s'en mela: sur ses[30]grosses bottes de chasse, il la sentait courir, cette mignonnepantoufle courir et fretiller comme une petite souris rouge....Que faire? Repondre a ce regard, a cette pression! Oui, maisles consequences.... Une intrigue d'amour en Orient, c'estPage 51quelque chose de terrible!... Et avec son imagination romanesqueet meridionale, le brave Tarasconnais se voyait dejatombant aux mains des eunuques, decapite, mieux que celapeut-etre, cousu dans un sac de cuir, et roulant sur la mer, sa[5]tete a cote de lui. Cela le refroidissait un peu.... En attendant,la petite pantoufle continuait son manege, et les yeuxd'en face s'ouvraient tout grands vers lui comme deux fleursde velours noir, en ayant l'air de dire:--Cueille-nous!...[10]L'omnibus s'arreta. On etait sur la place du Theatre, al'entree de la rue Bab-Azoun. Une a une, empetrees dans leursgrands pantalons et serrant leurs voiles contre elles avec unegrace sauvage, les Mauresques descendirent. La voisine deTartarin se leva la derniere, et en se levant son visage passa si[15]pres de celui du heros qu'il l'effleura de son haleine, un vraibouquet de jeunesse, de jasmin, de musc et de patisserie.Le Tarasconnais n'y resista pas. Ivre d'amour et pret a tout,il s'elanca derriere la Mauresque.... Au bruit de ses buffleterieselle se retourna, mit un doigt sur son masque comme pour[20]dire "chut!" et vivement, de l'autre main, elle lui jeta un petitchapelet parfume, fait avec des fleurs de jasmin. Tartarin deTarascon se baissa pour le ramasser; mais, comme notre herosetait un peu lourd et tres charge d'armures, I'operation fut assezlongue....[25]Quand il se releva, le chapelet de jasmin sur son coeur,--laMauresque avait disparu.VIII_Lions de l'Atlas, dormez!_Lions de I'Atlas, dormez! Dormez tranquilles au fond devos retraites, dans les aloes et les cactus sauvages.... Dequelques jours encore, Tartarin de Tarascon ne vous massacrera[30]point. Pour le moment, tout son attirail de guerre,Page 52--caisses d'armes, pharmacie, tente-abri, conserves alimentaires,--repose paisiblement emballe, a l'hotel d'Europe, dans un coinde la chambre 36.Dormez sans peur, grands lions roux! Le Tarasconnais[5]cherche sa Mauresque. Depuis l'histoire de l'omnibus, lemalheureux croit sentir perpetuellement sur son pied, sur son vastepied de trappeur, les fretillements de la petite souris rouge; etla brise de mer, en effleurant ses levres, se parfume toujours--quoi qu'il fasse--d'une amoureuse odeur de patisserie et d'anis.[10]Il lui faut sa Maugrabine!Mais ce n'est pas une mince affaire! Retrouver dans uneville de cent mille ames une personne dont on ne connait quel'haleine, les pantoufles et la couleur des yeux; il n'y a qu'unTarasconnais, feru d'amour, capable de tenter une pareille[15]aventure.Le terrible c'est que, sous leurs grands masques blancs, toutesles Mauresques se ressemblent; puis ces dames ne sortent guere,et, quand on veut en voir, il faut monter dans la ville haute, laville arabe, la ville des _Teurs_.[20]Un vrai coupe-gorge, cette ville haute. De petites ruellesnoires tres etroites, grimpant a pic entre deux rangees de maisonsmysterieuses dont les toitures se rejoignent et font tunnel.Des portes basses, des fenetres toutes petites, muettes, tristes,grillagees. Et puis, de droite et de gauche, un tas d'echoppes[25]tres sombres ou les _Teurs_ farouches a tetes de forbans--yeux blancs et dents brillantes--fument de longues pipes,et se parlent a voix basse comme pour concerter de mauvaiscoups....Dire que notre Tartarin traversait sans emotion cette cite[30]formidable, ce serait mentir. Il etait au contraire tres emu,et dans ces ruelles obscures dont son gros ventre tenait toute lalargeur, le brave homme n'avancait qu'avec la plus grande precaution,l'oeil aux aguets, le doigt sur la detente d'un revolver.Page 53Tout a fait comme a Tarascon, en allant au cercle. A chaqueinstant il s'attendait a recevoir sur le dos toute une degringoladed'eunuques et de janissaires, mais le desir de revoir sa dame luidonnait une audace et une force de geant.[5]Huit jours durant, l'intrepide Tartarin ne quitta pas la villehaute. Tantot on le voyait faire le pied de grue devant les bainsmaures, attendant l'heure ou ces dames sortent par bandes, frissonnanteset sentant le bain; tantot il apparaissait accroupi ala porte des mosquees, suant et soufflant pour quitter ses grosses[10]bottes avant d'entrer dans le sanctuaire....Parfois, a la tombee de la nuit, quand il s'en revenait navrede n'avoir rien decouvert, pas plus au bain qu'a la mosquee, leTarasconnais, en passant devant les maisons mauresques, entendait deschants monotones, des sons etouffes de guitare, des[15]roulements de tambours de basque, et des petits rires de femmequi lui faisaient battre le coeur."Elle est peut-etre la!" se disait-il.Alors, si la rue etait deserte, il s'approchait d'une de cesmaisons, levait le lourd marteau de la poterne basse, et frappait[20]timidement.... Aussitot les chants, les rires cessaient. Onn'entendait plus derriere la muraille que de petits chuchotementsvagues, comme dans une voliere endormie."Tenons-nous bien!" pensait le heros.... "Il va m'arriverquelque chose!"[25]Ce qui lui arrivait le plus souvent, c'etait une grande poteed'eau froide sur la tete, ou bien des peaux d'oranges et de figuesde Barbarie.... Jamais rien de plus grave....Lions de l'Atlas, dormez!IX_Le prince Gregory du Montenegro._Page 54Il y avait deux grandes semaines que l'infortune Tartarincherchait sa dame algerienne, et tres vraisemblablement il lachercherait encore, si la Providence des amants n'etait venue ason aide sous les traits d'un gentilhomme montenegrin. Voici:[5]En hiver, toutes les nuits de samedi, le grand theatre d'Algerdonne son bal masque, ni plus ni moins que l'Opera. C'estl'eternel et insipide bal masque de province. Peu de mondedans la salle, quelques epaves de Bullier ou du Casino, viergesfolles suivant l'armee, chicards fanes, debardeurs en deroute, et[10]cinq ou six petites blanchisseuses mahonnaises qui se lancent,mais gardent de leur temps de vertu un vague parfum d'ail etde sauces safranees.... Le vrai coup d'oeil n'est pas la. Ilest au foyer, transforme pour la circonstance en salon de jeu....Une foule fievreuse et bariolee s'y bouscule, autour des[15]longs tapis verts: des turcos en permission misant les gros sousdu pret, des Maures marchands de la ville haute, des negres,des Maltais, des colons de l'interieur qui ont fait quarante lieuespour venir hasarder sur un as l'argent d'une charrue ou d'uncouple de boeufs.... tous fremissants, pales, les dents serrees,[20]avec ce regard singulier du joueur, trouble, en biseau, devenulouche a force de fixer toujours la meme carte.Plus loin, ce sont des tribus de juifs algeriens, jouant en famille.Les hommes out le costume oriental hideusement agrementede bas bleus et de casquettes de velours. Les femmes,[25]bouffies et blafardes, se tiennent toutes raides dans leursetroits plastrons d'or.... Groupee autour des tables, toute la tribupiaille, se concerte, compte sur ses doigts et joue peu. Detemps en temps seulement, apres de longs conciliabules, unvieux patriarche a barbe de Pere eternel se detache, et va risquer[30]le douro familial.... C'est alors, tant que la partie dure<Page 55un scintillement d'yeux hebraiques tournes vers la table, terriblesyeux d'aimant noir qui font fretiller les pieces d'or surle tapis et finissent par les attirer tout doucement comme parun fil....[5]Puis des querelles, des batailles, des jurons de tous les pays,des cris fous dans toutes les langues, des couteaux qu'on degaine,la garde qui monte, de l'argent qui manque!...C'est au milieu de ces saturnales que le grand Tartarin etaitvenu s'egarer un soir, pour chercher l'oubli et la paix de coeur.[10]Le heros s'en allait seul, dans la foule, pensant a sa Mauresque,quand tout a coup, a une table de jeu, par-dessus lescris, le bruit de l'or, deux voix irritees s'eleverent:"Je vous dis qu'il me manque vingt francs, M'sieu!...--M'sieu!...[15]--Apres?... M'sieu!...--Apprenez a qui vous parlez, M'sieu!--Je ne demande pas mieux, M'sieu!--Je suis le prince Gregory du Montenegro, M'sieu!..."A ce nom Tartarin, tout emu, fendit la foule et vint se placer[20]an premier rang, joyeux et fier de retrouver son prince, ce princemontenegrin si poli dont il avait ebauche la connaissance a borddu paquebot....Malheureusement, ce titre d'altesse, qui avait tant ebloui lebon Tarasconnais, ne produisit pas la moindre impression sur[25]l'officier de chasseurs avec qui le prince avait son algarade."Me voila bien avance...." fit le militaire en ricanant; puisse tournant vers la galerie: "Gregory du Montenegro ... quiconnait ca?... Personne!"Tartarin indigne fit un pas en avant.[30]"Pardon ... je connais le _preince!_" dit-il d'une voix tresferme, et de son plus bel accent tarasconnais.L'officier de chasseurs le regarda un moment bien en face,puis, levant les epaules:Page 56"Allons! c'est bon.... Partagez-vous les vingt francs quimanquent et qu'il n'en soit plus question."La-dessus il tourna le dos et se perdit dans la foule.Le fougueux Tartarin voulait s'elancer derriere lui, mais le[5]prince l'en empecha:"Laissez ... j'en fais mon affaire."Et, prenant le Tarasconnais par le bras, il l'entraina dehorsrapidement.Des qu'ils furent sur la place, le prince Gregory du Montenegro[10]se decouvrit, tendit la main a notre heros, et, se rappelantvaguement son nom, commenca d'une voix vibrante:"Monsieur Barbarin....--Tartarin!" souffla l'autre timidement.--Tartarin, Barbarin, n'importe!... Entre nous, maintenant,[15]c'est a la vie, a la mort!"Et le noble Montenegrin lui secoua la main avec une faroucheenergie.... Vous pensez si le Tarasconnais etait fier."_Preince!... Preince!..._" repetait-il avec ivresse.Un quart d'heure apres, ces deux messieurs etaient installes[20]au restaurant des Platanes, agreable maison de nuit dontles terrasses plongent sur la mer, et la, devant une fortesalade russe arrosee d'un joli vin de Crescia, on renouaconnaissance.Vous ne pouvez rien imaginer de plus seduisant que ce prince[25]montenegrin. Mince, fin, les cheveux crepus, frise au petit fer,rase a la pierre ponce, constelle d'ordres bizarres, il avait l'oeilfute, le geste calin et un accent vaguement italien qui lui donnait unfaux air de Mazarin sans moustaches; tres ferre d'ailleurssur les langues latines, et citant a tout propos Tacite,[30]Horace et les Commentaires.De vieille race hereditaire, ses freres l'avaient, parait-il, exiledes l'age de dix ans, a cause de ses opinions liberales, et depuisil courait le monde pour son instruction et son plaisir, en AltessePage 57philosophe.... Coincidence singuliere! Le prince avait passetrois ans a Tarascon, et comme Tartarin s'etonnait de ne l'avoirjamais rencontre au cercle ou sur I'Esplanade: "Je sortaisPeu...." fit l'Altesse d'un ton evasif. Et le Tarasconnais,[5]par discretion, n'osa pas en demander davantage. Toutes cesgrandes existences out des cotes si mysterieux!...En fin de compte, un tres bon prince, ce seigneur Gregory.Tout en sirotant le vin rose de Crescia, il ecouta patiemmentTartarin lui parler de sa Mauresque et meme il se fit fort, connaissant[10]toutes ces dames, de la retrouver promptement.On but sec et longtemps. On trinqua "aux dames d'Alger!au Montenegro libre!..."Dehors sous la terrasse, la mer roulait, et les vagues, dansl'ombre, battaient la rive avec un bruit de draps mouilles qu'on[15]secoue. L'air etait chaud, le ciel plein d'etoiles.Dans les platanes, un rossignol chantait....Ce fut Tartarin qui paya la note.X_Dis-moi le nom de ton pere, et je te diraile nom de cette fleur._Parlez-moi des princes montenegrins pour lever lestementla caille.[20]Le lendemain de cette soiree aux Platanes, des le petit jour,le prince Gregory etait dans la chambre du Tarasconnais."Vite, vite, habillez-vous.... Votre Mauresque est retrouvee....Elle s'appelle Baia.... Vingt ans, jolie comme un coeur,et deja veuve....[25]--Veuve!... quelle chance!" fit joyeusement le braveTartarin, qui se mefiait des maris d'Orient."Oui, mais tres surveillee par son frere.--Ah! diantre!...Page 58--Un Maure farouche qui vend des pipes au bazard'Orleans...."Ici un silence."Bon!" reprit le prince, "vous n'etes pas homme a vous[5]effrayer pour si peu; et puis on viendra peut-etre a bout de ceforban en lui achetant quelques pipes.... Allons vite,habillez-vous ... heureux coquin!"Pale, emu, le coeur plein d'amour, le Tarasconnais sautade son lit et, boutonnant a la hate son vaste calecon de[10]flanelle:"Qu'est-ce qu'il faut que je fasse?--Ecrire a la dame tout simplement, et lui demander unrendez-vous!--Elle sait donc le francais?..." fit d'un air desappointe[15]le naif Tartarin qui revait d'Orient sans melange."Elle n'en sait pas un mot," repondit le prince imperturbablement...."mais vous allez me dicter la lettre, et je traduiraia mesure.--O prince, que de bontes!"[20]Et le Tarasconnais se mit a marcher a grands pas dans lachambre, silencieux et se recueillant.Vous pensez qu'on n'ecrit pas a une Mauresque d'Algercomme a une grisette de Beaucaire. Fort heureusement quenotre heros avait par devers lui ses nombreuses lectures qui[25]lui permirent, en amalgamant la rhetorique apache des Indiensde Gustave Aimard avec le _Voyage en Orient_ de Lamartine, etquelques lointaines reminiscences du _Cantique des Cantiques_, decomposer la lettre la plus orientale qu'il se put voir. Celacommencait par:[30]"_Comme l'autruche dans les sables _...."Et finissait par:"_Dis-moi le nom de ton pere, et je te dirai le nom de cettefleur _...."Page 59A cet envoi, le romanesque Tartarin aurait bien voulu joindreun bouquet de fleurs emblematiques, a la mode orientale; maisle prince Gregory pensa qu'il valait mieux acheter quelques pipeschez le frere, ce qui ne manquerait pas d'adoucir l'humeur[5]sauvage du monsieur et ferait certainement tres grand plaisir ala dame, qui fumait beaucoup."Allons vite acheter des pipes!" fit Tartarin plein d'ardeur."Non!... non!... Laissez-moi y aller seul. Je les auraia meilleur compte....[10]--Comment! vous voulez ... O prince ... prince...."Et le brave homme, tout confus, tendit sa bourse a l'obligeantMontenegrin, en lui recommandant de ne rien negliger pourque la dame fut contente.Malheureusement l'affaire--quoique bien lancee--ne marcha[15]pas aussi vite qu'on aurait pu l'esperer. Tres touchee,parait-il, de l'eloquence de Tartarin et du reste aux trois quartsseduite par avance, la Mauresque n'aurait pas mieux demandeque de le recevoir; mais le frere avait des scrupules, et, pourles endormir, il fallut acheter des douzaines, des grosses, des[20]cargaisons de pipes...."Qu'est-ce que diable Baia peut faire de toutes ces pipes?"se demandait parfois le pauvre Tartarin;--mais il payait quandmeme et sans lesiner.Enfin, apres avoir achete des montagnes de pipes et repandu[25]des flots de poesie orientale, on obtint un rendez-vous.Je n'ai pas besoin de vous dire avec quels battements de coeurle Tarasconnais s'y prepara, avec quel soin emu il tailla, lustra,parfuma sa rude barbe de chasseur de casquettes, sans oublier--car il faut tout prevoir--de glisser dans sa poche un casse-tete[30]a pointes et deux ou trois revolvers.Le prince, toujours obligeant, vint a ce premier rendez-vousen qualite d'interprete. La dame habitait dans le haut de laville. Devant sa porte, un jeune Maure de treize a quatorzePage 60ans fumait des cigarettes. C'etait le fameux Ali, le frere enquestion. En voyant arriver les deux visiteurs, il frappa deuxcoups a la poterne et se retira discretement.La porte s'ouvrit. Une negresse parut qui, sans dire un seul[5]mot, conduisit ces messieurs a travers l'etroite cour interieuredans une petite chambre fraiche ou la dame attendait, accoudeesur un lit bas.... Au premier abord, elle parut au Tarasconnaisplus petite et plus forte que la Mauresque de l'omnibus.Au fait, etait-ce bien la meme? Mais ce soupcon ne fit[10]que traverser le cerveau de Tartarin comme un eclair.La dame etait si jolie ainsi avec ses pieds nus, ses doigtsgrassouillets charges de bagues, rose, fine, et sous son corseletde drap dore, sous les ramages de sa robe a fleurs laissant devinerune aimable personne un peu boulotte, friande a point, et[15]ronde de partout....Le tuyau d'ambre d'un narghile fumaita ses levres et l'enveloppait toute d'une gloire de fumee blonde.En entrant, le Tarasconnais posa une main sur son coeur, ets'inclina le plus mauresquement possible, en roulant de grosyeux passionnes.... Baia le regarda un moment sans[20]dire; puis, lachant son tuyau d'ambre, se renversa en arriere,cacha sa tete dans ses mains, et I'on ne vit plus que son coublanc qu'un fou rire faisait danser comme un sac rempli deperles.XI_Sidi Tart'ri ben Tart'ri._Si vous entriez, un soir, a la veillee, chez les cafetiers algeriens[25]de la ville haute, vous entendriez encore aujourd'hui les Maurescauser entre eux, avec des clignements d'yeux et de petits rires,d'un certain Sidi Tart'ri ben Tart'ri, Europeen aimable et richequi--voici quelques annees deja--vivait dans les hauts quartiersavec une petite dame du cru appelee Baia.Page 61Le Sidi Tart'ri en question qui a laisse de si gais souvenirsautour de la Casbah n'est autre, on le devine, que notre Tartarin....Qu'est-ce que vous voulez? Il y a comme cela, dans la vie[5]des saints et des heros, des heures d'aveuglement, de trouble,de defaillance. L'illustre Tarasconnais n'en fut pas plus exemptqu'un autre, et c'est pourquoi--deux mois durant--oublieuxdes lions et de la gloire, il se grisa d'amour oriental et s'endormit,comme Annibal a Capoue, dans les delices d'Alger la Blanche.[10]Le brave homme avait loue au coeur de la ville arabe unejolie maisonnette indigene avec cour interieure, bananiers, galeriesfraiches et fontaines. Il vivait la loin de tout bruit en compagniede sa Mauresque, Maure lui-meme de la tete aux pieds,soufflant tout le jour dans son narghile, et mangeant des confitures[15]au musc.Etendue sur un divan en face de lui, Baia, la guitare au poing,nasillait des airs monotones, ou bien pour distraire son seigneurelle mimait la danse du ventre, en tenant a la main un petitmiroir dans lequel elle mirait ses dents blanches et se faisait[20]des mines.Comme la dame ne savait pas un mot de francais ni Tartarinun mot d'arabe, la conversation languissait quelquefois, et le bavardTarasconnais avait tout le temps de faire penitence pourles intemperances de langage dont il s'etait rendu coupable a la[25]pharmacie Bezuquet ou chez l'armurier Costecalde.Mais cette penitence meme ne manquait pas de charme, etc'etait comme un spleen voluptueux qu'il eprouvait a rester latout le jour sans parler, en ecoutant le glouglou du narghile, lefrolement de la guitare et le bruit leger de la fontaine dans les[30]mosaiques de la cour.Le narghile, le bain, l'amour remplissaient toute sa vie. Onsortait peu. Quelquefois Sidi Tart'ri, sa dame en croupe, s'enallait sur une brave mule manger des grenades a un petitPage 62jardin qu'il avait achete aux environs.... Mais jamais, augrand jamais, il ne descendait dans la ville europeenne. Avecses zouaves en ribotte, ses alcazars bourres d'officiers, et soneternel bruit de sabres trainant sous les arcades, cet Alger-la[5]lui semblait insupportable et laid comme un corps de garded'Occident.En somme, le Tarasconnais etait tres heureux. Tartarin-Sancho surtout,tres friand de patisseries turques, se declaraiton ne peut plus satisfait de sa nouvelle existence....[10]Tartarin-Quichotte, lui, avait bien par-ci par-la quelques remords,en pensant a Tarascon et aux peaux promises.... Mais cela ne duraitpas, et pour chasser ces tristes idees il suffisait d'un regard deBaia ou d'une cuilleree de ses diaboliques confitures odoranteset troublantes comme les breuvages de Circe.[15]Le soir, le prince Gregory venait parler un peu du Montenegrolibre.... D'une complaisance infatigable, cet aimableseigneur remplissait dans la maison les fonctions d'interprete,au besoin meme celles d'intendant, et tout cela pour rien, pourle plaisir.... A part lui, Tartarin ne recevait que des _Teurs._[20]Tous ces forbans a tetes farouches, qui naguere lui faisaienttant de peur du fond de leurs noires echoppes, se trouverentetre, une fois qu'il les connut, de bons commercants inoffensifs,des brodeurs, des marchands d'epices, des tourneurs de tuyauxde pipes, tous gens bien eleves, humbles, finauds, discrets et de[25]premiere force a la bouillotte. Quatre ou cinq fois par semaine,ces messieurs venaient passer la soiree chez Sidi Tart'ri, luigagnaient son argent, lui mangeaient ses confitures, et sur lecoup de dix heures se retiraient discretement en remerciantle Prophete.[30]Derriere eux, Sidi Tart'ri et sa fidele epouse finissaient lasoiree sur leur terrasse, une grande terrasse blanche qui faisaittoit a la maison et dominait la ville. Tout autour, un millierd'autres terrasses blanches aussi, tranquilles sous le clair de lune,Page 63descendaient en s'echelonnant jusqu'a la mer. Des fredons deguitare arrivaient, portes par la brise.....Soudain, comme un bouquet d'etoiles, une grande melodieclaire s'egrenait doucement dans le ciel, et, sur le minaret de la[5]mosquee voisine, un beau muezzin apparaissait, decoupant sonombre blanche dans le bleu profond de la nuit, et chantantla gloire d'Allah avec une voix merveilleuse qui remplissaitl'horizon.Aussitot Baia lachait sa guitare, et ses grands yeux tournes[10]vers le muezzin semblaient boire la priere avec delices. Tantque le chant durait, elle restait la, frissonnante, extasiee, commeune sainte Therese d'Orient.... Tartarin, tout emu, la regardaitprier et pensait en lui-meme que c'etait une forte et bellereligion, celle qui pouvait causer des ivresses de foi pareilles.[15]Tarascon, voile-toi la face! ton Tartarin songeait a se fairerenegat.XII_On nous ecrit de Tarascon._Par une belle apres-midi de ciel bleu et de brise tiede, SidiTart'ri a califourchon sur sa mule revenait tout seulet de sonpetit clos.... Les jambes ecartees par de larges coussins en[20]sparterie que gonflaient les cedrats et les pasteques, berce aubruit de ses grands etriers et suivant de tout son corps le_balin-balan_ de la bete, le brave homme s'en allait ainsi dans unpaysage adorable, les deux mains croisees sur son ventre, aux troisquarts assoupi par le bien etre et la chaleur.[25]Tout a coup, en entrant dans la ville, un appel formidable lereveilla."He! monstre de sort! on dirait monsieur Tartarin."A ce nom de Tartarin, a cet accent joyeusement meridional,le Tarasconnais leva la tete et apercut a deux pas de lui laPage 64brave figure tannee de maitre Barbassou, le capitaine du_Zouave_, qui prenait l'absinthe en fumant sa pipe sur la ported'un petit cafe."He! adieu, Barbassou," fit Tartarin en arretant sa mule.[5]Au lieu de lui repondre, Barbassou le regarda un momentavec de grands yeux; puis, le voila parti a rire, a rire tellement,Que Sidi Tart'ri en resta tout interloque, le derriere surses pasteques."Que turban, mon pauvre monsieur Tartarin!... C'est[10]donc vrai ce qu'on dit, que vous vous etes fait _Teur?..._Et la petite Baia, est-ce qu'elle chante toujours _Marco la Belle?_--_Marco la Belle! _" fit Tartarin indigne.... "Apprenez,capitaine, que la personne dont vous parlez est une honnetefille maure, et qu'elle ne sait pas un mot de francais.[15]--Baia, pas un mot de francais?... D'ou sortez-vousdonc?..."Et le brave capitaine se remit a rire plus fort.Puis voyant la mine du pauvre Sidi Tart'ri qui s'allongeait,il se ravisa.[20]"Au fait, ce n'est peut-etre pas la meme.... Mettons quej'ai confondu. Seulement, voyez-vous, monsieur Tartarin, vousferez tout de meme bien de vous mefier des Mauresques algerienneset des princes du Montenegro!..."Tartarin se dressa sur ses etriers, en faisant sa moue.[25]"Le prince est mon ami, capitaine.--Bon! bon! ne nous fachons pas.... Vous ne prenez pasune absinthe? Non. Rien a faire dire au pays?... Nonplus.... Eh bien! alors, bon voyage.... A propos, collegue,j'ai la du bon tabac de France, si vous en vouliez emporterquelques pipes.... Prenez [30]donc! prenez donc! ca vousfera du bien.... Ce sont vos sacres tabacs d'Orient qui vousbarbouillent les idees."Page 65La-dessus le capitaine retourna a son absinthe et Tartarin,tout pensif, reprit au petit trot le chemin de sa maisonnette....Bien que sa grande ame se refusat a rien en croire, les insinuations deBarbassou l'avaient attriste, puis ces jurons du cru,[5]l'accent de la-bas, tout cela eveillait en lui de vagues remords.Au logis, il ne trouva personne. Baia etait au bain.... Lanegresse lui parut laide, la maison triste.... En proie a uneindefinissable melancolie, il vint s'asseoir pres de la fontaine etbourra une pipe avec le tabac de Barbassou. Ce tabac etait[10]enveloppe dans un fragment du _Semaphore_. En le deployant,le nom de sa ville natale lui sauta aux yeux._On nous ecrit de Tarascon:_"La ville est dans les transes. Tartarin, le tueur de lions, partipour chasser les grands felins en Afrique, n'a pas donne de ses[15]nouvelles depuis plusieurs mois.... Qu'est devenu notre heroiquecompatriote?...  On ose a peine se le demander, quand on a connucomme nous cette tete ardente, cette audace, ce besoin d'aventures....A-t-il ete comme tant d'autres englouti dans le sable, ou bien est-iltombe sous la dent meurtriere d'un de ces monstres de l'Atlas dont[20]il avait promis les peaux a la municipalite?... Terrible incertitude!Pourtant des marchands negres, venus a la foire de Beaucaire,pretendent avoir rencontre en plein desert un Europeen dont lesignalement se rapportait au sien, et qui se dirigeait vers Tombouctou....Dieu nous garde notre Tartarin!"[25]Quand il lut cela, le Tarasconnais rougit, palit, frissonna. ToutTarascon lui apparut: le cercle, les chasseurs de casquettes, lefauteuil vert chez Costecalde, et planant au-dessus comme unaigle eploye, la formidable moustache du brave commandantBravida.[30]Alors, de se voir la, comme il etait, lachement accroupi sursa natte, tandis qu'on le croyait en train de massacrer des fauves,Tartarin de Tarascon eut honte de lui-meme et pleura.Tout a coup le heros bondit:"Au lion! au lion!"Page 66Et s'elancant dans le reduit poudreux ou dormaient la tente-abri,la pharmacie, les conserves, la caisse d'armes, il les trainaau milieu de la cour.Tartarin-Sancho venait d'expirer; il ne restait plus que[5]Tartarin-Quichotte.Le temps d'inspecter son materiel, de s'armer, de se harnacher,de rechausser ses grandes bottes, d'ecrire deux mots auprince pour lui confier Baia, le temps de glisser sous l'enveloppequelques billets bleus mouilles de larmes, et l'intrepide[10]Tarasconnais roulait en diligence sur la route de Blidah,laissant a la maison sa negresse stupefaite devant le narghile, leturban, les babouches, toute la defroque musulmane de SidiTart'ri qui trainait piteusement sous les petits trefles blancsde la galerie....TROISIEME EPISODECHEZ LES LIONSI_Les diligences deportees._Page 67C'etait une vieille diligence d'autrefois, capitonnee a l'anciennemode de drap gros bleu tout fane, avec ces enormes pomponsde laine reche qui, apres quelques heures de route, finissent parvous faire des moxas dans le dos.... Tartarin de Tarascon[5]avait un coin de la rotonde; il s'y installa de son mieux, et enattendant de respirer les emanations musquees des grands felinsd'Afrique, le heros dut se contenter de cette bonne vieille odeurde diligence, bizarrement composee de mille odeurs, hommes,chevaux, femmes et cuir, victuailles et paille moisie.[10]Il y avait de tout un peu dans cette rotonde. Un trappiste,des marchands juifs, deux cocottes qui rejoignaient leur corps--le 3e hussards,--un photographe d'Orleansville.... Mais, sicharmante et variee que fut la compagnie, le Tarasconnais n'etaitpas en train de causer et resta la tout pensif, le bras passe dans[15]la brassiere, avec ses carabines entre ses genoux.... Sondepart precipite, les yeux noirs de Baia, la terrible chasse qu'ilallait entreprendre, tout cela lui troublait la cervelle, sans compterqu'avec son bon air patriarcal, cette diligence europeenne,retrouvee en pleine Afrique, lui rappelait vaguement le Tarascon[20]de sa jeunesse, des courses dans la banlieue, de petits diners aubord du Rhone, une foule de souvenirs....Peu a peu la nuit tomba. Le conducteur alluma ses lanternes.... Ladiligence rouillee sautait en criant sur ses vieuxPage 68ressorts; les chevaux trottaient, les grelots tintaient.... Detemps en temps la-haut, sous la bache de l'imperiale, un terriblebruit de ferraille.... C'etait le materiel de guerre.Tartarin de Tarascon, aux trois quarts assoupi, resta un moment a regarder[5]les voyageurs comiquement secoues par lescahots, et dansant devant lui comme des ombres falottes, puisses yeux s'obscurcirent, sa pensee se voila, et il n'entendit plusque tres vaguement geindre l'essieu des roues, et les flancs dela diligence qui se plaignaient....[10]Subitement, une voix, une voix de vieille fee, enrouee, cassee,felee, appela le Tarasconnais par son nom: "Monsieur Tartarin!monsieur Tartarin!--Qui m'appelle?--C'est moi, monsieur Tartarin; vous ne me reconnaissez[15]pas?... Je suis la vieille diligence qui faisait--il y a vingtans--le service de Tarascon a Nimes.... Que de fois je vousai portes, vous et vos amis, quand vous alliez chasser les casquettesdu cote de Joncquieres ou de Bellegarde!... Je nevous ai pas remis d'abord, a cause de votre bonnet de _Teur_ et[20]du corps que vous avez pris; mais sitot que vous vous etes misa ronfler, coquin de bon sort! je vous ai reconnu tout de suite.--C'est bon! c'est bon!" fit le Tarasconnais un peu vexe.Puis, se radoucissant:--"Mais enfin, ma pauvre vieille, qu'est-ce que vous etes[25]venue faire ici?--Ah! mon bon monsieur Tartarin, je n'y suis pas venuede mon plein gre, je vous assure.... Une fois que le cheminde fer de Beaucaire a ete fini, ils ne m'ont plus trouvee bonnea rien et ils m'ont envoyee en Afrique.... Et je ne suis pas[30]la seule! presque toutes les diligences de France ont etedeportees comme moi. On nous trouvait trop reactionnaires, et maintenantnous voila toutes ici a mener une vie de galere.... C'est ce qu'en Francevous appelez les chemins de fer algeriens."Page 69Ici la vieille diligence poussa un long soupir; puis elle reprit:"Ah! monsieur Tartarin, que je le regrette, mon beau Tarascon!C'etait alors le bon temps pour moi, le temps de la jeunesse!il fallait me voir partir le matin, lavee a grande eau et[5]toute luisante avec mes roues vernissees a neuf, mes lanternesqui semblaient deux soleils et ma bache toujours frottee d'huile!C'est ca qui etait beau quand le postillon faisait claquer sonfouet sur l'air de: _Lagadigadeou, la Tarasque! la Tarasque!_et que le conducteur, son piston en bandouliere, sa casquette[10]brodee sur l'oreille, jetant d'un tour de bras son petit chien,toujours furieux, sur la bache de l'imperiale, s'elancait lui-memela-haut, en criant: "Allume! allume!" Alors mes quatre chevauxs'ebranlaient au bruit des grelots, des aboiements, des fanfares,les fenetres s'ouvraient, et tout Tarascon regardait avec[15]orgueil la diligence detaler sur la grande route royale.Quelle belle route, monsieur Tartarin, large, bien entretenue,avec ses bornes kilometriques, ses petits tas de pierres regulierementespaces, et de droite et de gauche ses jolies plainesd'oliviers et de vignes.... Puis des auberges tous les dix pas,[20]des relais toutes les cinq minutes.... Et mes voyageurs,quelles braves gens! des maires et des cures qui allaient aNimes voir leur prefet ou leur eveque, de bons taffetassiers quirevenaient du _mazet_ bien honnetement, des collegiens en vacances,des paysans en blouse brodee tout frais rases du matin, et la-haut,[25]sur l'imperiale, vous tous, messieurs les chasseurs de casquettes,qui etiez toujours de si bonne humeur, et qui chantiez si bienchacun _la votre_, le soir, aux etoiles, en revenant!...Maintenant c'est une autre histoire.... Dieu sait les gensque je charrie! un tas de mecreants venus je ne sais d'ou, qui[30]me remplissent de vermine, des negres, des Bedouins, des soudards,des aventuriers de tous les pays, des colons en guenillesqui m'empestent de leurs pipes, et tout cela parlant un langageauquel Dieu le pere ne comprendrait rien.... Et puis vousPage 70voyez comme on me traite! Jamais brossee, jamais lavee. Onme plaint le cambouis de mes essieux.... Au lieu de mesgros bons chevaux tranquilles d'autrefois, de petits chevauxarabes qui out le diable au corps, se battent, se mordent, dansent[5]en courant comme des chevres, et me brisent mes brancards acoups de pieds....  Aie!... aie!... tenez!... Voila que celaCommence.... Et les routes! Par ici, c'est encore supportable,parce que nous sommes pres du gouvernement, mais la-bas,plus rien, pas de chemin du tout. On va comme on peut,[10]a travers monts et plaines, dans les palmiers nains, dans leslentisques.... Pas un seul relais fixe. On arrete au caprice duconducteur, tantot dans une ferme, tantot dans une autre.Quelquefois ce polisson-la me fait faire un detour de deuxlieues pour aller chez un ami boire l'absinthe ou le _champoreau_....[15]Apres quoi, fouette, postillon! il faut rattraper letemps perdu. Le soleil cuit, la poussiere brule. Fouette toujours!On accroche, on verse! Fouette plus fort! On passe des rivieresa la nage, on s'enrhume, on se mouille, on se noie.... Fouette!fouette! fouette!... Puis le soir, toute ruisselante,--c'est[20]cela qui est bon a mon age, avec mes rhumatismes!...--ilme faut coucher a la belle etoile, dans une cour de caravanserailouverte a tous les vents. La nuit, des chacals, des hyenesviennent flairer mes caissons, et les maraudeurs qui craignent larosee se mettent au chaud dans mes compartiments.... Voila[25]la vie que je mene, mon pauvre monsieur Tartarin, et je lamenerai jusqu'an jour ou, brulee par le soleil, pourrie par lesnuits humides, je tomberai--ne pouvant plus faire autrement--sur un coin de mechante route, ou les Arabes feront bouillirleur kousskouss avec les debris de ma vieille carcasse....[30]--Blidah! Blidah!" fit le conducteur en ouvrant la portiere.CHEZ LES LIONSII_ Ou l'on voit passer un petit monsieur._Page 71Vaguement, a travers les vitres depolies par la buee, Tartarinde Tarascon entrevit une place de jolie sous-prefecture, placereguliere, entouree d'arcades et plantee d'orangers, au milieu delaquelle de petits soldats de plomb faisaient l'exercice dans la[5]claire brume rose du matin. Les cafes otaient leurs volets. Dansun coin, une halle avec des legumes.... C'etait charmant, maiscela ne sentait pas encore le lion."Au sud!... Plus au sud!" murmura le bon Tartarin ense renfoncant dans son coin.[10]A ce moment, la portiere s'ouvrit. Une bouffee d'airfrais entra, apportant sur ses ailes, dans le parfum des orangersfleuris, un tout petit monsieur en redingote noisette, vieux, sec,ride, compasse, une figure grosse comme le poing, une cravateen soie noire haute de cinq doigts, une serviette en cuir, un[15]parapluie: le parfait notaire de village.En apercevant le materiel de guerre du Tarasconnais, le petitmonsieur, qui s'etait assis en face, parut excessivement surpriset se mit a regarder Tartarin avec une insistance genante.On detela, on attela, la diligence partit.... Le petit monsieur[20]regardait toujours Tartarin.... A la fin le Tarasconnaisprit la mouche."Ca vous etonne?" fit-il en regardant a son tour le petitmonsieur bien en face."Non! Ca me gene," repondit l'autre fort tranquillement; et[25]le fait est qu'avec sa tente-abri, son revolver, ses deux fusils dansdans leur gaine, son couteau de chasse,--sans parler de sa corpulencenaturelle, Tartarin de Tarascon tenait beaucoup de place....La reponse du petit monsieur le facha:"Vous imaginez-vous par hasard que je vais aller au lion avec[30]votre parapluie?" dit le grand homme fierement.Page 72Le petit monsieur regarda son parapluie, sourit doucement;puis, toujours avec son meme flegme:"Alors, monsieur, vous etes...?--Tartarin de Tarascon, tueur de lions!"[5]En prononcant ces mots, l'intrepide Tarasconnais secouacomme une criniere le gland de sa _chechia_.Il y eut dans la diligence un mouvement de stupeur.Le trappiste se signa, les cocottes pousserent de petits crisd'effroi, et le photographe d'Orleansville se rapprocha du tueur[10]de lions, revant deja l'insigne honneur de faire sa photographie.Le petit monsieur, lui, ne se deconcerta pas."Est-ce que vous avez deja tue beaucoup de lions, monsieurTartarin?" demanda-t-il tres tranquillement.Le Tarasconnais le recut de la belle maniere:[15]"Si j'en ai beaucoup tue, monsieur!... Je vous souhaiteraisd'avoir seulement autant de cheveux sur la tete."Et toute la diligence de rire en regardant les trois cheveuxjaunes de Cadet-Roussel qui se herissaient sur le crane du petitmonsieur.[20]A son tour le photographe d'Orleansville prit la parole:"Terrible profession que la votre, monsieur Tartarin!...On passe quelquefois de mauvais moments.... Ainsi ce pauvreM. Bombonnel....--Ah! oui, le tueur de pantheres ..." fit Tartarin assez[25]dedaigneusement."Est-ce que vous le connaissez?" demanda le petit monsieur."Te! pardi.... Si je le connais.... Nous avons chasseplus de vingt fois ensemble."Le petit monsieur sourit: "Vous chassez donc la panthere[30]aussi, monsieur Tartarin?--Quelquefois, par passe-temps, ..." fit l'enrage Tarasconnais.Il ajouta, en relevant la tete d'un geste heroique qui enflammale coeur des deux cocottes:"Ca ne vaut pas le lion!Page 73--En somme," hasarda le photographe d'Orleansville, "unepanthere, ce n'est qu'un gros chat....--Tout juste!" fit Tartarin qui n'etait pas fache de rabaisserun peu la gloire de Bombonnel, surtout devant des dames.[5]Ici la diligence s'arreta, le conducteur vint ouvrir la portiereet s'adressant au petit vieux:"Vous voila arrive, monsieur," lui dit-il d'un air tres respectueux.Le petit monsieur se leva, descendit, puis avant de refermer[10]la portiere:"Voulez-vous me permettre de vous donner un conseil, monsieurTartarin?--Lequel, monsieur?--Ma foi! ecoutez, vous avez I'air d'un brave homme, j'aime[15]mieux vous dire ce qu'il en est.... Retournez vite a Tarascon,monsieur Tartarin.... Vous perdez votre temps ici.... Ilreste bien encore quelques pantheres dans la province; mais,fi donc! c'est un trop petit gibier pour vous.... Quant auxlions, c'est fini. Il n'en reste plus en Algerie ... mon ami[20]Chassaing vient de tuer le dernier."Sur quoi le petit monsieur salua, ferma la portiere, et s'enalla en riant avec sa serviette et son parapluie."Conducteur," demanda Tartarin en faisant sa moue,"qu'est-ce que c'est donc que ce bonhomme-la?--Comment! vous ne le connaissez pas? mais c'est monsieur[25]Bombonnel."III_Un couvent de lions._A Milianah, Tartarin de Tarascon descendit, laissant ladiligence continuer sa route vers le Sud.Deux jours de durs cahots, deux nuits passees les yeux ouverts[30]a regarder par la portiere s'il n'apercevrait pas dans lesPage 74champs, au bord de la route, l'ombre formidable du lion, tantd'insomnies meritaient bien quelques heures de repos. Et puis,s'il faut tout dire, depuis sa mesaventure avec Bombonnel, leloyal Tarasconnais se sentait mal a l'aise, malgre ses armes,[5]sa moue terrible, son bonnet rouge, devant le photographed'Orleansville et les deux demoiselles du 3eme hussards.Il se dirigea donc a travers les larges rues de Milianah, pleinesde beaux arbres et de fontaines, mais, tout en cherchant unhotel a sa convenance, le pauvre homme ne pouvait s'empecher[10]de songer aux paroles de Bombonnel.... Si c'etait vrai pourtant?S'il n'y avait plus de lions en Algerie?... A quoi bonalors tant de courses, tant de fatigues?...Soudain, au detour d'une rue, notre heros se trouva face aface ... avec qui? Devinez.... Avec un lion superbe, qui[15]attendait devant la porte d'un cafe, assis royalement sur sontrain de derriere, sa criniere fauve dans le soleil."Qu'est ce qu'ils me disaient donc qu'il n'y en avait plus?"s'ecria le Tarasconnais en faisant un saut en arriere.... Enentendant cette exclamation, le lion baissa la tete et, prenant[20]dans sa gueule une sebile en bois posee devant lui sur le trottoir,il la tendit humblement du cote de Tartarin immobile deStupeur.... Un Arabe qui passait jeta un gros sou dans lasebile, le lion remua la queue.... Alors Tartarin comprittout. Il vit, ce que l'emotion l'avait d'abord empeche de voir, la[25]foule attroupee autour du pauvre lion aveugle et apprivoise, etles deux grands negres armes de gourdins qui le promenaient atravers la ville comme un Savoyard sa marmotte.Le sang du Tarasconnais ne fit qu'un tour "Miserables,"cria-t-il d'une voix de tonnerre, "ravaler ainsi ces nobles betes!"[30]Et, s'elancant sur le lion, il lui arracha l'immonde sebile d'entreses royales machoires.... Les deux negres, croyant avoiraffaire a un voleur, se precipiterent sur le Tarasconnais, lamatraque haute.... Ce fut une terrible bousculade.... LesPage 75negres tapaient, les femmes piaillaient, les enfants riaient. Unvieux cordonnier juif criait du fond de sa boutique. "_Au zougede paix! Au zouge de paix!_" Le lion lui-meme, dans sa nuit,essaya d'un rugissement, et le malheureux Tartarin, apres une[5]lutte desesperee, roula par terre au milieu des gros sous et desbalayures.A ce moment, un homme fendit la foule, ecarta les negresd'un mot, les femmes et les enfants d'un geste, releva Tartarin,le brossa, le secoua, et l'assit tout essouffle sur une borne.[10]"Comment! _preince_, c'est vous?..." fit le bon Tartarinen se frottant les cotes."Eh! oui, mon vaillant ami, c'est moi.... Sitot votre lettrerecue, j'ai confie Baia a son frere, loue une chaise de poste, faitcinquante lieues ventre a terre, et me voila juste a temps pour[15]vous arracher a la brutalite de ces rustres.... Qu'est-ce quevous avez donc fait, juste Dieu! pour vous attirer cette mechanteaffaire?--Que voulez vous, _preince_?... De voir ce malheureuxlion avec sa sebile aux dents, humilie, vaincu, bafoue, servant de[20]risee a toute cette pouillerie musulmane....--Mais vous vous trompez, mon noble ami. Ce lion est, aucontraire, pour eux un objet de respect et d'adoration. C'estune bete sacree, qui fait partie d'un grand couvent de lions,fonde, il y a trois cents ans, par Mahommed-ben-Aouda, une[25]espece de Trappe formidable et farouche, pleine de rugissementset d'odeurs de fauve, ou des moines singuliers elevent et apprivoisentdes lions par centaines, et les envoient de la dans toutel'Afrique septentrionale, accompagnes de freres queteurs....Les dons que recoivent les freres servent a l'entretien du couvent[30]et de sa mosquee, et si les deux negres ont montre tant d'humeurtout a l'heure, c'est qu'ils out la conviction que pour unsou, un seul sou de la quete, vole ou perdu par leur faute, le lionqu'ils conduisent les devorerait immediatement."Page 76En ecoutant ce recit invraisemblable et pourtant veridique,Tartarin de Tarascon se delectait et reniflait l'air bruyamment."Ce qui me va dans tout ceci," fit-il en matiere de conclusion,"c'est que, n'en deplaise a mons Bombonnel, il y a encore des[5]lions en Algerie!...--S'il y en a!" dit le prince avec enthousiasme.... "Desdemain, nous allons battre la plaine du Cheliff, et vous verrez!....--Eh quoi! Prince.... Auriez-vous l'intention de chasser,vous aussi?[10]--Parbleu! pensez-vous donc que je vous laisserais vous enaller seul en pleine Afrique, au milieu de ces tribus feroces dontvous ignorez la langue et les usages.... Non! non! illustreTartarin, je ne vous quitte plus.... Partout ou vous serez, jeveux etre.[15]--Oh! _preince, preince_...."Et Tartarin, radieux, pressa sur son coeur le vaillant Gregory,en songeant avec fierte qu'a l'exemple de Jules Gerard, deBombonnel et tous les autres fameux tueurs de lions, il allaitavoir un prince etranger pour l'accompagner dans ses chasses.IV_La caravane en marche._[20]Le lendemain, des la premiere heure, l'intrepide Tartarinet le non moins intrepide prince Gregory, suivis d'une demi-douzainede portefaix negres, sortaient de Milianah et descendaientvers la plaine du Cheliff par un raidillon delicieux toutombrage de jasmins, de tuyas, de caroubiers, d'oliviers sauvages,[25]entre deux haies de petits jardins indigenes et des milliersde joyeuses sources vives qui degringolaient de roche en rocheen chantant.... Un paysage du Liban.Aussi charge d'armes que le grand Tartarin, le prince Gregorys'etait en plus affuble d'un magnifique et singulier kepi toutPage 77galonne d'or, avec une garniture de feuilles de chene brodeesau fil d'argent, qui donnait a Son Altesse un faux air de generalmexicain, ou de chef de gare des bords du Danube.Ce diable de kepi intriguait beaucoup le Tarasconnais, et[5]comme il demandait timidement quelques explications:"Coiffure indispensable pour voyager en Afrique," reponditle prince avec gravite, et tout en faisant reluire sa visiere d'unrevers de manche, il renseigna son naif compagnon sur le roleimportant que joue le kepi dans nos relations avec les Arabes,[10]la terreur que cet insigne militaire a, seul, le privilege de leurinspirer, si bien que l'administration civile a ete obligee de coiffertout son monde avec des kepis, depuis le cantonnier jusqu'aureceveur de l'enregistrement En somme, pour gouvernerl'Algerie--c'est toujours le prince qui parle--pas n'est besoin[15]d'une forte tete, ni meme de tete du tout. Il suffit d'un kepi,d'un beau kepi galonne, reluisant au bout d'une trique commela toque de Gessler.Ainsi causant et philosophant, la caravane allait son train.Les portefaix--pieds nus--sautaient de roche en roche avec[20]des cris de singes. Les caisses d'armes sonnaient. Les fusilsflambaient. Les indigenes qui passaient s'inclinaient jusqu'aterre devant le kepi magique.... La haut, sur les rempartsde Milianah, le chef du bureau arabe, qui se promenait au bonfrais avec sa dame, entendant ces bruits insolites, et voyant des[25]armes luire entre les branches, crut a un coup de main, fitbaisser le pont-levis, battre la generale, et mit incontinent laville en etat de siege.Beau debut pour la caravane!Malheureusement, avant la fin du jour, les choses se gaterent.[30]Des negres qui portaient les bagages, l'un fut pris d'atrocescoliques pour avoir mange le sparadrap de la pharmacie. Unautre tomba sur le bord de la route ivre mort d'eau-de-vie camphree.Le troisieme, celui qui portait l'album de voyage, seduitPage 78par les dorures des fermoirs, et persuade qu'il enlevait les tresorsde la Mecque, se sauva dans le Zaccar a toutes jambes.... Ilfallut aviser.... La caravane fit halte, et tint conseil dansl'ombre trouee d'un vieux figuier.[5]Je serais d'avis, dit le prince, en essayant, mais sans succes,de delayer une tablette de pemmican dans une casserole perfectionneea triple fond, je serais d'avis que, des ce soir, nousrenoncions aux porteurs negres.... Il y a precisement unmarche arabe tout pres d'ici. Le mieux est de nous y arreter,[10]et de faire emplette de quelques bourriquots....--Non!... non!... pas de bourriquots!..." interrompitvivement le grand Tartarin, que le souvenir de Noiraudavait fait devenir tout rouge.Et il ajouta, l'hypocrite:[15]"Comment voulez-vous que de si petites betes puissent portertout notre attirail?"Le prince sourit."C'est ce qui vous trompe, mon illustre ami. Si maigre etsi chetif qu'il vous paraisse, le bourriquot algerien a les reins[20]solides.... Il le faut bien pour supporter tout ce qu'il supporte....Demandez plutot aux Arabes. Voici comment ilsexpliquent notre organisation coloniale.... En haut, disent-ils,il y a _mouci_ le gouverneur, avec une grande trique, qui tape surl'etat-major; l'etat-major, pour se venger, tape sur le soldat; le[25]soldat tape sur le colon, le colon tape sur l'Arabe, l'Arabe tapesur le negre, le negre tape sur le juif, le juif a son tour tapesur le bourriquot; et le pauvre petit bourriquot, n'ayant personnesur qui taper, tend l'echine et porte tout. Vous voyezbien qu'il peut porter vos caisses.[30]--C'est egal," reprit Tartarin de Tarascon, "je trouve que,pour le coup d'oeil de notre caravane, des anes ne feraient pastres bien.... Je voudrais quelque chose de plus oriental....Ainsi, par exemple, si nous pouvions avoir un chameau....Page 79--Tant que vous en voudrez," fit l'Altesse, et l'on se mit enroute pour le marche arabe.Le marche se tenait a quelques kilometres, sur les bords duCheliff.... Il y avait la cinq ou six mille Arabes en guenilles,[5]grouillant au soleil, et trafiquant bruyamment au milieu desjarres d'olives noires, des pots de miel, des sacs d'epices etdes cigares en gros tas, de grands feux ou rotissaient desmoutons entiers, ruisselant de beurre, des boucheries en pleinair, ou des negres tout nus, les pieds dans le sang, les bras[10]rouges, depecaient, avec de petits couteaux, des chevreauxpendus a une perche.Dans un coin, sous une tente rapetassee de mille couleurs,un greffier maure, avec un grand livre et des lunettes. Ici, ungroupe, des cris de rage: c'est un jeu de roulette, installe sur[15]une mesure a ble, et des Kabyles, qui s'eventrent autour....La-bas, des trepignements, une joie, des rires: c'est un marchandjuif avec sa mule, qu'on regarde se noyer dans le Cheliff....Puis des scorpions, des chiens, des corbeaux, et des mouches!...des mouches!...[20]Par exemple, les chameaux manquaient. On finit pourtantpar en decouvrir un, dont des M'zabites cherchaient a se defaire.C'etait le vrai chameau du desert, le chameau classique, chauve,l'air triste, avec sa longue tete de bedouin et sa bosse qui, devenueflasque par suite de trop longs jeunes, pendait melancoliquement[25]sur le cote.Tartarin le trouva si beau, qu'il voulut que la caravane entieremontat dessus.... Toujours la folie orientale!...La bete s'accroupit. On sangla les malles.Le prince s'installa sur le cou de l'animal. Tartarin, pour plus[30]de majeste, se fit hisser tout en haut de la bosse, entre deuxcaisses; et la, fier et bien cale, saluant d'un geste noble tout lemarche accouru, il donna le signal du depart.... Tonnerre!si ceux de Tarascon avaient pu le voir!...Page 80Le chameau se redressa, allongea ses grandes jambes a noeuds,et prit son vol....O stupeur! Au bout de quelques enjambees, voila Tartarinqui se sent palir, et l'heroique chechia qui reprend une a une ses[5]anciennes positions du temps du _Zouave_. Ce diable de chameautanguait comme une fregate."_Preince, preince_," murmura Tartarin tout bleme, et s'accrochanta l'etoupe seche de la bosse, "_preince_, descendons....Je sens ... je sens ... que je vais faire bafouer la France...."[10]Va te promener! le chameau etait lance, et rien ne pouvaitplus l'arreter. Quatre mille Arabes couraient derriere, piedsnus, gesticulant, riant comme des fous, et faisant luire au soleilsix cent mille dents blanches....Le grand homme de Tarascon dut se resigner. Il s'affaissa[15]tristement sur la bosse. La chechia prit toutes les positionsqu'elle voulut ... et la France fut bafouee.V_L'affut du soir dans un bois de lauriers-roses._Si pittoresque que fut leur nouvelle monture, nos tueurs delions durent y renoncer, par egard pour la chechia. On continuadonc la route a pied comme devant, et la caravane s'en alla[20]tranquillement vers le Sud par petites etapes, le Tarasconnaisen tete, le Montenegrin en queue, et dans les rangs le chameauavec les caisses d'armes.L'expedition dura pres d'un mois.Pendant un mois, cherchant des lions introuvables, le terrible[25]Tartarin erra de douar en douar dans l'immense plaine duCheliff, a travers cette formidable et cocasse Algerie francaise,ou les parfums du vieil Orient se compliquent d'une forte odeurd'absinthe et de caserne, Abraham et Zouzou meles, quelquechose de feerique et de naivement burlesque, comme une pagePage 81de l'Ancien Testament racontee par le sergent La Ramee oule brigadier Pitou.... Curieux spectacle pour des yeux quiauraient su voir.... Un peuple sauvage et pourri que nouscivilisons, en lui donnant nos vices.... L'autorite feroce et[5]sans controle de bachagas fantastiques, qui se mouchent gravementdans leurs grands cordons de la Legion d'honneur, etpour un oui ou pour un non font batonner les gens sur laplante des pieds. La justice sans conscience de cadis a grosseslunettes, tartufes du Coran et de la loi, qui revent de quinze[10]aout et de promotion sous les palmes, et vendent leurs arrets,comme Esau son droit d'ainesse, pour un plat de lentilles ou dekousskouss au sucre. Des caids libertins et ivrognes, anciensbrosseurs d'un general Yusuf quelconque, qui se soulent dechampagne avec des blanchisseuses mahonnaises, et font des[15]ripailles de mouton roti, pendant que, devant leurs tentes, toutela tribu creve de faim, et dispute aux levriers les rogatons de laribote seigneuriale.Puis, tout autour, des plaines en friche, de l'herbe brulee,des buissons chauves, des maquis de cactus et de lentisques, le[20]grenier de la France!... Grenier vide de grains, helas! etriche seulement en chacals et en punaises. Des douars abandonnes,des tribus effarees qui s'en vont sans savoir ou, fuyantla faim, et semant des cadavres le long de la route. De loin enloin, un village francais, avec des maisons en ruine, des champs[25]sans culture, des sauterelles enragees, qui mangent jusqu'auxrideaux des fenetres, et tous les colons dans les cafes, en trainde boire de l'absinthe en discutant des projets de reforme et deconstitution.Voila ce que Tartarin aurait pu voir, s'il s'en etait donne la[30]peine, mais, tout entier a sa passion leonine, l'homme de Tarasconallait droit devant lui, sans regarder ni a droite ni agauche, I'oeil obstinement fixe sur ces monstres imaginaires,qui ne paraissaient jamais.Page 82Comme la tente-abri s'entetait a ne pas s'ouvrir et les tablettesde pemmican a ne pas fondre, la caravane etait obligee de s'arretermatin et soir dans les tribus. Partout, grace au kepi duprince Gregory, nos chasseurs etaient recus a bras ouverts. Ils[5]logeaient chez les agas, dans des palais bizarres, grandes fermesblanches sans fenetres, ou l'on trouve pele-mele des narghileset des commodes en acajou, des tapis de Smyrne et deslampes-moderateur, des coffres de cedre pleins de sequins turcs, etdes pendules a sujets, style Louis-Philippe.... Partout on donnait[10]a Tartarin des fetes splendides, des _diffas,_ des _fantasias_....En son honneur, des goums entiers faisaient parler la poudre etluire leurs burnous au soleil. Puis, quand la poudre avait parle,le bon aga venait et presentait sa note.... C'est ce qu'onappelle l'hospitalite arabe.[15]Et toujours pas de lions. Pas plus de lions que sur le Pont-Neuf!Cependant le Tarasconnais ne se decourageait pas. S'enfoncant bravementdans le Sud, il passait ses journees a battrele maquis, fouillant les palmiers-nains du bout de sa carabine,[20]et faisant "frrt! frrt!" a chaque buisson. Puis, tous les soirsavant de se coucher, un petit affut de deux ou trois heures....Peine perdue! le lion ne se montrait pas.Un soir pourtant, vers les six heures, comme la caravane traversaitun bois de lentisques tout violet ou de grosses cailles[25]alourdies par la chaleur sautaient ca et la dans l'herbe, Tartarinde Tarascon crut entendre--mais si loin, mais si vague, maissi emiette par la brise--ce merveilleux rugissement qu'il avaitentendu tant de fois la-has a Tarascon, derriere la baraqueMitaine.[30]D'abord le heros croyait rever.... Mais au bout d'un instant,lointains toujours, quoique plus distincts, les rugissementsrecommencerent; et cette fois, tandis qu'a tous les coins del'horizon on entendait hurler les chiens des douars,--secoueePage 83par la terreur et faisant retentir les conserves et les caissesd'armes, la bosse du chameau frissonna.Plus de doute. C'etait le lion.... Vite, vite, a l'affut. Pasune minute a perdre.[5]Il y avait tout juste pres de la un vieux _marabout_ (tombeaude saint) a coupole blanche, avec les grandes pantoufles jaunesdu defunt deposees dans une niche au-dessus de la porte, etun fouillis d'ex-voto bizarres, pans de burnous, fils d'or, cheveuxroux, qui pendaient le long des murailles.... Tartarin[10]de Tarascon y remisa son prince et son chameau et se mit enquete d'un affut. Le prince Gregory voulait le suivre, mais leTarasconnais s'y refusa; il tenait a affronter le lion seul a seul.Toutefois il recommanda a Son Altesse de ne pas s'eloigner, et,par mesure de precaution, il lui confia son portefeuille, un gros[15]portefeuille plein de papiers precieux et de billets de banque,qu'il craignait de faire ecornifler par la griffe du lion. Ceci fait,le heros chercha son poste.Cent pas en avant du marabout, un petit bois de lauriers-rosestremblait dans la gaze du crepuscule, au bord d'une riviere[20]presque a sec. C'est la que Tartarin vint s'embusquer, le genouen terre, selon la formule, la carabine au poing et son grandcouteau de chasse plante fierement devant lui dans le sable dela berge.La nuit arriva. Le rose de la nature passa au violet, puis[25]au bleu sombre.... En bas, dans les cailloux de la riviere,luisait comme un miroir a main une petite flaque d'eau claire.C'etait l'abreuvoir des fauves. Sur la pente de l'autre berge,on voyait vaguement le sentier blanc que leurs grosses pattesavaient trace dans les lentisques. Cette pente mysterieuse[30]donnait le frisson. Joignez a cela le fourmillement vague desnuits africaines, branches frolees, pas de velours d'animauxrodeurs, aboiements greles des chacals, et la-haut, dans le ciel,a cent, deux cents metres, de grands troupeaux de grues quiPage 84passent avec des cris d'enfants qu'on egorge; vous avouerezqu'il y avait de quoi etre emu.Tartarin l'etait. Il l'etait meme beaucoup. Les dents lui claquaient,le pauvre homme! Et sur la garde de son couteau de[5]chasse plante en terre le canon de son fusil raye sonnait commeune paire de castagnettes.... Qu'est-ce que vous voulez! Ily a des soirs ou l'on n'est pas en train, et puis ou serait lemerite, si les heros n'avaient jamais peur....Eh bien! oui, Tartarin eut peur, et tout le temps encore.[10]Neanmoins, il tint bon une heure, deux heures, mais l'heroismea ses limites.... Pres de lui, dans le lit desseche de lariviere, le Tarasconnais entend tout a coup un bruit de pas, descailloux qui roulent. Cette fois la terreur l'enleve de terre. Iltire ses deux coups au hasard dans la nuit, et se replie a toutes[15]jambes sur le marabout, laissant son coutelas debout dans lesable comme une croix commemorative de la plus formidablepanique qui ait jamais assailli l'ame d'un dompteur d'hydres."A moi, preince ... le lion! ..."Un silence.[20]"Preince, preince, etes-vous la?"Le prince n'etait pas la. Sur le mur blanc du marabout, lebon chameau projetait seul au clair de lune l'ombre bizarre desa bosse.... Le prince Gregory venait de filer en emportantportefeuille et billets de banque.... Il y avait un mois[25]que Son Altesse attendait cette occasion....VI_Enfin!..._Page 85Le lendemain de cette aventureuse et tragique soiree,lorsqu'au petit jour notre heros se reveilla, et qu'il eut acquisla certitude que le prince et le magot etaient reellement partis,partis sans retour, lorsqu'il se vit seul dans cette petite tombe[5]blanche, trahi, vole, abandonne en pleine Algerie sauvage avecun chameau a bosse simple et quelque monnaie de poche pourtoute ressource, alors, pour la premiere fois, le Tarasconnaisdouta. Il douta du Montenegro, il douta de l'amitie, il doutade la gloire, il douta meme des lions, et, comme le Christ a[10]Gethsemani, le grand homme se prit a pleurer amerement.Or, tandis qu'il etait la pensivement assis sur la porte dumarabout, sa tete dans ses deux mains, sa carabine entre sesjambes, et le chameau qui le regardait, soudain le maquis d'enface s'ecarte et Tartarin stupefait voit paraitre, a dix pas devant[15]lui, un lion gigantesque s'avancant la tete haute et poussant desrugissements formidables qui font trembler les murs du marabouttout charges d'oripeaux et jusqu'aux pantoufles du saintdans leur niche.Seul, le Tarasconnais ne trembla pas.[20]"Enfin!" cria-t-il en bondissant, la crosse a l'epaule....Pan!... pan! pfft! pfft! C'etait fait.... Le lion avait deuxballes explosibles dans la tete.... Pendant une minute, sur lefond embrase du ciel africain, ce fut un feu d'artifice epouvantablede cervelle en eclats, de sang fumant et de toison rousse[25]eparpillee. Puis tout retomba et Tartarin apercut ... deuxgrands negres furieux qui couraient sur lui, la matraque en l'air.Les deux negres de Milianah!O misere! c'etait le lion apprivoise, le pauvre aveugle ducouvent de Mohammed que les balles tarasconnaises venaient[30]d'abattre.Page 86Cette fois, par Mahom! Tartarin l'echappa belle. Ivres defureur fanatique, les deux negres queteurs l'auraient surementmis en pieces, si le Dieu des chretiens n'avait envoye a son aide[5]un ange liberateur, le garde champetre de la commune d'Orleansvillearrivant, son sabre sous le bras, par un petit sentier.La vue du kepi municipal calma subitement la colere desnegres. Paisible et majestueux, l'homme a la plaque dressa proces-verbalde l'affaire, fit charger sur le chameau ce qui restait dulion, ordonna aux plaignants comme au delinquant de le suivre,[10]et se dirigea sur Orleansville, ou le tout fut depose au greffe.Ce fut une longue et terrible procedure!Apres l'Algerie des tribus, qu'il venait de parcourir, Tartarinde Tarascon connut alors une autre Algerie non moins cocasseet formidable, l'Algerie des villes, processive et avocassiere. Il[15]connut la judiciaire louche qui se tripote au fond des cafes, laboheme des gens de loi, les dossiers qui sentent l'absinthe, lescravates blanches mouchetees de _champoreau_; il connut leshuissiers, les agrees, les agents d'affaires, toutes ces sauterellesdu papier timbre affamees et maigres qui mangent le colon[20]jusqu'aux tiges de ses bottes et le laissent dechiquete feuillepar feuille comme un plant de mais....Avant tout il s'agissait de savoir si le lion avait ete tue surle territoire civil ou le territoire militaire. Dans le premier casl'affaire regardait le tribunal de commerce; dans le second,[25]Tartarin relevait du conseil de guerre, et, a ce mot de conseilde guerre, l'impressionnable Tarasconnais se voyait deja fusilleau pied des remparts, ou croupissant dans le fond d'un silo....Le terrible, c'est que la delimitation des deux territoires esttres vague en Algerie.... Enfin, apres un mois de courses,[30]d'intrigues, de stations au soleil dans les cours des bureauxarabes, il fut etabli que si d'une part le lion avait ete tue surle territoire militaire, d'autre part, Tartarin, lorsqu'il tira, setrouvait sur le territoire civil. L'affaire se jugea donc au civil,Page 87et notre heros en fut quitte pour _deux mille cinq cents francs_d'indemnite, sans les frais.Comment faire pour payer tout cela? Les quelques piastresechappees a la razzia du prince s'en etaient allees depuis longtemps[5]en papiers legaux et en absinthes judiciaires.Le malheureux tueur de lions fut donc reduit a vendre lacaisse d'armes au detail, carabine par carabine. Il vendit lespoignards, les kriss malais, les casse-tete.... Un epicier achetales conserves alimentaires. Un pharmacien, ce qui restait du[10]sparadrap. Les grandes bottes elles-memes y passerent etsuivirent la tente-abri perfectionnee chez un marchand debric-a-brac, qui les eleva a la hauteur de curiosites cochinchinoises....Une fois tout paye, il ne restait plus a Tartarinque la peau du lion et le chameau. La peau, il l'emballa[15]soigneusement et la dirigea sur Tarascon, a l'adresse du bravecommandant Bravida. (Nous verrons tout a l'heure ce qu'iladvint de cette fabuleuse depouille.) Quant au chameau, ilcomptait s'en servir pour regagner Alger, non pas en montantdessus, mais en le vendant pour payer la diligence, ce qui[20]est encore la meilleure facon de voyager a chameau. Malheureusementla bete etait d'un placement difficile, et personnen'en offrit un liard.Tartarin cependant voulait regagner Alger a toute force. Ilavait hate de revoir le corselet bleu de Baia, sa maisonnette, ses[25]fontaines, et de se reposer sur les trefles blancs de son petitcloitre, en attendant de l'argent de France. Aussi notre herosn'hesita pas: et navre, mais point abattu, il entreprit de fairela route a pied, sans argent, par petites journees.En cette occurrence, le chameau ne l'abandonna pas. Cet[30]etrange animal s'etait pris pour son maitre d'une tendresseinexplicable, et, le voyant sortir d'Orleansville, se mit a marcherreligieusement derriere lui, reglant son pas sur le sien et ne lequittant pas d'une semelle.Page 88Au premier moment, Tartarin trouva cela touchant, cettefidelite, ce devouement a toute epreuve lui allaient au coeur,d'autant que la bete etait commode et se nourrissait avec rien.Pourtant, au bout de quelques jours, le Tarasconnais s'ennuya[5]d'avoir perpetuellement sur les talons ce compagnon melancolique,qui lui rappelait toutes ses mesaventures, puis, l'aigreurs'en melant, il lui en voulut de son air triste, de sa bosse, de sonallure d'oie bridee. Pour tout dire, il le prit en grippe et nesongea plus qu'a s'en debarrasser, mais l'animal tenait bon....[10]Tartarin essaya de le perdre, le chameau le retrouva; il essayade courir, le chameau courut plus vite.... Il lui criait: "Vat'en!" en lui jetant des pierres. Le chameau s'arretait et le regardaitd'un air triste, puis, au bout d'un moment, il se remettaiten route et finissait toujours par le rattraper. Tartarin dut se[15]resigner.Pourtant, lorsque apres huit grands jours de marche, le Tarasconnaispoudreux, harasse, vit de loin etinceler dans la verdureles premieres terrasses blanches d'Alger, lorsqu'il se trouvaaux portes de la ville, sur l'avenue bruyante de Mustapha, an[20]milieu des zouaves, des biskris, des Mahonnaises, tous grouillantautour de lui et le regardant defiler avec son chameau, pour lecoup la patience lui echappa. "Non! non!" dit-il, "ce n'estpas possible.... je ne peux pas entrer dans Alger avec unanimal pareil!" et, profitant d'un encombrement de voitures, il[25]fit un crochet dans les champs et se jeta dans un fosse!Au bout d'un moment, il vit au-dessus de sa tete, sur lachaussee de la route, le chameau qui filait a grandes enjambees,allongeant le cou d'un air anxieux.Alors, soulage d'un grand poids, le heros sortit de sa cachette,[30]et rentra dans la ville par un sentier detourne qui longeait lemur de son petit clos.VII_Catastrophes sur catastrophes._Page 89En arrivant devant sa maison mauresque, Tartarin s'arretatres etonne. Le jour tombait, la rue etait deserte. Par la portebasse en ogive que la negresse avait oublie de fermer, on entendaitdes rires, des bruits de verres, des detonations de bouchons[5]de Champagne, et dominant tout ce joli vacarme une voix defemme qui chantait, joyeuse et claire:Aimes-tu, Marco la Belle,La danse aux salons en fleurs...."Tron de Diou!" fit le Tarasconnais en palissant, et il se[10]precipita dans la cour.Malheureux Tartarin! Quel spectacle l'attendait.... Sousles arceaux du petit cloitre, au milieu des flacons, des patisseries,des coussins epars, des pipes, des tambourins, des guitares,Baia debout, sans veston bleu ni corselet, rien qu'une chemisette[15]de gaze argentee et un grand pantalon rose tendre, chantait_Marco la Belle_ avec une casquette d'officier de marine surl'oreille.... A ses pieds, sur une natte, gave d'amour et deconfitures, Barbassou, l'infame capitaine Barbassou, se crevaitde rire en l'ecoutant.[20]L'apparition de Tartarin, have, maigri, poudreux, les yeuxflamboyants, la chechia herissee, interrompit tout net cette aimableorgie turco-marseillaise. Baia poussa un petit cri delevrette effrayee, et se sauva dans la maison. Barbassou, lui,ne se troubla pas, et riant de plus belle:[25]"He! be! monsieur Tartarin, qu'est-ce que vous en dites?Vous voyez bien qu'elle savait le francais!"Tartarin de Tarascon s'avanca furieux."Capitaine!--_Digo-li que vengue, moun bon!_" cria la Mauresque, se[30]penchant de la galerie du premier avec un joli geste canaille.Page 90Le pauvre homme, atterre, se laissa choir sur un tambour. SaMauresque savait meme le marseillais!"Quand je vous disais de vous mefier des Algeriennes!" fitsentencieusement le capitaine Barbassou. "C'est comme votre[5]prince montenegrin."Tartarin releva la tete."Vous savez ou est le prince?--Oh! il n'est pas loin. Il habite pour cinq ans la belle prisonde Mustapha. Le drole s'est laisse prendre la main dans le[10]sac.... Du reste, ce n'est pas la premiere fois qu'on le meta l'ombre. Son Altesse a deja fait trois ans de maison centralequelque part ... et, tenez! je crois meme que c'est a Tarascon.--A Tarascon!..." s'ecria Tartarin subitement illumine...."C'est donc ca qu'il ne connaissait qu'un cote de la ville....[15]--He! sans doute ... Tarascon, vu de la maison centrale....Ah! mon pauvre monsieur Tartarin, il faut joliment ouvrir l'oeildans ce diable de pays, sans quoi on est expose a des chosesbien desagreables.... Ainsi votre histoire avec le muezzin....--Quelle histoire? quel muezzin?[20]--Te! pardi!... le muezzin d'en face qui faisait la coura Baia.... L'_Akbar_ a raconte l'affaire l'autre jour, et toutAlger en rit encore.... C'est si drole ce muezzin qui, du hautde sa tour, tout en chantant ses prieres, faisait sous votre nezdes declarations a la petite, et lui donnait des rendez-vous en[25]invoquant le nom d'Allah....--Mais c'est donc tous des gredins dans ce pays?..."hurla le malheureux Tarasconnais.Barbassou eut un geste de philosophe."Mon cher, vous savez, les pays neufs.... C'est egal! si[30]vous m'en croyez, vous retournerez bien vite a Tarascon.--Retourner ... c'est facile a dire.... Et l'argent?...Vous ne savez donc pas comme ils m'ont plume, la-has, dans ledesert?Page 91--Qu'a cela ne tienne!" fit le capitaine en riant.... "Le_Zouave_ part demain, et si vous voulez, je vous rapatrie ...ca vous va-t-il, collegue?... Alors, tres bien. Vous n'avez plusqu'une chose a faire. Il reste encore quelques fioles de champagne,[5]une moitie de croustade ... asseyez-vous la, et sansrancune!..."Apres la minute d'hesitation que lui commandait sa dignite,le Tarasconnais prit bravement son parti. Il s'assit, on trinqua;Baia, redescendue au bruit des verres, chanta la fin de _Marco[10]la Belle_, et la fete se prolongea fort avant dans la nuit.Vers trois heures du matin, la tete legere et le pied lourd, lebon Tartarin revenait d'accompagner son ami le capitaine, lorsqu'enpassant devant la mosquee, le souvenir du muezzin etde ses farces le fit rire, et tout de suite une belle idee de vengeance[15]lui traversa le cerveau. La porte etait ouverte. Il entra,suivit de longs couloirs tapisses de nattes, monta, monta encore,et finit par se trouver dans un petit oratoire turc, ou une lanterneen fer decoupe se balancait au plafond, brodant les murs blancsd'ombres bizarres.[20]Le muezzin etait la, assis sur un divan, avec son gros turban,sa pelisse blanche, sa pipe de Mostaganem, et devant un grandverre d'absinthe fraiche, qu'il battait religieusement, en attendantl'heure d'appeler les croyants a la priere.... A la vuede Tartarin, il lacha sa pipe de terreur.[25]"Pas un mot, cure," fit le Tarasconnais, qui avait sonidee.... "Vite, ton turban, ta pelisse!..."Le cure turc, tout tremblant, donna son turban, sa pelisse,tout ce qu'on voulut. Tartarin s'en affubla, et passa gravementsur la terrasse du minaret.[30]La mer luisait au loin. Les toits blancs etincelaient au clair delune. On entendait dans la brise marine quelques guitares attardees....Le muezzin de Tarascon se recueillit un moment, puis,levant les bras, il commenca a psalmodier d'une voix suraigue:Page 92"_La Allah il Allah_.... Mahomet est un vieux farceur.,..L'Orient, le Coran, les bachagas, les lions, les Mauresques, toutca ne vaut pas un viedaze!... Il n'y a plus de _Teurs_....Il n'y a que des carotteurs.... Vive Tarascon!..."[5]Et pendant qu'en un jargon bizarre, mele d'arabe et de provencal,l'illustre Tartarin jetait aux quatre coins de l'horizon, surla ville, sur la plaine, sur la montagne, sa joyeuse maledictiontarasconnaise, la voix claire et grave des autres muezzins luirepondait, en s'eloignant de minaret en minaret, et les derniers[10]croyants de la ville haute se frappaient devotement la poitrine.VIII_Tarascon! Tarascon!_Midi. Le _Zouave_ chauffe, on va partir. La-haut, sur le balcondu cafe Valentin, MM. les officiers braquent la longue-vue, etviennent, colonel en tete, par rang de grade, regarder l'heureuxpetit bateau qui va en France. C'est la grande distraction de[15]l'etat-major.... En has, la rade etincelle. La culasse desvieux canons turcs enterres le long du quai flambe au soleil.Les passagers se pressent. Biskris et Mahonnais entassentles bagages dans les barques.Tartarin de Tarascon, lui, n'a pas de bagages. Le voici qui[20]descend de la rue de la Marine, par le petit marche, plein debananes et de pasteques, accompagne de son ami Barbassou.Le malheureux Tarasconnais a laisse sur la rive du Maure sacaisse d'armes et ses illusions, et maintenant il s'apprete avoguer vers Tarascon, les mains dans ses poches.... A peine[25]vient-il de sauter dans la chaloupe du capitaine, qu'une beteessoufflee degringole du haut de la place, et se precipite verslui, en galopant. C'est le chameau, le chameau fidele, qui, depuisvingt-quatre heures, cherche son maitre dans Alger.Page 93Tartarin, en le voyant, change de couleur et feint de ne pasle connaitre; mais le chameau s'acharne. Il fretille au long duquai. Il appelle son ami, et le regarde avec tendresse:"Emmene-moi," semble dire son oeil triste, "emmene-moi dans la barque,[5]loin, bien loin de cette Arabie en carton peint, de cet Orientridicule, plein de locomotives et de diligences, ou--dromadairedeclasse--je ne sais plus que devenir. Tu es le dernier Turc,je suis le dernier chameau.... Ne nous quittons plus, o monTartarin....[10]--Est-ce que ce chameau est a vous?" demande le capitaine."Pas du tout!" repond Tartarin, qui fremit a l'idee d'entrerdans Tarascon avec cette escorte ridicule; et, reniant impudemmentle compagnon de ses infortunes, il repousse du pied le solalgerien, et donne a la barque l'elan du depart.... Le chameau flaire[15]l'eau, allonge le cou, fait craquer ses jointures et, s'elancantderriere la barque a corps perdu, il nage de conserve vers le_Zouave_, avec son dos bombe, qui flotte comme une gourde, etson grand col, dresse sur l'eau en eperon de trireme.Barque et chameau viennent ensemble se ranger aux flancs[20]du paquebot."A la fin, il me fait peine, ce dromadaire!" dit le capitaineBarbassou tout emu, "j'ai envie de le prendre a monbord.... En arrivant a Marseille, j'en ferai hommage anJardin zoologique."[25]On hissa sur le pont, a grand renfort de palans et decordes, le chameau, alourdi par l'eau de mer, et le _Zouave_ semit en route.Les deux jours que dura la traversee, Tartarin les passa toutseul dans sa cabine, non pas que la mer fut mauvaise, ni que[30]la chechia eut trop a souffrir, mais le diable de chameau, desque son maitre apparaissait sur le pont, avait autour de lui desempressements ridicules.... Vous n'avez jamais vu un chameauafficher quelqu'un comme cela!...Page 94D'heure en heure, par les hublots de la cabine ou il mettaitle nez quelquefois, Tartarin vit le bleu du ciel algerien palir;puis, enfin, un matin, dans une brume d'argent, il entendit avecbonheur chanter toutes les cloches de Marseille. On etait[5]arrive ... le _Zouave_ j