rds were beginning to tune up for aconcert.  Mary put her hand out of the window and held it in the sun."It's warm--warm!" she said.  "It will make the green points push upand up and up, and it will make the bulbs and roots work and strugglewith all their might under the earth."She kneeled down and leaned out of the window as far as she could,breathing big breaths and sniffing the air until she laughed becauseshe remembered what Dickon's mother had said about the end of his nosequivering like a rabbit's. "It must be very early," she said.  "Thelittle clouds are all pink and I've never seen the sky look like this.No one is up.  I don't even hear the stable boys."A sudden thought made her scramble to her feet."I can't wait! I am going to see the garden!"She had learned to dress herself by this time and she put on herclothes in five minutes.  She knew a small side door which she couldunbolt herself and she flew downstairs in her stocking feet and put onher shoes in the hall.  She unchained and unbolted and unlocked andwhen the door was open she sprang across the step with one bound, andthere she was standing on the grass, which seemed to have turned green,and with the sun pouring down on her and warm sweet wafts about her andthe fluting and twittering and singing coming from every bush and tree.She clasped her hands for pure joy and looked up in the sky and it wasso blue and pink and pearly and white and flooded with springtime lightthat she felt as if she must flute and sing aloud herself and knew thatthrushes and robins and skylarks could not possibly help it.  She ranaround the shrubs and paths towards the secret garden."It is all different already," she said.  "The grass is greener andthings are sticking up everywhere and things are uncurling and greenbuds of leaves are showing.  This afternoon I am sure Dickon will come."The long warm rain had done strange things to the herbaceous beds whichbordered the walk by the lower wall.  There were things sprouting andpushing out from the roots of clumps of plants and there were actuallyhere and there glimpses of royal purple and yellow unfurling among thestems of crocuses.  Six months before Mistress Mary would not have seenhow the world was waking up, but now she missed nothing.When she had reached the place where the door hid itself under the ivy,she was startled by a curious loud sound.  It was the caw--caw of acrow and it came from the top of the wall, and when she looked up,there sat a big glossy-plumaged blue-black bird, looking down at hervery wisely indeed.  She had never seen a crow so close before and hemade her a little nervous, but the next moment he spread his wings andflapped away across the garden.  She hoped he was not going to stayinside and she pushed the door open wondering if he would.  When shegot fairly into the garden she saw that he probably did intend to staybecause he had alighted on a dwarf apple-tree and under the apple-treewas lying a little reddish animal with a Bushy tail, and both of themwere watching the stooping body and rust-red head of Dickon, who waskneeling on the grass working hard.Mary flew across the grass to him."Oh, Dickon! Dickon!" she cried out.  "How could you get here so early!How could you! The sun has only just got up!"He got up himself, laughing and glowing, and tousled; his eyes like abit of the sky."Eh!" he said.  "I was up long before him.  How could I have stayedabed! Th' world's all fair begun again this mornin', it has.  An' it'sworkin' an' hummin' an' scratchin' an' pipin' an' nest-buildin' an'breathin' out scents, till you've got to be out on it 'stead o' lyin'on your back.  When th' sun did jump up, th' moor went mad for joy, an'I was in the midst of th' heather, an' I run like mad myself, shoutin'an' singin'. An' I come straight here.  I couldn't have stayed away.Why, th' garden was lyin' here waitin'!"Mary put her hands on her chest, panting, as if she had been runningherself."Oh, Dickon! Dickon!" she said.  "I'm so happy I can scarcely breathe!"Seeing him talking to a stranger, the little bushy-tailed animal rosefrom its place under the tree and came to him, and the rook, cawingonce, flew down from its branch and settled quietly on his shoulder."This is th' little fox cub," he said, rubbing the little reddishanimal's head.  "It's named Captain.  An' this here's Soot.  Soot heflew across th' moor with me an' Captain he run same as if th' houndshad been after him.  They both felt same as I did."Neither of the creatures looked as if he were the least afraid of Mary.When Dickon began to walk about, Soot stayed on his shoulder andCaptain trotted quietly close to his side."See here!" said Dickon.  "See how these has pushed up, an' these an'these! An' Eh! Look at these here!"He threw himself upon his knees and Mary went down beside him.  Theyhad come upon a whole clump of crocuses burst into purple and orangeand gold.  Mary bent her face down and kissed and kissed them."You never kiss a person in that way," she said when she lifted herhead.  "Flowers are so different."He looked puzzled but smiled."Eh!" he said, "I've kissed mother many a time that way when I come infrom th' moor after a day's roamin' an' she stood there at th' door inth' sun, lookin' so glad an' comfortable." They ran from one part ofthe garden to another and found so many wonders that they were obligedto remind themselves that they must whisper or speak low.  He showedher swelling leafbuds on rose branches which had seemed dead.  Heshowed her ten thousand new green points pushing through the mould.They put their eager young noses close to the earth and sniffed itswarmed springtime breathing; they dug and pulled and laughed low withrapture until Mistress Mary's hair was as tumbled as Dickon's and hercheeks were almost as poppy red as his.There was every joy on earth in the secret garden that morning, and inthe midst of them came a delight more delightful than all, because itwas more wonderful.  Swiftly something flew across the wall and dartedthrough the trees to a close grown corner, a little flare ofred-breasted bird with something hanging from its beak.  Dickon stoodquite still and put his hand on Mary almost as if they had suddenlyfound themselves laughing in a church."We munnot stir," he whispered in broad Yorkshire.  "We munnot scarcebreathe.  I knowed he was mate-huntin' when I seed him last.  It's BenWeatherstaff's robin.  He's buildin' his nest.  He'll stay here if usdon't fight him." They settled down softly upon the grass and sat therewithout moving."Us mustn't seem as if us was watchin' him too close," said Dickon."He'd be out with us for good if he got th' notion us was interferin'now.  He'll be a good bit different till all this is over.  He'ssettin' up housekeepin'.  He'll be shyer an' readier to take thingsill.  He's got no time for visitin' an' gossipin'. Us must keep still abit an' try to look as if us was grass an' trees an' bushes.  Then whenhe's got used to seein' us I'll chirp a bit an' he'll know us'll not bein his way."Mistress Mary was not at all sure that she knew, as Dickon seemed to,how to try to look like grass and trees and bushes.  But he had saidthe queer thing as if it were the simplest and most natural thing inthe world, and she felt it must be quite easy to him, and indeed shewatched him for a few minutes carefully, wondering if it was possiblefor him to quietly turn green and put out branches and leaves.  But heonly sat wonderfully still, and when he spoke dropped his voice to sucha softness that it was curious that she could hear him, but she could."It's part o' th' springtime, this nest-buildin' is," he said.  "Iwarrant it's been goin' on in th' same way every year since th' worldwas begun.  They've got their way o' thinkin' and doin' things an' abody had better not meddle.  You can lose a friend in springtime easierthan any other season if you're too curious.""If we talk about him I can't help looking at him," Mary said as softlyas possible.  "We must talk of something else.  There is something Iwant to tell you.""He'll like it better if us talks o' somethin' else," said Dickon."What is it tha's got to tell me?""Well--do you know about Colin?" she whispered.He turned his head to look at her."What does tha' know about him?" he asked."I've seen him.  I have been to talk to him every day this week.  Hewants me to come.  He says I'm making him forget about being ill anddying," answered Mary.Dickon looked actually relieved as soon as the surprise died away fromhis round face."I am glad o' that," he exclaimed.  "I'm right down glad.  It makes meeasier.  I knowed I must say nothin' about him an' I don't like havin'to hide things.""Don't you like hiding the garden?" said Mary."I'll never tell about it," he answered.  "But I says to mother,'Mother,' I says, 'I got a secret to keep.  It's not a bad 'un, tha'knows that.  It's no worse than hidin' where a bird's nest is.  Tha'doesn't mind it, does tha'?'"Mary always wanted to hear about mother."What did she say?" she asked, not at all afraid to hear.Dickon grinned sweet-temperedly."It was just like her, what she said," he answered.  "She give my heada bit of a rub an' laughed an' she says, 'Eh, lad, tha' can have allth' secrets tha' likes.  I've knowed thee twelve year'.'""How did you know about Colin?" asked Mary."Everybody as knowed about Mester Craven knowed there was a little ladas was like to be a cripple, an' they knowed Mester Craven didn't likehim to be talked about.  Folks is sorry for Mester Craven because Mrs.Craven was such a pretty young lady an' they was so fond of each other.Mrs. Medlock stops in our cottage whenever she goes to Thwaite an' shedoesn't mind talkin' to mother before us children, because she knows ushas been brought up to be trusty.  How did tha' find out about him?Martha was in fine trouble th' last time she came home.  She said tha'dheard him frettin' an' tha' was askin' questions an' she didn't knowwhat to say."Mary told him her story about the midnight wuthering of the wind whichhad wakened her and about the faint far-off sounds of the complainingvoice which had led her down the dark corridors with her candle and hadended with her opening of the door of the dimly lighted room with thecarven four-posted bed in the corner.  When she described the smallivory-white face and the strange black-rimmed eyes Dickon shook hishead."Them's just like his mother's eyes, only hers was always laughin',they say," he said.  "They say as Mr. Craven can't bear to see him whenhe's awake an' it's because his eyes is so like his mother's an' yetlooks so different in his miserable bit of a face.""Do you think he wants to die?" whispered Mary."No, but he wishes he'd never been born.  Mother she says that's th'worst thing on earth for a child.  Them as is not wanted scarce everthrives.  Mester Craven he'd buy anythin' as money could buy for th'poor lad but he'd like to forget as he's on earth.  For one thing, he'safraid he'll look at him some day and find he's growed hunchback.""Colin's so afraid of it himself that he won't sit up," said Mary.  "Hesays he's always thinking that if he should feel a lump coming heshould go crazy and scream himself to death.""Eh! he oughtn't to lie there thinkin' things like that," said Dickon."No lad could get well as thought them sort o' things."The fox was lying on the grass close by him, looking up to ask for apat now and then, and Dickon bent down and rubbed his neck softly andthought a few minutes in silence.  Presently he lifted his head andlooked round the garden."When first we got in here," he said, "it seemed like everything wasgray.  Look round now and tell me if tha' doesn't see a difference."Mary looked and caught her breath a little."Why!" she cried, "the gray wall is changing.  It is as if a green mistwere creeping over it.  It's almost like a green gauze veil.""Aye," said Dickon.  "An' it'll be greener and greener till th' gray'sall gone.  Can tha' guess what I was thinkin'?""I know it was something nice," said Mary eagerly.  "I believe it wassomething about Colin.""I was thinkin' that if he was out here he wouldn't be watchin' forlumps to grow on his back; he'd be watchin' for buds to break on th'rose-bushes, an' he'd likely be healthier," explained Dickon.  "I waswonderin' if us could ever get him in th' humor to come out here an'lie under th' trees in his carriage.""I've been wondering that myself.  I've thought of it almost every timeI've talked to him," said Mary.  "I've wondered if he could keep asecret and I've wondered if we could bring him here without any oneseeing us.  I thought perhaps you could push his carriage.  The doctorsaid he must have fresh air and if he wants us to take him out no onedare disobey him.  He won't go out for other people and perhaps theywill be glad if he will go out with us.  He could order the gardenersto keep away so they wouldn't find out."Dickon was thinking very hard as he scratched Captain's back."It'd be good for him, I'll warrant," he said.  "Us'd not be thinkin'he'd better never been born.  Us'd be just two children watchin' agarden grow, an' he'd be another.  Two lads an' a little lass justlookin' on at th' springtime.  I warrant it'd be better than doctor'sstuff.""He's been lying in his room so long and he's always been so afraid ofhis back that it has made him queer," said Mary.  "He knows a good manythings out of books but he doesn't know anything else.  He says he hasbeen too ill to notice things and he hates going out of doors and hatesgardens and gardeners.  But he likes to hear about this garden becauseit is a secret.  I daren't tell him much but he said he wanted to seeit.""Us'll have him out here sometime for sure," said Dickon.  "I couldpush his carriage well enough.  Has tha' noticed how th' robin an' hismate has been workin' while we've been sittin' here? Look at himperched on that branch wonderin' where it'd be best to put that twighe's got in his beak."He made one of his low whistling calls and the robin turned his headand looked at him inquiringly, still holding his twig.  Dickon spoke tohim as Ben Weatherstaff did, but Dickon's tone was one of friendlyadvice."Wheres'ever tha' puts it," he said, "it'll be all right.  Tha' knewhow to build tha' nest before tha' came out o' th' egg.  Get on withthee, lad.  Tha'st got no time to lose.""Oh, I do like to hear you talk to him!" Mary said, laughingdelightedly.  "Ben Weatherstaff scolds him and makes fun of him, and hehops about and looks as if he understood every word, and I know helikes it.  Ben Weatherstaff says he is so conceited he would ratherhave stones thrown at him than not be noticed."Dickon laughed too and went on talking."Tha' knows us won't trouble thee," he said to the robin.  "Us is nearbein' wild things ourselves.  Us is nest-buildin' too, bless thee.Look out tha' doesn't tell on us."And though the robin did not answer, because his beak was occupied,Mary knew that when he flew away with his twig to his own corner of thegarden the darkness of his dew-bright eye meant that he would not telltheir secret for the world.CHAPTER XVI"I WON'T!" SAID MARYThey found a great deal to do that morning and Mary was late inreturning to the house and was also in such a hurry to get back to herwork that she quite forgot Colin until the last moment."Tell Colin that I can't come and see him yet," she said to Martha."I'm very busy in the garden."Martha looked rather frightened."Eh! Miss Mary," she said, "it may put him all out of humor when I tellhim that."But Mary was not as afraid of him as other people were and she was nota self-sacrificing person."I can't stay," she answered.  "Dickon's waiting for me;" and she ranaway.The afternoon was even lovelier and busier than the morning had been.Already nearly all the weeds were cleared out of the garden and most ofthe roses and trees had been pruned or dug about.  Dickon had brought aspade of his own and he had taught Mary to use all her tools, so thatby this time it was plain that though the lovely wild place was notlikely to become a "gardener's garden" it would be a wilderness ofgrowing things before the springtime was over."There'll be apple blossoms an' cherry blossoms overhead," Dickon said,working away with all his might.  "An' there'll be peach an' plum treesin bloom against th' walls, an' th' grass'll be a carpet o' flowers."The little fox and the rook were as happy and busy as they were, andthe robin and his mate flew backward and forward like tiny streaks oflightning.  Sometimes the rook flapped his black wings and soared awayover the tree-tops in the park.  Each time he came back and perchednear Dickon and cawed several times as if he were relating hisadventures, and Dickon talked to him just as he had talked to therobin.  Once when Dickon was so busy that he did not answer him atfirst, Soot flew on to his shoulders and gently tweaked his ear withhis large beak.  When Mary wanted to rest a little Dickon sat down withher under a tree and once he took his pipe out of his pocket and playedthe soft strange little notes and two squirrels appeared on the walland looked and listened."Tha's a good bit stronger than tha' was," Dickon said, looking at heras she was digging.  "Tha's beginning to look different, for sure."Mary was glowing with exercise and good spirits."I'm getting fatter and fatter every day," she said quite exultantly."Mrs. Medlock will have to get me some bigger dresses.  Martha says myhair is growing thicker.  It isn't so flat and stringy."The sun was beginning to set and sending deep gold-colored raysslanting under the trees when they parted."It'll be fine tomorrow," said Dickon.  "I'll be at work by sunrise.""So will I," said Mary.She ran back to the house as quickly as her feet would carry her.  Shewanted to tell Colin about Dickon's fox cub and the rook and about whatthe springtime had been doing.  She felt sure he would like to hear.So it was not very pleasant when she opened the door of her room, tosee Martha standing waiting for her with a doleful face."What is the matter?" she asked.  "What did Colin say when you told himI couldn't come?""Eh!" said Martha, "I wish tha'd gone.  He was nigh goin' into one o'his tantrums.  There's been a nice to do all afternoon to keep himquiet.  He would watch the clock all th' time."Mary's lips pinched themselves together.  She was no more used toconsidering other people than Colin was and she saw no reason why anill-tempered boy should interfere with the thing she liked best.  Sheknew nothing about the pitifulness of people who had been ill andnervous and who did not know that they could control their tempers andneed not make other people ill and nervous, too.  When she had had aheadache in India she had done her best to see that everybody else alsohad a headache or something quite as bad.  And she felt she was quiteright; but of course now she felt that Colin was quite wrong.He was not on his sofa when she went into his room.  He was lying flaton his back in bed and he did not turn his head toward her as she camein.  This was a bad beginning and Mary marched up to him with her stiffmanner."Why didn't you get up?" she said."I did get up this morning when I thought you were coming," heanswered, without looking at her.  "I made them put me back in bed thisafternoon.  My back ached and my head ached and I was tired.  Whydidn't you come?" "I was working in the garden with Dickon," said Mary.Colin frowned and condescended to look at her."I won't let that boy come here if you go and stay with him instead ofcoming to talk to me," he said.Mary flew into a fine passion.  She could fly into a passion withoutmaking a noise.  She just grew sour and obstinate and did not care whathappened."If you send Dickon away, I'll never come into this room again!" sheretorted."You'll have to if I want you," said Colin."I won't!" said Mary."I'll make you," said Colin.  "They shall drag you in.""Shall they, Mr. Rajah!" said Mary fiercely.  "They may drag me in butthey can't make me talk when they get me here.  I'll sit and clench myteeth and never tell you one thing.  I won't even look at you.  I'llstare at the floor!"They were a nice agreeable pair as they glared at each other.  If theyhad been two little street boys they would have sprung at each otherand had a rough-and-tumble fight.  As it was, they did the next thingto it."You are a selfish thing!" cried Colin."What are you?" said Mary.  "Selfish people always say that.  Any oneis selfish who doesn't do what they want.  You're more selfish than Iam.  You're the most selfish boy I ever saw.""I'm not!" snapped Colin.  "I'm not as selfish as your fine Dickon is!He keeps you playing in the dirt when he knows I am all by myself.He's selfish, if you like!"Mary's eyes flashed fire."He's nicer than any other boy that ever lived!" she said.  "He's--he'slike an angel!" It might sound rather silly to say that but she did notcare."A nice angel!" Colin sneered ferociously.  "He's a common cottage boyoff the moor!""He's better than a common Rajah!" retorted Mary.  "He's a thousandtimes better!"Because she was the stronger of the two she was beginning to get thebetter of him.  The truth was that he had never had a fight with anyone like himself in his life and, upon the whole, it was rather goodfor him, though neither he nor Mary knew anything about that.  Heturned his head on his pillow and shut his eyes and a big tear wassqueezed out and ran down his cheek.  He was beginning to feel patheticand sorry for himself--not for any one else."I'm not as selfish as you, because I'm always ill, and I'm sure thereis a lump coming on my back," he said.  "And I am going to die besides.""You're not!" contradicted Mary unsympathetically.He opened his eyes quite wide with indignation.  He had never heardsuch a thing said before.  He was at once furious and slightly pleased,if a person could be both at one time."I'm not?" he cried.  "I am! You know I am! Everybody says so.""I don't believe it!" said Mary sourly.  "You just say that to makepeople sorry.  I believe you're proud of it.  I don't believe it! Ifyou were a nice boy it might be true--but you're too nasty!"In spite of his invalid back Colin sat up in bed in quite a healthyrage."Get out of the room!" he shouted and he caught hold of his pillow andthrew it at her.  He was not strong enough to throw it far and it onlyfell at her feet, but Mary's face looked as pinched as a nutcracker."I'm going," she said.  "And I won't come back!" She walked to the doorand when she reached it she turned round and spoke again."I was going to tell you all sorts of nice things," she said.  "Dickonbrought his fox and his rook and I was going to tell you all aboutthem.  Now I won't tell you a single thing!"She marched out of the door and closed it behind her, and there to hergreat astonishment she found the trained nurse standing as if she hadbeen listening and, more amazing still--she was laughing.  She was abig handsome young woman who ought not to have been a trained nurse atall, as she could not bear invalids and she was always making excusesto leave Colin to Martha or any one else who would take her place.Mary had never liked her, and she simply stood and gazed up at her asshe stood giggling into her handkerchief.."What are you laughing at?" she asked her."At you two young ones," said the nurse.  "It's the best thing thatcould happen to the sickly pampered thing to have some one to stand upto him that's as spoiled as himself;" and she laughed into herhandkerchief again.  "If he'd had a young vixen of a sister to fightwith it would have been the saving of him.""Is he going to die?""I don't know and I don't care," said the nurse.  "Hysterics and temperare half what ails him.""What are hysterics?" asked Mary."You'll find out if you work him into a tantrum after this--but at anyrate you've given him something to have hysterics about, and I'm gladof it."Mary went back to her room not feeling at all as she had felt when shehad come in from the garden.  She was cross and disappointed but not atall sorry for Colin.  She had looked forward to telling him a greatmany things and she had meant to try to make up her mind whether itwould be safe to trust him with the great secret.  She had beenbeginning to think it would be, but now she had changed her mindentirely.  She would never tell him and he could stay in his room andnever get any fresh air and die if he liked! It would serve him right!She felt so sour and unrelenting that for a few minutes she almostforgot about Dickon and the green veil creeping over the world and thesoft wind blowing down from the moor.Martha was waiting for her and the trouble in her face had beentemporarily replaced by interest and curiosity.  There was a wooden boxon the table and its cover had been removed and revealed that it wasfull of neat packages."Mr. Craven sent it to you," said Martha.  "It looks as if it hadpicture-books in it."Mary remembered what he had asked her the day she had gone to his room."Do you want anything--dolls--toys--books?" She opened the packagewondering if he had sent a doll, and also wondering what she should dowith it if he had.  But he had not sent one.  There were severalbeautiful books such as Colin had, and two of them were about gardensand were full of pictures.  There were two or three games and there wasa beautiful little writing-case with a gold monogram on it and a goldpen and inkstand.Everything was so nice that her pleasure began to crowd her anger outof her mind.  She had not expected him to remember her at all and herhard little heart grew quite warm."I can write better than I can print," she said, "and the first thing Ishall write with that pen will be a letter to tell him I am muchobliged."If she had been friends with Colin she would have run to show him herpresents at once, and they would have looked at the pictures and readsome of the gardening books and perhaps tried playing the games, and hewould have enjoyed himself so much he would never once have thought hewas going to die or have put his hand on his spine to see if there wasa lump coming.  He had a way of doing that which she could not bear.It gave her an uncomfortable frightened feeling because he alwayslooked so frightened himself.  He said that if he felt even quite alittle lump some day he should know his hunch had begun to grow.Something he had heard Mrs. Medlock whispering to the nurse had givenhim the idea and he had thought over it in secret until it was quitefirmly fixed in his mind.  Mrs. Medlock had said his father's back hadbegun to show its crookedness in that way when he was a child.  He hadnever told any one but Mary that most of his "tantrums" as they calledthem grew out of his hysterical hidden fear.  Mary had been sorry forhim when he had told her."He always began to think about it when he was cross or tired," shesaid to herself.  "And he has been cross today.  Perhaps--perhaps hehas been thinking about it all afternoon."She stood still, looking down at the carpet and thinking."I said I would never go back again--" she hesitated, knitting herbrows--"but perhaps, just perhaps, I will go and see--if he wantsme--in the morning.  Perhaps he'll try to throw his pillow at me again,but--I think--I'll go."CHAPTER XVIIA TANTRUMShe had got up very early in the morning and had worked hard in thegarden and she was tired and sleepy, so as soon as Martha had broughther supper and she had eaten it, she was glad to go to bed.  As shelaid her head on the pillow she murmured to herself:"I'll go out before breakfast and work with Dickon and thenafterward--I believe--I'll go to see him."She thought it was the middle of the night when she was awakened bysuch dreadful sounds that she jumped out of bed in an instant.  Whatwas it--what was it? The next minute she felt quite sure she knew.Doors were opened and shut and there were hurrying feet in thecorridors and some one was crying and screaming at the same time,screaming and crying in a horrible way."It's Colin," she said.  "He's having one of those tantrums the nursecalled hysterics.  How awful it sounds."As she listened to the sobbing screams she did not wonder that peoplewere so frightened that they gave him his own way in everything ratherthan hear them.  She put her hands over her ears and felt sick andshivering."I don't know what to do.  I don't know what to do," she kept saying."I can't bear it."Once she wondered if he would stop if she dared go to him and then sheremembered how he had driven her out of the room and thought thatperhaps the sight of her might make him worse.  Even when she pressedher hands more tightly over her ears she could not keep the awfulsounds out.  She hated them so and was so terrified by them thatsuddenly they began to make her angry and she felt as if she shouldlike to fly into a tantrum herself and frighten him as he wasfrightening her.  She was not used to any one's tempers but her own.She took her hands from her ears and sprang up and stamped her foot."He ought to be stopped! Somebody ought to make him stop!  Somebodyought to beat him!" she cried out.Just then she heard feet almost running down the corridor and her dooropened and the nurse came in.  She was not laughing now by any means.She even looked rather pale."He's worked himself into hysterics," she said in a great hurry."He'll do himself harm.  No one can do anything with him.  You come andtry, like a good child.  He likes you.""He turned me out of the room this morning," said Mary, stamping herfoot with excitement.The stamp rather pleased the nurse.  The truth was that she had beenafraid she might find Mary crying and hiding her head under thebed-clothes."That's right," she said.  "You're in the right humor.  You go andscold him.  Give him something new to think of.  Do go, child, as quickas ever you can."It was not until afterward that Mary realized that the thing had beenfunny as well as dreadful--that it was funny that all the grown-uppeople were so frightened that they came to a little girl just becausethey guessed she was almost as bad as Colin himself.She flew along the corridor and the nearer she got to the screams thehigher her temper mounted.  She felt quite wicked by the time shereached the door.  She slapped it open with her hand and ran across theroom to the four-posted bed."You stop!" she almost shouted.  "You stop! I hate you!  Everybodyhates you! I wish everybody would run out of the house and let youscream yourself to death! You will scream yourself to death in aminute, and I wish you would!" A nice sympathetic child could neitherhave thought nor said such things, but it just happened that the shockof hearing them was the best possible thing for this hysterical boywhom no one had ever dared to restrain or contradict.He had been lying on his face beating his pillow with his hands and heactually almost jumped around, he turned so quickly at the sound of thefurious little voice.  His face looked dreadful, white and red andswollen, and he was gasping and choking; but savage little Mary did notcare an atom."If you scream another scream," she said, "I'll scream too--and I canscream louder than you can and I'll frighten you, I'll frighten you!"He actually had stopped screaming because she had startled him so.  Thescream which had been coming almost choked him.  The tears werestreaming down his face and he shook all over."I can't stop!" he gasped and sobbed.  "I can't--I can't!""You can!" shouted Mary.  "Half that ails you is hysterics andtemper--just hysterics--hysterics--hysterics!" and she stamped eachtime she said it."I felt the lump--I felt it," choked out Colin.  "I knew I should.  Ishall have a hunch on my back and then I shall die," and he began towrithe again and turned on his face and sobbed and wailed but he didn'tscream."You didn't feel a lump!" contradicted Mary fiercely.  "If you did itwas only a hysterical lump.  Hysterics makes lumps.  There's nothingthe matter with your horrid back--nothing but hysterics! Turn over andlet me look at it!"She liked the word "hysterics" and felt somehow as if it had an effecton him.  He was probably like herself and had never heard it before."Nurse," she commanded, "come here and show me his back this minute!"The nurse, Mrs. Medlock and Martha had been standing huddled togethernear the door staring at her, their mouths half open.  All three hadgasped with fright more than once.  The nurse came forward as if shewere half afraid.  Colin was heaving with great breathless sobs."Perhaps he--he won't let me," she hesitated in a low voice.Colin heard her, however, and he gasped out between two sobs:"Sh-show her! She-she'll see then!"It was a poor thin back to look at when it was bared.  Every rib couldbe counted and every joint of the spine, though Mistress Mary did notcount them as she bent over and examined them with a solemn savagelittle face.  She looked so sour and old-fashioned that the nurseturned her head aside to hide the twitching of her mouth.  There wasjust a minute's silence, for even Colin tried to hold his breath whileMary looked up and down his spine, and down and up, as intently as ifshe had been the great doctor from London."There's not a single lump there!" she said at last.  "There's not alump as big as a pin--except backbone lumps, and you can only feel thembecause you're thin.  I've got backbone lumps myself, and they used tostick out as much as yours do, until I began to get fatter, and I amnot fat enough yet to hide them.  There's not a lump as big as a pin!If you ever say there is again, I shall laugh!"No one but Colin himself knew what effect those crossly spoken childishwords had on him.  If he had ever had any one to talk to about hissecret terrors--if he had ever dared to let himself ask questions--ifhe had had childish companions and had not lain on his back in the hugeclosed house, breathing an atmosphere heavy with the fears of peoplewho were most of them ignorant and tired of him, he would have foundout that most of his fright and illness was created by himself.  But hehad lain and thought of himself and his aches and weariness for hoursand days and months and years.  And now that an angry unsympatheticlittle girl insisted obstinately that he was not as ill as he thoughthe was he actually felt as if she might be speaking the truth."I didn't know," ventured the nurse, "that he thought he had a lump onhis spine.  His back is weak because he won't try to sit up.  I couldhave told him there was no lump there." Colin gulped and turned hisface a little to look at her."C-could you?" he said pathetically."Yes, sir.""There!" said Mary, and she gulped too.Colin turned on his face again and but for his long-drawn brokenbreaths, which were the dying down of his storm of sobbing, he laystill for a minute, though great tears streamed down his face and wetthe pillow.  Actually the tears meant that a curious great relief hadcome to him.  Presently he turned and looked at the nurse again andstrangely enough he was not like a Rajah at all as he spoke to her."Do you think--I could--live to grow up?" he said.The nurse was neither clever nor soft-hearted but she could repeat someof the London doctor's words."You probably will if you will do what you are told to do and not giveway to your temper, and stay out a great deal in the fresh air."Colin's tantrum had passed and he was weak and worn out with crying andthis perhaps made him feel gentle.  He put out his hand a little towardMary, and I am glad to say that, her own tantum having passed, she wassoftened too and met him half-way with her hand, so that it was a sortof making up."I'll--I'll go out with you, Mary," he said.  "I shan't hate fresh airif we can find--" He remembered just in time to stop himself fromsaying "if we can find the secret garden" and he ended, "I shall liketo go out with you if Dickon will come and push my chair.  I do so wantto see Dickon and the fox and the crow."The nurse remade the tumbled bed and shook and straightened thepillows.  Then she made Colin a cup of beef tea and gave a cup to Mary,who really was very glad to get it after her excitement.  Mrs. Medlockand Martha gladly slipped away, and after everything was neat and calmand in order the nurse looked as if she would very gladly slip awayalso.  She was a healthy young woman who resented being robbed of hersleep and she yawned quite openly as she looked at Mary, who had pushedher big footstool close to the four-posted bed and was holding Colin'shand."You must go back and get your sleep out," she said.  "He'll drop offafter a while--if he's not too upset.  Then I'll lie down myself in thenext room.""Would you like me to sing you that song I learned from my Ayah?" Marywhispered to Colin.His hand pulled hers gently and he turned his tired eyes on herappealingly."Oh, yes!" he answered.  "It's such a soft song.  I shall go to sleepin a minute.""I will put him to sleep," Mary said to the yawning nurse.  "You can goif you like.""Well," said the nurse, with an attempt at reluctance.  "If he doesn'tgo to sleep in half an hour you must call me.""Very well," answered Mary.The nurse was out of the room in a minute and as soon as she was goneColin pulled Mary's hand again."I almost told," he said; "but I stopped myself in time.  I won't talkand I'll go to sleep, but you said you had a whole lot of nice thingsto tell me.  Have you--do you think you have found out anything at allabout the way into the secret garden?"Mary looked at his poor little tired face and swollen eyes and herheart relented."Ye-es," she answered, "I think I have.  And if you will go to sleep Iwill tell you tomorrow." His hand quite trembled."Oh, Mary!" he said.  "Oh, Mary! If I could get into it I think Ishould live to grow up! Do you suppose that instead of singing the Ayahsong--you could just tell me softly as you did that first day what youimagine it looks like inside? I am sure it will make me go to sleep.""Yes," answered Mary.  "Shut your eyes."He closed his eyes and lay quite still and she held his hand and beganto speak very slowly and in a very low voice."I think it has been left alone so long--that it has grown all into alovely tangle.  I think the roses have climbed and climbed and climbeduntil they hang from the branches and walls and creep over theground--almost like a strange gray mist.  Some of them have died butmany--are alive and when the summer comes there will be curtains andfountains of roses.  I think the ground is full of daffodils andsnowdrops and lilies and iris working their way out of the dark.  Nowthe spring has begun--perhaps--perhaps--"The soft drone of her voice was making him stiller and stiller and shesaw it and went on."Perhaps they are coming up through the grass--perhaps there areclusters of purple crocuses and gold ones--even now.  Perhaps theleaves are beginning to break out and uncurl--and perhaps--the gray ischanging and a green gauze veil is creeping--and creepingover--everything. And the birds are coming to look at it--because itis--so safe and still.  And perhaps--perhaps--perhaps--" very softlyand slowly indeed, "the robin has found a mate--and is building a nest."And Colin was asleep.CHAPTER XVIII"THA' MUNNOT WASTE NO TIME"Of course Mary did not waken early the next morning.  She slept latebecause she was tired, and when Martha brought her breakfast she toldher that though.  Colin was quite quiet he was ill and feverish as healways was after he had worn himself out with a fit of crying.  Maryate her breakfast slowly as she listened."He says he wishes tha' would please go and see him as soon as tha'can," Martha said.  "It's queer what a fancy he's took to thee.  Tha'did give it him last night for sure--didn't tha? Nobody else would havedared to do it.  Eh! poor lad! He's been spoiled till salt won't savehim.  Mother says as th' two worst things as can happen to a child isnever to have his own way--or always to have it.  She doesn't knowwhich is th' worst.  Tha' was in a fine temper tha'self, too.  But hesays to me when I went into his room, 'Please ask Miss Mary if she'llplease come an' talk to me?' Think o' him saying please! Will you go,Miss?" "I'll run and see Dickon first," said Mary.  "No, I'll go andsee Colin first and tell him--I know what I'll tell him," with a suddeninspiration.She had her hat on when she appeared in Colin's room and for a secondhe looked disappointed.  He was in bed.  His face was pitifully whiteand there were dark circles round his eyes."I'm glad you came," he said.  "My head aches and I ache all overbecause I'm so tired.  Are you going somewhere?"Mary went and leaned against his bed."I won't be long," she said.  "I'm going to Dickon, but I'll come back.Colin, it's--it's something about the garden."His whole face brightened and a little color came into it."Oh! is it?" he cried out.  "I dreamed about it all night I heard yousay something about gray changing into green, and I dreamed I wasstanding in a place all filled with trembling little green leaves--andthere were birds on nests everywhere and they looked so soft and still.I'll lie and think about it until you come back."In five minutes Mary was with Dickon in their garden.  The fox and thecrow were with him again and this time he had brought two tamesquirrels.  "I came over on the pony this mornin'," he said.  "Eh! heis a good little chap--Jump is! I brought these two in my pockets.This here one he's called Nut an' this here other one's called Shell."When he said "Nut" one squirrel leaped on to his right shoulder andwhen he said "Shell" the other one leaped on to his left shoulder.When they sat down on the grass with Captain curled at their feet, Sootsolemnly listening on a tree and Nut and Shell nosing about close tothem, it seemed to Mary that it would be scarcely bearable to leavesuch delightfulness, but when she began to tell her story somehow thelook in Dickon's funny face gradually changed her mind.  She could seehe felt sorrier for Colin than she did.  He looked up at the sky andall about him."Just listen to them birds--th' world seems full of 'em--all whistlin'an' pipin'," he said.  "Look at 'em dartin' about, an' hearken at 'emcallin' to each other.  Come springtime seems like as if all th'world's callin'. The leaves is uncurlin' so you can see 'em--an', myword, th' nice smells there is about!" sniffing with his happyturned-up nose.  "An' that poor lad lyin' shut up an' seein' so littlethat he gets to thinkin' o' things as sets him screamin'. Eh! my!  wemun get him out here--we mun get him watchin' an listenin' an' sniffin'up th' air an' get him just soaked through wi' sunshine.  An' we munnotlose no time about it."When he was very much interested he often spoke quite broad Yorkshirethough at other times he tried to modify his dialect so that Mary couldbetter understand.  But she loved his broad Yorkshire and had in factbeen trying to learn to speak it herself.  So she spoke a little now."Aye, that we mun," she said (which meant "Yes, indeed, we must")."I'll tell thee what us'll do first," she proceeded, and Dickongrinned, because when the little wench tried to twist her tongue intospeaking Yorkshire it amused him very much.  "He's took a graidelyfancy to thee.  He wants to see thee and he wants to see Soot an'Captain.  When I go back to the house to talk to him I'll ax him iftha' canna' come an' see him tomorrow mornin'--an'.  bring tha'creatures wi' thee--an' then--in a bit, when there's more leaves out,an' happen a bud or two, we'll get him to come out an' tha' shall pushhim in his chair an' we'll bring him here an' show him everything."When she stopped she was quite proud of herself.  She had never made along speech in Yorkshire before and she had remembered very well."Tha' mun talk a bit o' Yorkshire like that to Mester Colin," Dickonchuckled.  "Tha'll make him laugh an' there's nowt as good for ill folkas laughin' is.  Mother says she believes as half a hour's good laughevery mornin' 'ud cure a chap as was makin' ready for typhus fever.""I'm going to talk Yorkshire to him this very day," said Mary,chuckling herself.The garden had reached the time when every day and every night itseemed as if Magicians were passing through it drawing loveliness outof the earth and the boughs with wands.  It was hard to go away andleave it all, particularly as Nut had actually crept on to her dressand Shell had scrambled down the trunk of the apple-tree they sat underand stayed there looking at her with inquiring eyes.  But she went backto the house and when she sat down close to Colin's bed he began tosniff as Dickon did though not in such an experienced way."You smell like flowers and--and fresh things," he cried out quitejoyously.  "What is it you smell of? It's cool and warm and sweet allat the same time.""It's th' wind from th' moor," said Mary.  "It comes o' sittin' on th'grass under a tree wi' Dickon an' wi' Captain an' Soot an' Nut an'Shell.  It's th' springtime an' out o' doors an' sunshine as smells sograidely."She said it as broadly as she could, and you do not know how broadlyYorkshire sounds until you have heard some one speak it.  Colin beganto laugh."What are you doing?" he said.  "I never heard you talk like thatbefore.  How funny it sounds.""I'm givin' thee a bit o' Yorkshire," answered Mary triumphantly.  "Icanna' talk as graidely as Dickon an' Martha can but tha' sees I canshape a bit.  Doesn't tha' understand a bit o' Yorkshire when tha'hears it? An' tha' a Yorkshire lad thysel' bred an' born! Eh! I wondertha'rt not ashamed o' thy face."And then she began to laugh too and they both laughed until they couldnot stop themselves and they laughed until the room echoed and Mrs.Medlock opening the door to come in drew back into the corridor andstood listening amazed."Well, upon my word!" she said, speaking rather broad Yorkshire herselfbecause there was no one to hear her and she was so astonished."Whoever heard th' like! Whoever on earth would ha' thought it!"There was so much to talk about.  It seemed as if Colin could neverhear enough of Dickon and Captain and Soot and Nut and Shell and thepony whose name was Jump.  Mary had run round into the wood with Dickonto see Jump.  He was a tiny little shaggy moor pony with thick lockshanging over his eyes and with a pretty face and a nuzzling velvetnose.  He was rather thin with living on moor grass but he was as toughand wiry as if the muscle in his little legs had been made of steelsprings.  He had lifted his head and whinnied softly the moment he sawDickon and he had trotted up to him and put his head across hisshoulder and then Dickon had talked into his ear and Jump had talkedback in odd little whinnies and puffs and snorts.  Dickon had made himgive Mary his small front hoof and kiss her on her cheek with hisvelvet muzzle."Does he really understand everything Dickon says?" Colin asked."It seems as if he does," answered Mary.  "Dickon says anything willunderstand if you're friends with it for sure, but you have to befriends for sure."Colin lay quiet a little while and his strange gray eyes seemed to bestaring at the wall, but Mary saw he was thinking."I wish I was friends with things," he said at last, "but I'm not.  Inever had anything to be friends with, and I can't bear people.""Can't you bear me?" asked Mary."Yes, I can," he answered.  "It's funny but I even like you.""Ben Weatherstaff said I was like him," said Mary.  "He said he'dwarrant we'd both got the same nasty tempers.  I think you are like himtoo.  We are all three alike--you and I and Ben Weatherstaff.  He saidwe were neither of us much to look at and we were as sour as we looked.But I don't feel as sour as I used to before I knew the robin andDickon.""Did you feel as if you hated people?""Yes," answered Mary without any affectation.  "I should have detestedyou if I had seen you before I saw the robin and Dickon."Colin put out his thin hand and touched her."Mary," he said, "I wish I hadn't said what I did about sending Dickonaway.  I hated you when you said he was like an angel and I laughed atyou but--but perhaps he is.""Well, it was rather funny to say it," she admitted frankly, "becausehis nose does turn up and he has a big mouth and his clothes havepatches all over them and he talks broad Yorkshire, but--but if anangel did come to Yorkshire and live on the moor--if there was aYorkshire angel--I believe he'd understand the green things and knowhow to make them grow and he would know how to talk to the wildcreatures as Dickon does and they'd know he was friends for sure.""I shouldn't mind Dickon looking at me," said Colin; "I want to seehim.""I'm glad you said that," answered Mary, "because--because--"Quite suddenly it came into her mind that this was the minute to tellhim.  Colin knew something new was coming."Because what?" he cried eagerly.Mary was so anxious that she got up from her stool and came to him andcaught hold of both his hands."Can I trust you? I trusted Dickon because birds trusted him.  Can Itrust you--for sure--for sure?" she implored.Her face was so solemn that he almost whispered his answer."Yes--yes!""Well, Dickon will come to see you tomorrow morning, and he'll bringhis creatures with him.""Oh! Oh!" Colin cried out in delight."But that's not all," Mary went on, almost pale with solemn excitement."The rest is better.  There is a door into the garden.  I found it.  Itis under the ivy on the wall."If he had been a strong healthy boy Colin would probably have shouted"Hooray! Hooray! Hooray!" but he was weak and rather hysterical; hiseyes grew bigger and bigger and he gasped for breath."Oh! Mary!" he cried out with a half sob.  "Shall I see it? Shall I getinto it? Shall I live to get into it?" and he clutched her hands anddragged her toward him."Of course you'll see it!" snapped Mary indignantly.  "Of course you'lllive to get into it! Don't be silly!"And she was so un-hysterical and natural and childish that she broughthim to his senses and he began to laugh at himself and a few minutesafterward she was sitting on her stool again telling him not what sheimagined the secret garden to be like but what it really was, andColin's aches and tiredness were forgotten and he was listeningenraptured."It is just what you thought it would be," he said at last.  "It soundsjust as if you had really seen it.  You know I said that when you toldme first."Mary hesitated about two minutes and then boldly spoke the truth."I had seen it--and I had been in," she said.  "I found the key and gotin weeks ago.  But I daren't tell you--I daren't because I was soafraid I couldn't trust you--for sure!"CHAPTER XIX"IT HAS COME!"Of course Dr. Craven had been sent for the morning after Colin had hadhis tantrum.  He was always sent for at once when such a thing occurredand he always found, when he arrived, a white shaken boy lying on hisbed, sulky and still so hysterical that he was ready to break intofresh sobbing at the least word.  In fact, Dr. Craven dreaded anddetested the difficulties of these visits.  On this occasion he wasaway from Misselthwaite Manor until afternoon."How is he?" he asked Mrs. Medlock rather irritably when he arrived."He will break a blood-vessel in one of those fits some day.  The boyis half insane with hysteria and self-indulgence.""Well, sir," answered Mrs. Medlock, "you'll scarcely believe your eyeswhen you see him.  That plain sour-faced child that's almost as bad ashimself has just bewitched him.  How she's done it there's no telling.The Lord knows she's nothing to look at and you scarcely ever hear herspeak, but she did what none of us dare do.  She just flew at him likea little cat last night, and stamped her feet and ordered him to stopscreaming, and somehow she startled him so that he actually did stop,and this afternoon--well just come up and see, sir.  It's pastcrediting."The scene which Dr. Craven beheld when he entered his patient's roomwas indeed rather astonishing to him.  As Mrs. Medlock opened the doorhe heard laughing and chattering.  Colin was on his sofa in hisdressing-gown and he was sitting up quite straight looking at a picturein one of the garden books and talking to the plain child who at thatmoment could scarcely be called plain at all because her face was soglowing with enjoyment."Those long spires of blue ones--we'll have a lot of those," Colin wasannouncing.  "They're called Del-phin-iums.""Dickon says they're larkspurs made big and grand," cried MistressMary.  "There are clumps there already."Then they saw Dr. Craven and stopped.  Mary became quite still andColin looked fretful."I am sorry to hear you were ill last night, my boy," Dr. Craven said atrifle nervously.  He was rather a nervous man."I'm better now--much better," Colin answered, rather like a Rajah."I'm going out in my chair in a day or two if it is fine.  I want somefresh air."Dr. Craven sat down by him and felt his pulse and looked at himcuriously."It must be a very fine day," he said, "and you must be very carefulnot to tire yourself.""Fresh air won't tire me," said the young Rajah.As there had been occasions when this same young gentleman had shriekedaloud with rage and had insisted that fresh air would give him cold andkill him, it is not to be wondered at that his doctor felt somewhatstartled."I thought you did not like fresh air," he said."I don't when I am by myself," replied the Rajah; "but my cousin isgoing out with me.""And the nurse, of course?" suggested Dr. Craven."No, I will not have the nurse," so magnificently that Mary could nothelp remembering how the young native Prince had looked with hisdiamonds and emeralds and pearls stuck all over him and the greatrubies on the small dark hand he had waved to command his servants toapproach with salaams and receive his orders."My cousin knows how to take care of me.  I am always better when sheis with me.  She made me better last night.  A very strong boy I knowwill push my carriage."Dr. Craven felt rather alarmed.  If this tiresome hysterical boy shouldchance to get well he himself would lose all chance of inheritingMisselthwaite; but he was not an unscrupulous man, though he was a weakone, and he did not intend to let him run into actual danger."He must be a strong boy and a steady boy," he said.  "And I must knowsomething about him.  Who is he? What is his name?""It's Dickon," Mary spoke up suddenly.  She felt somehow that everybodywho knew the moor must know Dickon.  And she was right, too.  She sawthat in a moment Dr. Craven's serious face relaxed into a relievedsmile."Oh, Dickon," he said.  "If it is Dickon you will be safe enough.  He'sas strong as a moor pony, is Dickon.""And he's trusty," said Mary.  "He's th' trustiest lad i' Yorkshire."She had been talking Yorkshire to Colin and she forgot herself."Did Dickon teach you that?" asked Dr. Craven, laughing outright."I'm learning it as if it was French," said Mary rather coldly.  "It'slike a native dialect in India.  Very clever people try to learn them.I like it and so does Colin." "Well, well," he said.  "If it amuses youperhaps it won't do you any harm.  Did you take your bromide lastnight, Colin?""No," Colin answered.  "I wouldn't take it at first and after Mary mademe quiet she talked me to sleep--in a low voice--about the springcreeping into a garden.""That sounds soothing," said Dr. Craven, more perplexed than ever andglancing sideways at Mistress Mary sitting on her stool and lookingdown silently at the carpet.  "You are evidently better, but you mustremember--""I don't want to remember," interrupted the Rajah, appearing again."When I lie by myself and remember I begin to have pains everywhere andI think of things that make me begin to scream because I hate them so.If there was a doctor anywhere who could make you forget you were illinstead of remembering it I would have him brought here." And he waveda thin hand which ought really to have been covered with royal signetrings made of rubies.  "It is because my cousin makes me forget thatshe makes me better."Dr. Craven had never made such a short stay after a "tantrum"; usuallyhe was obliged to remain a very long time and do a great many things.This afternoon he did not give any medicine or leave any new orders andhe was spared any disagreeable scenes.  When he went downstairs helooked very thoughtful and when he talked to Mrs. Medlock in thelibrary she felt that he was a much puzzled man."Well, sir," she ventured, "could you have believed it?""It is certainly a new state of affairs," said the doctor.  "Andthere's no denying it is better than the old one.""I believe Susan Sowerby's right--I do that," said Mrs. Medlock.  "Istopped in her cottage on my way to Thwaite yesterday and had a bit oftalk with her.  And she says to me, 'Well, Sarah Ann, she mayn't be agood child, an' she mayn't be a pretty one, but she's a child, an'children needs children.' We went to school together, Susan Sowerby andme.""She's the best sick nurse I know," said Dr. Craven.  "When I find herin a cottage I know the chances are that I shall save my patient."Mrs. Medlock smiled.  She was fond of Susan Sowerby."She's got a way with her, has Susan," she went on quite volubly."I've been thinking all morning of one thing she said yesterday.  Shesays, 'Once when I was givin' th' children a bit of a preach afterthey'd been fightin' I ses to 'em all, "When I was at school myjography told as th' world was shaped like a orange an' I found outbefore I was ten that th' whole orange doesn't belong to nobody.  Noone owns more than his bit of a quarter an' there's times it seems likethere's not enow quarters to go round.  But don't you--none o'you--think as you own th' whole orange or you'll find out you'remistaken, an' you won't find it out without hard knocks."  'Whatchildren learns from children,' she says, 'is that there's no sense ingrabbin' at th' whole orange--peel an' all.  If you do you'll likelynot get even th' pips, an' them's too bitter to eat.'""She's a shrewd woman," said Dr. Craven, putting on his coat."Well, she's got a way of saying things," ended Mrs. Medlock, muchpleased.  "Sometimes I've said to her, 'Eh! Susan, if you was adifferent woman an' didn't talk such broad Yorkshire I've seen thetimes when I should have said you was clever.'"That night Colin slept without once awakening and when he opened hiseyes in the morning he lay still and smiled without knowing it--smiledbecause he felt so curiously comfortable.  It was actually nice to beawake, and he turned over and stretched his limbs luxuriously.  He feltas if tight strings which had held him had loosened themselves and lethim go.  He did not know that Dr. Craven would have said that hisnerves had relaxed and rested themselves.  Instead of lying and staringat the wall and wishing he had not awakened, his mind was full of theplans he and Mary had made yesterday, of pictures of the garden and ofDickon and his wild creatures.  It was so nice to have things to thinkabout.  And he had not been awake more than ten minutes when he heardfeet running along the corridor and Mary was at the door.  The nextminute she was in the room and had run across to his bed, bringing withher a waft of fresh air full of the scent of the morning."You've been out! You've been out! There's that nice smell of leaves!"he cried.She had been running and her hair was loose and blown and she wasbright with the air and pink-cheeked, though he could not see it."It's so beautiful!" she said, a little breathless with her speed."You never saw anything so beautiful!  It has come! I thought it hadcome that other morning, but it was only coming.  It is here now! Ithas come, the Spring! Dickon says so!""Has it?" cried Colin, and though he really knew nothing about it hefelt his heart beat.  He actually sat up in bed."Open the window!" he added, laughing half with joyful excitement andhalf at his own fancy.  "Perhaps we may hear golden trumpets!"And though he laughed, Mary was at the window in a moment and in amoment more it was opened wide and freshness and softness and scentsand birds' songs were pouring through."That's fresh air," she said.  "Lie on your back and draw in longbreaths of it.  That's what Dickon does when he's lying on the moor.He says he feels it in his veins and it makes him strong and he feelsas if he could live forever and ever.  Breathe it and breathe it."She was only repeating what Dickon had told her, but she caught Colin'sfancy."'Forever and ever'! Does it make him feel like that?" he said, and hedid as she told him, drawing in long deep breaths over and over againuntil he felt that something quite new and delightful was happening tohim.Mary was at his bedside again."Things are crowding up out of the earth," she ran on in a hurry.  "Andthere are flowers uncurling and buds on everything and the green veilhas covered nearly all the gray and the birds are in such a hurry abouttheir nests for fear they may be too late that some of them are evenfighting for places in the secret garden.  And the rose-bushes look aswick as wick can be, and there are primroses in the lanes and woods,and the seeds we planted are up, and Dickon has brought the fox and thecrow and the squirrels and a new-born lamb."And then she paused for breath.  The new-born lamb Dickon had foundthree days before lying by its dead mother among the gorse bushes onthe moor.  It was not the first motherless lamb he had found and heknew what to do with it.  He had taken it to the cottage wrapped in hisjacket and he had let it lie near the fire and had fed it with warmmilk.  It was a soft thing with a darling silly baby face and legsrather long for its body.  Dickon had carried it over the moor in hisarms and its feeding bottle was in his pocket with a squirrel, and whenMary had sat under a tree with its limp warmness huddled on her lap shehad felt as if she were too full of strange joy to speak.  A lamb--alamb! A living lamb who lay on your lap like a baby!She was describing it with great joy and Colin was listening anddrawing in long breaths of air when the nurse entered.  She started alittle at the sight of the open window.  She had sat stifling in theroom many a warm day because her patient was sure that open windowsgave people cold."Are you sure you are not chilly, Master Colin?" she inquired."No," was the answer.  "I am breathing long breaths of fresh air.  Itmakes you strong.  I am going to get up to the sofa for breakfast.  Mycousin will have breakfast with me."The nurse went away, concealing a smile, to give the order for twobreakfasts.  She found the servants' hall a more amusing place than theinvalid's chamber and just now everybody wanted to hear the news fromupstairs.  There was a great deal of joking about the unpopular youngrecluse who, as the cook said, "had found his master, and good forhim." The servants' hall had been very tired of the tantrums, and thebutler, who was a man with a family, had more than once expressed hisopinion that the invalid would be all the better "for a good hiding."When Colin was on his sofa and the breakfast for two was put upon thetable he made an announcement to the nurse in his most Rajah-likemanner."A boy, and a fox, and a crow, and two squirrels, and a new-born lamb,are coming to see me this morning.  I want them brought upstairs assoon as they come," he said.  "You are not to begin playing with theanimals in the servants' hall and keep them there.  I want them here."The nurse gave a slight gasp and tried to conceal it with a cough."Yes, sir," she answered."I'll tell you what you can do," added Colin, waving his hand.  "Youcan tell Martha to bring them here.  The boy is Martha's brother.  Hisname is Dickon and he is an animal charmer.""I hope the animals won't bite, Master Colin," said the nurse."I told you he was a charmer," said Colin austerely.  "Charmers'animals never bite.""There are snake-charmers in India," said Mary.  "And they can puttheir snakes' heads in their mouths.""Goodness!" shuddered the nurse.They ate their breakfast with the morning air pouring in upon them.Colin's breakfast was a very good one and Mary watched him with seriousinterest."You will begin to get fatter just as I did," she said.  "I neverwanted my breakfast when I was in India and now I always want it.""I wanted mine this morning," said Colin.  "Perhaps it was the freshair.  When do you think Dickon will come?"He was not long in coming.  In about ten minutes Mary held up her hand."Listen!" she said.  "Did you hear a caw?"Colin listened and heard it, the oddest sound in the world to hearinside a house, a hoarse "caw-caw.""Yes," he answered."That's Soot," said Mary.  "Listen again.  Do you hear a bleat--a tinyone?""Oh, yes!" cried Colin, quite flushing."That's the new-born lamb," said Mary.  "He's coming."Dickon's moorland boots were thick and clumsy and though he tried towalk quietly they made a clumping sound as he walked through the longcorridors.  Mary and Colin heard him marching--marching, until hepassed through the tapestry door on to the soft carpet of Colin's ownpassage."If you please, sir," announced Martha, opening the door, "if youplease, sir, here's Dickon an' his creatures."Dickon came in smiling his nicest wide smile.  The new-born lamb was inhis arms and the little red fox trotted by his side.  Nut sat on hisleft shoulder and Soot on his right and Shell's head and paws peepedout of his coat pocket.Colin slowly sat up and stared and stared--as he had stared when hefirst saw Mary; but this was a stare of wonder and delight.  The truthwas that in spite of all he had heard he had not in the leastunderstood what this boy would be like and that his fox and his crowand his squirrels and his lamb were so near to him and his friendlinessthat they seemed almost to be part of himself.  Colin had never talkedto a boy in his life and he was so overwhelmed by his own pleasure andcuriosity that he did not even think of speaking.But Dickon did not feel the least shy or awkward.  He had not feltembarrassed because the crow had not known his language and had onlystared and had not spoken to him the first time they met.  Creatureswere always like that until they found out about you.  He walked overto Colin's sofa and put the new-born lamb quietly on his lap, andimmediately the little creature turned to the warm velvet dressing-gownand began to nuzzle and nuzzle into its folds and butt its tight-curledhead with soft impatience against his side.  Of course no boy couldhave helped speaking then."What is it doing?" cried Colin.  "What does it want?""It wants its mother," said Dickon, smiling more and more.  "I broughtit to thee a bit hungry because I knowed tha'd like to see it feed."He knelt down by the sofa and took a feeding-bottle from his pocket."Come on, little 'un," he said, turning the small woolly white headwith a gentle brown hand.  "This is what tha's after.  Tha'll get moreout o' this than tha' will out o' silk velvet coats.  There now," andhe pushed the rubber tip of the bottle into the nuzzling mouth and thelamb began to suck it with ravenous ecstasy.After that there was no wondering what to say.  By the time the lambfell asleep questions poured forth and Dickon answered them all.  Hetold them how he had found the lamb just as the sun was rising threemornings ago.  He had been standing on the moor listening to a skylarkand watching him swing higher and higher into the sky until he was onlya speck in the heights of blue."I'd almost lost him but for his song an' I was wonderin' how a chapcould hear it when it seemed as if he'd get out o' th' world in aminute--an' just then I heard somethin' else far off among th' gorsebushes.  It was a weak bleatin' an' I knowed it was a new lamb as washungry an' I knowed it wouldn't be hungry if it hadn't lost its mothersomehow, so I set off searchin'.  Eh! I did have a look for it.  I wentin an' out among th' gorse bushes an' round an' round an' I alwaysseemed to take th' wrong turnin'. But at last I seed a bit o' white bya rock on top o' th' moor an' I climbed up an' found th' little 'unhalf dead wi' cold an' clemmin'." While he talked, Soot flew solemnlyin and out of the open window and cawed remarks about the scenery whileNut and Shell made excursions into the big trees outside and ran up anddown trunks and explored branches.  Captain curled up near Dickon, whosat on the hearth-rug from preference.They looked at the pictures in the gardening books and Dickon knew allthe flowers by their country names and knew exactly which ones werealready growing in the secret garden."I couldna' say that there name," he said, pointing to one under whichwas written "Aquilegia," "but us calls that a columbine, an' that thereone it's a snapdragon and they both grow wild in hedges, but these isgarden ones an' they're bigger an' grander.  There's some big clumps o'columbine in th' garden.  They'll look like a bed o' blue an' whitebutterflies flutterin' when they're out.""I'm going to see them," cried Colin.  "I am going to see them!""Aye, that tha' mun," said Mary quite seriously.  "An' tha' munnot loseno time about it."CHAPTER XX"I SHALL LIVE FOREVER--AND EVER--AND EVER!"But they were obliged to wait more than a week because first there camesome very windy days and then Colin was threatened with a cold, whichtwo things happening one after the other would no doubt have thrown himinto a rage but that there was so much careful and mysterious planningto do and almost every day Dickon came in, if only for a few minutes,to talk about what was happening on the moor and in the lanes andhedges and on the borders of streams.  The things he had to tell aboutotters' and badgers' and water-rats' houses, not to mention birds'nests and field-mice and their burrows, were enough to make you almosttremble with excitement when you heard all the intimate details from ananimal charmer and realized with what thrilling eagerness and anxietythe whole busy underworld was working."They're same as us," said Dickon, "only they have to build their homesevery year.  An' it keeps 'em so busy they fair scuffle to get 'emdone."The most absorbing thing, however, was the preparations to be madebefore Colin could be transported with sufficient secrecy to thegarden.  No one must see the chair-carriage and Dickon and Mary afterthey turned a certain corner of the shrubbery and entered upon the walkoutside the ivied walls.  As each day passed, Colin had become more andmore fixed in his feeling that the mystery surrounding the garden wasone of its greatest charms.  Nothing must spoil that.  No one must eversuspect that they had a secret.  People must think that he was simplygoing out with Mary and Dickon because he liked them and did not objectto their looking at him.  They had long and quite delightful talksabout their route.  They would go up this path and down that one andcross the other and go round among the fountain flower-beds as if theywere looking at the "bedding-out plants" the head gardener, Mr. Roach,had been having arranged.  That would seem such a rational thing to dothat no one would think it at all mysterious.  They would turn into theshrubbery walks and lose themselves until they came to the long walls.It was almost as serious and elaborately thought out as the plans ofmarch made by great generals in time of war.Rumors of the new and curious things which were occurring in theinvalid's apartments had of course filtered through the servants' hallinto the stable yards and out among the gardeners, but notwithstandingthis, Mr. Roach was startled one day when he received orders fromMaster Colin's room to the effect that he must report himself in theapartment no outsider had ever seen, as the invalid himself desired tospeak to him."Well, well," he said to himself as he hurriedly changed his coat,"what's to do now? His Royal Highness that wasn't to be looked atcalling up a man he's never set eyes on."Mr. Roach was not without curiosity.  He had never caught even aglimpse of the boy and had heard a dozen exaggerated stories about hisuncanny looks and ways and his insane tempers.  The thing he had heardoftenest was that he might die at any moment and there had beennumerous fanciful descriptions of a humped back and helpless limbs,given by people who had never seen him."Things are changing in this house, Mr. Roach," said Mrs. Medlock, asshe led him up the back staircase to the corridor on to which openedthe hitherto mysterious chamber."Let's hope they're changing for the better, Mrs. Medlock," he answered."They couldn't well change for the worse," she continued; "and queer asit all is there's them as finds their duties made a lot easier to standup under.  Don't you be surprised, Mr. Roach, if you find yourself inthe middle of a menagerie and Martha Sowerby's Dickon more at home thanyou or me could ever be."There really was a sort of Magic about Dickon, as Mary always privatelybelieved.  When Mr. Roach heard his name he smiled quite leniently."He'd be at home in Buckingham Palace or at the bottom of a coal mine,"he said.  "And yet it's not impudence, either.  He's just fine, is thatlad."It was perhaps well he had been prepared or he might have beenstartled.  When the bedroom door was opened a large crow, which seemedquite at home perched on the high back of a carven chair, announced theentrance of a visitor by saying "Caw--Caw" quite loudly.  In spite ofMrs. Medlock's warning, Mr. Roach only just escaped being sufficientlyundignified to jump backward.The young Rajah was neither in bed nor on his sofa.  He was sitting inan armchair and a young lamb was standing by him shaking its tail infeeding-lamb fashion as Dickon knelt giving it milk from its bottle.  Asquirrel was perched on Dickon's bent back attentively nibbling a nut.The little girl from India was sitting on a big footstool looking on."Here is Mr. Roach, Master Colin," said Mrs. Medlock.The young Rajah turned and looked his servitor over--at least that waswhat the head gardener felt happened."Oh, you are Roach, are you?" he said.  "I sent for you to give yousome very important orders.""Very good, sir," answered Roach, wondering if he was to receiveinstructions to fell all the oaks in the park or to transform theorchards into water-gardens."I am going out in my chair this afternoon," said Colin.  "If the freshair agrees with me I may go out every day.  When I go, none of thegardeners are to be anywhere near the Long Walk by the garden walls.No one is to be there.  I shall go out about two o'clock and everyonemust keep away until I send word that they may go back to their work.""Very good, sir," replied Mr. Roach, much relieved to hear that theoaks might remain and that the orchards were safe.  "Mary," said Colin,turning to her, "what is that thing you say in India when you havefinished talking and want people to go?""You say, 'You have my permission to go,'" answered Mary.The Rajah waved his hand."You have my permission to go, Roach," he said.  "But, remember, thisis very important.""Caw--Caw!" remarked the crow hoarsely but not impolitely."Very good, sir.  Thank you, sir," said Mr. Roach, and Mrs. Medlocktook him out of the room.Outside in the corridor, being a rather good-natured man, he smileduntil he almost laughed."My word!" he said, "he's got a fine lordly way with him, hasn't he?You'd think he was a whole Royal Family rolled into one--Prince Consortand all."."Eh!" protested Mrs. Medlock, "we've had to let him trample all overevery one of us ever since he had feet and he thinks that's what folkswas born for.""Perhaps he'll grow out of it, if he lives," suggested Mr. Roach."Well, there's one thing pretty sure," said Mrs. Medlock.  "If he doeslive and that Indian child stays here I'll warrant she teaches him thatthe whole orange does not belong to him, as Susan Sowerby says.  Andhe'll be likely to find out the size of his own quarter."Inside the room Colin was leaning back on his cushions."It's all safe now," he said.  "And this afternoon I shall see it--thisafternoon I shall be in it!"Dickon went back to the garden with his creatures and Mary stayed withColin.  She did not think he looked tired but he was very quiet beforetheir lunch came and he was quiet while they were eating it.  Shewondered why and asked him about it."What big eyes you've got, Colin," she said.  "When you are thinkingthey get as big as saucers.  What are you thinking about now?""I can't help thinking about what it will look like," he answered."The garden?" asked Mary."The springtime," he said.  "I was thinking that I've really never seenit before.  I scarcely ever went out and when I did go I never lookedat it.  I didn't even think about it.""I never saw it in India because there wasn't any," said Mary.Shut in and morbid as his life had been, Colin had more imaginationthan she had and at least he had spent a good deal of time looking atwonderful books and pictures."That morning when you ran in and said 'It's come! It's come!', you mademe feel quite queer.  It sounded as if things were coming with a greatprocession and big bursts and wafts of music.  I've a picture like itin one of my books--crowds of lovely people and children with garlandsand branches with blossoms on them, everyone laughing and dancing andcrowding and playing on pipes.  That was why I said, 'Perhaps we shallhear golden trumpets' and told you to throw open the window.""How funny!" said Mary.  "That's really just what it feels like.  Andif all the flowers and leaves and green things and birds and wildcreatures danced past at once, what a crowd it would be! I'm surethey'd dance and sing and flute and that would be the wafts of music."They both laughed but it was not because the idea was laughable butbecause they both so liked it.A little later the nurse made Colin ready.  She noticed that instead oflying like a log while his clothes were put on he sat up and made someefforts to help himself, and he talked and laughed with Mary all thetime."This is one of his good days, sir," she said to Dr. Craven, whodropped in to inspect him.  "He's in such good spirits that it makeshim stronger.""I'll call in again later in the afternoon, after he has come in," saidDr. Craven.  "I must see how the going out agrees with him.  I wish,"in a very low voice, "that he would let you go with him.""I'd rather give up the case this moment, sir, than even stay herewhile it's suggested," answered the nurse.  With sudden firmness."I hadn't really decided to suggest it," said the doctor, with hisslight nervousness.  "We'll try the experiment.  Dickon's a lad I'dtrust with a new-born child."The strongest footman in the house carried Colin down stairs and puthim in his wheeled chair near which Dickon waited outside.  After themanservant had arranged his rugs and cushions the Rajah waved his handto him and to the nurse."You have my permission to go," he said, and they both disappearedquickly and it must be confessed giggled when they were safely insidethe house.Dickon began to push the wheeled chair slowly and steadily.  MistressMary walked beside it and Colin leaned back and lifted his face to thesky.  The arch of it looked very high and the small snowy clouds seemedlike white birds floating on outspread wings below its crystalblueness.  The wind swept in soft big breaths down from the moor andwas strange with a wild clear scented sweetness.  Colin kept liftinghis thin chest to draw it in, and his big eyes looked as if it werethey which were listening--listening, instead of his ears."There are so many sounds of singing and humming and calling out," hesaid.  "What is that scent the puffs of wind bring?""It's gorse on th' moor that's openin' out," answered Dickon.  "Eh! th'bees are at it wonderful today."Not a human creature was to be caught sight of in the paths they took.In fact every gardener or gardener's lad had been witched away.  Butthey wound in and out among the shrubbery and out and round thefountain beds, following their carefully planned route for the meremysterious pleasure of it.  But when at last they turned into the LongWalk by the ivied walls the excited sense of an approaching thrill madethem, for some curious reason they could not have explained, begin tospeak in whispers."This is it," breathed Mary.  "This is where I used to walk up and downand wonder and wonder." "Is it?" cried Colin, and his eyes began tosearch the ivy with eager curiousness.  "But I can see nothing," hewhispered.  "There is no door.""That's what I thought," said Mary.Then there was a lovely breathless silence and the chair wheeled on."That is the garden where Ben Weatherstaff works," said Mary."Is it?" said Colin.A few yards more and Mary whispered again."This is where the robin flew over the wall," she said."Is it?" cried Colin.  "Oh! I wish he'd come again!""And that," said Mary with solemn delight, pointing under a big lilacbush, "is where he perched on the little heap of earth and showed methe key."Then Colin sat up."Where? Where? There?" he cried, and his eyes were as big as the wolf'sin Red Riding-Hood, when Red Riding-Hood felt called upon to remark onthem.  Dickon stood still and the wheeled chair stopped."And this," said Mary, stepping on to the bed close to the ivy, "iswhere I went to talk to him when he chirped at me from the top of thewall.  And this is the ivy the wind blew back," and she took hold ofthe hanging green curtain."Oh! is it--is it!" gasped Colin."And here is the handle, and here is the door.  Dickon push himin--push him in quickly!"And Dickon did it with one strong, steady, splendid push.But Colin had actually dropped back against his cushions, even thoughhe gasped with delight, and he had covered his eyes with his hands andheld them there shutting out everything until they were inside and thechair stopped as if by magic and the door was closed.  Not till thendid he take them away and look round and round and round as Dickon andMary had done.  And over walls and earth and trees and swinging spraysand tendrils the fair green veil of tender little leaves had crept, andin the grass under the trees and the gray urns in the alcoves and hereand there everywhere were touches or splashes of gold and purple andwhite and the trees were showing pink and snow above his head and therewere fluttering of wings and faint sweet pipes and humming and scentsand scents.  And the sun fell warm upon his face like a hand with alovely touch.  And in wonder Mary and Dickon stood and stared at him.He looked so strange and different because a pink glow of color hadactually crept all over him--ivory face and neck and hands and all."I shall get well! I shall get well!" he cried out.  "Mary! Dickon! Ishall get well! And I shall live forever and ever and ever!"CHAPTER XXIBEN WEATHERSTAFFOne of the strange things about living in the world is that it is onlynow and then one is quite sure one is going to live forever and everand ever.  One knows it sometimes when one gets up at the tender solemndawn-time and goes out and stands alone and throws one's head far backand looks up and up and watches the pale sky slowly changing andflushing and marvelous unknown things happening until the East almostmakes one cry out and one's heart stands still at the strangeunchanging majesty of the rising of the sun--which has been happeningevery morning for thousands and thousands and thousands of years.  Oneknows it then for a moment or so.  And one knows it sometimes when onestands by oneself in a wood at sunset and the mysterious deep goldstillness slanting through and under the branches seems to be sayingslowly again and again something one cannot quite hear, however muchone tries.  Then sometimes the immense quiet of the dark blue at nightwith millions of stars waiting and watching makes one sure; andsometimes a sound of far-off music makes it true; and sometimes a lookin some one's eyes.And it was like that with Colin when he first saw and heard and feltthe Springtime inside the four high walls of a hidden garden.  Thatafternoon the whole world seemed to devote itself to being perfect andradiantly beautiful and kind to one boy.  Perhaps out of pure heavenlygoodness the spring came and crowned everything it possibly could intothat one place.  More than once Dickon paused in what he was doing andstood still with a sort of growing wonder in his eyes, shaking his headsoftly."Eh! it is graidely," he said.  "I'm twelve goin' on thirteen an'there's a lot o' afternoons in thirteen years, but seems to me like Inever seed one as graidely as this 'ere.""Aye, it is a graidely one," said Mary, and she sighed for mere joy."I'll warrant it's the graidelest one as ever was in this world.""Does tha' think," said Colin with dreamy carefulness, "as happen itwas made loike this 'ere all o' purpose for me?""My word!" cried Mary admiringly, "that there is a bit o' goodYorkshire.  Tha'rt shapin' first-rate--that tha' art."And delight reigned.  They drew the chair under the plum-tree, whichwas snow-white with blossoms and musical with bees.  It was like aking's canopy, a fairy king's. There were flowering cherry-trees nearand apple-trees whose buds were pink and white, and here and there onehad burst open wide.  Between the blossoming branches of the canopybits of blue sky looked down like wonderful eyes.Mary and Dickon worked a little here and there and Colin watched them.They brought him things to look at--buds which were opening, buds whichwere tight closed, bits of twig whose leaves were just showing green,the feather of a woodpecker which had dropped on the grass, the emptyshell of some bird early hatched.  Dickon pushed the chair slowly roundand round the garden, stopping every other moment to let him look atwonders springing out of the earth or trailing down from trees.  It waslike being taken in state round the country of a magic king and queenand shown all the mysterious riches it contained."I wonder if we shall see the robin?" said Colin."Tha'll see him often enow after a bit," answered Dickon.  "When th'eggs hatches out th' little chap he'll be kep' so busy it'll make hishead swim.  Tha'll see him flyin' backward an' for'ard carryin' wormsnigh as big as himsel' an' that much noise goin' on in th' nest when hegets there as fair flusters him so as he scarce knows which big mouthto drop th' first piece in.  An' gapin' beaks an' squawks on everyside.  Mother says as when she sees th' work a robin has to keep themgapin' beaks filled, she feels like she was a lady with nothin' to do.She says she's seen th' little chaps when it seemed like th' sweat mustbe droppin' off 'em, though folk can't see it."This made them giggle so delightedly that they were obliged to covertheir mouths with their hands, remembering that they must not be heard.Colin had been instructed as to the law of whispers and low voicesseveral days before.  He liked the mysteriousness of it and did hisbest, but in the midst of excited enjoyment it is rather difficultnever to laugh above a whisper.Every moment of the afternoon was full of new things and every hour thesunshine grew more golden.  The wheeled chair had been drawn back underthe canopy and Dickon had sat down on the grass and had just drawn outhis pipe when Colin saw something he had not had time to notice before."That's a very old tree over there, isn't it?" he said.  Dickon lookedacross the grass at the tree and Mary looked and there was a briefmoment of stillness."Yes," answered Dickon, after it, and his low voice had a very gentlesound.Mary gazed at the tree and thought."The branches are quite gray and there's not a single leaf anywhere,"Colin went on.  "It's quite dead, isn't it?""Aye," admitted Dickon.  "But them roses as has climbed all over itwill near hide every bit o' th' dead wood when they're full o' leavesan' flowers.  It won't look dead then.  It'll be th' prettiest of all."Mary still gazed at the tree and thought."It looks as if a big branch had been broken off," said Colin.  "Iwonder how it was done.""It's been done many a year," answered Dickon.  "Eh!" with a suddenrelieved start and laying his hand on Colin.  "Look at that robin!There he is! He's been foragin' for his mate."Colin was almost too late but he just caught sight of him, the flash ofred-breasted bird with something in his beak.  He darted through thegreenness and into the close-grown corner and was out of sight.  Colinleaned back on his cushion again, laughing a little.  "He's taking hertea to her.  Perhaps it's five o'clock. I think I'd like some teamyself."And so they were safe."It was Magic which sent the robin," said Mary secretly to Dickonafterward.  "I know it was Magic." For both she and Dickon had beenafraid Colin might ask something about the tree whose branch had brokenoff ten years ago and they had talked it over together and Dickon hadstood and rubbed his head in a troubled way."We mun look as if it wasn't no different from th' other trees," he hadsaid.  "We couldn't never tell him how it broke, poor lad.  If he saysanything about it we mun--we mun try to look cheerful.""Aye, that we mun," had answered Mary.But she had not felt as if she looked cheerful when she gazed at thetree.  She wondered and wondered in those few moments if there was anyreality in that other thing Dickon had said.  He had gone on rubbinghis rust-red hair in a puzzled way, but a nice comforted look had begunto grow in his blue eyes."Mrs. Craven was a very lovely young lady," he had gone on ratherhesitatingly.  "An' mother she thinks maybe she's about Misselthwaitemany a time lookin' after Mester Colin, same as all mothers do whenthey're took out o' th' world.  They have to come back, tha' sees.Happen she's been in the garden an' happen it was her set us to work,an' told us to bring him here."Mary had thought he meant something about Magic.  She was a greatbeliever in Magic.  Secretly she quite believed that Dickon workedMagic, of course good Magic, on everything near him and that was whypeople liked him so much and wild creatures knew he was their friend.She wondered, indeed, if it were not possible that his gift had broughtthe robin just at the right moment when Colin asked that dangerousquestion.  She felt that his Magic was working all the afternoon andmaking Colin look like an entirely different boy.  It did not seempossible that he could be the crazy creature who had screamed andbeaten and bitten his pillow.  Even his ivory whiteness seemed tochange.  The faint glow of color which had shown on his face and neckand hands when he first got inside the garden really never quite diedaway.  He looked as if he were made of flesh instead of ivory or wax.They saw the robin carry food to his mate two or three times, and itwas so suggestive of afternoon tea that Colin felt they must have some."Go and make one of the men servants bring some in a basket to therhododendron walk," he said.  "And then you and Dickon can bring ithere."It was an agreeable idea, easily carried out, and when the white clothwas spread upon the grass, with hot tea and buttered toast andcrumpets, a delightfully hungry meal was eaten, and several birds ondomestic errands paused to inquire what was going on and were led intoinvestigating crumbs with great activity.  Nut and Shell whisked uptrees with pieces of cake and Soot took the entire half of a butteredcrumpet into a corner and pecked at and examined and turned it over andmade hoarse remarks about it until he decided to swallow it alljoyfully in one gulp.The afternoon was dragging towards its mellow hour.  The sun wasdeepening the gold of its lances, the bees were going home and thebirds were flying past less often.  Dickon and Mary were sitting on thegrass, the tea-basket was repacked ready to be taken back to the house,and Colin was lying against his cushions with his heavy locks pushedback from his forehead and his face looking quite a natural color."I don't want this afternoon to go," he said; "but I shall come backtomorrow, and the day after, and the day after, and the day after.""You'll get plenty of fresh air, won't you?" said Mary.  "I'm going toget nothing else," he answered.  "I've seen the spring now and I'mgoing to see the summer.  I'm going to see everything grow here.  I'mgoing to grow here myself.""That tha' will," said Dickon.  "Us'll have thee walkin' about here an'diggin' same as other folk afore long."Colin flushed tremendously."Walk!" he said.  "Dig! Shall I?"Dickon's glance at him was delicately cautious.  Neither he nor Maryhad ever asked if anything was the matter with his legs."For sure tha' will," he said stoutly.  "Tha--tha's got legs o' thineown, same as other folks!"Mary was rather frightened until she heard Colin's answer."Nothing really ails them," he said, "but they are so thin and weak.They shake so that I'm afraid to try to stand on them."Both Mary and Dickon drew a relieved breath."When tha' stops bein' afraid tha'lt stand on 'em," Dickon said withrenewed cheer.  "An' tha'lt stop bein' afraid in a bit.""I shall?" said Colin, and he lay still as if he were wondering aboutthings.They were really very quiet for a little while.  The sun was droppinglower.  It was that hour when everything stills itself, and they reallyhad had a busy and exciting afternoon.  Colin looked as if he wereresting luxuriously.  Even the creatures had ceased moving about andhad drawn together and were resting near them.  Soot had perched on alow branch and drawn up one leg and dropped the gray film drowsily overhis eyes.  Mary privately thought he looked as if he might snore in aminute.In the midst of this stillness it was rather startling when Colin halflifted his head and exclaimed in a loud suddenly alarmed whisper:"Who is that man?" Dickon and Mary scrambled to their feet."Man!" they both cried in low quick voices.Colin pointed to the high wall.  "Look!" he whispered excitedly.  "Justlook!"Mary and Dickon wheeled about and looked.  There was Ben Weatherstaff'sindignant face glaring at them over the wall from the top of a ladder!He actually shook his fist at Mary."If I wasn't a bachelder, an' tha' was a wench o' mine," he cried, "I'dgive thee a hidin'!"He mounted another step threateningly as if it were his energeticintention to jump down and deal with her; but as she came toward him heevidently thought better of it and stood on the top step of his laddershaking his fist down at her."I never thowt much o' thee!" he harangued.  "I couldna' abide thee th'first time I set eyes on thee.  A scrawny buttermilk-faced young besom,allus askin' questions an' pokin' tha' nose where it wasna, wanted.  Inever knowed how tha' got so thick wi' me.  If it hadna' been for th'robin--  Drat him--""Ben Weatherstaff," called out Mary, finding her breath.  She stoodbelow him and called up to him with a sort of gasp.  "Ben Weatherstaff,it was the robin who showed me the way!"Then it did seem as if Ben really would scramble down on her side ofthe wall, he was so outraged."Tha' young bad 'un!" he called down at her.  "Layin' tha' badness on arobin--not but what he's impidint enow for anythin'. Him showin' theeth' way! Him! Eh! tha' young nowt"--she could see his next words burstout because he was overpowered by curiosity--"however i' this world didtha' get in?""It was the robin who showed me the way," she protested obstinately."He didn't know he was doing it but he did.  And I can't tell you fromhere while you're shaking your fist at me."He stopped shaking his fist very suddenly at that very moment and hisjaw actually dropped as he stared over her head at something he sawcoming over the grass toward him.At the first sound of his torrent of words Colin had been so surprisedthat he had only sat up and listened as if he were spellbound.  But inthe midst of it he had recovered himself and beckoned imperiously toDickon."Wheel me over there!" he commanded.  "Wheel me quite close and stopright in front of him!"And this, if you please, this is what Ben Weatherstaff beheld and whichmade his jaw drop.  A wheeled chair with luxurious cushions and robeswhich came toward him looking rather like some sort of State Coachbecause a young Rajah leaned back in it with royal command in his greatblack-rimmed eyes and a thin white hand extended haughtily toward him.And it stopped right under Ben Weatherstaff's nose.  It was really nowonder his mouth dropped open."Do you know who I am?" demanded the Rajah.How Ben Weatherstaff stared! His red old eyes fixed themselves on whatwas before him as if he were seeing a ghost.  He gazed and gazed andgulped a lump down his throat and did not say a word.  "Do you know whoI am?" demanded Colin still more imperiously.  "Answer!"Ben Weatherstaff put his gnarled hand up and passed it over his eyesand over his forehead and then he did answer in a queer shaky voice."Who tha' art?" he said.  "Aye, that I do--wi' tha' mother's eyesstarin' at me out o' tha' face.  Lord knows how tha' come here.  Buttha'rt th' poor cripple."Colin forgot that he had ever had a back.  His face flushed scarlet andhe sat bolt upright."I'm not a cripple!" he cried out furiously.  "I'm not!""He's not!" cried Mary, almost shouting up the wall in her fierceindignation.  "He's not got a lump as big as a pin! I looked and therewas none there--not one!"Ben Weatherstaff passed his hand over his forehead again and gazed asif he could never gaze enough.  His hand shook and his mouth shook andhis voice shook.  He was an ignorant old man and a tactless old man andhe could only remember the things he had heard."Tha'--tha' hasn't got a crooked back?" he said hoarsely."No!" shouted Colin."Tha'--tha' hasn't got crooked legs?" quavered Ben more hoarsely yet.It was too much.  The strength which Colin usually threw into histantrums rushed through him now in a new way.  Never yet had he beenaccused of crooked legs--even in whispers--and the perfectly simplebelief in their existence which was revealed by Ben Weatherstaff'svoice was more than Rajah flesh and blood could endure.  His anger andinsulted pride made him forget everything but this one moment andfilled him with a power he had never known before, an almost unnaturalstrength."Come here!" he shouted to Dickon, and he actually began to tear thecoverings off his lower limbs and disentangle himself.  "Come here!Come here! This minute!"Dickon was by his side in a second.  Mary caught her breath in a shortgasp and felt herself turn pale."He can do it! He can do it! He can do it! He can!" she gabbled over toherself under her breath as fast as ever she could.There was a brief fierce scramble, the rugs were tossed on the ground,Dickon held Colin's arm, the thin legs were out, the thin feet were onthe grass.  Colin was standing upright--upright--as straight as anarrow and looking strangely tall--his head thrown back and his strangeeyes flashing lightning.  "Look at me!" he flung up at BenWeatherstaff.  "Just look at me--you!  Just look at me!""He's as straight as I am!" cried Dickon.  "He's as straight as any ladi' Yorkshire!"What Ben Weatherstaff did Mary thought queer beyond measure.  He chokedand gulped and suddenly tears ran down his weather-wrinkled cheeks ashe struck his old hands together."Eh!" he burst forth, "th' lies folk tells! Tha'rt as thin as a lathan' as white as a wraith, but there's not a knob on thee.  Tha'lt makea mon yet.  God bless thee!"Dickon held Colin's arm strongly but the boy had not begun to falter.He stood straighter and straighter and looked Ben Weatherstaff in theface."I'm your master," he said, "when my father is away.  And you are toobey me.  This is my garden.  Don't dare to say a word about it! Youget down from that ladder and go out to the Long Walk and Miss Marywill meet you and bring you here.  I want to talk to you.  We did notwant you, but now you will have to be in the secret.  Be quick!"Ben Weatherstaff's crabbed old face was still wet with that one queerrush of tears.  It seemed as if he could not take his eyes from thinstraight Colin standing on his feet with his head thrown back."Eh! lad," he almost whispered.  "Eh! my lad!" And then rememberinghimself he suddenly touched his hat gardener fashion and said, "Yes,sir! Yes, sir!" and obediently disappeared as he descended the ladder.CHAPTER XXIIWHEN THE SUN WENT DOWNWhen his head was out of sight Colin turned to Mary."Go and meet him," he said; and Mary flew across the grass to the doorunder the ivy.Dickon was watching him with sharp eyes.  There were scarlet spots onhis cheeks and he looked amazing, but he showed no signs of falling."I can stand," he said, and his head was still held up and he said itquite grandly."I told thee tha' could as soon as tha' stopped bein' afraid," answeredDickon.  "An' tha's stopped.""Yes, I've stopped," said Colin.Then suddenly he remembered something Mary had said."Are you making Magic?" he asked sharply.Dickon's curly mouth spread in a cheerful grin."Tha's doin' Magic thysel'," he said.  "It's same Magic as made these'ere work out o' th' earth," and he touched with his thick boot a clumpof crocuses in the grass.  Colin looked down at them."Aye," he said slowly, "there couldna' be bigger Magic than thatthere--there couldna' be."He drew himself up straighter than ever."I'm going to walk to that tree," he said, pointing to one a few feetaway from him.  "I'm going to be standing when Weatherstaff comes here.I can rest against the tree if I like.  When I want to sit down I willsit down, but not before.  Bring a rug from the chair."He walked to the tree and though Dickon held his arm he was wonderfullysteady.  When he stood against the tree trunk it was not too plain thathe supported himself against it, and he still held himself so straightthat he looked tall.When Ben Weatherstaff came through the door in the wall he saw himstanding there and he heard Mary muttering something under her breath."What art sayin'?" he asked rather testily because he did not want hisattention distracted from the long thin straight boy figure and proudface.But she did not tell him.  What she was saying was this:"You can do it! You can do it! I told you you could!  You can do it!You can do it! You can!" She was saying it to Colin because she wantedto make Magic and keep him on his feet looking like that.  She couldnot bear that he should give in before Ben Weatherstaff.  He did notgive in.  She was uplifted by a sudden feeling that he looked quitebeautiful in spite of his thinness.  He fixed his eyes on BenWeatherstaff in his funny imperious way."Look at me!" he commanded.  "Look at me all over! Am I a hunchback?Have I got crooked legs?"Ben Weatherstaff had not quite got over his emotion, but he hadrecovered a little and answered almost in his usual way."Not tha'," he said.  "Nowt o' th' sort.  What's tha' been doin' withthysel'--hidin' out o' sight an' lettin' folk think tha' was cripplean' half-witted?""Half-witted!" said Colin angrily.  "Who thought that?""Lots o' fools," said Ben.  "Th' world's full o' jackasses brayin' an'they never bray nowt but lies.  What did tha' shut thysel' up for?""Everyone thought I was going to die," said Colin shortly.  "I'm not!"And he said it with such decision Ben Weatherstaff looked him over, upand down, down and up."Tha' die!" he said with dry exultation.  "Nowt o' th' sort! Tha's gottoo much pluck in thee.  When I seed thee put tha' legs on th' groundin such a hurry I knowed tha' was all right.  Sit thee down on th' ruga bit young Mester an' give me thy orders."There was a queer mixture of crabbed tenderness and shrewdunderstanding in his manner.  Mary had poured out speech as rapidly asshe could as they had come down the Long Walk.  The chief thing to beremembered, she had told him, was that Colin was getting well--gettingwell.  The garden was doing it.  No one must let him remember abouthaving humps and dying.The Rajah condescended to seat himself on a rug under the tree."What work do you do in the gardens, Weatherstaff?" he inquired."Anythin' I'm told to do," answered old Ben.  "I'm kep' on byfavor--because she liked me.""She?" said Colin."Tha' mother," answered Ben Weatherstaff."My mother?" said Colin, and he looked about him quietly.  "This washer garden, wasn't it?""Aye, it was that!" and Ben Weatherstaff looked about him too.  "Shewere main fond of it.""It is my garden now.  I am fond of it.  I shall come here every day,"announced Colin.  "But it is to be a secret.  My orders are that no oneis to know that we come here.  Dickon and my cousin have worked andmade it come alive.  I shall send for you sometimes to help--but youmust come when no one can see you."Ben Weatherstaff's face twisted itself in a dry old smile."I've come here before when no one saw me," he said."What!" exclaimed Colin."When?""Th' last time I was here," rubbing his chin and looking round, "wasabout two year' ago.""But no one has been in it for ten years!" cried Colin."There was no door!""I'm no one," said old Ben dryly.  "An' I didn't come through th' door.I come over th' wall.  Th' rheumatics held me back th' last two year'.""Tha' come an' did a bit o' prunin'!" cried Dickon.  "I couldn't makeout how it had been done.""She was so fond of it--she was!" said Ben Weatherstaff slowly.  "An'she was such a pretty young thing.  She says to me once, 'Ben,' saysshe laughin', 'if ever I'm ill or if I go away you must take care of myroses.' When she did go away th' orders was no one was ever to comenigh.  But I come," with grumpy obstinacy.  "Over th' wall Icome--until th' rheumatics stopped me--an' I did a bit o' work once ayear.  She'd gave her order first.""It wouldn't have been as wick as it is if tha' hadn't done it," saidDickon.  "I did wonder.""I'm glad you did it, Weatherstaff," said Colin.  "You'll know how tokeep the secret.""Aye, I'll know, sir," answered Ben.  "An' it'll be easier for a manwi' rheumatics to come in at th' door."On the grass near the tree Mary had dropped her trowel.  Colinstretched out his hand and took it up.  An odd expression came into hisface and he began to scratch at the earth.  His thin hand was weakenough but presently as they watched him--Mary with quite breathlessinterest--he drove the end of the trowel into the soil and turned someover."You can do it! You can do it!" said Mary to herself.  "I tell you, youcan!"Dickon's round eyes were full of eager curiousness but he said not aword.  Ben Weatherstaff looked on with interested face.Colin persevered.  After he had turned a few trowelfuls of soil hespoke exultantly to Dickon in his best Yorkshire."Tha' said as tha'd have me walkin' about here same as other folk--an'tha' said tha'd have me diggin'. I thowt tha' was just leein' to pleaseme.  This is only th' first day an' I've walked--an' here I am diggin'."Ben Weatherstaff's mouth fell open again when he heard him, but heended by chuckling."Eh!" he said, "that sounds as if tha'd got wits enow.  Tha'rt aYorkshire lad for sure.  An' tha'rt diggin', too.  How'd tha' like toplant a bit o' somethin'? I can get thee a rose in a pot.""Go and get it!" said Colin, digging excitedly.  "Quick! Quick!"It was done quickly enough indeed.  Ben Weatherstaff went his wayforgetting rheumatics.  Dickon took his spade and dug the hole deeperand wider than a new digger with thin white hands could make it.  Maryslipped out to run and bring back a watering-can. When Dickon haddeepened the hole Colin went on turning the soft earth over and over.He looked up at the sky, flushed and glowing with the strangely newexercise, slight as it was."I want to do it before the sun goes quite--quite down," he said.Mary thought that perhaps the sun held back a few minutes just onpurpose.  Ben Weatherstaff brought the rose in its pot from thegreenhouse.  He hobbled over the grass as fast as he could.  He hadbegun to be excited, too.  He knelt down by the hole and broke the potfrom the mould."Here, lad," he said, handing the plant to Colin.  "Set it in the earththysel' same as th' king does when he goes to a new place."The thin white hands shook a little and Colin's flush grew deeper as heset the rose in the mould and held it while old Ben made firm theearth.  It was filled in and pressed down and made steady.  Mary wasleaning forward on her hands and knees.  Soot had flown down andmarched forward to see what was being done.  Nut and Shell chatteredabout it from a cherry-tree."It's planted!" said Colin at last.  "And the sun is only slipping overthe edge.  Help me up, Dickon.  I want to be standing when it goes.That's part of the Magic."And Dickon helped him, and the Magic--or whatever it was--so gave himstrength that when the sun did slip over the edge and end the strangelovely afternoon for them there he actually stood on his twofeet--laughing.CHAPTER XXIIIMAGICDr. Craven had been waiting some time at the house when they returnedto it.  He had indeed begun to wonder if it might not be wise to sendsome one out to explore the garden paths.  When Colin was brought backto his room the poor man looked him over seriously."You should not have stayed so long," he said.  "You must not overexertyourself.""I am not tired at all," said Colin.  "It has made me well.  Tomorrow Iam going out in the morning as well as in the afternoon.""I am not sure that I can allow it," answered Dr. Craven.  "I am afraidit would not be wise.""It would not be wise to try to stop me," said Colin quite seriously."I am going."Even Mary had found out that one of Colin's chief peculiarities wasthat he did not know in the least what a rude little brute he was withhis way of ordering people about.  He had lived on a sort of desertisland all his life and as he had been the king of it he had made hisown manners and had had no one to compare himself with.  Mary hadindeed been rather like him herself and since she had been atMisselthwaite had gradually discovered that her own manners had notbeen of the kind which is usual or popular.  Having made this discoveryshe naturally thought it of enough interest to communicate to Colin.So she sat and looked at him curiously for a few minutes after Dr.Craven had gone.  She wanted to make him ask her why she was doing itand of course she did."What are you looking at me for?" he said."I'm thinking that I am rather sorry for Dr. Craven.""So am I," said Colin calmly, but not without an air of somesatisfaction.  "He won't get Misselthwaite at all now I'm not going todie.""I'm sorry for him because of that, of course," said Mary, "but I wasthinking just then that it must have been very horrid to have had to bepolite for ten years to a boy who was always rude.  I would never havedone it.""Am I rude?" Colin inquired undisturbedly."If you had been his own boy and he had been a slapping sort of man,"said Mary, "he would have slapped you.""But he daren't," said Colin."No, he daren't," answered Mistress Mary, thinking the thing out quitewithout prejudice.  "Nobody ever dared to do anything you didn'tlike--because you were going to die and things like that.  You weresuch a poor thing.""But," announced Colin stubbornly, "I am not going to be a poor thing.I won't let people think I'm one.  I stood on my feet this afternoon.""It is always having your own way that has made you so queer," Marywent on, thinking aloud.Colin turned his head, frowning."Am I queer?" he demanded."Yes," answered Mary, "very. But you needn't be cross," she addedimpartially, "because so am I queer--and so is Ben Weatherstaff.  But Iam not as queer as I was before I began to like people and before Ifound the garden.""I don't want to be queer," said Colin.  "I am not going to be," and hefrowned again with determination.He was a very proud boy.  He lay thinking for a while and then Mary sawhis beautiful smile begin and gradually change his whole face."I shall stop being queer," he said, "if I go every day to the garden.There is Magic in there--good Magic, you know, Mary.  I am sure thereis." "So am I," said Mary."Even if it isn't real Magic," Colin said, "we can pretend it is.Something is there--something!""It's Magic," said Mary, "but not black.  It's as white as snow."They always called it Magic and indeed it seemed like it in the monthsthat followed--the wonderful months--the radiant months--the amazingones.  Oh! the things which happened in that garden! If you have neverhad a garden you cannot understand, and if you have had a garden youwill know that it would take a whole book to describe all that came topass there.  At first it seemed that green things would never ceasepushing their way through the earth, in the grass, in the beds, even inthe crevices of the walls.  Then the green things began to show budsand the buds began to unfurl and show color, every shade of blue, everyshade of purple, every tint and hue of crimson.  In its happy daysflowers had been tucked away into every inch and hole and corner.  BenWeatherstaff had seen it done and had himself scraped out mortar frombetween the bricks of the wall and made pockets of earth for lovelyclinging things to grow on.  Iris and white lilies rose out of thegrass in sheaves, and the green alcoves filled themselves with amazingarmies of the blue and white flower lances of tall delphiniums orcolumbines or campanulas."She was main fond o' them--she was," Ben Weatherstaff said.  "Sheliked them things as was allus pointin' up to th' blue sky, she used totell.  Not as she was one o' them as looked down on th' earth--not her.She just loved it but she said as th' blue sky allus looked so joyful."The seeds Dickon and Mary had planted grew as if fairies had tendedthem.  Satiny poppies of all tints danced in the breeze by the score,gaily defying flowers which had lived in the garden for years and whichit might be confessed seemed rather to wonder how such new people hadgot there.  And the roses--the roses! Rising out of the grass, tangledround the sun-dial, wreathing the tree trunks and hanging from theirbranches, climbing up the walls and spreading over them with longgarlands falling in cascades--they came alive day by day, hour by hour.Fair fresh leaves, and buds--and buds--tiny at first but swelling andworking Magic until they burst and uncurled into cups of scentdelicately spilling themselves over their brims and filling the gardenair.Colin saw it all, watching each change as it took place.  Every morninghe was brought out and every hour of each day when it didn't rain hespent in the garden.  Even gray days pleased him.  He would lie on thegrass "watching things growing," he said.  If you watched long enough,he declared, you could see buds unsheath themselves.  Also you couldmake the acquaintance of strange busy insect things running about onvarious unknown but evidently serious errands, sometimes carrying tinyscraps of straw or feather or food, or climbing blades of grass as ifthey were trees from whose tops one could look out to explore thecountry.  A mole throwing up its mound at the end of its burrow andmaking its way out at last with the long-nailed paws which looked solike elfish hands, had absorbed him one whole morning.  Ants' ways,beetles' ways, bees' ways, frogs' ways, birds' ways, plants' ways, gavehim a new world to explore and when Dickon revealed them all and addedfoxes' ways, otters' ways, ferrets' ways, squirrels' ways, and trout'and water-rats' and badgers' ways, there was no end to the things totalk about and think over.And this was not the half of the Magic.  The fact that he had reallyonce stood on his feet had set Colin thinking tremendously and whenMary told him of the spell she had worked he was excited and approvedof it greatly.  He talked of it constantly."Of course there must be lots of Magic in the world," he said wiselyone day, "but people don't know what it is like or how to make it.Perhaps the beginning is just to say nice things are going to happenuntil you make them happen.  I am going to try and experiment."The next morning when they went to the secret garden he sent at oncefor Ben Weatherstaff.  Ben came as quickly as he could and found theRajah standing on his feet under a tree and looking very grand but alsovery beautifully smiling."Good morning, Ben Weatherstaff," he said.  "I want you and Dickon andMiss Mary to stand in a row and listen to me because I am going to tellyou something very important.""Aye, aye, sir!" answered Ben Weatherstaff, touching his forehead.(One of the long concealed charms of Ben Weatherstaff was that in hisboyhood he had once run away to sea and had made voyages.  So he couldreply like a sailor.)"I am going to try a scientific experiment," explained the Rajah."When I grow up I am going to make great scientific discoveries and Iam going to begin now with this experiment.""Aye, aye, sir!" said Ben Weatherstaff promptly, though this was thefirst time he had heard of great scientific discoveries.It was the first time Mary had heard of them, either, but even at thisstage she had begun to realize that, queer as he was, Colin had readabout a great many singular things and was somehow a very convincingsort of boy.  When he held up his head and fixed his strange eyes onyou it seemed as if you believed him almost in spite of yourself thoughhe was only ten years old--going on eleven.  At this moment he wasespecially convincing because he suddenly felt the fascination ofactually making a sort of speech like a grown-up person."The great scientific discoveries I am going to make," he went on,"will be about Magic.  Magic is a great thing and scarcely any oneknows anything about it except a few people in old books--and Mary alittle, because she was born in India where there are fakirs.  Ibelieve Dickon knows some Magic, but perhaps he doesn't know he knowsit.  He charms animals and people.  I would never have let him come tosee me if he had not been an animal charmer--which is a boy charmer,too, because a boy is an animal.  I am sure there is Magic ineverything, only we have not sense enough to get hold of it and make itdo things for us--like electricity and horses and steam."This sounded so imposing that Ben Weatherstaff became quite excited andreally could not keep still.  "Aye, aye, sir," he said and he began tostand up quite straight."When Mary found this garden it looked quite dead," the oratorproceeded.  "Then something began pushing things up out of the soil andmaking things out of nothing.  One day things weren't there and anotherthey were.  I had never watched things before and it made me feel verycurious.  Scientific people are always curious and I am going to bescientific.  I keep saying to myself, 'What is it? What is it?' It'ssomething.  It can't be nothing! I don't know its name so I call itMagic.  I have never seen the sun rise but Mary and Dickon have andfrom what they tell me I am sure that is Magic too.  Something pushesit up and draws it.  Sometimes since I've been in the garden I'velooked up through the trees at the sky and I have had a strange feelingof being happy as if something were pushing and drawing in my chest andmaking me breathe fast.  Magic is always pushing and drawing and makingthings out of nothing.  Everything is made out of Magic, leaves andtrees, flowers and birds, badgers and foxes and squirrels and people.So it must be all around us.  In this garden--in all the places.  TheMagic in this garden has made me stand up and know I am going to liveto be a man.  I am going to make the scientific experiment of trying toget some and put it in myself and make it push and draw me and make mestrong.  I don't know how to do it but I think that if you keepthinking about it and calling it perhaps it will come.  Perhaps that isthe first baby way to get it.  When I was going to try to stand thatfirst time Mary kept saying to herself as fast as she could, 'You cando it! You can do it!' and I did.  I had to try myself at the sametime, of course, but her Magic helped me--and so did Dickon's. Everymorning and evening and as often in the daytime as I can remember I amgoing to say, 'Magic is in me! Magic is making me well! I am going tobe as strong as Dickon, as strong as Dickon!' And you must all do it,too.  That is my experiment Will you help, Ben Weatherstaff?""Aye, aye, sir!" said Ben Weatherstaff.  "Aye, aye!""If you keep doing it every day as regularly as soldiers go throughdrill we shall see what will happen and find out if the experimentsucceeds.  You learn things by saying them over and over and thinkingabout them until they stay in your mind forever and I think it will bethe same with Magic.  If you keep calling it to come to you and helpyou it will get to be part of you and it will stay and do things." "Ionce heard an officer in India tell my mother that there were fakirswho said words over and over thousands of times," said Mary."I've heard Jem Fettleworth's wife say th' same thing over thousands o'times--callin' Jem a drunken brute," said Ben Weatherstaff dryly."Summat allus come o' that, sure enough.  He gave her a good hidin' an'went to th' Blue Lion an' got as drunk as a lord."Colin drew his brows together and thought a few minutes.  Then hecheered up."Well," he said, "you see something did come of it.  She used the wrongMagic until she made him beat her.  If she'd used the right Magic andhad said something nice perhaps he wouldn't have got as drunk as a lordand perhaps--perhaps he might have bought her a new bonnet."Ben Weatherstaff chuckled and there was shrewd admiration in his littleold eyes."Tha'rt a clever lad as well as a straight-legged one, Mester Colin,"he said.  "Next time I see Bess Fettleworth I'll give her a bit of ahint o' what Magic will do for her.  She'd be rare an' pleased if th'sinetifik 'speriment worked--an' so 'ud Jem."Dickon had stood listening to the lecture, his round eyes shining withcurious delight.  Nut and Shell were on his shoulders and he held along-eared white rabbit in his arm and stroked and stroked it softlywhile it laid its ears along its back and enjoyed itself."Do you think the experiment will work?" Colin asked him, wonderingwhat he was thinking.  He so often wondered what Dickon was thinkingwhen he saw him looking at him or at one of his "creatures" with hishappy wide smile.He smiled now and his smile was wider than usual."Aye," he answered, "that I do.  It'll work same as th' seeds do whenth' sun shines on 'em. It'll work for sure.  Shall us begin it now?"Colin was delighted and so was Mary.  Fired by recollections of fakirsand devotees in illustrations Colin suggested that they should all sitcross-legged under the tree which made a canopy."It will be like sitting in a sort of temple," said Colin.  "I'm rathertired and I want to sit down.""Eh!" said Dickon, "tha' mustn't begin by sayin' tha'rt tired.  Tha'might spoil th' Magic."Colin turned and looked at him--into his innocent round eyes."That's true," he said slowly.  "I must only think of the Magic." Itall seemed most majestic and mysterious when they sat down in theircircle.  Ben Weatherstaff felt as if he had somehow been led intoappearing at a prayer-meeting. Ordinarily he was very fixed in beingwhat he called "agen' prayer-meetin's" but this being the Rajah'saffair he did not resent it and was indeed inclined to be gratified atbeing called upon to assist.  Mistress Mary felt solemnly enraptured.Dickon held his rabbit in his arm, and perhaps he made some charmer'ssignal no one heard, for when he sat down, cross-legged like the rest,the crow, the fox, the squirrels and the lamb slowly drew near and madepart of the circle, settling each into a place of rest as if of theirown desire."The 'creatures' have come," said Colin gravely.  "They want to helpus."Colin really looked quite beautiful, Mary thought.  He held his headhigh as if he felt like a sort of priest and his strange eyes had awonderful look in them.  The light shone on him through the tree canopy."Now we will begin," he said.  "Shall we sway backward and forward,Mary, as if we were dervishes?""I canna' do no swayin' back'ard and for'ard," said Ben Weatherstaff."I've got th' rheumatics.""The Magic will take them away," said Colin in a High Priest tone, "butwe won't sway until it has done it.  We will only chant.""I canna' do no chantin'" said Ben Weatherstaff a trifle testily."They turned me out o' th' church choir th' only time I ever tried it."No one smiled.  They were all too much in earnest.  Colin's face wasnot even crossed by a shadow.  He was thinking only of the Magic."Then I will chant," he said.  And he began, looking like a strange boyspirit.  "The sun is shining--the sun is shining.  That is the Magic.The flowers are growing--the roots are stirring.  That is the Magic.Being alive is the Magic--being strong is the Magic.  The Magic is inme--the Magic is in me.  It is in me--it is in me.  It's in every oneof us.  It's in Ben Weatherstaff's back.  Magic! Magic! Come and help!"He said it a great many times--not a thousand times but quite a goodlynumber.  Mary listened entranced.  She felt as if it were at once queerand beautiful and she wanted him to go on and on.  Ben Weatherstaffbegan to feel soothed into a sort of dream which was quite agreeable.The humming of the bees in the blossoms mingled with the chanting voiceand drowsily melted into a doze.  Dickon sat cross-legged with hisrabbit asleep on his arm and a hand resting on the lamb's back.  Soothad pushed away a squirrel and huddled close to him on his shoulder,the gray film dropped over his eyes.  At last Colin stopped."Now I am going to walk round the garden," he announced.Ben Weatherstaff's head had just dropped forward and he lifted it witha jerk."You have been asleep," said Colin."Nowt o' th' sort," mumbled Ben.  "Th' sermon was good enow--but I'mbound to get out afore th' collection."He was not quite awake yet."You're not in church," said Colin."Not me," said Ben, straightening himself.  "Who said I were? I heardevery bit of it.  You said th' Magic was in my back.  Th' doctor callsit rheumatics."The Rajah waved his hand."That was the wrong Magic," he said.  "You will get better.  You havemy permission to go to your work.  But come back tomorrow.""I'd like to see thee walk round the garden," grunted Ben.It was not an unfriendly grunt, but it was a grunt.  In fact, being astubborn old party and not having entire faith in Magic he had made uphis mind that if he were sent away he would climb his ladder and lookover the wall so that he might be ready to hobble back if there wereany stumbling.The Rajah did not object to his staying and so the procession wasformed.  It really did look like a procession.  Colin was at its headwith Dickon on one side and Mary on the other.  Ben Weatherstaff walkedbehind, and the "creatures" trailed after them, the lamb and the foxcub keeping close to Dickon, the white rabbit hopping along or stoppingto nibble and Soot following with the solemnity of a person who felthimself in charge.It was a procession which moved slowly but with dignity.  Every fewyards it stopped to rest.  Colin leaned on Dickon's arm and privatelyBen Weatherstaff kept a sharp lookout, but now and then Colin took hishand from its support and walked a few steps alone.  His head was heldup all the time and he looked very grand."The Magic is in me!" he kept saying.  "The Magic is making me strong!I can feel it! I can feel it!"It seemed very certain that something was upholding and uplifting him.He sat on the seats in the alcoves, and once or twice he sat down onthe grass and several times he paused in the path and leaned on Dickon,but he would not give up until he had gone all round the garden.  Whenhe returned to the canopy tree his cheeks were flushed and he lookedtriumphant."I did it! The Magic worked!" he cried.  "That is my first scientificdiscovery."."What will Dr. Craven say?" broke out Mary."He won't say anything," Colin answered, "because he will not be told.This is to be the biggest secret of all.  No one is to know anythingabout it until I have grown so strong that I can walk and run like anyother boy.  I shall come here every day in my chair and I shall betaken back in it.  I won't have people whispering and asking questionsand I won't let my father hear about it until the experiment has quitesucceeded.  Then sometime when he comes back to Misselthwaite I shalljust walk into his study and say 'Here I am; I am like any other boy.I am quite well and I shall live to be a man.  It has been done by ascientific experiment.'""He will think he is in a dream," cried Mary.  "He won't believe hiseyes."Colin flushed triumphantly.  He had made himself believe that he wasgoing to get well, which was really more than half the battle, if hehad been aware of it.  And the thought which stimulated him more thanany other was this imagining what his father would look like when hesaw that he had a son who was as straight and strong as other fathers'sons.  One of his darkest miseries in the unhealthy morbid past dayshad been his hatred of being a sickly weak-backed boy whose father wasafraid to look at him."He'll be obliged to believe them," he said."One of the things I am going to do, after the Magic works and before Ibegin to make scientific discoveries, is to be an athlete.""We shall have thee takin' to boxin' in a week or so," said BenWeatherstaff.  "Tha'lt end wi' winnin' th' Belt an' bein' championprize-fighter of all England."Colin fixed his eyes on him sternly."Weatherstaff," he said, "that is disrespectful.  You must not takeliberties because you are in the secret.  However much the Magic worksI shall not be a prize-fighter.  I shall be a Scientific Discoverer.""Ax pardon--ax pardon, sir" answered Ben, touching his forehead insalute.  "I ought to have seed it wasn't a jokin' matter," but his eyestwinkled and secretly he was immensely pleased.  He really did not mindbeing snubbed since the snubbing meant that the lad was gainingstrength and spirit.CHAPTER XXIV"LET THEM LAUGH"The secret garden was not the only one Dickon worked in.  Round thecottage on the moor there was a piece of ground enclosed by a low wallof rough stones.  Early in the morning and late in the fading twilightand on all the days Colin and Mary did not see him, Dickon worked thereplanting or tending potatoes and cabbages, turnips and carrots andherbs for his mother.  In the company of his "creatures" he did wondersthere and was never tired of doing them, it seemed.  While he dug orweeded he whistled or sang bits of Yorkshire moor songs or talked toSoot or Captain or the brothers and sisters he had taught to help him."We'd never get on as comfortable as we do," Mrs. Sowerby said, "if itwasn't for Dickon's garden.  Anything'll grow for him.  His 'taters andcabbages is twice th' size of any one else's an' they've got a flavorwith 'em as nobody's has."When she found a moment to spare she liked to go out and talk to him.After supper there was still a long clear twilight to work in and thatwas her quiet time.  She could sit upon the low rough wall and look onand hear stories of the day.  She loved this time.  There were not onlyvegetables in this garden.  Dickon had bought penny packages of flowerseeds now and then and sown bright sweet-scented things amonggooseberry bushes and even cabbages and he grew borders of mignonetteand pinks and pansies and things whose seeds he could save year afteryear or whose roots would bloom each spring and spread in time intofine clumps.  The low wall was one of the prettiest things in Yorkshirebecause he had tucked moorland foxglove and ferns and rock-cress andhedgerow flowers into every crevice until only here and there glimpsesof the stones were to be seen."All a chap's got to do to make 'em thrive, mother," he would say, "isto be friends with 'em for sure.  They're just like th' 'creatures.' Ifthey're thirsty give 'em drink and if they're hungry give 'em a bit o'food.  They want to live same as we do.  If they died I should feel asif I'd been a bad lad and somehow treated them heartless."It was in these twilight hours that Mrs. Sowerby heard of all thathappened at Misselthwaite Manor.  At first she was only told that"Mester Colin" had taken a fancy to going out into the grounds withMiss Mary and that it was doing him good.  But it was not long beforeit was agreed between the two children that Dickon's mother might "comeinto the secret." Somehow it was not doubted that she was "safe forsure."So one beautiful still evening Dickon told the whole story, with allthe thrilling details of the buried key and the robin and the gray hazewhich had seemed like deadness and the secret Mistress Mary had plannednever to reveal.  The coming of Dickon and how it had been told to him,the doubt of Mester Colin and the final drama of his introduction tothe hidden domain, combined with the incident of Ben Weatherstaff'sangry face peering over the wall and Mester Colin's sudden indignantstrength, made Mrs. Sowerby's nice-looking face quite change colorseveral times."My word!" she said.  "It was a good thing that little lass came to th'Manor.  It's been th' makin' o' her an' th' savin, o' him.  Standin' onhis feet! An' us all thinkin' he was a poor half-witted lad with not astraight bone in him."She asked a great many questions and her blue eyes were full of deepthinking."What do they make of it at th' Manor--him being so well an' cheerfulan' never complainin'?" she inquired.  "They don't know what to make ofit," answered Dickon.  "Every day as comes round his face looksdifferent.  It's fillin' out and doesn't look so sharp an' th' waxycolor is goin'.  But he has to do his bit o' complainin'," with ahighly entertained grin."What for, i' Mercy's name?" asked Mrs. Sowerby.Dickon chuckled."He does it to keep them from guessin' what's happened.  If the doctorknew he'd found out he could stand on his feet he'd likely write andtell Mester Craven.  Mester Colin's savin' th' secret to tell himself.He's goin' to practise his Magic on his legs every day till his fathercomes back an' then he's goin' to march into his room an' show him he'sas straight as other lads.  But him an' Miss Mary thinks it's best planto do a bit o' groanin' an' frettin' now an' then to throw folk off th'scent."Mrs. Sowerby was laughing a low comfortable laugh long before he hadfinished his last sentence."Eh!" she said, "that pair's enjoyin' their-selves I'll warrant.They'll get a good bit o' actin' out of it an' there's nothin' childrenlikes as much as play actin'. Let's hear what they do, Dickon lad."Dickon stopped weeding and sat up on his heels to tell her.  His eyeswere twinkling with fun."Mester Colin is carried down to his chair every time he goes out," heexplained.  "An' he flies out at John, th' footman, for not carryin'him careful enough.  He makes himself as helpless lookin' as he can an'never lifts his head until we're out o' sight o' th' house.  An' hegrunts an' frets a good bit when he's bein' settled into his chair.Him an' Miss Mary's both got to enjoyin' it an' when he groans an'complains she'll say, 'Poor Colin! Does it hurt you so much? Are you soweak as that, poor Colin?'--but th' trouble is that sometimes they canscarce keep from burstin' out laughin'. When we get safe into thegarden they laugh till they've no breath left to laugh with.  An' theyhave to stuff their faces into Mester Colin's cushions to keep thegardeners from hearin', if any of, 'em's about.""Th' more they laugh th' better for 'em!" said Mrs. Sowerby, stilllaughing herself.  "Good healthy child laughin's better than pills anyday o' th' year.  That pair'll plump up for sure.""They are plumpin' up," said Dickon.  "They're that hungry they don'tknow how to get enough to eat without makin' talk.  Mester Colin saysif he keeps sendin' for more food they won't believe he's an invalid atall.  Miss Mary says she'll let him eat her share, but he says that ifshe goes hungry she'll get thin an' they mun both get fat at once."Mrs. Sowerby laughed so heartily at the revelation of this difficultythat she quite rocked backward and forward in her blue cloak, andDickon laughed with her."I'll tell thee what, lad," Mrs. Sowerby said when she could speak."I've thought of a way to help 'em. When tha' goes to 'em in th'mornin's tha' shall take a pail o' good new milk an' I'll bake 'em acrusty cottage loaf or some buns wi' currants in 'em, same as youchildren like.  Nothin's so good as fresh milk an' bread.  Then theycould take off th' edge o' their hunger while they were in their gardenan' th, fine food they get indoors 'ud polish off th' corners.""Eh! mother!" said Dickon admiringly, "what a wonder tha' art! Tha'always sees a way out o' things.  They was quite in a pother yesterday.They didn't see how they was to manage without orderin' up morefood--they felt that empty inside.""They're two young 'uns growin' fast, an' health's comin' back to bothof 'em. Children like that feels like young wolves an' food's flesh an'blood to 'em," said Mrs. Sowerby.  Then she smiled Dickon's own curvingsmile.  "Eh! but they're enjoyin' theirselves for sure," she said.She was quite right, the comfortable wonderful mother creature--and shehad never been more so than when she said their "play actin'" would betheir joy.  Colin and Mary found it one of their most thrilling sourcesof entertainment.  The idea of protecting themselves from suspicion hadbeen unconsciously suggested to them first by the puzzled nurse andthen by Dr. Craven himself."Your appetite.  Is improving very much, Master Colin," the nurse hadsaid one day.  "You used to eat nothing, and so many things disagreedwith you.""Nothing disagrees with me now" replied Colin, and then seeing thenurse looking at him curiously he suddenly remembered that perhaps heought not to appear too well just yet.  "At least things don't so oftendisagree with me.  It's the fresh air.""Perhaps it is," said the nurse, still looking at him with a mystifiedexpression.  "But I must talk to Dr. Craven about it.""How she stared at you!" said Mary when she went away.  "As if shethought there must be something to find out.""I won't have her finding out things," said Colin.  "No one must beginto find out yet." When Dr. Craven came that morning he seemed puzzled,also.  He asked a number of questions, to Colin's great annoyance."You stay out in the garden a great deal," he suggested.  "Where do yougo?"Colin put on his favorite air of dignified indifference to opinion."I will not let any one know where I go," he answered.  "I go to aplace I like.  Every one has orders to keep out of the way.  I won't bewatched and stared at.  You know that!""You seem to be out all day but I do not think it has done you harm--Ido not think so.  The nurse says that you eat much more than you haveever done before.""Perhaps," said Colin, prompted by a sudden inspiration, "perhaps it isan unnatural appetite.""I do not think so, as your food seems to agree with you," said Dr.Craven.  "You are gaining flesh rapidly and your color is better.""Perhaps--perhaps I am bloated and feverish," said Colin, assuming adiscouraging air of gloom.  "People who are not going to live areoften--different." Dr. Craven shook his head.  He was holding Colin'swrist and he pushed up his sleeve and felt his arm."You are not feverish," he said thoughtfully, "and such flesh as youhave gained is healthy.  If you can keep this up, my boy, we need nottalk of dying.  Your father will be happy to hear of this remarkableimprovement.""I won't have him told!" Colin broke forth fiercely.  "It will onlydisappoint him if I get worse again--and I may get worse this verynight.  I might have a raging fever.  I feel as if I might be beginningto have one now.  I won't have letters written to my father--I won't--Iwon't!  You are making me angry and you know that is bad for me.  Ifeel hot already.  I hate being written about and being talked over asmuch as I hate being stared at!""Hush-h! my boy," Dr. Craven soothed him.  "Nothing shall be writtenwithout your permission.  You are too sensitive about things.  You mustnot undo the good which has been done."He said no more about writing to Mr. Craven and when he saw the nursehe privately warned her that such a possibility must not be mentionedto the patient."The boy is extraordinarily better," he said.  "His advance seemsalmost abnormal.  But of course he is doing now of his own free willwhat we could not make him do before.  Still, he excites himself veryeasily and nothing must be said to irritate him." Mary and Colin weremuch alarmed and talked together anxiously.  From this time dated theirplan of "play actin'.""I may be obliged to have a tantrum," said Colin regretfully.  "I don'twant to have one and I'm not miserable enough now to work myself into abig one.  Perhaps I couldn't have one at all.  That lump doesn't comein my throat now and I keep thinking of nice things instead of horribleones.  But if they talk about writing to my father I shall have to dosomething."He made up his mind to eat less, but unfortunately it was not possibleto carry out this brilliant idea when he wakened each morning with anamazing appetite and the table near his sofa was set with a breakfastof home-made bread and fresh butter, snow-white eggs, raspberry jam andclotted cream.  Mary always breakfasted with him and when they foundthemselves at the table--particularly if there were delicate slices ofsizzling ham sending forth tempting odors from under a hot silvercover--they would look into each other's eyes in desperation."I think we shall have to eat it all this morning, Mary," Colin alwaysended by saying.  "We can send away some of the lunch and a great dealof the dinner."But they never found they could send away anything and the highlypolished condition of the empty plates returned to the pantry awakenedmuch comment."I do wish," Colin would say also, "I do wish the slices of ham werethicker, and one muffin each is not enough for any one.""It's enough for a person who is going to die," answered Mary whenfirst she heard this, "but it's not enough for a person who is going tolive.  I sometimes feel as if I could eat three when those nice freshheather and gorse smells from the moor come pouring in at the openwindow."The morning that Dickon--after they had been enjoying themselves in thegarden for about two hours--went behind a big rosebush and broughtforth two tin pails and revealed that one was full of rich new milkwith cream on the top of it, and that the other held cottage-madecurrant buns folded in a clean blue and white napkin, buns so carefullytucked in that they were still hot, there was a riot of surprisedjoyfulness.  What a wonderful thing for Mrs. Sowerby to think of! Whata kind, clever woman she must be! How good the buns were! And whatdelicious fresh milk!"Magic is in her just as it is in Dickon," said Colin.  "It makes herthink of ways to do things--nice things.  She is a Magic person.  Tellher we are grateful, Dickon--extremely grateful." He was given to usingrather grown-up phrases at times.  He enjoyed them.  He liked this somuch that he improved upon it."Tell her she has been most bounteous and our gratitude is extreme."And then forgetting his grandeur he fell to and stuffed himself withbuns and drank milk out of the pail in copious draughts in the mannerof any hungry little boy who had been taking unusual exercise andbreathing in moorland air and whose breakfast was more than two hoursbehind him.This was the beginning of many agreeable incidents of the same kind.They actually awoke to the fact that as Mrs. Sowerby had fourteenpeople to provide food for she might not have enough to satisfy twoextra appetites every day.  So they asked her to let them send some oftheir shillings to buy things.Dickon made the stimulating discovery that in the wood in the parkoutside the garden where Mary had first found him piping to the wildcreatures there was a deep little hollow where you could build a sortof tiny oven with stones and roast potatoes and eggs in it.  Roastedeggs were a previously unknown luxury and very hot potatoes with saltand fresh butter in them were fit for a woodland king--besides beingdeliciously satisfying.  You could buy both potatoes and eggs and eatas many as you liked without feeling as if you were taking food out ofthe mouths of fourteen people.Every beautiful morning the Magic was worked by the mystic circle underthe plum-tree which provided a canopy of thickening green leaves afterits brief blossom-time was ended.  After the ceremony Colin always tookhis walking exercise and throughout the day he exercised his newlyfound power at intervals.  Each day he grew stronger and could walkmore steadily and cover more ground.  And each day his belief in theMagic grew stronger--as well it might.  He tried one experiment afteranother as he felt himself gaining strength and it was Dickon whoshowed him the best things of all."Yesterday," he said one morning after an absence, "I went to Thwaitefor mother an' near th' Blue Cow Inn I seed Bob Haworth.  He's thestrongest chap on th' moor.  He's the champion wrestler an' he can jumphigher than any other chap an' throw th' hammer farther.  He's gone allth' way to Scotland for th' sports some years.  He's knowed me eversince I was a little 'un an' he's a friendly sort an' I axed him somequestions.  Th' gentry calls him a athlete and I thought o' thee,Mester Colin, and I says, 'How did tha' make tha' muscles stick outthat way, Bob? Did tha' do anythin' extra to make thysel' so strong?'An' he says 'Well, yes, lad, I did.  A strong man in a show that cameto Thwaite once showed me how to exercise my arms an' legs an' everymuscle in my body.  An' I says, 'Could a delicate chap make himselfstronger with 'em, Bob?' an' he laughed an' says, 'Art tha' th'delicate chap?' an' I says, 'No, but I knows a young gentleman that'sgettin' well of a long illness an' I wish I knowed some o' them tricksto tell him about.' I didn't say no names an' he didn't ask none.  He'sfriendly same as I said an' he stood up an' showed me good-naturedlike, an' I imitated what he did till I knowed it by heart."Colin had been listening excitedly."Can you show me?" he cried.  "Will you?""Aye, to be sure," Dickon answered, getting up.  "But he says tha' mundo 'em gentle at first an' be careful not to tire thysel'. Rest inbetween times an' take deep breaths an' don't overdo.""I'll be careful," said Colin.  "Show me! Show me! Dickon, you are themost Magic boy in the world!"Dickon stood up on the grass and slowly went through a carefullypractical but simple series of muscle exercises.  Colin watched themwith widening eyes.  He could do a few while he was sitting down.Presently he did a few gently while he stood upon his already steadiedfeet.  Mary began to do them also.  Soot, who was watching theperformance, became much disturbed and left his branch and hopped aboutrestlessly because he could not do them too.From that time the exercises were part of the day's duties as much asthe Magic was.  It became possible for both Colin and Mary to do moreof them each time they tried, and such appetites were the results thatbut for the basket Dickon put down behind the bush each morning when hearrived they would have been lost.  But the little oven in the hollowand Mrs. Sowerby's bounties were so satisfying that Mrs. Medlock andthe nurse and Dr. Craven became mystified again.  You can trifle withyour breakfast and seem to disdain your dinner if you are full to thebrim with roasted eggs and potatoes and richly frothed new milk andoatcakes and buns and heather honey and clotted cream."They are eating next to nothing," said the nurse.  "They'll die ofstarvation if they can't be persuaded to take some nourishment.  Andyet see how they look.""Look!" exclaimed Mrs. Medlock indignantly.  "Eh! I'm moithered todeath with them.  They're a pair of young Satans.  Bursting theirjackets one day and the next turning up their noses at the best mealsCook can tempt them with.  Not a mouthful of that lovely young fowl andbread sauce did they set a fork into yesterday--and the poor woman fairinvented a pudding for them--and back it's sent.  She almost cried.She's afraid she'll be blamed if they starve themselves into theirgraves."Dr. Craven came and looked at Colin long and carefully, He wore anextremely worried expression when the nurse talked with him and showedhim the almost untouched tray of breakfast she had saved for him tolook at--but it was even more worried when he sat down by Colin's sofaand examined him.  He had been called to London on business and had notseen the boy for nearly two weeks.  When young things begin to gainhealth they gain it rapidly.  The waxen tinge had left, Colins skin anda warm rose showed through it; his beautiful eyes were clear and thehollows under them and in his cheeks and temples had filled out.  Hisonce dark, heavy locks had begun to look as if they sprang healthilyfrom his forehead and were soft and warm with life.  His lips werefuller and of a normal color.  In fact as an imitation of a boy who wasa confirmed invalid he was a disgraceful sight.  Dr. Craven held hischin in his hand and thought him over."I am sorry to hear that you do not eat anything," he said.  "That willnot do.  You will lose all you have gained--and you have gainedamazingly.  You ate so well a short time ago.""I told you it was an unnatural appetite," answered Colin.Mary was sitting on her stool nearby and she suddenly made a very queersound which she tried so violently to repress that she ended by almostchoking."What is the matter?" said Dr. Craven, turning to look at her.Mary became quite severe in her manner."It was something between a sneeze and a cough," she replied withreproachful dignity, "and it got into my throat.""But," she said afterward to Colin, "I couldn't stop myself.  It justburst out because all at once I couldn't help remembering that last bigpotato you ate and the way your mouth stretched when you bit throughthat thick lovely crust with jam and clotted cream on it.""Is there any way in which those children can get food secretly?" Dr.Craven inquired of Mrs. Medlock."There's no way unless they dig it out of the earth or pick it off thetrees," Mrs. Medlock answered.  "They stay out in the grounds all dayand see no one but each other.  And if they want anything different toeat from what's sent up to them they need only ask for it.""Well," said Dr. Craven, "so long as going without food agrees withthem we need not disturb ourselves.  The boy is a new creature.""So is the girl," said Mrs. Medlock.  "She's begun to be downrightpretty since she's filled out and lost her ugly little sour look.  Herhair's grown thick and healthy looking and she's got a bright color.The glummest, ill-natured little thing she used to be and now her andMaster Colin laugh together like a pair of crazy young ones.  Perhapsthey're growing fat on that.""Perhaps they are," said Dr. Craven.  "Let them laugh."CHAPTER XXVTHE CURTAINAnd the secret garden bloomed and bloomed and every morning revealednew miracles.  In the robin's nest there were Eggs and the robin's matesat upon them keeping them warm with her feathery little breast andcareful wings.  At first she was very nervous and the robin himself wasindignantly watchful.  Even Dickon did not go near the close-growncorner in those days, but waited until by the quiet working of somemysterious spell he seemed to have conveyed to the soul of the littlepair that in the garden there was nothing which was not quite likethemselves--nothing which did not understand the wonderfulness of whatwas happening to them--the immense, tender, terrible, heart-breakingbeauty and solemnity of Eggs.  If there had been one person in thatgarden who had not known through all his or her innermost being that ifan Egg were taken away or hurt the whole world would whirl round andcrash through space and come to an end--if there had been even one whodid not feel it and act accordingly there could have been no happinesseven in that golden springtime air.  But they all knew it and felt itand the robin and his mate knew they knew it.At first the robin watched Mary and Colin with sharp anxiety.  For somemysterious reason he knew he need not watch Dickon.  The first momenthe set his dew-bright black eye on Dickon he knew he was not a strangerbut a sort of robin without beak or feathers.  He could speak robin(which is a quite distinct language not to be mistaken for any other).To speak robin to a robin is like speaking French to a Frenchman.Dickon always spoke it to the robin himself, so the queer gibberish heused when he spoke to humans did not matter in the least.  The robinthought he spoke this gibberish to them because they were notintelligent enough to understand feathered speech.  His movements alsowere robin.  They never startled one by being sudden enough to seemdangerous or threatening.  Any robin could understand Dickon, so hispresence was not even disturbing.But at the outset it seemed necessary to be on guard against the othertwo.  In the first place the boy creature did not come into the gardenon his legs.  He was pushed in on a thing with wheels and the skins ofwild animals were thrown over him.  That in itself was doubtful.  Thenwhen he began to stand up and move about he did it in a queerunaccustomed way and the others seemed to have to help him.  The robinused to secrete himself in a bush and watch this anxiously, his headtilted first on one side and then on the other.  He thought that theslow movements might mean that he was preparing to pounce, as cats do.When cats are preparing to pounce they creep over the ground veryslowly.  The robin talked this over with his mate a great deal for afew days but after that he decided not to speak of the subject becauseher terror was so great that he was afraid it might be injurious to theEggs.When the boy began to walk by himself and even to move more quickly itwas an immense relief.  But for a long time--or it seemed a long timeto the robin--he was a source of some anxiety.  He did not act as theother humans did.  He seemed very fond of walking but he had a way ofsitting or lying down for a while and then getting up in adisconcerting manner to begin again.One day the robin remembered that when he himself had been made tolearn to fly by his parents he had done much the same sort of thing.He had taken short flights of a few yards and then had been obliged torest.  So it occurred to him that this boy was learning to fly--orrather to walk.  He mentioned this to his mate and when he told herthat the Eggs would probably conduct themselves in the same way afterthey were fledged she was quite comforted and even became eagerlyinterested and derived great pleasure from watching the boy over theedge of her nest--though she always thought that the Eggs would be muchcleverer and learn more quickly.  But then she said indulgently thathumans were always more clumsy and slow than Eggs and most of themnever seemed really to learn to fly at all.  You never met them in theair or on tree-tops.After a while the boy began to move about as the others did, but allthree of the children at times did unusual things.  They would standunder the trees and move their arms and legs and heads about in a waywhich was neither walking nor running nor sitting down.  They wentthrough these movements at intervals every day and the robin was neverable to explain to his mate what they were doing or tying to do.  Hecould only say that he was sure that the Eggs would never flap about insuch a manner; but as the boy who could speak robin so fluently wasdoing the thing with them, birds could be quite sure that the actionswere not of a dangerous nature.  Of course neither the robin nor hismate had ever heard of the champion wrestler, Bob Haworth, and hisexercises for making the muscles stand out like lumps.  Robins are notlike human beings; their muscles are always exercised from the firstand so they develop themselves in a natural manner.  If you have to flyabout to find every meal you eat, your muscles do not become atrophied(atrophied means wasted away through want of use).When the boy was walking and running about and digging and weeding likethe others, the nest in the corner was brooded over by a great peaceand content.  Fears for the Eggs became things of the past.  Knowingthat your Eggs were as safe as if they were locked in a bank vault andthe fact that you could watch so many curious things going on madesetting a most entertaining occupation.  On wet days the Eggs' mothersometimes felt even a little dull because the children did not comeinto the garden.But even on wet days it could not be said that Mary and Colin weredull.  One morning when the rain streamed down unceasingly and Colinwas beginning to feel a little restive, as he was obliged to remain onhis sofa because it was not safe to get up and walk about, Mary had aninspiration."Now that I am a real boy," Colin had said, "my legs and arms and allmy body are so full of Magic that I can't keep them still.  They wantto be doing things all the time.  Do you know that when I waken in themorning, Mary, when it's quite early and the birds are just shoutingoutside and everything seems just shouting for joy--even the trees andthings we can't really hear--I feel as if I must jump out of bed andshout myself.  If I did it, just think what would happen!"Mary giggled inordinately."The nurse would come running and Mrs. Medlock would come running andthey would be sure you had gone crazy and they'd send for the doctor,"she said.Colin giggled himself.  He could see how they would all look--howhorrified by his outbreak and how amazed to see him standing upright."I wish my father would come home," he said.  "I want to tell himmyself.  I'm always thinking about it--but we couldn't go on like thismuch longer.  I can't stand lying still and pretending, and besides Ilook too different.  I wish it wasn't raining today."It was then Mistress Mary had her inspiration."Colin," she began mysteriously, "do you know how many rooms there arein this house?""About a thousand, I suppose," he answered."There's about a hundred no one ever goes into," said Mary.  "And onerainy day I went and looked into ever so many of them.  No one everknew, though Mrs. Medlock nearly found me out.  I lost my way when Iwas coming back and I stopped at the end of your corridor.  That wasthe second time I heard you crying."Colin started up on his sofa."A hundred rooms no one goes into," he said.  "It sounds almost like asecret garden.  Suppose we go and look at them.  Wheel me in my chairand nobody would know we went.""That's what I was thinking," said Mary.  "No one would dare to followus.  There are galleries where you could run.  We could do ourexercises.  There is a little Indian room where there is a cabinet fullof ivory elephants.  There are all sorts of rooms.""Ring the bell," said Colin.When the nurse came in he gave his orders."I want my chair," he said.  "Miss Mary and I are going to look at thepart of the house which is not used.  John can push me as far as thepicture-gallery because there are some stairs.  Then he must go awayand leave us alone until I send for him again."Rainy days lost their terrors that morning.  When the footman hadwheeled the chair into the picture-gallery and left the two together inobedience to orders, Colin and Mary looked at each other delighted.  Assoon as Mary had made sure that John was really on his way back to hisown quarters below stairs, Colin got out of his chair."I am going to run from one end of the gallery to the other," he said,"and then I am going to jump and then we will do Bob Haworth'sexercises."And they did all these things and many others.  They looked at theportraits and found the plain little girl dressed in green brocade andholding the parrot on her finger."All these," said Colin, "must be my relations.  They lived a long timeago.  That parrot one, I believe, is one of my great, great, great,great aunts.  She looks rather like you, Mary--not as you look now butas you looked when you came here.  Now you are a great deal fatter andbetter looking.""So are you," said Mary, and they both laughed.They went to the Indian room and amused themselves with the ivoryelephants.  They found the rose-colored brocade boudoir and the hole inthe cushion the mouse had left, but the mice had grown up and run awayand the hole was empty.  They saw more rooms and made more discoveriesthan Mary had made on her first pilgrimage.  They found new corridorsand corners and flights of steps and new old pictures they liked andweird old things they did not know the use of.  It was a curiouslyentertaining morning and the feeling of wandering about in the samehouse with other people but at the same time feeling as if one weremiles away from them was a fascinating thing."I'm glad we came," Colin said.  "I never knew I lived in such a bigqueer old place.  I like it.  We will ramble about every rainy day.  Weshall always be finding new queer corners and things."That morning they had found among other things such good appetites thatwhen they returned to Colin's room it was not possible to send theluncheon away untouched.When the nurse carried the tray down-stairs she slapped it down on thekitchen dresser so that Mrs. Loomis, the cook, could see the highlypolished dishes and plates."Look at that!" she said.  "This is a house of mystery, and those twochildren are the greatest mysteries in it.""If they keep that up every day," said the strong young footman John,"there'd be small wonder that he weighs twice as much to-day as he dida month ago.  I should have to give up my place in time, for fear ofdoing my muscles an injury."That afternoon Mary noticed that something new had happened in Colin'sroom.  She had noticed it the day before but had said nothing becauseshe thought the change might have been made by chance.  She saidnothing today but she sat and looked fixedly at the picture over themantel.  She could look at it because the curtain had been drawn aside.That was the change she noticed."I know what you want me to tell you," said Colin, after she had stareda few minutes.  "I always know when you want me to tell you something.You are wondering why the curtain is drawn back.  I am going to keep itlike that.""Why?" asked Mary."Because it doesn't make me angry any more to see her laughing.  Iwakened when it was bright moonlight two nights ago and felt as if theMagic was filling the room and making everything so splendid that Icouldn't lie still.  I got up and looked out of the window.  The roomwas quite light and there was a patch of moonlight on the curtain andsomehow that made me go and pull the cord.  She looked right down at meas if she were laughing because she was glad I was standing there.  Itmade me like to look at her.  I want to see her laughing like that allthe time.  I think she must have been a sort of Magic person perhaps.""You are so like her now," said Mary, "that sometimes I think perhapsyou are her ghost made into a boy."That idea seemed to impress Colin.  He thought it over and thenanswered her slowly."If I were her ghost--my father would be fond of me.""Do you want him to be fond of you?" inquired Mary."I used to hate it because he was not fond of me.  If he grew fond ofme I think I should tell him about the Magic.  It might make him morecheerful."CHAPTER XXVI"IT'S MOTHER!"Their belief in the Magic was an abiding thing.  After the morning'sincantations Colin sometimes gave them Magic lectures."I like to do it," he explained, "because when I grow up and make greatscientific discoveries I shall be obliged to lecture about them and sothis is practise.  I can only give short lectures now because I am veryyoung, and besides Ben Weatherstaff would feel as if he were in churchand he would go to sleep.""Th' best thing about lecturin'," said Ben, "is that a chap can get upan' say aught he pleases an' no other chap can answer him back.  Iwouldn't be agen' lecturin' a bit mysel' sometimes."But when Colin held forth under his tree old Ben fixed devouring eyeson him and kept them there.  He looked him over with criticalaffection.  It was not so much the lecture which interested him as thelegs which looked straighter and stronger each day, the boyish headwhich held itself up so well, the once sharp chin and hollow cheekswhich had filled and rounded out and the eyes which had begun to holdthe light he remembered in another pair.  Sometimes when Colin feltBen's earnest gaze meant that he was much impressed he wondered what hewas reflecting on and once when he had seemed quite entranced hequestioned him."What are you thinking about, Ben Weatherstaff?" he asked."I was thinkin'" answered Ben, "as I'd warrant tha's, gone up three orfour pound this week.  I was lookin' at tha' calves an' tha' shoulders.I'd like to get thee on a pair o' scales.""It's the Magic and--and Mrs. Sowerby's buns and milk and things," saidColin.  "You see the scientific experiment has succeeded."That morning Dickon was too late to hear the lecture.  When he came hewas ruddy with running and his funny face looked more twinkling thanusual.  As they had a good deal of weeding to do after the rains theyfell to work.  They always had plenty to do after a warm deep sinkingrain.  The moisture which was good for the flowers was also good forthe weeds which thrust up tiny blades of grass and points of leaveswhich must be pulled up before their roots took too firm hold.  Colinwas as good at weeding as any one in these days and he could lecturewhile he was doing it.  "The Magic works best when you work, yourself,"he said this morning.  "You can feel it in your bones and muscles.  Iam going to read books about bones and muscles, but I am going to writea book about Magic.  I am making it up now.  I keep finding out things."It was not very long after he had said this that he laid down histrowel and stood up on his feet.  He had been silent for severalminutes and they had seen that he was thinking out lectures, as heoften did.  When he dropped his trowel and stood upright it seemed toMary and Dickon as if a sudden strong thought had made him do it.  Hestretched himself out to his tallest height and he threw out his armsexultantly.  Color glowed in his face and his strange eyes widened withjoyfulness.  All at once he had realized something to the full."Mary! Dickon!" he cried.  "Just look at me!"They stopped their weeding and looked at him."Do you remember that first morning you brought me in here?" hedemanded.Dickon was looking at him very hard.  Being an animal charmer he couldsee more things than most people could and many of them were things henever talked about.  He saw some of them now in this boy.  "Aye, thatwe do," he answered.Mary looked hard too, but she said nothing."Just this minute," said Colin, "all at once I remembered itmyself--when I looked at my hand digging with the trowel--and I had tostand up on my feet to see if it was real.  And it is real! I'mwell--I'm well!""Aye, that th' art!" said Dickon."I'm well! I'm well!" said Colin again, and his face went quite red allover.He had known it before in a way, he had hoped it and felt it andthought about it, but just at that minute something had rushed allthrough him--a sort of rapturous belief and realization and it had beenso strong that he could not help calling out."I shall live forever and ever and ever!" he cried grandly.  "I shallfind out thousands and thousands of things.  I shall find out aboutpeople and creatures and everything that grows--like Dickon--and Ishall never stop making Magic.  I'm well! I'm well! I feel--I feel asif I want to shout out something--something thankful, joyful!"Ben Weatherstaff, who had been working near a rose-bush, glanced roundat him."Tha' might sing th' Doxology," he suggested in his dryest grunt.  Hehad no opinion of the Doxology and he did not make the suggestion withany particular reverence.But Colin was of an exploring mind and he knew nothing about theDoxology."What is that?" he inquired."Dickon can sing it for thee, I'll warrant," replied Ben Weatherstaff.Dickon answered with his all-perceiving animal charmer's smile."They sing it i' church," he said.  "Mother says she believes th'skylarks sings it when they gets up i' th' mornin'.""If she says that, it must be a nice song," Colin answered.  "I'venever been in a church myself.  I was always too ill.  Sing it, Dickon.I want to hear it."Dickon was quite simple and unaffected about it.  He understood whatColin felt better than Colin did himself.  He understood by a sort ofinstinct so natural that he did not know it was understanding.  Hepulled off his cap and looked round still smiling."Tha' must take off tha' cap," he said to Colin, "an' so mun tha',Ben--an' tha' mun stand up, tha' knows."Colin took off his cap and the sun shone on and warmed his thick hairas he watched Dickon intently.  Ben Weatherstaff scrambled up from hisknees and bared his head too with a sort of puzzled half-resentful lookon his old face as if he didn't know exactly why he was doing thisremarkable thing.Dickon stood out among the trees and rose-bushes and began to sing inquite a simple matter-of-fact way and in a nice strong boy voice:         "Praise God from whom all blessings flow,         Praise Him all creatures here below,         Praise Him above ye Heavenly Host,         Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.                     Amen."When he had finished, Ben Weatherstaff was standing quite still withhis jaws set obstinately but with a disturbed look in his eyes fixed onColin.  Colin's face was thoughtful and appreciative."It is a very nice song," he said.  "I like it.  Perhaps it means justwhat I mean when I want to shout out that I am thankful to the Magic."He stopped and thought in a puzzled way.  "Perhaps they are both thesame thing.  How can we know the exact names of everything? Sing itagain, Dickon.  Let us try, Mary.  I want to sing it, too.  It's mysong.  How does it begin? 'Praise God from whom all blessings flow'?"And they sang it again, and Mary and Colin lifted their voices asmusically as they could and Dickon's swelled quite loud andbeautiful--and at the second line Ben Weatherstaff raspingly clearedhis throat and at the third line he joined in with such vigor that itseemed almost savage and when the "Amen" came to an end Mary observedthat the very same thing had happened to him which had happened when hefound out that Colin was not a cripple--his chin was twitching and hewas staring and winking and his leathery old cheeks were wet."I never seed no sense in th' Doxology afore," he said hoarsely, "but Imay change my mind i' time.  I should say tha'd gone up five pound thisweek Mester Colin--five on 'em!"Colin was looking across the garden at something attracting hisattention and his expression had become a startled one."Who is coming in here?" he said quickly.  "Who is it?"The door in the ivied wall had been pushed gently open and a woman hadentered.  She had come in with the last line of their song and she hadstood still listening and looking at them.  With the ivy behind her,the sunlight drifting through the trees and dappling her long bluecloak, and her nice fresh face smiling across the greenery she wasrather like a softly colored illustration in one of Colin's books.  Shehad wonderful affectionate eyes which seemed to take everything in--allof them, even Ben Weatherstaff and the "creatures" and every flowerthat was in bloom.  Unexpectedly as she had appeared, not one of themfelt that she was an intruder at all.  Dickon's eyes lighted like lamps."It's mother--that's who it is!" he cried and went across the grass ata run.Colin began to move toward her, too, and Mary went with him.  They bothfelt their pulses beat faster."It's mother!" Dickon said again when they met halfway.  "I knowed tha'wanted to see her an' I told her where th' door was hid."Colin held out his hand with a sort of flushed royal shyness but hiseyes quite devoured her face."Even when I was ill I wanted to see you," he said, "you and Dickon andthe secret garden.  I'd never wanted to see any one or anything before."The sight of his uplifted face brought about a sudden change in herown.  She flushed and the corners of her mouth shook and a mist seemedto sweep over her eyes."Eh! dear lad!" she broke out tremulously.  "Eh! dear lad!" as if shehad not known she were going to say it.  She did not say, "MesterColin," but just "dear lad" quite suddenly.  She might have said it toDickon in the same way if she had seen something in his face whichtouched her.  Colin liked it."Are you surprised because I am so well?" he asked.  She put her handon his shoulder and smiled the mist out of her eyes.  "Aye, that I am!"she said; "but tha'rt so like thy mother tha' made my heart jump.""Do you think," said Colin a little awkwardly, "that will make myfather like me?""Aye, for sure, dear lad," she answered and she gave his shoulder asoft quick pat.  "He mun come home--he mun come home.""Susan Sowerby," said Ben Weatherstaff, getting close to her.  "Look atth' lad's legs, wilt tha'? They was like drumsticks i' stockin' twomonth' ago--an' I heard folk tell as they was bandy an' knock-kneedboth at th' same time.  Look at 'em now!"Susan Sowerby laughed a comfortable laugh."They're goin' to be fine strong lad's legs in a bit," she said.  "Lethim go on playin' an' workin' in the garden an' eatin' hearty an'drinkin' plenty o' good sweet milk an' there'll not be a finer pair i'Yorkshire, thank God for it."She put both hands on Mistress Mary's shoulders and looked her littleface over in a motherly fashion."An' thee, too!" she said.  "Tha'rt grown near as hearty as our'Lisabeth Ellen.  I'll warrant tha'rt like thy mother too.  Our Marthatold me as Mrs. Medlock heard she was a pretty woman.  Tha'lt be like ablush rose when tha' grows up, my little lass, bless thee."She did not mention that when Martha came home on her "day out" anddescribed the plain sallow child she had said that she had noconfidence whatever in what Mrs. Medlock had heard.  "It doesn't standto reason that a pretty woman could be th' mother o' such a fou' littlelass," she had added obstinately.Mary had not had time to pay much attention to her changing face.  Shehad only known that she looked "different" and seemed to have a greatdeal more hair and that it was growing very fast.  But remembering herpleasure in looking at the Mem Sahib in the past she was glad to hearthat she might some day look like her.Susan Sowerby went round their garden with them and was told the wholestory of it and shown every bush and tree which had come alive.  Colinwalked on one side of her and Mary on the other.  Each of them keptlooking up at her comfortable rosy face, secretly curious about thedelightful feeling she gave them--a sort of warm, supported feeling.It seemed as if she understood them as Dickon understood his"creatures." She stooped over the flowers and talked about them as ifthey were children.  Soot followed her and once or twice cawed at herand flew upon her shoulder as if it were Dickon's. When they told herabout the robin and the first flight of the young ones she laughed amotherly little mellow laugh in her throat."I suppose learnin' 'em to fly is like learnin' children to walk, butI'm feared I should be all in a worrit if mine had wings instead o'legs," she said.It was because she seemed such a wonderful woman in her nice moorlandcottage way that at last she was told about the Magic."Do you believe in Magic?" asked Colin after he had explained aboutIndian fakirs.  "I do hope you do.""That I do, lad," she answered.  "I never knowed it by that name butwhat does th' name matter? I warrant they call it a different name i'France an' a different one i' Germany.  Th' same thing as set th' seedsswellin' an' th' sun shinin' made thee a well lad an' it's th' GoodThing.  It isn't like us poor fools as think it matters if us is calledout of our names.  Th' Big Good Thing doesn't stop to worrit, blessthee.  It goes on makin' worlds by th' million--worlds like us.  Neverthee stop believin' in th' Big Good Thing an' knowin' th' world's fullof it--an' call it what tha' likes.  Tha' wert singin' to it when Icome into th' garden.""I felt so joyful," said Colin, opening his beautiful strange eyes ather.  "Suddenly I felt how different I was--how strong my arms and legswere, you know--and how I could dig and stand--and I jumped up andwanted to shout out something to anything that would listen.""Th' Magic listened when tha' sung th' Doxology.  It would ha' listenedto anything tha'd sung.  It was th' joy that mattered.  Eh! lad,lad--what's names to th' Joy Maker," and she gave his shoulders a quicksoft pat again.She had packed a basket which held a regular feast this morning, andwhen the hungry hour came and Dickon brought it out from its hidingplace, she sat down with them under their tree and watched them devourtheir food, laughing and quite gloating over their appetites.  She wasfull of fun and made them laugh at all sorts of odd things.  She toldthem stories in broad Yorkshire and taught them new words.  She laughedas if she could not help it when they told her of the increasingdifficulty there was in pretending that Colin was still a fretfulinvalid."You see we can't help laughing nearly all the time when we aretogether," explained Colin.  "And it doesn't sound ill at all.  We tryto choke it back but it will burst out and that sounds worse than ever.""There's one thing that comes into my mind so often," said Mary, "and Ican scarcely ever hold in when I think of it suddenly.  I keep thinkingsuppose Colin's face should get to look like a full moon.  It isn'tlike one yet but he gets a tiny bit fatter every day--and suppose somemorning it should look like one--what should we do!""Bless us all, I can see tha' has a good bit o' play actin' to do,"said Susan Sowerby.  "But tha' won't have to keep it up much longer.Mester Craven'll come home.""Do you think he will?" asked Colin.  "Why?"Susan Sowerby chuckled softly."I suppose it 'ud nigh break thy heart if he found out before tha' toldhim in tha' own way," she said.  "Tha's laid awake nights plannin' it.""I couldn't bear any one else to tell him," said Colin.  "I think aboutdifferent ways every day, I think now I just want to run into hisroom." "That'd be a fine start for him," said Susan Sowerby.  "I'd liketo see his face, lad.  I would that! He mun come back--that he mun."One of the things they talked of was the visit they were to make to hercottage.  They planned it all.  They were to drive over the moor andlunch out of doors among the heather.  They would see all the twelvechildren and Dickon's garden and would not come back until they weretired.Susan Sowerby got up at last to return to the house and Mrs. Medlock.It was time for Colin to be wheeled back also.  But before he got intohis chair he stood quite close to Susan and fixed his eyes on her witha kind of bewildered adoration and he suddenly caught hold of the foldof her blue cloak and held it fast."You are just what I--what I wanted," he said.  "I wish you were mymother--as well as Dickon's!"All at once Susan Sowerby bent down and drew him with her warm armsclose against the bosom under the blue cloak--as if he had beenDickon's brother.  The quick mist swept over her eyes."Eh! dear lad!" she said.  "Thy own mother's in this 'ere very garden,I do believe.  She couldna' keep out of it.  Thy father mun come backto thee--he mun!"CHAPTER XXVIIIN THE GARDENIn each century since the beginning of the world wonderful things havebeen discovered.  In the last century more amazing things were foundout than in any century before.  In this new century hundreds of thingsstill more astounding will be brought to light.  At first people refuseto believe that a strange new thing can be done, then they begin tohope it can be done, then they see it can be done--then it is done andall the world wonders why it was not done centuries ago.  One of thenew things people began to find out in the last century was thatthoughts--just mere thoughts--are as powerful as electric batteries--asgood for one as sunlight is, or as bad for one as poison.  To let a sadthought or a bad one get into your mind is as dangerous as letting ascarlet fever germ get into your body.  If you let it stay there afterit has got in you may never get over it as long as you live.So long as Mistress Mary's mind was full of disagreeable thoughts abouther dislikes and sour opinions of people and her determination not tobe pleased by or interested in anything, she was a yellow-faced,sickly, bored and wretched child.  Circumstances, however, were verykind to her, though she was not at all aware of it.  They began to pushher about for her own good.  When her mind gradually filled itself withrobins, and moorland cottages crowded with children, with queer crabbedold gardeners and common little Yorkshire housemaids, with springtimeand with secret gardens coming alive day by day, and also with a moorboy and his "creatures," there was no room left for the disagreeablethoughts which affected her liver and her digestion and made her yellowand tired.So long as Colin shut himself up in his room and thought only of hisfears and weakness and his detestation of people who looked at him andreflected hourly on humps and early death, he was a hystericalhalf-crazy little hypochondriac who knew nothing of the sunshine andthe spring and also did not know that he could get well and could standupon his feet if he tried to do it.  When new beautiful thoughts beganto push out the old hideous ones, life began to come back to him, hisblood ran healthily through his veins and strength poured into him likea flood.  His scientific experiment was quite practical and simple andthere was nothing weird about it at all.  Much more surprising thingscan happen to any one who, when a disagreeable or discouraged thoughtcomes into his mind, just has the sense to remember in time and push itout by putting in an agreeable determinedly courageous one.  Two thingscannot be in one place.         "Where, you tend a rose, my lad,         A thistle cannot grow."While the secret garden was coming alive and two children were comingalive with it, there was a man wandering about certain far-awaybeautiful places in the Norwegian fiords and the valleys and mountainsof Switzerland and he was a man who for ten years had kept his mindfilled with dark and heart-broken thinking.  He had not beencourageous; he had never tried to put any other thoughts in the placeof the dark ones.  He had wandered by blue lakes and thought them; hehad lain on mountain-sides with sheets of deep blue gentians bloomingall about him and flower breaths filling all the air and he had thoughtthem.  A terrible sorrow had fallen upon him when he had been happy andhe had let his soul fill itself with blackness and had refusedobstinately to allow any rift of light to pierce through.  He hadforgotten and deserted his home and his duties.  When he traveledabout, darkness so brooded over him that the sight of him was a wrongdone to other people because it was as if he poisoned the air about himwith gloom.  Most strangers thought he must be either half mad or a manwith some hidden crime on his soul.  He, was a tall man with a drawnface and crooked shoulders and the name he always entered on hotelregisters was, "Archibald Craven, Misselthwaite Manor, Yorkshire,England."He had traveled far and wide since the day he saw Mistress Mary in hisstudy and told her she might have her "bit of earth." He had been inthe most beautiful places in Europe, though he had remained nowheremore than a few days.  He had chosen the quietest and remotest spots.He had been on the tops of mountains whose heads were in the clouds andhad looked down on other mountains when the sun rose and touched themwith such light as made it seem as if the world were just being born.But the light had never seemed to touch himself until one day when herealized that for the first time in ten years a strange thing hadhappened.  He was in a wonderful valley in the Austrian Tyrol and hehad been walking alone through such beauty as might have lifted, anyman's soul out of shadow.  He had walked a long way and it had notlifted his.  But at last he had felt tired and had thrown himself downto rest on a carpet of moss by a stream.  It was a clear little streamwhich ran quite merrily along on its narrow way through the lusciousdamp greenness.  Sometimes it made a sound rather like very lowlaughter as it bubbled over and round stones.  He saw birds come anddip their heads to drink in it and then flick their wings and fly away.It seemed like a thing alive and yet its tiny voice made the stillnessseem deeper.  The valley was very, very still.As he sat gazing into the clear running of the water, Archibald Cravengradually felt his mind and body both grow quiet, as quiet as thevalley itself.  He wondered if he were going to sleep, but he was not.He sat and gazed at the sunlit water and his eyes began to see thingsgrowing at its edge.  There was one lovely mass of blue forget-me-notsgrowing so close to the stream that its leaves were wet and at these hefound himself looking as he remembered he had looked at such thingsyears ago.  He was actually thinking tenderly how lovely it was andwhat wonders of blue its hundreds of little blossoms were.  He did notknow that just that simple thought was slowly filling his mind--fillingand filling it until other things were softly pushed aside.  It was asif a sweet clear spring had begun to rise in a stagnant pool and hadrisen and risen until at last it swept the dark water away.  But ofcourse he did not think of this himself.  He only knew that the valleyseemed to grow quieter and quieter as he sat and stared at the brightdelicate blueness.  He did not know how long he sat there or what washappening to him, but at last he moved as if he were awakening and hegot up slowly and stood on the moss carpet, drawing a long, deep, softbreath and wondering at himself.  Something seemed to have been unboundand released in him, very quietly."What is it?" he said, almost in a whisper, and he passed his hand overhis forehead.  "I almost feel as if--I were alive!"I do not know enough about the wonderfulness of undiscovered things tobe able to explain how this had happened to him.  Neither does any oneelse yet.  He did not understand at all himself--but he remembered thisstrange hour months afterward when he was at Misselthwaite again and hefound out quite by accident that on this very day Colin had cried outas he went into the secret garden:"I am going to live forever and ever and ever!"The singular calmness remained with him the rest of the evening and heslept a new reposeful sleep; but it was not with him very long.  He didnot know that it could be kept.  By the next night he had opened thedoors wide to his dark thoughts and they had come trooping and rushingback.  He left the valley and went on his wandering way again.  But,strange as it seemed to him, there were minutes--sometimeshalf-hours--when, without his knowing why, the black burden seemed tolift itself again and he knew he was a living man and not a dead one.Slowly--slowly--for no reason that he knew of--he was "coming alive"with the garden.As the golden summer changed into the deep golden autumn he went to theLake of Como.  There he found the loveliness of a dream.  He spent hisdays upon the crystal blueness of the lake or he walked back into thesoft thick verdure of the hills and tramped until he was tired so thathe might sleep.  But by this time he had begun to sleep better, heknew, and his dreams had ceased to be a terror to him."Perhaps," he thought, "my body is growing stronger."It was growing stronger but--because of the rare peaceful hours whenhis thoughts were changed--his soul was slowly growing stronger, too.He began to think of Misselthwaite and wonder if he should not go home.Now and then he wondered vaguely about his boy and asked himself whathe should feel when he went and stood by the carved four-posted bedagain and looked down at the sharply chiseled ivory-white face while itslept and, the black lashes rimmed so startlingly the close-shut eyes.He shrank from it.One marvel of a day he had walked so far that when he returned the moonwas high and full and all the world was purple shadow and silver.  Thestillness of lake and shore and wood was so wonderful that he did notgo into the villa he lived in.  He walked down to a little boweredterrace at the water's edge and sat upon a seat and breathed in all theheavenly scents of the night.  He felt the strange calmness stealingover him and it grew deeper and deeper until he fell asleep.He did not know when he fell asleep and when he began to dream; hisdream was so real that he did not feel as if he were dreaming.  Heremembered afterward how intensely wide awake and alert he had thoughthe was.  He thought that as he sat and breathed in the scent of thelate roses and listened to the lapping of the water at his feet heheard a voice calling.  It was sweet and clear and happy and far away.It seemed very far, but he heard it as distinctly as if it had been athis very side."Archie! Archie! Archie!" it said, and then again, sweeter and clearerthan before, "Archie! Archie!"He thought he sprang to his feet not even startled.  It was such a realvoice and it seemed so natural that he should hear it."Lilias! Lilias!" he answered.  "Lilias! where are you?""In the garden," it came back like a sound from a golden flute.  "Inthe garden!"And then the dream ended.  But he did not awaken.  He slept soundly andsweetly all through the lovely night.  When he did awake at last it wasbrilliant morning and a servant was standing staring at him.  He was anItalian servant and was accustomed, as all the servants of the villawere, to accepting without question any strange thing his foreignmaster might do.  No one ever knew when he would go out or come in orwhere he would choose to sleep or if he would roam about the garden orlie in the boat on the lake all night.  The man held a salver with someletters on it and he waited quietly until Mr. Craven took them.  Whenhe had gone away Mr. Craven sat a few moments holding them in his handand looking at the lake.  His strange calm was still upon him andsomething more--a lightness as if the cruel thing which had been donehad not happened as he thought--as if something had changed.  He wasremembering the dream--the real--real dream."In the garden!" he said, wondering at himself.  "In the garden! Butthe door is locked and the key is buried deep."When he glanced at the letters a few minutes later he saw that the onelying at the top of the rest was an English letter and came fromYorkshire.  It was directed in a plain woman's hand but it was not ahand he knew.  He opened it, scarcely thinking of the writer, but thefirst words attracted his attention at once."Dear Sir:I am Susan Sowerby that made bold to speak to you once on the moor.  Itwas about Miss Mary I spoke.  I will make bold to speak again.  Please,sir, I would come home if I was you.  I think you would be glad to comeand--if you will excuse me, sir--I think your lady would ask you tocome if she was here.                      Your obedient servant,                      Susan Sowerby."Mr. Craven read the letter twice before he put it back in its envelope.He kept thinking about the dream."I will go back to Misselthwaite," he said.  "Yes, I'll go at once."And he went through the garden to the villa and ordered Pitcher toprepare for his return to England.In a few days he was in Yorkshire again, and on his long railroadjourney he found himself thinking of his boy as he had never thought inall the ten years past.  During those years he had only wished toforget him.  Now, though he did not intend to think about him, memoriesof him constantly drifted into his mind.  He remembered the black dayswhen he had raved like a madman because the child was alive and themother was dead.  He had refused to see it, and when he had gone tolook at it at last it had been, such a weak wretched thing thateveryone had been sure it would die in a few days.  But to the surpriseof those who took care of it the days passed and it lived and theneveryone believed it would be a deformed and crippled creature.He had not meant to be a bad father, but he had not felt like a fatherat all.  He had supplied doctors and nurses and luxuries, but he hadshrunk from the mere thought of the boy and had buried himself in hisown misery.  The first time after a year's absence he returned toMisselthwaite and the small miserable looking thing languidly andindifferently lifted to his face the great gray eyes with black lashesround them, so like and yet so horribly unlike the happy eyes he hadadored, he could not bear the sight of them and turned away pale asdeath.  After that he scarcely ever saw him except when he was asleep,and all he knew of him was that he was a confirmed invalid, with avicious, hysterical, half-insane temper.  He could only be kept fromfuries dangerous to himself by being given his own way in every detail.All this was not an uplifting thing to recall, but as the train whirledhim through mountain passes and golden plains the man who was "comingalive" began to think in a new way and he thought long and steadily anddeeply."Perhaps I have been all wrong for ten years," he said to himself."Ten years is a long time.  It may be too late to do anything--quitetoo late.  What have I been thinking of!"Of course this was the wrong Magic--to begin by saying "too late." EvenColin could have told him that.  But he knew nothing of Magic--eitherblack or white.  This he had yet to learn.  He wondered if SusanSowerby had taken courage and written to him only because the motherlycreature had realized that the boy was much worse--was fatally ill.  Ifhe had not been under the spell of the curious calmness which had takenpossession of him he would have been more wretched than ever.  But thecalm had brought a sort of courage and hope with it.  Instead of givingway to thoughts of the worst he actually found he was trying to believein better things."Could it be possible that she sees that I may be able to do him goodand control him?" he thought.  "I will go and see her on my way toMisselthwaite."But when on his way across the moor he stopped the carriage at thecottage, seven or eight children who were playing about gathered in agroup and bobbing seven or eight friendly and polite curtsies told himthat their mother had gone to the other side of the moor early in themorning to help a woman who had a new baby.  "Our Dickon," theyvolunteered, was over at the Manor working in one of the gardens wherehe went several days each week.Mr. Craven looked over the collection of sturdy little bodies and roundred-cheeked faces, each one grinning in its own particular way, and heawoke to the fact that they were a healthy likable lot.  He smiled attheir friendly grins and took a golden sovereign from his pocket andgave it to "our 'Lizabeth Ellen" who was the oldest."If you divide that into eight parts there will be half a crown foreach of, you," he said.Then amid grins and chuckles and bobbing of curtsies he drove away,leaving ecstasy and nudging elbows and little jumps of joy behind.The drive across the wonderfulness of the moor was a soothing thing.Why did it seem to give him a sense of homecoming which he had beensure he could never feel again--that sense of the beauty of land andsky and purple bloom of distance and a warming of the heart at drawing,nearer to the great old house which had held those of his blood for sixhundred years? How he had driven away from it the last time, shudderingto think of its closed rooms and the boy lying in the four-posted bedwith the brocaded hangings.  Was it possible that perhaps he might findhim changed a little for the better and that he might overcome hisshrinking from him?  How real that dream had been--how wonderful andclear the voice which called back to him, "In the garden--In thegarden!""I will try to find the key," he said.  "I will try to open the door.I must--though I don't know why."When he arrived at the Manor the servants who received him with theusual ceremony noticed that he looked better and that he did not go tothe remote rooms where he usually lived attended by Pitcher.  He wentinto the library and sent for Mrs. Medlock.  She came to him somewhatexcited and curious and flustered."How is Master Colin, Medlock?" he inquired.  "Well, sir," Mrs. Medlockanswered, "he's--he's different, in a manner of speaking.""Worse?" he suggested.Mrs. Medlock really was flushed."Well, you see, sir," she tried to explain, "neither Dr. Craven, northe nurse, nor me can exactly make him out.""Why is that?""To tell the truth, sir, Master Colin might be better and he might bechanging for the worse.  His appetite, sir, is past understanding--andhis ways--""Has he become more--more peculiar?" her master, asked, knitting hisbrows anxiously."That's it, sir.  He's growing very peculiar--when you compare him withwhat he used to be.  He used to eat nothing and then suddenly he beganto eat something enormous--and then he stopped again all at once andthe meals were sent back just as they used to be.  You never knew, sir,perhaps, that out of doors he never would let himself be taken.  Thethings we've gone through to get him to go out in his chair would leavea body trembling like a leaf.  He'd throw himself into such a statethat Dr. Craven said he couldn't be responsible for forcing him.  Well,sir, just without warning--not long after one of his worst tantrums hesuddenly insisted on being taken out every day by Miss Mary and SusanSowerby's boy Dickon that could push his chair.  He took a fancy toboth Miss Mary and Dickon, and Dickon brought his tame animals, and, ifyou'll credit it, sir, out of doors he will stay from morning untilnight.""How does he look?" was the next question."If he took his food natural, sir, you'd think he was putting onflesh--but we're afraid it may be a sort of bloat.  He laughs sometimesin a queer way when he's alone with Miss Mary.  He never used to laughat all.  Dr. Craven is coming to see you at once, if you'll allow him.He never was as puzzled in his life.""Where is Master Colin now?" Mr. Craven asked."In the garden, sir.  He's always in the garden--though not a humancreature is allowed to go near for fear they'll look at him."Mr. Craven scarcely heard her last words."In the garden," he said, and after he had sent Mrs. Medlock away hestood and repeated it again and again.  "In the garden!"He had to make an effort to bring himself back to the place he wasstanding in and when he felt he was on earth again he turned and wentout of the room.  He took his way, as Mary had done, through the doorin the shrubbery and among the laurels and the fountain beds.  Thefountain was playing now and was encircled by beds of brilliant autumnflowers.  He crossed the lawn and turned into the Long Walk by theivied walls.  He did not walk quickly, but slowly, and his eyes were onthe path.  He felt as if he were being drawn back to the place he hadso long forsaken, and he did not know why.  As he drew near to it hisstep became still more slow.  He knew where the door was even thoughthe ivy hung thick over it--but he did not know exactly where itlay--that buried key.So he stopped and stood still, looking about him, and almost the momentafter he had paused he started and listened--asking himself if he werewalking in a dream.The ivy hung thick over the door, the key was buried under the shrubs,no human being had passed that portal for ten lonely years--and yetinside the garden there were sounds.  They were the sounds of runningscuffling feet seeming to chase round and round under the trees, theywere strange sounds of lowered suppressed voices--exclamations andsmothered joyous cries.  It seemed actually like the laughter of youngthings, the uncontrollable laughter of children who were trying not tobe heard but who in a moment or so--as their excitement mounted--wouldburst forth.  What in heaven's name was he dreaming of--what inheaven's name did he hear? Was he losing his reason and thinking heheard things which were not for human ears? Was it that the far clearvoice had meant?And then the moment came, the uncontrollable moment when the soundsforgot to hush themselves.  The feet ran faster and faster--they werenearing the garden door--there was quick strong young breathing and awild outbreak of laughing shows which could not be contained--and thedoor in the wall was flung wide open, the sheet of ivy swinging back,and a boy burst through it at full speed and, without seeing theoutsider, dashed almost into his arms.Mr. Craven had extended them just in time to save him from falling as aresult of his unseeing dash against him, and when he held him away tolook at him in amazement at his being there he truly gasped for breath.He was a tall boy and a handsome one.  He was glowing with life and hisrunning had sent splendid color leaping to his face.  He threw thethick hair back from his forehead and lifted a pair of strange grayeyes--eyes full of boyish laughter and rimmed with black lashes like afringe.  It was the eyes which made Mr. Craven gasp for breath."Who--What? Who!" he stammered.This was not what Colin had expected--this was not what he had planned.He had never thought of such a meeting.  And yet to come dashingout--winning a race--perhaps it was even better.  He drew himself up tohis very tallest.  Mary, who had been running with him and had dashedthrough the door too, believed that he managed to make himself looktaller than he had ever looked before--inches taller."Father," he said, "I'm Colin.  You can't believe it.  I scarcely canmyself.  I'm Colin."Like Mrs. Medlock, he did not understand what his father meant when hesaid hurriedly:"In the garden! In the garden!""Yes," hurried on Colin.  "It was the garden that did it--and Mary andDickon and the creatures--and the Magic.  No one knows.  We kept it totell you when you came.  I'm well, I can beat Mary in a race.  I'mgoing to be an athlete."He said it all so like a healthy boy--his face flushed, his wordstumbling over each other in his eagerness--that Mr. Craven's soul shookwith unbelieving joy.Colin put out his hand and laid it on his father's arm."Aren't you glad, Father?" he ended.  "Aren't you glad?  I'm going tolive forever and ever and ever!"Mr. Craven put his hands on both the boy's shoulders and held himstill.  He knew he dared not even try to speak for a moment."Take me into the garden, my boy," he said at last.  "And tell me allabout it."And so they led him in.The place was a wilderness of autumn gold and purple and violet blueand flaming scarlet and on every side were sheaves of late liliesstanding together--lilies which were white or white and ruby.  Heremembered well when the first of them had been planted that just atthis season of the year their late glories should reveal themselves.Late roses climbed and hung and clustered and the sunshine deepeningthe hue of the yellowing trees made one feel that one, stood in anembowered temple of gold.  The newcomer stood silent just as thechildren had done when they came into its grayness.  He looked roundand round."I thought it would be dead," he said."Mary thought so at first," said Colin.  "But it came alive."Then they sat down under their tree--all but Colin, who wanted to standwhile he told the story.It was the strangest thing he had ever heard, Archibald Craven thought,as it was poured forth in headlong boy fashion.  Mystery and Magic andwild creatures, the weird midnight meeting--the coming of thespring--the passion of insulted pride which had dragged the young Rajahto his feet to defy old Ben Weatherstaff to his face.  The oddcompanionship, the play acting, the great secret so carefully kept.The listener laughed until tears came into his eyes and sometimes tearscame into his eyes when he was not laughing.  The Athlete, theLecturer, the Scientific Discoverer was a laughable, lovable, healthyyoung human thing."Now," he said at the end of the story, "it need not be a secret anymore.  I dare say it will frighten them nearly into fits when they seeme--but I am never going to get into the chair again.  I shall walkback with you, Father--to the house."Ben Weatherstaff's duties rarely took him away from the gardens, but onthis occasion he made an excuse to carry some vegetables to the kitchenand being invited into the servants' hall by Mrs. Medlock to drink aglass of beer he was on the spot--as he had hoped to be--when the mostdramatic event Misselthwaite Manor had seen during the presentgeneration actually took place.  One of the windows looking upon thecourtyard gave also a glimpse of the lawn.  Mrs. Medlock, knowing Benhad come from the gardens, hoped that he might have caught sight of hismaster and even by chance of his meeting with Master Colin."Did you see either of them, Weatherstaff?" she asked.Ben took his beer-mug from his mouth and wiped his lips with the backof his hand."Aye, that I did," he answered with a shrewdly significant air."Both of them?" suggested Mrs. Medlock."Both of 'em," returned Ben Weatherstaff.  "Thank ye kindly, ma'am, Icould sup up another mug of it.""Together?" said Mrs. Medlock, hastily overfilling his beer-mug in herexcitement."Together, ma'am," and Ben gulped down half of his new mug at one gulp."Where was Master Colin? How did he look? What did they say to eachother?""I didna' hear that," said Ben, "along o' only bein' on th' stepladderlookin, over th' wall.  But I'll tell thee this.  There's been thingsgoin' on outside as you house people knows nowt about.  An' what tha'llfind out tha'll find out soon."And it was not two minutes before he swallowed the last of his beer andwaved his mug solemnly toward the window which took in through theshrubbery a piece of the lawn."Look there," he said, "if tha's curious.  Look what's comin' acrossth' grass."When Mrs. Medlock looked she threw up her hands and gave a littleshriek and every man and woman servant within hearing bolted across theservants' hall and stood looking through the window with their eyesalmost starting out of their heads.Across the lawn came the Master of Misselthwaite and he looked as manyof them had never seen him.  And by his, side with his head up in theair and his eyes full of laughter walked as strongly and steadily asany boy in Yorkshire--Master Colin.End of Project Gutenberg's The Secret Garden, by Frances Hodgson Burnett*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SECRET GARDEN ******** This file should be named 113.txt or 113.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/1/113/Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Perfect Wagnerite, by George Bernard ShawThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: The Perfect Wagnerite       A Commentary on the Niblung's RingAuthor: George Bernard ShawPosting Date: September 14, 2008 [EBook #1487]Release Date: October, 1998[Last updated: March 26, 2017]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PERFECT WAGNERITE ***Produced by Dianne BeanTHE PERFECT WAGNERITE: A COMMENTARY ON THE NIBLUNG'S RINGby Bernard ShawPreface to the First German EditionIn reading through this German version of my book in the Manuscript ofmy friend Siegfried Trebitsch, I was struck by the inadequacy of themerely negative explanation given by me of the irrelevance of NightFalls On The Gods to the general philosophic scheme of The Ring. Thatexplanation is correct as far as it goes; but, put as I put it, it nowseems to me to suggest that the operatic character of Night Falls OnThe Gods was the result of indifference or forgetfulness produced by thelapse of twenty-five years between the first projection of the work andits completion. Now it is clear that in whatever other ways Wagner mayhave changed, he never became careless and he never became indifferent.I have therefore inserted a new section in which I show how therevolutionary history of Western Europe from the Liberal explosion of1848 to the confused attempt at a socialist, military, and municipaladministration in Paris in 1871 (that is to say, from the beginning ofThe Niblung's Ring by Wagner to the long-delayed completion of NightFalls On The Gods), demonstrated practically that the passing away ofthe present order was going to be a much more complicated business thanit appears in Wagner's Siegfried. I have therefore interpolated a newchapter which will perhaps induce some readers of the original Englishtext to read the book again in German.For some time to come, indeed, I shall have to refer English readers tothis German edition as the most complete in existence.My obligation to Herr Trebitsch for making me a living German authorinstead of merely a translated English one is so great that I am boundto point out that he is not responsible for my views or Wagner's, andthat it is as an artist and a man of letters, and not as a propagandist,that he is conveying to the German speaking peoples political criticismswhich occasionally reflect on contemporary authorities with a Europeanreputation for sensitiveness. And as the very sympathy which makes histranslations so excellent may be regarded with suspicion, let me hastento declare I am bound to Germany by the ties that hold my nature moststrongly. Not that I like the average German: nobody does, even in hisown country. But then the average man is not popular anywhere; and asno German considers himself an average one, each reader will, as anexceptional man, sympathize with my dislike of the common herd. And ifI cannot love the typical modern German, I can at least pity andunderstand him. His worst fault is that he cannot see that it ispossible to have too much of a good thing. Being convinced that duty,industry, education, loyalty, patriotism and respectability aregood things (and I am magnanimous enough to admit that they are notaltogether bad things when taken in strict moderation at the righttime and in the right place), he indulges in them on all occasionsshamelessly and excessively. He commits hideous crimes when crime ispresented to him as part of his duty; his craze for work is more ruinousthan the craze for drink; when he can afford secondary education for hissons you find three out of every five of them with their minds lamedfor life by examinations which only a thoroughly wooden head could gothrough with impunity; and if a king is patriotic and respectable (fewkings are) he puts up statues to him and exalts him above Charlemagneand Henry the Fowler. And when he meets a man of genius, heinstinctively insults him, starves him, and, if possible, imprisons andkills him.Now I do not pretend to be perfect myself. Heaven knows I have tostruggle hard enough every day with what the Germans call myhigher impulses. I know too well the temptation to be moral, to beself-sacrificing, to be loyal and patriotic, to be respectable andwell-spoken of. But I wrestle with it and--as far as human fraility willallow--conquer it, whereas the German abandons himself to it withoutscruple or reflection, and is actually proud of his pious intemperanceand self-indulgence. Nothing will cure him of this mania. It may endin starvation, crushing taxation, suppression of all freedom to trynew social experiments and reform obsolete institutions, in snobbery,jobbery, idolatry, and an omnipresent tyranny in which his doctor andhis schoolmaster, his lawyer and his priest, coerce him worse thanany official or drill sergeant: no matter: it is respectable, says theGerman, therefore it must be good, and cannot be carried too far;and everybody who rebels against it must be a rascal. Even theSocial-Democrats in Germany differ from the rest only in carryingacademic orthodoxy beyond human endurance--beyond even German endurance.I am a Socialist and a Democrat myself, the hero of a hundred platforms,one of the leaders of the most notable Socialist organizations inEngland. I am as conspicuous in English Socialism as Bebel is in GermanSocialism; but do you suppose that the German Social-Democrats tolerateme? Not a bit of it. I have begged again and again to be taken to thebosom of my German comrades. I have pleaded that the Super-Proletariansof all lands should unite. I have pointed out that the GermanSocial-Democratic party has done nothing at its Congresses for the lastten years except the things I told them to do ten years before, and thatits path is white with the bones of the Socialist superstitions I and myfellow Fabians have slain. Useless. They do not care a rap whether Iam a Socialist or not. All they want to know is; Am I orthodox? Am Icorrect in my revolutionary views? Am I reverent to the revolutionaryauthorities? Because I am a genuine free-thinker they look at me as apoliceman looks at a midnight prowler or as a Berlin bourgeois looksat a suspicious foreigner. They ask "Do you believe that Marx wasomniscient and infallible; that Engels was his prophet; that Bebel andSinger are his inspired apostles; and that Das Kapital is the Bible?"Hastening in my innocence to clear myself of what I regard as anaccusation of credulity and ignorance, I assure them earnestly thatI know ten times as much of economics and a hundred times as much ofpractical administration as Marx did; that I knew Engels personally andrather liked him as a witty and amiable old 1848 veteran who despisedmodern Socialism; that I regard Bebel and Singer as men of like passionswith myself, but considerably less advanced; and that I read Das Kapitalin the year 1882 or thereabouts, and still consider it one of themost important books of the nineteenth century because of its powerof changing the minds of those who read it, in spite of its unsoundcapitalist economics, its parade of quotations from books which theauthor had either not read or not understood, its affectation ofalgebraic formulas, and its general attempt to disguise a masterpieceof propagandist journalism and prophetic invective as a drily scientifictreatise of the sort that used to impose on people in 1860, when anybook that pretended to be scientific was accepted as a Bible. In thosedays Darwin and Helmholtz were the real fathers of the Church; andnobody would listen to religion, poetry or rhetoric; so that evenSocialism had to call itself "scientific," and predict the date of therevolution, as if it were a comet, by calculations founded on "historiclaws."To my amazement these reasonable remarks were received as hideousblasphemies; none of the party papers were allowed to print any wordof mine; the very Revisionists themselves found that the scandal of myheresy damaged them more than my support aided them; and I found myselfan outcast from German Social-Democracy at the moment when, thanks toTrebitsch, the German bourgeoisie and nobility began to smile on me,seduced by the pleasure of playing with fire, and perhaps by AgnesSorma's acting as Candida.Thus you may see that when a German, by becoming a Social-Democrat,throws off all the bonds of convention, and stands free from allallegiance to established religion, law, order, patriotism, andlearning, he promptly uses his freedom to put on a headier set ofchains; expels anti-militarists with the blood-thirstiest martialanti-foreign ardor; and gives the Kaiser reason to thank heaven that hewas born in the comparative freedom and Laodicean tolerance of Kingship,and not in the Calvinistic bigotry and pedantry of Marxism.Why, then, you may ask, do I say that I am bound to Germany by the tiesthat hold my nature most strongly? Very simply because I should haveperished of despair in my youth but for the world created for me by thatgreat German dynasty which began with Bach and will perhaps not end withRichard Strauss. Do not suppose for a moment that I learnt my art fromEnglish men of letters. True, they showed me how to handle Englishwords; but if I had known no more than that, my works would neverhave crossed the Channel. My masters were the masters of a universallanguage: they were, to go from summit to summit, Bach, Handel, Haydn,Mozart, Beethoven and Wagner. Had the Germans understood any of thesemen, they would have hanged them. Fortunately they did not understandthem, and therefore only neglected them until they were dead, afterwhich they learnt to dance to their tunes with an easy conscience.For their sakes Germany stands consecrated as the Holy Land of thecapitalist age, just as Italy, for its painters' sakes, is the Holy Landof the early unvulgarized Renascence; France, for its builders'sakes, of the age of Christian chivalry and faith; and Greece, for itssculptors' sakes, of the Periclean age.These Holy Lands are my fatherlands: in them alone am I truly at home:all my work is but to bring the whole world under this sanctification.And so, O worthy, respectable, dutiful, patriotic, brave, industriousGerman reader, you who used to fear only God and your own conscience,and now fear nothing at all, here is my book for you; and--in allsincerity--much good may it do you!London, 23rd. October 1907.PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITIONThe preparation of a Second Edition of this booklet is quite the mostunexpected literary task that has ever been set me. When it firstappeared I was ungrateful enough to remonstrate with its publisher forprinting, as I thought, more copies than the most sanguine Wagneritecould ever hope to sell. But the result proved that exactly one personbuys a copy on every day in the year, including Sundays; and so, in theprocess of the suns, a reprint has become necessary.Save a few verbal slips of no importance, I have found nothing to alterin this edition. As usual, the only protests the book has elicited areprotests, not against the opinions it expresses, but against the factsit records. There are people who cannot bear to be told that theirhero was associated with a famous Anarchist in a rebellion; that hewas proclaimed as "wanted" by the police; that he wrote revolutionarypamphlets; and that his picture of Niblunghome under the reign ofAlberic is a poetic vision of unregulated industrial capitalism as itwas made known in Germany in the middle of the nineteenth century byEngels's Condition of the Laboring classes in England. They franticallydeny these facts, and then declare that I have connected them withWagner in a paroxysm of senseless perversity. I am sorry I have hurtthem; and I appeal to charitable publishers to bring out a new life ofWagner, which shall describe him as a court musician of unquestionedfashion and orthodoxy, and a pillar of the most exclusive Dresdencircles. Such a work, would, I believe, have a large sale, and be readwith satisfaction and reassurance by many lovers of Wagner's music.As to my much demurred-to relegation of Night Falls On The Gods tothe category of grand opera, I have nothing to add or withdraw. Such aclassification is to me as much a matter of fact as the Dresden risingor the police proclamation; but I shall not pretend that it is a matterof such fact as everybody's judgment can grapple with. People who prefergrand opera to serious music-drama naturally resent my placing a verygrand opera below a very serious music-drama. The ordinary lover ofShakespeare would equally demur to my placing his popular catchpennyplays, of which As You Like It is an avowed type, below trueShakespearean plays like Measure for Measure. I cannot help that.Popular dramas and operas may have overwhelming merits as enchantingmake-believes; but a poet's sincerest vision of the world must alwaystake precedence of his prettiest fool's paradise.As many English Wagnerites seem to be still under the impression thatWagner composed Rienzi in his youth, Tannhauser and Lohengrin in hismiddle age, and The Ring in his later years, may I again remind themthat The Ring was the result of a political convulsion which occurredwhen Wagner was only thirty-six, and that the poem was completed whenhe was forty, with thirty more years of work before him? It is as mucha first essay in political philosophy as Die Feen is a first essay inromantic opera. The attempt to recover its spirit twenty years later,when the music of Night Falls On The Gods was added, was an attempt torevive the barricades of Dresden in the Temple of the Grail. Only thosewho have never had any political enthusiasms to survive can believe thatsuch an attempt could succeed. G. B. S.      London, 1901Preface to the First EditionThis book is a commentary on The Ring of the Niblungs, Wagner's chiefwork. I offer it to those enthusiastic admirers of Wagner who are unableto follow his ideas, and do not in the least understand the dilemma ofWotan, though they are filled with indignation at the irreverence of thePhilistines who frankly avow that they find the remarks of the god toooften tedious and nonsensical. Now to be devoted to Wagner merely as adog is devoted to his master, sharing a few elementary ideas, appetitesand emotions with him, and, for the rest, reverencing his superioritywithout understanding it, is no true Wagnerism. Yet nothing betteris possible without a stock of ideas common to master and disciple.Unfortunately, the ideas of the revolutionary Wagner of 1848 are taughtneither by the education nor the experience of English and Americangentlemen-amateurs, who are almost always political mugwumps, and hardlyever associate with revolutionists. The earlier attempts to translatehis numerous pamphlets and essays into English, resulted in ludicrousmixtures of pure nonsense with the absurdest distorsions of his ideasinto the ideas of the translators. We now have a translation which is amasterpiece of interpretation and an eminent addition to our literature;but that is not because its author, Mr. Ashton Ellis, knows the Germandictionary better than his predecessors. He is simply in possession ofWagner's ideas, which were to them inconceivable.All I pretend to do in this book is to impart the ideas which are mostlikely to be lacking in the conventional Englishman's equipment. I cameby them myself much as Wagner did, having learnt more about musicthan about anything else in my youth, and sown my political wild oatssubsequently in the revolutionary school. This combination is not commonin England; and as I seem, so far, to be the only publicly articulateresult of it, I venture to add my commentary to what has already beenwritten by musicians who are no revolutionists, and revolutionists whoare no musicians. G. B. S.     Preliminary Encouragements     The Ring of the Niblungs     The Rhine Gold     Wagner as Revolutionist     The Valkyries     Siegfried     Siegfried as Protestant     Night Falls On The Gods     Why He Changed His Mind     Wagner's Own Explanation     The Music of The Ring     The Old and the New Music     The Nineteenth Century     The Music of the Future     BayreuthTHE PERFECT WAGNERITEPRELIMINARY ENCOURAGEMENTSA few of these will be welcome to the ordinary citizen visiting thetheatre to satisfy his curiosity, or his desire to be in the fashion,by witnessing a representation of Richard Wagner's famous Ring of theNiblungs.First, The Ring, with all its gods and giants and dwarfs, itswater-maidens and Valkyries, its wishing-cap, magic ring, enchantedsword, and miraculous treasure, is a drama of today, and not of a remoteand fabulous antiquity. It could not have been written before the secondhalf of the nineteenth century, because it deals with events which wereonly then consummating themselves. Unless the spectator recognizes init an image of the life he is himself fighting his way through, it mustneeds appear to him a monstrous development of the Christmas pantomimes,spun out here and there into intolerable lengths of dull conversation bythe principal baritone. Fortunately, even from this point of view, TheRing is full of extraordinarily attractive episodes, both orchestral anddramatic. The nature music alone--music of river and rainbow, fire andforest--is enough to bribe people with any love of the country in themto endure the passages of political philosophy in the sure hope of aprettier page to come. Everybody, too, can enjoy the love music, thehammer and anvil music, the clumping of the giants, the tune of theyoung woodsman's horn, the trilling of the bird, the dragon music andnightmare music and thunder and lightning music, the profusion of simplemelody, the sensuous charm of the orchestration: in short, the vastextent of common ground between The Ring and the ordinary music we usefor play and pleasure. Hence it is that the four separate music-playsof which it is built have become popular throughout Europe as operas. Weshall presently see that one of them, Night Falls On The Gods, actuallyis an opera.It is generally understood, however, that there is an inner ring ofsuperior persons to whom the whole work has a most urgent and searchingphilosophic and social significance. I profess to be such a superiorperson; and I write this pamphlet for the assistance of those who wishto be introduced to the work on equal terms with that inner circle ofadepts.My second encouragement is addressed to modest citizens who may supposethemselves to be disqualified from enjoying The Ring by their technicalignorance of music. They may dismiss all such misgivings speedily andconfidently. If the sound of music has any power to move them, they willfind that Wagner exacts nothing further. There is not a single bar of"classical music" in The Ring--not a note in it that has any other pointthan the single direct point of giving musical expression to the drama.In classical music there are, as the analytical programs tell us, firstsubjects and second subjects, free fantasias, recapitulations, andcodas; there are fugues, with counter-subjects, strettos, and pedalpoints; there are passacaglias on ground basses, canons ad hypodiapente,and other ingenuities, which have, after all, stood or fallen by theirprettiness as much as the simplest folk-tune. Wagner is never driving atanything of this sort any more than Shakespeare in his plays is drivingat such ingenuities of verse-making as sonnets, triolets, and the like.And this is why he is so easy for the natural musician who has had noacademic teaching. The professors, when Wagner's music is played tothem, exclaim at once "What is this? Is it aria, or recitative? Is thereno cabaletta to it--not even a full close? Why was that discord notprepared; and why does he not resolve it correctly? How dare he indulgein those scandalous and illicit transitions into a key that has notone note in common with the key he has just left? Listen to those falserelations! What does he want with six drums and eight horns when Mozartworked miracles with two of each? The man is no musician." The laymanneither knows nor cares about any of these things. If Wagner were toturn aside from his straightforward dramatic purpose to propitiate theprofessors with correct exercises in sonata form, his music would atonce become unintelligible to the unsophisticated spectator, upon whomthe familiar and dreaded "classical" sensation would descend like theinfluenza. Nothing of the kind need be dreaded. The unskilled, untaughtmusician may approach Wagner boldly; for there is no possibility of amisunderstanding between them: The Ring music is perfectly single andsimple. It is the adept musician of the old school who has everything tounlearn: and him I leave, unpitied, to his fate.THE RING OF THE NIBLUNGSThe Ring consists of four plays, intended to be performed on foursuccessive evenings, entitled The Rhine Gold (a prologue to the otherthree), The Valkyries, Siegfried, and Night Falls On The Gods; or, inthe original German, Das Rheingold, Die Walkure, Siegfried, and DieGotterdammerung.THE RHINE GOLDLet me assume for a moment that you are a young and good-looking woman.Try to imagine yourself in that character at Klondyke five years ago.The place is teeming with gold. If you are content to leave the goldalone, as the wise leave flowers without plucking them, enjoying withperfect naivete its color and glitter and preciousness, no human beingwill ever be the worse for your knowledge of it; and whilst you remainin that frame of mind the golden age will endure.Now suppose a man comes along: a man who has no sense of the goldenage, nor any power of living in the present: a man with common desires,cupidities, ambitions, just like most of the men you know. Suppose youreveal to that man the fact that if he will only pluck this gold up,and turn it into money, millions of men, driven by the invisible whipof hunger, will toil underground and overground night and day to pileup more and more gold for him until he is master of the world! You willfind that the prospect will not tempt him so much as you might imagine,because it involves some distasteful trouble to himself to start with,and because there is something else within his reach involving nodistasteful toil, which he desires more passionately; and that isyourself. So long as he is preoccupied with love of you, the gold, andall that it implies, will escape him: the golden age will endure. Notuntil he forswears love will he stretch out his hand to the gold, andfound the Plutonic empire for himself. But the choice between love andgold may not rest altogether with him. He may be an ugly, ungracious,unamiable person, whose affections may seem merely ludicrous anddespicable to you. In that case, you may repulse him, and most bitterlyhumiliate and disappoint him. What is left to him then but to curse thelove he can never win, and turn remorselessly to the gold? With that,he will make short work of your golden age, and leave you lamenting itslost thoughtlessness and sweetness.In due time the gold of Klondyke will find its way to the great citiesof the world. But the old dilemma will keep continually reproducingitself. The man who will turn his back on love, and upon all thefruitful it, and will set himself single-heartedly to gather gold in anexultant dream of wielding its Plutonic powers, will find the treasureyielding quickly to his touch. But few men will make this sacrificevoluntarily. Not until the Plutonic power is so strongly set up that thehigher human impulses are suppressed as rebellious, and even the mereappetites are denied, starved, and insulted when they cannot purchasetheir satisfaction with gold, are the energetic spirits driven to buildtheir lives upon riches. How inevitable that course has become to us isplain enough to those who have the power of understanding what they seeas they look at the plutocratic societies of our modern capitals.First SceneHere, then, is the subject of the first scene of The Rhine Gold. Asyou sit waiting for the curtain to rise, you suddenly catch the boomingground-tone of a mighty river. It becomes plainer, clearer: you getnearer to the surface, and catch the green light and the flights ofbubbles. Then the curtain goes up and you see what you heard--the depthsof the Rhine, with three strange fairy fishes, half water-maidens,singing and enjoying themselves exuberantly. They are not singingbarcarolles or ballads about the Lorely and her fated lovers, but simplytrolling any nonsense that comes into their heads in time to the dancingof the water and the rhythm of their swimming. It is the golden age; andthe attraction of this spot for the Rhine maidens is a lump of the Rhinegold, which they value, in an entirely uncommercial way, for its bodilybeauty and splendor. Just at present it is eclipsed, because the sun isnot striking down through the water.Presently there comes a poor devil of a dwarf stealing along theslippery rocks of the river bed, a creature with energy enough to makehim strong of body and fierce of passion, but with a brutish narrownessof intelligence and selfishness of imagination: too stupid to see thathis own welfare can only be compassed as part of the welfare of theworld, too full of brute force not to grab vigorously at his own gain.Such dwarfs are quite common in London. He comes now with a fruitfulimpulse in him, in search of what he lacks in himself, beauty, lightnessof heart, imagination, music. The Rhine maidens, representing all theseto him, fill him with hope and longing; and he never considers that hehas nothing to offer that they could possibly desire, being by naturallimitation incapable of seeing anything from anyone else's point ofview. With perfect simplicity, he offers himself as a sweetheart tothem. But they are thoughtless, elemental, only half real things, muchlike modern young ladies. That the poor dwarf is repulsive to theirsense of physical beauty and their romantic conception of heroism, thathe is ugly and awkward, greedy and ridiculous, disposes for them of hisclaim to live and love. They mock him atrociously, pretending to fall inlove with him at first sight, and then slipping away and making game ofhim, heaping ridicule and disgust on the poor wretch until he is besidehimself with mortification and rage. They forget him when the waterbegins to glitter in the sun, and the gold to reflect its glory. Theybreak into ecstatic worship of their treasure; and though they know theparable of Klondyke quite well, they have no fear that the gold will bewrenched away by the dwarf, since it will yield to no one who has notforsworn love for it, and it is in pursuit of love that he has come tothem. They forget that they have poisoned that desire in him by theirmockery and denial of it, and that he now knows that life will give himnothing that he cannot wrest from it by the Plutonic power. It is justas if some poor, rough, vulgar, coarse fellow were to offer to take hispart in aristocratic society, and be snubbed into the knowledge thatonly as a millionaire could he ever hope to bring that society to hisfeet and buy himself a beautiful and refined wife. His choice is forcedon him. He forswears love as thousands of us forswear it every day; andin a moment the gold is in his grasp, and he disappears in the depths,leaving the water-fairies vainly screaming "Stop thief!" whilst theriver seems to plunge into darkness and sink from us as we rise to thecloud regions above.And now, what forces are there in the world to resist Alberic, ourdwarf, in his new character of sworn plutocrat? He is soon atwork wielding the power of the gold. For his gain, hordes of hisfellow-creatures are thenceforth condemned to slave miserably,overground and underground, lashed to their work by the invisible whipof starvation. They never see him, any more than the victims of our"dangerous trades" ever see the shareholders whose power is neverthelesseverywhere, driving them to destruction. The very wealth they createwith their labor becomes an additional force to impoverish them; for asfast as they make it it slips from their hands into the hands of theirmaster, and makes him mightier than ever. You can see the process foryourself in every civilized country today, where millions of people toilin want and disease to heap up more wealth for our Alberics, laying upnothing for themselves, except sometimes horrible and agonizing diseaseand the certainty of premature death. All this part of the story isfrightfully real, frightfully present, frightfully modern; and itseffects on our social life are so ghastly and ruinous that we no longerknow enough of happiness to be discomposed by it. It is only thepoet, with his vision of what life might be, to whom these things areunendurable. If we were a race of poets we would make an end of thembefore the end of this miserable century. Being a race of moral dwarfsinstead, we think them highly respectable, comfortable and proper, andallow them to breed and multiply their evil in all directions. If therewere no higher power in the world to work against Alberic, the end of itwould be utter destruction.Such a force there is, however; and it is called Godhead. The mysteriousthing we call life organizes itself into all living shapes, bird, beast,beetle and fish, rising to the human marvel in cunning dwarfs andin laborious muscular giants, capable, these last, of enduringtoil, willing to buy love and life, not with suicidal curses andrenunciations, but with patient manual drudgery in the service of higherpowers. And these higher powers are called into existence by the sameself-organization of life still more wonderfully into rare persons whomay by comparison be called gods, creatures capable of thought, whoseaims extend far beyond the satisfaction of their bodily appetitesand personal affections, since they perceive that it is only by theestablishment of a social order founded on common bonds of moral faiththat the world can rise from mere savagery. But how is this order to beset up by Godhead in a world of stupid giants, since these thoughtlessones pursue only their narrower personal ends and can by no meansunderstand the aims of a god? Godhead, face to face with Stupidity, mustcompromise. Unable to enforce on the world the pure law of thought, itmust resort to a mechanical law of commandments to be enforced bybrute punishments and the destruction of the disobedient. And howevercarefully these laws are framed to represent the highest thoughts of theframers at the moment of their promulgation, before a day has elapsedthat thought has grown and widened by the ceaseless evolution of life;and lo! yesterday's law already fallen out with today's thought. Yet ifthe high givers of that law themselves set the example of breakingit before it is a week old, they destroy all its authority with theirsubjects, and so break the weapon they have forged to rule them fortheir own good. They must therefore maintain at all costs the sanctityof the law, even when it has ceased to represent their thought; so thatat last they get entangled in a network of ordinances which they nolonger believe in, and yet have made so sacred by custom and so terribleby punishment, that they cannot themselves escape from them. ThusGodhead's resort to law finally costs it half its integrity--as ifa spiritual king, to gain temporal power, had plucked out one of hiseyes--and it finally begins secretly to long for the advent of somepower higher than itself which will destroy its artificial empire oflaw, and establish a true republic of free thought.This is by no means the only difficulty in the dominion of Law. Thebrute force for its execution must be purchased; and the mass of itssubjects must be persuaded to respect the authority which employs thisforce. But how is such respect to be implanted in them if they areunable to comprehend the thought of the lawgiver? Clearly, only byassociating the legislative power with such displays of splendor andmajesty as will impress their senses and awe their imaginations. The godturned lawgiver, in short, must be crowned Pontiff and King. Since hecannot be known to the common folk as their superior in wisdom, he mustbe known to them as their superior in riches, as the dweller in castles,the wearer of gold and purple, the eater of mighty feasts, the commanderof armies, and the wielder of powers of life and death, of salvationand damnation after death. Something may be done in this way withoutcorruption whilst the golden age still endures. Your gods may notprevail with the dwarfs; but they may go to these honest giants who willgive a day's work for a day's pay, and induce them to build for Godheada mighty fortress, complete with hall and chapel, tower and bell, forthe sake of the homesteads that will grow up in security round thatchurch-castle. This only, however, whilst the golden age lasts. Themoment the Plutonic power is let loose, and the loveless Alberic comesinto the field with his corrupting millions, the gods are face to facewith destruction; since Alberic, able with invisible hunger-whip toforce the labor of the dwarfs and to buy the services of the giants,can outshine all the temporal shows and splendors of the golden age,and make himself master of the world, unless the gods, with their biggerbrains, can capture his gold. This, the dilemma of the Church today,is the situation created by the exploit of Alberic in the depths of theRhine.Second SceneFrom the bed of the river we rise into cloudy regions, and finally comeout into the clear in a meadow, where Wotan, the god of gods, and hisconsort Fricka lie sleeping. Wotan, you will observe, has lost one eye;and you will presently learn that he plucked it out voluntarily as theprice to be paid for his alliance with Fricka, who in return has broughtto him as her dowry all the powers of Law. The meadow is on the brink ofa ravine, beyond which, towering on distant heights, stands Godhome, amighty castle, newly built as a house of state for the one-eyed god andhis all-ruling wife. Wotan has not yet seen this castle except in hisdreams: two giants have just built it for him whilst he slept; and thereality is before him for the first time when Fricka wakes him. In thatmajestic burg he is to rule with her and through her over the humblegiants, who have eyes to gape at the glorious castles their ownhands have built from his design, but no brains to design castles forthemselves, or to comprehend divinity. As a god, he is to be great,secure, and mighty; but he is also to be passionless, affectionless,wholly impartial; for Godhead, if it is to live with Law, must have noweaknesses, no respect for persons. All such sweet littlenesses must beleft to the humble stupid giants to make their toil sweet to them; andthe god must, after all, pay for Olympian power the same price the dwarfhas paid for Plutonic power.Wotan has forgotten this in his dreams of greatness. Not so Fricka. Whatshe is thinking of is this price that Wotan has consented to pay,in token whereof he has promised this day to hand over to the giantsFricka's sister, the goddess Freia, with her golden love-apples. WhenFricka reproaches Wotan with having selfishly forgotten this, she findsthat he, like herself, is not prepared to go through with his bargain,and that he is trusting to another great worldforce, the Lie (a EuropeanPower, as Lassalle said), to help him to trick the giants out of theirreward. But this force does not dwell in Wotan himself, but in another,a god over whom he has triumphed, one Loki, the god of Intellect,Argument, Imagination, Illusion, and Reason. Loki has promised todeliver him from his contract, and to cheat the giants for him; but hehas not arrived to keep his word: indeed, as Fricka bitterly pointsout, why should not the Lie fail Wotan, since such failure is the veryessence of him?The giants come soon enough; and Freia flies to Wotan for protectionagainst them. Their purposes are quite honest; and they have no doubtof the god's faith. There stands their part of the contract fulfilled,stone on stone, port and pinnacle all faithfully finished from Wotan'sdesign by their mighty labor. They have come undoubtingly for theiragreed wage. Then there happens what is to them an incredible,inconceivable thing. The god begins to shuffle. There are no moments inlife more tragic than those in which the humble common man, the manualworker, leaving with implicit trust all high affairs to his betters, andreverencing them wholly as worthy of that trust, even to the extentof accepting as his rightful function the saving of them from allroughening and coarsening drudgeries, first discovers that they arecorrupt, greedy, unjust and treacherous. The shock drives a ray ofprophetic light into one giant's mind, and gives him a momentaryeloquence. In that moment he rises above his stupid gianthood, andearnestly warns the Son of Light that all his power and eminence ofpriesthood, godhood, and kingship must stand or fall with the unbearablecold greatness of the incorruptible law-giver. But Wotan, whose assumedcharacter of law-giver is altogether false to his real passionatenature, despises the rebuke; and the giant's ray of insight is lost inthe murk of his virtuous indignation.In the midst of the wrangle, Loki comes at last, excusing himselffor being late on the ground that he has been detained by a matter ofimportance which he has promised to lay before Wotan. When pressed togive his mind to the business immediately in hand, and to extricateWotan from his dilemma, he has nothing to say except that the giants areevidently altogether in the right. The castle has been duly built: hehas tried every stone of it, and found the work first-rate: there isnothing to be done but pay the price agreed upon by handing over Freiato the giants. The gods are furious; and Wotan passionately declaresthat he only consented to the bargain on Loki's promise to find a wayfor him out of it. But Loki says no: he has promised to find a way outif any such way exist, but not to make a way if there is no way. He haswandered over the whole earth in search of some treasure great enoughto buy Freia back from the giants; but in all the world he has foundnothing for which Man will give up Woman. And this, by the way, remindshim of the matter he had promised to lay before Wotan. The Rhine maidenshave complained to him of Alberic's theft of their gold; and he mentionsit as a curious exception to his universal law of the unpurchasablepreciousness of love, that this gold-robber has forsworn love for thesake of the fabulous riches of the Plutonic empire and the mastery ofthe world through its power.No sooner is the tale told than the giants stoop lower than the dwarf.Alberic forswore love only when it was denied to him and made theinstrument for cruelly murdering his self-respect. But the giants,with love within their reach, with Freia and her golden apples in theirhands, offer to give her up for the treasure of Alberic. Observe, itis the treasure alone that they desire. They have no fierce dreamsof dominion over their superiors, or of moulding the world to anyconceptions of their own. They are neither clever nor ambitious: theysimply covet money. Alberic's gold: that is their demand, or else Freia,as agreed upon, whom they now carry off as hostage, leaving Wotan toconsider their ultimatum.Freia gone, the gods begin to wither and age: her golden apples, whichthey so lightly bargained away, they now find to be a matter of life anddeath to them; for not even the gods can live on Law and Godhead alone,be their castles ever so splendid. Loki alone is unaffected: the Lie,with all its cunning wonders, its glistenings and shiftings and mirages,is a mere appearance: it has no body and needs no food. What is Wotanto do? Loki sees the answer clearly enough: he must bluntly rob Alberic.There is nothing to prevent him except moral scruple; for Alberic, afterall, is a poor, dim, dwarfed, credulous creature whom a god can outseeand a lie can outwit. Down, then, Wotan and Loki plunge into the minewhere Alberic's slaves are piling up wealth for him under the invisiblewhip.Third SceneThis gloomy place need not be a mine: it might just as well be amatch-factory, with yellow phosphorus, phossy jaw, a large dividend, andplenty of clergymen shareholders. Or it might be a whitelead factory,or a chemical works, or a pottery, or a railway shunting yard, or atailoring shop, or a little gin-sodden laundry, or a bakehouse, or a bigshop, or any other of the places where human life and welfare are dailysacrificed in order that some greedy foolish creature may be able tohymn exultantly to his Platonic idol:Thou mak'st me eat whilst others starve, And sing while others dolament: Such untome Thy blessings are, As if I were Thine only care.In the mine, which resounds with the clinking anvils of the dwarfstoiling miserably to heap up treasure for their master, Alberic has sethis brother Mime--more familiarly, Mimmy--to make him a helmet. Mimmydimly sees that there is some magic in this helmet, and tries to keepit; but Alberic wrests it from him, and shows him, to his cost, that itis the veil of the invisible whip, and that he who wears it can appearin what shape he will, or disappear from view altogether. This helmet isa very common article in our streets, where it generally takes the formof a tall hat. It makes a man invisible as a shareholder, and changeshim into various shapes, such as a pious Christian, a subscriber tohospitals, a benefactor of the poor, a model husband and father, ashrewd, practical independent Englishman, and what not, when he isreally a pitiful parasite on the commonwealth, consuming a great deal,and producing nothing, feeling nothing, knowing nothing, believingnothing, and doing nothing except what all the rest do, and that onlybecause he is afraid not to do it, or at least pretend to do it.When Wotan and Loki arrive, Loki claims Alberic as an old acquaintance.But the dwarf has no faith in these civil strangers: Greed instinctivelymistrusts Intellect, even in the garb of Poetry and the company ofGodhead, whilst envying the brilliancy of the one and the dignity of theother. Alberic breaks out at them with a terrible boast of the power nowwithin his grasp. He paints for them the world as it will be when hisdominion over it is complete, when the soft airs and green mosses ofits valleys shall be changed into smoke, slag, and filth; when slavery,disease, and squalor, soothed by drunkenness and mastered by thepoliceman's baton, shall become the foundation of society; and whennothing shall escape ruin except such pretty places and pretty women ashe may like to buy for the slaking of his own lusts. In that kingdom ofevil he sees that there will be no power but his own. These gods, withtheir moralities and legalities and intellectual subtlety, will go underand be starved out of existence. He bids Wotan and Loki beware ofit; and his "Hab' Acht!" is hoarse, horrible, and sinister. Wotanis revolted to the very depths of his being: he cannot stifle theexecration that bursts from him. But Loki is unaffected: he has no moralpassion: indignation is as absurd to him as enthusiasm. He finds itexquisitely amusing--having a touch of the comic spirit in him--that thedwarf, in stirring up the moral fervor of Wotan, has removed his lastmoral scruple about becoming a thief. Wotan will now rob the dwarfwithout remorse; for is it not positively his highest duty to take thispower out of such evil hands and use it himself in the interests ofGodhead? On the loftiest moral grounds, he lets Loki do his worst.A little cunningly disguised flattery makes short work of Alberic. Lokipretends to be afraid of him; and he swallows that bait unhesitatingly.But how, enquires Loki, is he to guard against the hatred of his millionslaves? Will they not steal from him, whilst he sleeps, the magic ring,the symbol of his power, which he has forged from the gold of the Rhine?"You think yourself very clever," sneers Alberic, and then begins toboast of the enchantments of the magic helmet. Loki refuses to believein such marvels without witnessing them. Alberic, only too glad toshow off his powers, puts on the helmet and transforms himself into amonstrous serpent. Loki gratifies him by pretending to be frightened outof his wits, but ventures to remark that it would be better still if thehelmet could transform its owner into some tiny creature that could hideand spy in the smallest cranny. Alberic promptly transforms himselfinto a toad. In an instant Wotan's foot is on him; Loki tears away thehelmet; they pinion him, and drag him away a prisoner up through theearth to the meadow by the castle.Fourth SceneThere, to pay for his freedom, he has to summon his slaves from thedepths to place all the treasure they have heaped up for him at the feetof Wotan. Then he demands his liberty; but Wotan must have the ringas well. And here the dwarf, like the giant before him, feels the veryfoundations of the world shake beneath him at the discovery of hisown base cupidity in a higher power. That evil should, in its lovelessdesperation, create malign powers which Godhead could not create, seemsbut natural justice to him. But that Godhead should steal those malignpowers from evil, and wield them itself, is a monstrous perversion; andhis appeal to Wotan to forego it is almost terrible in its convictionof wrong. It is of no avail. Wotan falls back again on virtuousindignation. He reminds Alberic that he stole the gold from theRhine maidens, and takes the attitude of the just judge compelling arestitution of stolen goods. Alberic knowing perfectly well that thejudge is taking the goods to put them in his own pocket, has the ringtorn from his finger, and is once more as poor as he was when he cameslipping and stumbling among the slimy rocks in the bed of the Rhine.This is the way of the world. In older times, when the Christian laborerwas drained dry by the knightly spendthrift, and the spendthrift wasdrained by the Jewish usurer, Church and State, religion and law, seizedon the Jew and drained him as a Christian duty. When the forces oflovelessness and greed had built up our own sordid capitalist systems,driven by invisible proprietorship, robbing the poor, defacing theearth, and forcing themselves as a universal curse even on the generousand humane, then religion and law and intellect, which would neverthemselves have discovered such systems, their natural bent beingtowards welfare, economy, and life instead of towards corruption, waste,and death, nevertheless did not scruple to seize by fraud and forcethese powers of evil on presence of using them for good. And itinevitably happens that when the Church, the Law, and all the Talentshave made common cause to rob the people, the Church is far morevitally harmed by that unfaithfulness to itself than its more mechanicalconfederates; so that finally they turn on their discredited ally androb the Church, with the cheerful co-operation of Loki, as in France andItaly for instance.The twin giants come back with their hostage, in whose presence Godheadblooms again. The gold is ready for them; but now that the moment hascome for parting with Freia the gold does not seem so tempting; andthey are sorely loth to let her go. Not unless there is gold enough toutterly hide her from them--not until the heap has grown so that theycan see nothing but gold--until money has come between them and everyhuman feeling, will they part with her. There is not gold enough toaccomplish this: however cunningly Loki spreads it, the glint of Freia'shair is still visible to Giant Fafnir, and the magic helmet must go onthe heap to shut it out. Even then Fafnir's brother, Fasolt, can catch abeam from her eye through a chink, and is rendered incapable thereby offorswearing her. There is nothing to stop that chink but the ring; andWotan is as greedily bent on keeping that as Alberic himself was; norcan the other gods persuade him that Freia is worth it, since forthe highest god, love is not the highest good, but only the universaldelight that bribes all living things to travail with renewed life. Lifeitself, with its accomplished marvels and its infinite potentialities,is the only force that Godhead can worship. Wotan does not yield untilhe is reached by the voice of the fruitful earth that before he or thedwarfs or the giants or the Law or the Lie or any of these things were,had the seed of them all in her bosom, and the seed perhaps of somethinghigher even than himself, that shall one day supersede him and cut thetangles and alliances and compromises that already have cost him oneof his eyes. When Erda, the First Mother of life, rises from hersleeping-place in the heart of the earth, and warns him to yield thering, he obeys her; the ring is added to the heap of gold; and all senseof Freia is cut off from the giants.But now what Law is left to these two poor stupid laborers whereby oneshall yield to the other any of the treasure for which they have eachpaid the whole price in surrendering Freia? They look by mere habitto the god to judge for them; but he, with his heart stirring towardshigher forces than himself, turns with disgust from these lower forces.They settle it as two wolves might; and Fafnir batters his brother deadwith his staff. It is a horrible thing to see and hear, to anyone whoknows how much blood has been shed in the world in just that way by itsbrutalized toilers, honest fellows enough until their betters betrayedthem. Fafnir goes off with his booty. It is quite useless to him. He hasneither the cunning nor the ambition to establish the Plutonic empirewith it. Merely to prevent others from getting it is the only purpose itbrings him. He piles it in a cave; transforms himself into a dragon bythe helmet; and devotes his life to guarding it, as much a slave to itas a jailor is to his prisoner. He had much better have thrown it allback into the Rhine and transformed himself into the shortest-livedanimal that enjoys at least a brief run in the sunshine. His case,however, is far too common to be surprising. The world is overstockedwith persons who sacrifice all their affections, and madly trample andbatter down their fellows to obtain riches of which, when they get them,they are unable to make the smallest use, and to which they become themost miserable slaves.The gods soon forget Fafnir in their rejoicing over Freia. Donner,the Thunder god, springs to a rocky summit and calls the clouds as ashepherd calls his flocks. They come at his summons; and he and thecastle are hidden by their black legions. Froh, the Rainbow god, hastensto his side. At the stroke of Donner's hammer the black murk is riven inall directions by darting ribbons of lightning; and as the air clears,the castle is seen in its fullest splendor, accessible now by therainbow bridge which Froh has cast across the ravine. In the gloryof this moment Wotan has a great thought. With all his aspirationsto establish a reign of noble thought, of righteousness, order, andjustice, he has found that day that there is no race yet in the worldthat quite spontaneously, naturally, and unconsciously realizes hisideal. He himself has found how far short Godhead falls of the thingit conceives. He, the greatest of gods, has been unable to control hisfate: he has been forced against his will to choose between evils, tomake disgraceful bargains, to break them still more disgracefully, andeven then to see the price of his disgrace slip through his fingers.His consort has cost him half his vision; his castle has cost him hisaffections; and the attempt to retain both has cost him his honor. Onevery side he is shackled and bound, dependent on the laws of Fricka andon the lies of Loki, forced to traffic with dwarfs for handicraft andwith giants for strength, and to pay them both in false coin. After all,a god is a pitiful thing. But the fertility of the First Mother is notyet exhausted. The life that came from her has ever climbed up to ahigher and higher organization. From toad and serpent to dwarf, frombear and elephant to giant, from dwarf and giant to a god with thoughts,with comprehension of the world, with ideals. Why should it stop there?Why should it not rise from the god to the Hero? to the creature in whomthe god's unavailing thought shall have become effective will and life,who shall make his way straight to truth and reality over the laws ofFricka and the lies of Loki with a strength that overcomes giants and acunning that outwits dwarfs? Yes: Erda, the First Mother, must travailagain, and breed him a race of heroes to deliver the world and himselffrom his limited powers and disgraceful bargains. This is the visionthat flashes on him as he turns to the rainbow bridge and calls his wifeto come and dwell with him in Valhalla, the home of the gods.They are all overcome with Valhalla's glory except Loki. He is behindthe scenes of this joint reign of the Divine and the Legal. He despisesthese gods with their ideals and their golden apples. "I am ashamed," hesays, "to have dealings with these futile creatures." And so he followsthem to the rainbow bridge. But as they set foot on it, from the riverbelow rises the wailing of the Rhine maidens for their lost gold. "Youdown there in the water," cries Loki with brutal irony: "you used tobask in the glitter of your gold: henceforth you shall bask in thesplendor of the gods." And they reply that the truth is in the depthsand the darkness, and that what blazes on high there is falsehood. Andwith that the gods pass into their glorious stronghold.WAGNER AS REVOLUTIONISTBefore leaving this explanation of The Rhine Gold, I must have a word ortwo about it with the reader. It is the least popular of the sections ofThe Ring. The reason is that its dramatic moments lie quite outsidethe consciousness of people whose joys and sorrows are all domesticand personal, and whose religions and political ideas are purelyconventional and superstitious. To them it is a struggle between half adozen fairytale personages for a ring, involving hours of scolding andcheating, and one long scene in a dark gruesome mine, with gloomy, uglymusic, and not a glimpse of a handsome young man or pretty woman. Onlythose of wider consciousness can follow it breathlessly, seeing in itthe whole tragedy of human history and the whole horror of the dilemmasfrom which the world is shrinking today. At Bayreuth I have seen a partyof English tourists, after enduring agonies of boredom from Alberic,rise in the middle of the third scene, and almost force their way outof the dark theatre into the sunlit pine-wood without. And I haveseen people who were deeply affected by the scene driven almost besidethemselves by this disturbance. But it was a very natural thing for theunfortunate tourists to do, since in this Rhine Gold prologue there isno interval between the acts for escape. Roughly speaking, people whohave no general ideas, no touch of the concern of the philosopher andstatesman for the race, cannot enjoy The Rhine Gold as a drama. They mayfind compensations in some exceedingly pretty music, at times even grandand glorious, which will enable them to escape occasionally from thestruggle between Alberic and Wotan; but if their capacity for musicshould be as limited as their comprehension of the world, they hadbetter stay away.And now, attentive Reader, we have reached the point at which somefoolish person is sure to interrupt us by declaring that The Rhine Goldis what they call "a work of art" pure and simple, and that Wagner neverdreamt of shareholders, tall hats, whitelead factories, and industrialand political questions looked at from the socialistic and humanitarianpoints of view. We need not discuss these impertinences: it is easierto silence them with the facts of Wagner's life. In 1843 he obtainedthe position of conductor of the Opera at Dresden at a salary of L225 ayear, with a pension. This was a first-rate permanent appointment in theservice of the Saxon State, carrying an assured professionalposition and livelihood with it In 1848, the year of revolutions,the discontented middle class, unable to rouse the Church-and-Stategovernments of the day from their bondage to custom, caste, and law byappeals to morality or constitutional agitation for Liberal reforms,made common cause with the starving wage-working class, and resorted toarmed rebellion, which reached Dresden in 1849. Had Wagner been the meremusical epicure and political mugwump that the term "artist" seems tosuggest to so many critics and amateurs--that is, a creature in theirown lazy likeness--he need have taken no more part in the politicalstruggles of his day than Bishop took in the English Reform agitation of1832, or Sterndale Bennett in the Chartist or Free Trade movements. Whathe did do was first to make a desperate appeal to the King to cast offhis bonds and answer the need of the time by taking true Kingship onhimself and leading his people to the redress of their intolerablewrongs (fancy the poor monarch's feelings!), and then, when the crashcame, to take his side with the right and the poor against the rich andthe wrong. When the insurrection was defeated, three leaders of it wereespecially marked down for vengeance: August Roeckel, an old friendof Wagner's to whom he wrote a well-known series of letters; MichaelBakoonin, afterwards a famous apostle of revolutionary Anarchism; andWagner himself. Wagner escaped to Switzerland: Roeckel and Bakooninsuffered long terms of imprisonment. Wagner was of course utterlyruined, pecuniarily and socially (to his own intense relief andsatisfaction); and his exile lasted twelve years. His first idea wasto get his Tannhauser produced in Paris. With the notion of explaininghimself to the Parisians he wrote a pamphlet entitled Art andRevolution, a glance through which will show how thoroughly thesocialistic side of the revolution had his sympathy, and how completelyhe had got free from the influence of the established Churches of hisday. For three years he kept pouring forth pamphlets--some of themelaborate treatises in size and intellectual rank, but still essentiallythe pamphlets and manifestoes of a born agitator--on social evolution,religion, life, art and the influence of riches. In 1853 the poem of TheRing was privately printed; and in 1854, five years after the Dresdeninsurrection, The Rhine Gold score was completed to the last drum tap.These facts are on official record in Germany, where the proclamationsumming up Wagner as "a politically dangerous person" may be consultedto this day. The pamphlets are now accessible to English readers in thetranslation of Mr. Ashton Ellis. This being so, any person who, havingperhaps heard that I am a Socialist, attempts to persuade you that myinterpretation of The Rhine Gold is only "my socialism" read into theworks of a dilettantist who borrowed an idle tale from an old saga tomake an opera book with, may safely be dismissed from your considerationas an ignoramus.If you are now satisfied that The Rhine Gold is an allegory, do notforget that an allegory is never quite consistent except when itis written by someone without dramatic faculty, in which case it isunreadable. There is only one way of dramatizing an idea; and that is byputting on the stage a human being possessed by that idea, yet none theless a human being with all the human impulses which make him akin andtherefore interesting to us. Bunyan, in his Pilgrim's Progress, doesnot, like his unread imitators, attempt to personify Christianity andValour: he dramatizes for you the life of the Christian and the ValiantMan. Just so, though I have shown that Wotan is Godhead and Kingship,and Loki Logic and Imagination without living Will (Brain without Heart,to put it vulgarly); yet in the drama Wotan is a religiously moral man,and Loki a witty, ingenious, imaginative and cynical one. As to Fricka,who stands for State Law, she does not assume her allegorical characterin The Rhine Gold at all, but is simply Wotan's wife and Freia's sister:nay, she contradicts her allegorical self by conniving at all Wotan'srogueries. That, of course, is just what State Law would do; but we mustnot save the credit of the allegory by a quip. Not until she reappearsin the next play (The Valkyries) does her function in the allegoricalscheme become plain.One preconception will bewilder the spectator hopelessly unless hehas been warned against it or is naturally free from it. In theold-fashioned orders of creation, the supernatural personages areinvariably conceived as greater than man, for good or evil. In themodern humanitarian order as adopted by Wagner, Man is the highest.In The Rhine Gold, it is pretended that there are as yet no men on theearth. There are dwarfs, giants, and gods. The danger is that you willjump to the conclusion that the gods, at least, are a higher order thanthe human order. On the contrary, the world is waiting for Man to redeemit from the lame and cramped government of the gods. Once grasp that;and the allegory becomes simple enough. Really, of course, the dwarfs,giants, and gods are dramatizations of the three main orders of men: towit, the instinctive, predatory, lustful, greedy people; the patient,toiling, stupid, respectful, money-worshipping people; and theintellectual, moral, talented people who devise and administer Statesand Churches. History shows us only one order higher than the highest ofthese: namely, the order of Heroes.Now it is quite clear--though you have perhaps never thought of it--thatif the next generation of Englishmen consisted wholly of Julius Caesars,all our political, ecclesiastical, and moral institutions wouldvanish, and the less perishable of their appurtenances be classed withStonehenge and the cromlechs and round towers as inexplicable relics ofa bygone social order. Julius Caesars would no more trouble themselvesabout such contrivances as our codes and churches than a fellow of theRoyal Society will touch his hat to the squire and listen to the villagecurate's sermons. This is precisely what must happen some day if lifecontinues thrusting towards higher and higher organization as it hashitherto done. As most of our English professional men are to Australianbushmen, so, we must suppose, will the average man of some future daybe to Julius Caesar. Let any man of middle age, pondering this prospectconsider what has happened within a single generation to the articlesof faith his father regarded as eternal nay, to the very scepticisms andblasphemies of his youth (Bishop Colenso's criticism of the Pentateuch,for example!); and he will begin to realize how much of our barbarousTheology and Law the man of the future will do without. Bakoonin, theDresden revolutionary leader with whom Wagner went out in 1849, putforward later on a program, often quoted with foolish horror, forthe abolition of all institutions, religious, political, juridical,financial, legal, academic, and so on, so as to leave the will of manfree to find its own way. All the loftiest spirits of that time wereburning to raise Man up, to give him self-respect, to shake him outof his habit of grovelling before the ideals created by his ownimagination, of attributing the good that sprang from the ceaselessenergy of the life within himself to some superior power in the clouds,and of making a fetish of self-sacrifice to justify his own cowardice.Farther on in The Ring we shall see the Hero arrive and make an endof dwarfs, giants, and gods. Meanwhile, let us not forget that godhoodmeans to Wagner infirmity and compromise, and manhood strength andintegrity. Above all, we must understand--for it is the key to much thatwe are to see--that the god, since his desire is toward a higher andfuller life, must long in his inmost soul for the advent of that greaterpower whose first work, though this he does not see as yet, must be hisown undoing.In the midst of all these far-reaching ideas, it is amusing to findWagner still full of his ingrained theatrical professionalism, andintroducing effects which now seem old-fashioned and stagey with as muchenergy and earnestness as if they were his loftiest inspirations. WhenWotan wrests the ring from Alberic, the dwarf delivers a lurid andbloodcurdling stage curse, calling down on its every future possessorcare, fear, and death. The musical phrase accompanying this outburst wasa veritable harmonic and melodic bogey to mid-century ears, though timehas now robbed it of its terrors. It sounds again when Fafnir slaysFasolt, and on every subsequent occasion when the ring brings death toits holder. This episode must justify itself purely as a piece of stagesensationalism. On deeper ground it is superfluous and confusing, as theruin to which the pursuit of riches leads needs no curse to explain it;nor is there any sense in investing Alberic with providential powers inthe matter.THE VALKYRIESBefore the curtain rises on the Valkyries, let us see what has happenedsince it fell on The Rhine Gold. The persons of the drama will tell uspresently; but as we probably do not understand German, that may nothelp us.Wotan is still ruling the world in glory from his giant-built castlewith his wife Fricka. But he has no security for the continuance of hisreign, since Alberic may at any moment contrive to recover the ring,the full power of which he can wield because he has forsworn love. Suchforswearing is not possible to Wotan: love, though not his highest need,is a higher than gold: otherwise he would be no god. Besides, as we haveseen, his power has been established in the world by and as a systemof laws enforced by penalties. These he must consent to be bound byhimself; for a god who broke his own laws would betray the fact thatlegality and conformity are not the highest rule of conduct--a discoveryfatal to his supremacy as Pontiff and Lawgiver. Hence he may not wrestthe ring unlawfully from Fafnir, even if he could bring himself toforswear love.In this insecurity he has hit on the idea of forming a heroic bodyguard.He has trained his love children as war-maidens (Valkyries) whose dutyit is to sweep through battle-fields and bear away to Valhalla the soulsof the bravest who fall there. Thus reinforced by a host of warriors,he has thoroughly indoctrinated them, Loki helping him asdialectician-in-chief, with the conventional system of law and duty,supernatural religion and self-sacrificing idealism, which they believeto be the essence of his godhood, but which is really only the machineryof the love of necessary power which is his mortal weakness. Thisprocess secures their fanatical devotion to his system of government,but he knows perfectly well that such systems, in spite of their moralpretensions, serve selfish and ambitious tyrants better than benevolentdespots, and that, if once Alberic gets the ring back, he will easilyout-Valhalla Valhalla, if not buy it over as a going concern. The onlychance of permanent security, then, is the appearance in the world of ahero who, without any illicit prompting from Wotan, will destroy Albericand wrest the ring from Fafnir. There will then, he believes, be nofurther cause for anxiety, since he does not yet conceive Heroism asa force hostile to Godhead. In his longing for a rescuer, it does notoccur to him that when the Hero comes, his first exploit must be tosweep the gods and their ordinances from the path of the heroic will.Indeed, he feels that in his own Godhead is the germ of such Heroism,and that from himself the Hero must spring. He takes to wandering,mostly in search of love, from Fricka and Valhalla. He seeks the FirstMother; and through her womb, eternally fertile, the inner true thoughtthat made him first a god is reborn as his daughter, uncorrupted by hisambition, unfettered by his machinery of power and his alliances withFricka and Loki. This daughter, the Valkyrie Brynhild, is his true will,his real self, (as he thinks): to her he may say what he must not say toanyone, since in speaking to her he but speaks to himself. "Was Keinemin Worten unausgesprochen," he says to her, "bleib es ewig: mit mir nurrath' ich, red' ich zu dir."But from Brynhild no hero can spring until there is a man of Wotan'srace to breed with her. Wotan wanders further; and a mortal woman bearshim twins: a son and a daughter. He separates them by letting the girlfall into the hands of a forest tribe which in due time gives her as awife to a fierce chief, one Hunding. With the son he himself leads thelife of a wolf, and teaches him the only power a god can teach, thepower of doing without happiness. When he has given him this terribletraining, he abandons him, and goes to the bridal feast of his daughterSieglinda and Hunding. In the blue cloak of the wanderer, wearing thebroad hat that flaps over the socket of his forfeited eye, he appears inHunding's house, the middle pillar of which is a mighty tree. Into thattree, without a word, he strikes a sword up to the hilt, so that onlythe might of a hero can withdraw it. Then he goes out as silently as hecame, blind to the truth that no weapon from the armory of Godhead canserve the turn of the true Human Hero. Neither Hunding nor any of hisguests can move the sword; and there it stays awaiting the destinedhand. That is the history of the generations between The Rhine Gold andThe Valkyries.The First ActThis time, as we sit looking expectantly at the curtain, we hear, notthe deep booming of the Rhine, but the patter of a forest downpour,accompanied by the mutter of a storm which soon gathers into a roarand culminates in crashing thunderbolts. As it passes off, the curtainrises; and there is no mistaking whose forest habitation we are in; forthe central pillar is a mighty tree, and the place fit for the dwellingof a fierce chief. The door opens: and an exhausted man reels in: anadept from the school of unhappiness. Sieglinda finds him lying on thehearth. He explains that he has been in a fight; that his weapons notbeing as strong as his arms, were broken; and that he had to fly. Hedesires some drink and a moment's rest; then he will go; for he is anunlucky person, and does not want to bring his ill-luck on the womanwho is succoring him. But she, it appears, is also unhappy; and a strongsympathy springs up between them. When her husband arrives, he observesnot only this sympathy, but a resemblance between them, a gleam of thesnake in their eyes. They sit down to table; and the stranger tells themhis unlucky story. He is the son of Wotan, who is known to him only asWolfing, of the race of the Volsungs. The earliest thing he remembers isreturning from a hunt with his father to find their home destroyed, hismother murdered, and his twin-sister carried off. This was the work ofa tribe called the Neidings, upon whom he and Wolfing thenceforth wagedimplacable war until the day when his father disappeared, leaving notrace of himself but an empty wolfskin. The young Volsung was thus castalone upon the world, finding most hands against him, and bringing nogood luck even to his friends. His latest exploit has been the slayingof certain brothers who were forcing their sister to wed against herwill. The result has been the slaughter of the woman by her brothers'clansmen, and his own narrow escape by flight.His luck on this occasion is even worse than he supposes; for Hunding,by whose hearth he has taken refuge, is clansman to the slain brothersand is bound to avenge them. He tells the Volsung that in the morning,weapons or no weapons, he must fight for his life. Then he orders thewoman to bed, and follows her himself, taking his spear with him.The unlucky stranger, left brooding by the hearth, has nothing toconsole himself with but an old promise of his father's that he shallfind a weapon to his hand when he most needs one. The last flicker ofthe dying fire strikes on the golden hilt of the sword that sticks inthe tree; but he does not see it; and the embers sink into blackness.Then the woman returns. Hunding is safely asleep: she has drugged him.She tells the story of the one-eyed man who appeared at her forcedmarriage, and of the sword. She has always felt, she says, that hermiseries will end in the arms of the hero who shall succeed in drawingit forth. The stranger, diffident as he is about his luck, has nomisgivings as to his strength and destiny. He gives her his affection atonce, and abandons himself to the charm of the night and the season; forit is the beginning of Spring. They soon learn from their confidencesthat she is his stolen twin-sister. He is transported to find that theheroic race of the Volsungs need neither perish nor be corrupted by alower strain. Hailing the sword by the name of Nothung (or Needed), heplucks it from the tree as her bride-gift, and then, crying "Both brideand sister be of thy brother; and blossom the blood of the Volsungs!"clasps her as the mate the Spring has brought him.The Second ActSo far, Wotan's plan seems prospering. In the mountains he calls hiswar-maiden Brynhild, the child borne to him by the First Mother, andbids her see to it that Hunding shall fall in the approaching combat.But he is reckoning without his consort, Fricka. What will she, the Law,say to the lawless pair who have heaped incest on adultery? A hero mayhave defied the law, and put his own will in its place; but can a godhold him guiltless, when the whole power of the gods can enforce itselfonly by law? Fricka, shuddering with horror, outraged in every instinct,comes clamoring for punishment. Wotan pleads the general necessity ofencouraging heroism in order to keep up the Valhalla bodyguard; but hisremonstrances only bring upon him torrents of reproaches for his ownunfaithfulness to the law in roaming through the world and begettingwar-maidens, "wolf cubs," and the like. He is hopelessly beaten in theargument. Fricka is absolutely right when she declares that the endingof the gods began when he brought this wolf-hero into the world;and now, to save their very existence, she pitilessly demands hisdestruction. Wotan has no power to refuse: it is Fricka's mechanicalforce, and not his thought, that really rules the world. He has torecall Brynhild; take back his former instructions; and ordain thatHunding shall slay the Volsung.But now comes another difficulty. Brynhild is the inner thought and willof Godhead, the aspiration from the high life to the higher that is itsdivine element, and only becomes separated from it when its resort tokingship and priestcraft for the sake of temporal power has made itfalse to itself. Hitherto, Brynhild, as Valkyrie or hero chooser, hasobeyed Wotan implicitly, taking her work as the holiest and bravest inhis kingdom; and now he tells her what he could not tell Fricka--whatindeed he could not tell to Brynhild, were she not, as she says, hisown will--the whole story of Alberic and of that inspiration about theraising up of a hero. She thoroughly approves of the inspiration; butwhen the story ends in the assumption that she too must obey Fricka,and help Fricka's vassal, Hunding, to undo the great work and strike thehero down, she for the first time hesitates to accept his command. Inhis fury and despair he overawes her by the most terrible threats of hisanger; and she submits.Then comes the Volsung Siegmund, following his sister bride, who hasfled into the mountains in a revulsion of horror at having allowedherself to bring her hero to shame. Whilst she is lying exhausted andsenseless in his arms, Brynhild appears to him and solemnly warns himthat he must presently leave the earth with her. He asks whither he mustfollow her. To Valhalla, to take his place there among the heroes. Heasks, shall he find his father there? Yes. Shall he find a wife there?Yes: he will be waited on by beautiful wishmaidens. Shall he meet hissister there? No. Then, says Siegmund, I will not come with you.She tries to make him understand that he cannot help himself. Being ahero, he will not be so persuaded: he has his father's sword, and doesnot fear Hunding. But when she tells him that she comes from his father,and that the sword of a god will not avail in the hands of a hero, heaccepts his fate, but will shape it with his own hand, both for himselfand his sister, by slaying her, and then killing himself with the laststroke of the sword. And thereafter he will go to Hell, rather than toValhalla.How now can Brynhild, being what she is, choose her side freely in aconflict between this hero and the vassal of Fricka? By instinct sheat once throws Wotan's command to the winds, and bids Siegmund nervehimself for the combat with Hunding, in which she pledges him theprotection of her shield. The horn of Hunding is soon heard; andSiegmund's spirits rise to fighting pitch at once. The two meet; andthe Valkyrie's shield is held before the hero. But when he delivers hissword-stroke at his foe, the weapon shivers on the spear of Wotan, whosuddenly appears between them; and the first of the race of heroesfalls with the weapon of the Law's vassal through his breast. Brynhildsnatches the fragments of the broken sword, and flies, carrying off thewoman with her on her war-horse; and Wotan, in terrible wrath,slays Hunding with a wave of his hand, and starts in pursuit of hisdisobedient daughter.The Third ActOn a rocky peak, four of the Valkyries are waiting for the rest. Theabsent ones soon arrive, galloping through the air with slain heroes,gathered from the battle-field, hanging over their saddles. Only,Brynhild, who comes last, has for her spoil a live woman. When her eightsisters learn that she has defied Wotan, they dare not help her; andBrynhild has to rouse Sieglinda to make an effort to save herself, byreminding her that she bears in her the seed of a hero, and mustface everything, endure anything, sooner than let that seed miscarry.Sieglinda, in a transport of exaltation, takes the fragments of thesword and flies into the forest. Then Wotan comes; the sisters fly interror at his command; and he is left alone with Brynhild.Here, then, we have the first of the inevitable moments which Wotan didnot foresee. Godhead has now established its dominion over the world bya mighty Church, compelling obedience through its ally the Law, with itsformidable State organization of force of arms and cunning of brain.It has submitted to this alliance to keep the Plutonic power incheck--built it up primarily for the sake of that soul in itself whichcares only to make the highest better and the best higher; and now hereis that very soul separated from it and working for the destructionof its indispensable ally, the lawgiving State. How is the rebel to bedisarmed? Slain it cannot be by Godhead, since it is still Godhead's ownvery dearest soul. But hidden, stifled, silenced it must be; or it willwreck the State and leave the Church defenseless. Not until it passescompletely away from Godhead, and is reborn as the soul of the hero,can it work anything but the confusion and destruction of the existingorder. How is the world to be protected against it in the meantime?Clearly Loki's help is needed here: it is the Lie that must, on thehighest principles, hide the Truth. Let Loki surround this mountain topwith the appearance of a consuming fire; and who will dare penetrate toBrynhild? It is true that if any man will walk boldly into that fire,he will discover it at once to be a lie, an illusion, a mirage throughwhich he might carry a sack of gunpowder without being a penny theworse. Therefore let the fire seem so terrible that only the hero, whenin the fulness of time he appears upon earth, will venture through it;and the problem is solved. Wotan, with a breaking heart, takes leaveof Brynhild; throws her into a deep sleep; covers her with her longwarshield; summons Loki, who comes in the shape of a wall of firesurrounding the mountain peak; and turns his back on Brynhild for ever.The allegory here is happily not so glaringly obvious to the youngergenerations of our educated classes as it was forty years ago. In thosedays, any child who expressed a doubt as to the absolute truth of theChurch's teaching, even to the extent of asking why Joshua told thesun to stand still instead of telling the earth to cease turning, or ofpointing out that a whale's throat would hardly have been large enoughto swallow Jonah, was unhesitatingly told that if it harboured suchdoubts it would spend all eternity after its death in horrible tormentsin a lake of burning brimstone. It is difficult to write or readthis nowadays without laughing; yet no doubt millions of ignorant andcredulous people are still teaching their children that. When Wagnerhimself was a little child, the fact that hell was a fiction devised forthe intimidation and subjection of the masses, was a well-kept secret ofthe thinking and governing classes. At that time the fires of Lokiwere a very real terror to all except persons of exceptional force ofcharacter and intrepidity of thought. Even thirty years after Wagnerhad printed the verses of The Ring for private circulation, we findhim excusing himself from perfectly explicit denial of currentsuperstitions, by reminding his readers that it would expose him toprosecution. In England, so many of our respectable voters are stillgrovelling in a gloomy devil worship, of which the fires of Loki arethe main bulwark, that no Government has yet had the conscience or thecourage to repeal our monstrous laws against "blasphemy."SIEGFRIEDSieglinda, when she flies into the forest with the hero's son unborn inher womb, and the broken pieces of his sword in her hand, finds shelterin the smithy of a dwarf, where she brings forth her child and dies.This dwarf is no other than Mimmy, the brother of Alberic, the same whomade for him the magic helmet. His aim in life is to gain possession ofthe helmet, the ring, and the treasure, and through them to obtain thatPlutonic mastery of the world under the beginnings of which he himselfwrithed during Alberic's brief reign. Mimmy is a blinking, shambling,ancient creature, too weak and timid to dream of taking arms himself todespoil Fafnir, who still, transformed to a monstrous serpent, broodson the gold in a hole in the rocks. Mimmy needs the help of a hero forthat; and he has craft enough to know that it is quite possible, andindeed much in the ordinary way of the world, for senile avarice andcraft to set youth and bravery to work to win empire for it. He knowsthe pedigree of the child left on his hands, and nurses it to manhoodwith great care.His pains are too well rewarded for his comfort. The boy Siegfried,having no god to instruct him in the art of unhappiness, inherits noneof his father's ill luck, and all his father's hardihood. The fearagainst which Siegmund set his face like flint, and the woe which hewore down, are unknown to the son. The father was faithful and grateful:the son knows no law but his own humor; detests the ugly dwarf who hasnursed him; chafes furiously under his claims for some return forhis tender care; and is, in short, a totally unmoral person, a bornanarchist, the ideal of Bakoonin, an anticipation of the "overman" ofNietzsche. He is enormously strong, full of life and fun, dangerous anddestructive to what he dislikes, and affectionate to what he likes; sothat it is fortunate that his likes and dislikes are sane and healthy.Altogether an inspiriting young forester, a son of the morning, in whomthe heroic race has come out into the sunshine from the clouds of hisgrandfather's majestic entanglements with law, and the night of hisfather's tragic struggle with it.The First ActMimmy's smithy is a cave, in which he hides from the light like theeyeless fish of the American caverns. Before the curtain rises the musicalready tells us that we are groping in darkness. When it does riseMimmy is in difficulties. He is trying to make a sword for his nursling,who is now big enough to take the field against Fafnir. Mimmy can makemischievous swords; but it is not with dwarf made weapons that heroicman will hew the way of his own will through religions and governmentsand plutocracies and all the other devices of the kingdom of the fearsof the unheroic. As fast as Mimmy makes swords, Siegfried Bakooninsmashes them, and then takes the poor old swordsmith by the scruff ofthe neck and chastises him wrathfully. The particular day on which thecurtain rises begins with one of these trying domestic incidents.Mimmy has just done his best with a new sword of surpassing excellence.Siegfried returns home in rare spirits with a wild bear, to the extremeterror of the wretched dwarf. When the bear is dismissed, the new swordis produced. It is promptly smashed, as usual, with, also, the usualeffects on the temper of Siegfried, who is quite boundless in hiscriticisms of the smith's boasted skill, and declares that he wouldsmash the sword's maker too if he were not too disgusting to be handled.Mimmy falls back on his stock defence: a string of maudlin reminders ofthe care with which he has nursed the little boy into manhood. Siegfriedreplies candidly that the strangest thing about all this care is thatinstead of making him grateful, it inspires him with a lively desire towring the dwarf's neck. Only, he admits that he always comes back to hisMimmy, though he loathes him more than any living thing in the forest.On this admission the dwarf attempts to build a theory of filialinstinct. He explains that he is Siegfried's father, and that this iswhy Siegfried cannot do without him. But Siegfried has learned from hisforest companions, the birds and foxes and wolves, that mothers as wellas fathers go to the making of children. Mimmy, on the desperate groundthat man is neither bird nor fox, declares that he is Siegfried's fatherand mother both. He is promptly denounced as a filthy liar, becausethe birds and foxes are exactly like their parents, whereas Siegfried,having often watched his own image in the water, can testify that heis no more like Mimmy than a toad is like a trout. Then, to place theconversation on a plane of entire frankness, he throttles Mimmy until heis speechless. When the dwarf recovers, he is so daunted that he tellsSiegfried the truth about his birth, and for testimony thereof producesthe pieces of the sword that broke upon Wotan's spear. Siegfriedinstantly orders him to repair the sword on pain of an unmercifulthrashing, and rushes off into the forest, rejoicing in the discoverythat he is no kin of Mimmy's, and need have no more to do with him whenthe sword is mended.Poor Mimmy is now in a worse plight than ever; for he has long ago foundthat the sword utterly defies his skill: the steel will yield neitherto his hammer nor to his furnace. Just then there walks into his cave aWanderer, in a blue mantle, spear in hand, with one eye concealed by thebrim of his wide hat. Mimmy, not by nature hospitable, tries to drivehim away; but the Wanderer announces himself as a wise man, who can tellhis host, in emergency, what it most concerns him to know. Mimmy, takingthis offer in high dudgeon, because it implies that his visitor's witsare better than his own, offers to tell the wise one something that HEdoes not know: to wit, the way to the door. The imperturbable Wanderer'sreply is to sit down and challenge the dwarf to a trial of wit. Hewagers his head against Mimmy's that he will answer any three questionsthe dwarf can put to him.Now here were Mimmy's opportunity, had he only the wit to ask what hewants to know, instead of pretending to know everything already. Itis above all things needful to him at this moment to find out how thatsword can be mended; and there has just dropped in upon him in his needthe one person who can tell him. In such circumstances a wise man wouldhasten to show to his visitor his three deepest ignorances, and ask himto dispel them. The dwarf, being a crafty fool, desiring only to detectignorance in his guest, asks him for information on the three points onwhich he is proudest of being thoroughly well instructed himself. Histhree questions are, Who dwell under the earth? Who dwell on the earth?and Who dwell in the cloudy heights above? The Wanderer, in reply, tellshim of the dwarfs and of Alberic; of the earth, and the giants Fasoltand Fafnir; of the gods and of Wotan: himself, as Mimmy now recognizeswith awe.Next, it is Mimmy's turn to face three questions. What is that race,dearest to Wotan, against which Wotan has nevertheless done his worst?Mimmy can answer that: he knows the Volsungs, the race of heroes bornof Wotan's infidelities to Fricka, and can tell the Wanderer the wholestory of the twins and their son Siegfried. Wotan compliments him on hisknowledge, and asks further with what sword Siegfried will slay Fafnir?Mimmy can answer that too: he has the whole history of the sword at hisfingers' ends. Wotan hails him as the knowingest of the knowing, andthen hurls at him the question he should himself have asked: Whowill mend the sword? Mimmy, his head forfeited, confesses withloud lamentations that he cannot answer. The Wanderer reads him anappropriate little lecture on the folly of being too clever to ask whathe wants to know, and informs him that a smith to whom fear is unknownwill mend Nothung. To this smith he leaves the forfeited head of hishost, and wanders off into the forest. Then Mimmy's nerves give waycompletely. He shakes like a man in delirium tremens, and has a horriblenightmare, in the supreme convulsion of which Siegfried, returning fromthe forest, presently finds him.A curious and amusing conversation follows. Siegfried himself does notknow fear, and is impatient to acquire it as an accomplishment. Mimmyis all fear: the world for him is a phantasmagoria of terrors. It is notthat he is afraid of being eaten by bears in the forest, or of burninghis fingers in the forge fire. A lively objection to being destroyedor maimed does not make a man a coward: on the contrary, it is thebeginning of a brave man's wisdom. But in Mimmy, fear is not the effectof danger: it is natural quality of him which no security can allay.He is like many a poor newspaper editor, who dares not print the truth,however simple, even when it is obvious to himself and all his readers.Not that anything unpleasant would happen to him if he did--not, indeedthat he could fail to become a distinguished and influential leaderof opinion by fearlessly pursuing such a course, but solely becausehe lives in a world of imaginary terrors, rooted in a modest andgentlemanly mistrust of his own strength and worth, and consequently ofthe value of his opinion. Just so is Mimmy afraid of anything that cando him any good, especially of the light and the fresh air. He is alsoconvinced that anybody who is not sufficiently steeped in fear to beconstantly on his guard, must perish immediately on his first sallyinto the world. To preserve Siegfried for the enterprise to which he hasdestined him he makes a grotesque attempt to teach him fear. He appealsto his experience of the terrors of the forest, of its dark places, ofits threatening noises its stealthy ambushes, its sinister flickeringlights its heart-tightening ecstasies of dread.All this has no other effect than to fill Siegfried with wonder andcuriosity; for the forest is a place of delight for him. He is as eagerto experience Mimmy's terrors as a schoolboy to feel what an electricshock is like. Then Mimmy has the happy idea of describing Fafnir to himas a likely person to give him an exemplary fright. Siegfried jumps atthe idea, and, since Mimmy cannot mend the sword for him, proposes toset to work then and there to mend it for himself. Mimmy shakes hishead, and bids him see now how his youthful laziness and frowardnesshave found him out--how he would not learn the smith's craft fromProfessor Mimmy, and therefore does not know how even to begin mendingthe sword. Siegfried Bakoonin's retort is simple and crushing. He pointsout that the net result of Mimmy's academic skill is that he can neithermake a decent sword himself nor even set one to rights when it isdamaged. Reckless of the remonstrances of the scandalized professor, heseizes a file, and in a few moments utterly destroys the fragments ofthe sword by rasping them into a heap of steel filings. Then he putsthe filings into a crucible; buries it in the coals; and sets to at thebellows with the shouting exultation of the anarchist who destroys onlyto clear the ground for creation. When the steel is melted he runs itinto a mould; and lo! a sword-blade in the rough. Mimmy, amazed at thesuccess of this violation of all the rules of his craft, hails Siegfriedas the mightiest of smiths, professing himself barely worthy to be hiscook and scullion; and forthwith proceeds to poison some soup for him sothat he may murder him safely when Fafnir is slain. Meanwhile Siegfriedforges and tempers and hammers and rivets, uproariously singing thewhile as nonsensically as the Rhine maidens themselves. Finally heassails the anvil on which Mimmy's swords have been shattered, andcleaves it with a mighty stroke of the newly forged Nothung.The Second ActIn the darkest hour before the dawn of that night, we find ourselvesbefore the cave of Fafnir, and there we find Alberic, who can findnothing better to do with himself than to watch the haunt of the dragon,and eat his heart out in vain longing for the gold and the ring. Thewretched Fafnir, once an honest giant, can only make himself terribleenough to keep his gold by remaining a venomous reptile. Why he shouldnot become an honest giant again and clear out of his cavern, leavingthe gold and the ring and the rest of it for anyone fool enough to takethem at such a price, is the first question that would occur to anyoneexcept a civilized man, who would be too accustomed to that sort ofmania to be at all surprised at it.To Alberic in the night comes the Wanderer, whom the dwarf, recognizinghis despoiler of old, abuses as a shameless thief, taunting him with thehelpless way in which all his boasted power is tied up with the laws andbargains recorded on the heft of his spear, which, says Alberic truly,would crumble like chaff in his hands if he dared use it for his ownreal ends. Wotan, having already had to kill his own son with it, knowsthat very well; but it troubles him no more; for he is now at lastrising to abhorrence of his own artificial power, and looking to thecoming hero, not for its consolidation but its destruction. When Albericbreaks out again with his still unquenched hope of one day destroyingthe gods and ruling the world through the ring, Wotan is no longershocked. He tells Alberic that Brother Mime approaches with a hero whomGodhead can neither help nor hinder. Alberic may try his luck againsthim without disturbance from Valhalla. Perhaps, he suggests, if Albericwarns Fafnir, and offers to deal with the hero for him, Fafnir, may givehim the ring. They accordingly wake up the dragon, who condescendsto enter into bellowing conversation, but is proof against theirproposition, strong in the magic of property. "I have and hold," hesays: "leave me to sleep." Wotan, with a wise laugh, turns to Alberic."That shot missed," he says: "no use abusing me for it. And now let metell you one thing. All things happen according to their nature; and youcan't alter them." And so he leaves him Alberic, raging with the sensethat his old enemy has been laughing at him, and yet propheticallyconvinced that the last word will not be with the god, hides himself asthe day breaks, and his brother approaches with Siegfried.Mimmy makes a final attempt to frighten Siegfried by discoursing of thedragon's terrible jaws, poisonous breath, corrosive spittle, and deadly,stinging tail. Siegfried is not interested in the tail: he wants to knowwhether the dragon has a heart, being confident of his ability to stickNothung into it if it exists. Reassured on this point, he drives Mimmyaway, and stretches himself under the trees, listening to the morningchatter of the birds. One of them has a great deal to say to him; buthe cannot understand it; and after vainly trying to carry on theconversation with a reed which he cuts, he takes to entertaining thebird with tunes on his horn, asking it to send him a loving mate suchas all the other creatures of the forest have. His tunes wake up thedragon; and Siegfried makes merry over the grim mate the bird hassent him. Fafnir is highly scandalized by the irreverence of the youngBakoonin. He loses his temper; fights; and is forthwith slain, to hisown great astonishment.In such conflicts one learns to interpret the messages of Nature alittle. When Siegfried, stung by the dragon's vitriolic blood, pops hisfinger into his mouth and tastes it, he understands what the bird issaying to him, and, instructed by it concerning the treasures within hisreach, goes into the cave to secure the gold, the ring and the wishingcap. Then Mimmy returns, and is confronted by Alberic. The two quarrelfuriously over the sharing of the booty they have not yet secured, untilSiegfried comes from the cave with the ring and the helmet, not muchimpressed by the heap of gold, and disappointed because he has not yetlearned to fear.He has, however, learnt to read the thoughts of such a creature as poorMimmy, who, intending to overwhelm him with flattery and fondness,only succeeds in making such a self-revelation of murderous envythat Siegfried smites him with Nothung and slays him, to the keensatisfaction of the hidden Alberic. Caring nothing for the gold, whichhe leaves to the care of the slain; disappointed in his fancy forlearning fear; and longing for a mate, he casts himself wearily down,and again appeals to his friend the bird, who tells him of a womansleeping on a mountain peak within a fortress of fire that only thefearless can penetrate. Siegfried is up in a moment with all the tumultof spring in his veins, and follows the flight of the bird as it pilotshim to the fiery mountain.The Third ActTo the root of the mountain comes also the Wanderer, now nearing hisdoom. He calls up the First Mother from the depths of the earth, andbegs counsel from her. She bids him confer with the Norns (the Fates).But they are of no use to him: what he seeks is some foreknowledge ofthe way of the Will in its perpetual strife with these helpless Fateswho can only spin the net of circumstance and environment round the feetof men. Why not, says Erda then, go to the daughter I bore you, and takecounsel with her? He has to explain how he has cut himself off from her,and set the fires of Loki between the world and her counsel. In thatcase the First Mother cannot help him: such a separation is part ofthe bewilderment that is ever the first outcome of her eternal workof thrusting the life energy of the world to higher and higherorganization. She can show him no way of escape from the destruction heforesees. Then from the innermost of him breaks the confession that herejoices in his doom, and now himself exults in passing away with allhis ordinances and alliances, with the spear-sceptre which he has onlywielded on condition of slaying his dearest children with it, with thekingdom, the power and the glory which will never again boast themselvesas "world without end." And so he dismisses Erda to her sleep in theheart of the earth as the forest bird draws near, piloting the slainson's son to his goal.Now it is an excellent thing to triumph in the victory of the new orderand the passing away of the old; but if you happen to be part of theold order yourself, you must none the less fight for your life. It seemshardly possible that the British army at the battle of Waterloo did notinclude at least one Englishman intelligent enough to hope, for thesake of his country and humanity, that Napoleon might defeat the alliedsovereigns; but such an Englishman would kill a French cuirassier ratherthan be killed by him just as energetically as the silliest soldier,ever encouraged by people who ought to know better, to call hisignorance, ferocity and folly, patriotism and duty. Outworn life mayhave become mere error; but it still claims the right to die a naturaldeath, and will raise its hand against the millennium itself inself-defence if it tries to come by the short cut of murder. Wotan findsthis out when he comes face to face with Siegfried, who is brought to astandstill at the foot of the mountain by the disappearance of the bird.Meeting the Wanderer there, he asks him the way to the mountain wherea woman sleeps surrounded by fire. The Wanderer questions him, andextracts his story from him, breaking into fatherly delight whenSiegfried, describing the mending of the sword, remarks that all he knewabout the business was that the broken bits of Nothung would be of nouse to him unless he made a new sword out of them right over again fromthe beginning. But the Wanderer's interest is by no means reciprocatedby Siegfried. His majesty and elderly dignity are thrown away on theyoung anarchist, who, unwilling to waste time talking, bluntly bidshim either show him the way to the mountain, or else "shut his muzzle."Wotan is a little hurt. "Patience, my lad," he says: "if you were an oldman I should treat you with respect." "That would be a precious notion,"says Siegfried. "All my life long I was bothered and hampered by anold man until I swept him out of my way. I will sweep you in the samefashion if you don't let me pass. Why do you wear such a big hat; andwhat has happened to one of your eyes? Was it knocked out by somebodywhose way you obstructed?" To which Wotan replies allegorically that theeye that is gone--the eye that his marriage with Fricka cost him--is nowlooking at him out of Siegfried's head. At this, Siegfried gives up theWanderer as a lunatic, and renews his threats of personal violence. ThenWotan throws off the mask of the Wanderer; uplifts the world-governingspear; and puts forth all his divine awe and grandeur as the guardian ofthe mountain, round the crest of which the fires of Loki now break intoa red background for the majesty of the god. But all this is lost onSiegfried Bakoonin. "Aha!" he cries, as the spear is levelled againsthis breast: "I have found my father's foe"; and the spear falls in twopieces under the stroke of Nothung. "Up then," says Wotan: "I cannotwithhold you," and disappears forever from the eye of man. The firesroll down the mountain; but Siegfried goes at them as exultantly ashe went at the forging of the sword or the heart of the dragon, andshoulders his way through them, joyously sounding his horn to theaccompaniment of their crackling and seething. And never a hair of hishead is singed. Those frightful flames which have scared mankind forcenturies from the Truth, have not heat enough in them to make a childshut its eyes. They are mere phantasmagoria, highly creditable to Loki'simaginative stage-management; but nothing ever has perished or willperish eternally in them except the Churches which have been so poor andfaithless as to trade for their power on the lies of a romancer.BACK TO OPERA AGAINAnd now, O Nibelungen Spectator, pluck up; for all allegories come to anend somewhere; and the hour of your release from these explanations isat hand. The rest of what you are going to see is opera, and nothingbut opera. Before many bars have been played, Siegfried and the wakenedBrynhild, newly become tenor and soprano, will sing a concertedcadenza; plunge on from that to a magnificent love duet; and end witha precipitous allegro a capella, driven headlong to its end by theimpetuous semiquaver triplets of the famous finales to the first act ofDon Giovanni or the coda to the Leonore overture, with a specificallycontrapuntal theme, points d'orgue, and a high C for the soprano allcomplete.What is more, the work which follows, entitled Night Falls On The Gods,is a thorough grand opera. In it you shall see what you have so farmissed, the opera chorus in full parade on the stage, not presumingto interfere with the prima donna as she sings her death song over thefootlights. Nay, that chorus will have its own chance when it firstappears, with a good roaring strain in C major, not, after all, so verydifferent from, or at all less absurd than the choruses of courtiersin La Favorita or "Per te immenso giubilo" in Lucia. The harmony is nodoubt a little developed, Wagner augmenting his fifths with a G sharpwhere Donizetti would have put his fingers in his ears and screamed forG natural. But it is an opera chorus all the same; and along with itwe have theatrical grandiosities that recall Meyerbeer and Verdi: pezzid'insieme for all the principals in a row, vengeful conjurations fortrios of them, romantic death song for the tenor: in short, all mannerof operatic conventions.Now it is probable that some of us will have been so talked by the moresuperstitious Bayreuth pilgrims into regarding Die Gotterdammerung asthe mighty climax to a mighty epic, more Wagnerian than all the otherthree sections put together, as not to dare notice this startlingatavism, especially if we find the trio-conjurations more exhilaratingthan the metaphysical discourses of Wotan in the three true musicdramas of The Ring. There is, however, no real atavism involved.Die Gotterdammerung, though the last of The Ring dramas in order ofperformance, was the first in order of conception and was indeed theroot from which all the others sprang.The history of the matter is as follows. All Wagner's works prior to TheRing are operas. The last of them, Lohengrin, is perhaps the best knownof modern operas. As performed in its entirety at Bayreuth, it is evenmore operatic than it appears at Covent Garden, because it happens thatits most old-fashioned features, notably some of the big set concertedpieces for principals and chorus (pezzi d'insieme as I have calledthem above), are harder to perform than the more modern andcharacteristically Wagnerian sections, and for that reason were cut outin preparing the abbreviated fashionable version. Thus Lohengrin cameupon the ordinary operatic stage as a more advanced departure fromcurrent operatic models than its composer had made it. Still, it isunmistakably an opera, with chorus, concerted pieces, grand finales,and a heroine who, if she does not sing florid variations withflute obbligato, is none the less a very perceptible prima donna. Ineverything but musical technique the change from Lohengrin to The RhineGold is quite revolutionary.The explanation is that Night Falls On The Gods came in between them,although its music was not finished until twenty years after that ofThe Rhine Gold, and thus belongs to a later and more masterful phase ofWagner's harmonic style. It first came into Wagner's head as an operato be entitled Siegfried's Death, founded on the old Niblung Sagas, whichoffered to Wagner the same material for an effective theatrical tragedyas they did to Ibsen. Ibsen's Vikings in Helgeland is, in kind, whatSiegfried's Death was originally intended to be: that is, a heroic piecefor the theatre, without the metaphysical or allegorical complicationsof The Ring. Indeed, the ultimate catastrophe of the Saga cannot by anyperversion of ingenuity be adapted to the perfectly clear allegoricaldesign of The Rhine Gold, The Valkyries, and Siegfried.SIEGFRIED AS PROTESTANTThe philosophically fertile element in the original project ofSiegfried's Death was the conception of Siegfried himself as a type ofthe healthy man raised to perfect confidence in his own impulses byan intense and joyous vitality which is above fear, sickliness ofconscience, malice, and the makeshifts and moral crutches of law andorder which accompany them. Such a character appears extraordinarilyfascinating and exhilarating to our guilty and conscience-riddengenerations, however little they may understand him. The world hasalways delighted in the man who is delivered from conscience. From Punchand Don Juan down to Robert Macaire, Jeremy Diddler and the pantomimeclown, he has always drawn large audiences; but hitherto he has beendecorously given to the devil at the end. Indeed eternal punishment issometimes deemed too high a compliment to his nature. When the late LordLytton, in his Strange Story, introduced a character personifying thejoyousness of intense vitality, he felt bound to deny him the immortalsoul which was at that time conceded even to the humblest characters infiction, and to accept mischievousness, cruelty, and utter incapacityfor sympathy as the inevitable consequence of his magnificent bodily andmental health.In short, though men felt all the charm of abounding life andabandonment to its impulses, they dared not, in their deepself-mistrust, conceive it otherwise than as a force making forevil--one which must lead to universal ruin unless checked and literallymortified by self-renunciation in obedience to superhuman guidance, orat least to some reasoned system of morals. When it became apparent tothe cleverest of them that no such superhuman guidance existed, andthat their secularist systems had all the fictitiousness of "revelation"without its poetry, there was no escaping the conclusion that all thegood that man had done must be put down to his arbitrary will as well asall the evil he had done; and it was also obvious that if progress werea reality, his beneficent impulses must be gaining on his destructiveones. It was under the influence of these ideas that we began to hearabout the joy of life where we had formerly heard about the grace of Godor the Age of Reason, and that the boldest spirits began to raise thequestion whether churches and laws and the like were not doing a greatdeal more harm than good by their action in limiting the freedom of thehuman will. Four hundred years ago, when belief in God and in revelationwas general throughout Europe, a similar wave of thought led thestrongest-hearted peoples to affirm that every man's private judgmentwas a more trustworthy interpreter of God and revelation than theChurch. This was called Protestantism; and though the Protestants werenot strong enough for their creed, and soon set up a Church of theirown, yet the movement, on the whole, has justified the direction ittook. Nowadays the supernatural element in Protestantism has perished;and if every man's private judgment is still to be justified as the mosttrustworthy interpreter of the will of Humanity (which is not amore extreme proposition than the old one about the will of God)Protestantism must take a fresh step in advance, and become Anarchism.Which it has accordingly done, Anarchism being one of the notable newcreeds of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.The weak place which experience finds out in the Anarchist theory isits reliance on the progress already achieved by "Man." There is no suchthing as Man in the world: what we have to deal with is a multitude ofmen, some of them great rascals, some of them great statesmen, othersboth, with a vast majority capable of managing their personal affairs,but not of comprehending social organization, or grappling with theproblems created by their association in enormous numbers. If "Man"means this majority, then "Man" has made no progress: he has, onthe contrary, resisted it. He will not even pay the cost of existinginstitutions: the requisite money has to be filched from him by"indirect taxation." Such people, like Wagner's giants, must begoverned by laws; and their assent to such government must be securedby deliberately filling them with prejudices and practicing on theirimaginations by pageantry and artificial eminences and dignities.The government is of course established by the few who are capable ofgovernment, though its mechanism once complete, it may be, and generallyis, carried on unintelligently by people who are incapable of it thecapable people repairing it from time to time when it gets too farbehind the continuous advance or decay of civilization. All thesecapable people are thus in the position of Wotan, forced to maintain assacred, and themselves submit to, laws which they privately know to beobsolescent makeshifts, and to affect the deepest veneration for creedsand ideals which they ridicule among themselves with cynical scepticism.No individual Siegfried can rescue them from this bondage and hypocrisy;in fact, the individual Siegfried has come often enough, only to findhimself confronted with the alternative of governing those who are notSiegfrieds or risking destruction at their hands. And this dilemma willpersist until Wotan's inspiration comes to our governors, and they seethat their business is not the devising of laws and institutions to propup the weaknesses of mobs and secure the survival of the unfittest, butthe breeding of men whose wills and intelligences may be depended on toproduce spontaneously the social well-being our clumsy laws now aim atand miss. The majority of men at present in Europe have no businessto be alive; and no serious progress will be made until we addressourselves earnestly and scientifically to the task of producingtrustworthy human material for society. In short, it is necessary tobreed a race of men in whom the life-giving impulses predominate, beforethe New Protestantism becomes politically practicable. [*]     * The necessity for breeding the governing class from a     selected stock has always been recognized by Aristocrats,     however erroneous their methods of selection. We have     changed our system from Aristocracy to Democracy without     considering that we were at the same time changing, as     regards our governing class, from Selection to Promiscuity.     Those who have taken a practical part in modern politics     best know how farcical the result is.The most inevitable dramatic conception, then, of the nineteenthcentury, is that of a perfectly naive hero upsetting religion, law andorder in all directions, and establishing in their place the unfetteredaction of Humanity doing exactly what it likes, and producing orderinstead of confusion thereby because it likes to do what is necessaryfor the good of the race. This conception, already incipient in AdamSmith's Wealth of Nations, was certain at last to reach some greatartist, and be embodied by him in a masterpiece. It was also certainthat if that master happened to be a German, he should take delightin describing his hero as the Freewiller of Necessity, thereby beyondmeasure exasperating Englishmen with a congenital incapacity formetaphysics.PANACEA QUACKERY, OTHERWISE IDEALISMUnfortunately, human enlightenment does not progress by nicer and niceradjustments, but by violent corrective reactions which invariably sendus clean over our saddle and would bring us to the ground on the otherside if the next reaction did not send us back again with equallyexcessive zeal. Ecclesiasticism and Constitutionalism send us one way,Protestantism and Anarchism the other; Order rescues us from confusionand lands us in Tyranny; Liberty then saves the situation and ispresently found to be as great a nuisance as Despotism. A scientificallybalanced application of these forces, theoretically possible, ispractically incompatible with human passion. Besides, we have the sameweakness in morals as in medicine: we cannot be cured of running afterpanaceas, or, as they are called in the sphere of morals, ideals. Onegeneration sets up duty, renunciation, self-sacrifice as a panacea. Thenext generation, especially the women, wake up at the age of forty orthereabouts to the fact that their lives have been wasted in the worshipof this ideal, and, what is still more aggravating, that the elders whoimposed it on them did so in a fit of satiety with their own experimentsin the other direction. Then that defrauded generation foams at themouth at the very mention of duty, and sets up the alternative panaceaof love, their deprivation of which seems to them to have been the mostcruel and mischievous feature of their slavery to duty. It is useless towarn them that this reaction, if prescribed as a panacea, will prove asgreat a failure as all the other reactions have done; for they do notrecognize its identity with any reaction that ever occurred before.Take for instance the hackneyed historic example of the austerity ofthe Commonwealth being followed by the licence of the Restoration.You cannot persuade any moral enthusiast to accept this as a pureoscillation from action to reaction. If he is a Puritan he looks uponthe Restoration as a national disaster: if he is an artist he regards itas the salvation of the country from gloom, devil worship and starvationof the affections. The Puritan is ready to try the Commonwealth againwith a few modern improvements: the Amateur is equally ready to try theRestoration with modern enlightenments. And so for the present we mustbe content to proceed by reactions, hoping that each will establish somepermanently practical and beneficial reform or moral habit that willsurvive the correction of its excesses by the next reaction.DRAMATIC ORIGIN OF WOTANWe can now see how a single drama in which Wotan does not appear, and ofwhich Siegfried is the hero, expanded itself into a great fourfolddrama of which Wotan is the hero. You cannot dramatize a reaction bypersonifying the reacting force only, any more than Archimedes couldlift the world without a fulcrum for his lever. You must also personifythe established power against which the new force is reacting; andin the conflict between them you get your drama, conflict being theessential ingredient in all drama. Siegfried, as the hero of DieGotterdammerung, is only the primo tenore robusto of an opera book,deferring his death, after he has been stabbed in the last act, tosing rapturous love strains to the heroine exactly like Edgardo inDonizetti's Lucia. In order to make him intelligible in the widersignificance which his joyous, fearless, conscienceless heroism soonassumed in Wagner's imagination, it was necessary to provide him with amuch vaster dramatic antagonist than the operatic villain Hagen. HenceWagner had to create Wotan as the anvil for Siegfried's hammer; andsince there was no room for Wotan in the original opera book, Wagnerhad to work back to a preliminary drama reaching primarily to the verybeginnings of human society. And since, on this world-embracing scale,it was clear that Siegfried must come into conflict with many baserand stupider forces than those lofty ones of supernatural religion andpolitical constitutionalism typified by Wotan and his wife Fricka, theseminor antagonists had to be dramatized also in the persons of Alberic,Mime, Fafnir, Loki, and the rest. None of these appear in Night Falls OnThe Gods save Alberic, whose weird dream-colloquy with Hagen, effectiveas it is, is as purely theatrical as the scene of the Ghost in Hamlet,or the statue in Don Giovanni. Cut the conference of the Norns and thevisit of Valtrauta to Brynhild out of Night Falls On The Gods, and thedrama remains coherent and complete without them. Retain them, and theplay becomes connected by conversational references with the three musicdramas; but the connection establishes no philosophic coherence, noreal identity between the operatic Brynhild of the Gibichung episode(presently to be related) and the daughter of Wotan and the FirstMother.THE LOVE PANACEAWe shall now find that at the point where The Ring changes frommusic drama into opera, it also ceases to be philosophic, and becomesdidactic. The philosophic part is a dramatic symbol of the world asWagner observed it. In the didactic part the philosophy degenerates intothe prescription of a romantic nostrum for all human ills. Wagner, onlymortal after all, succumbed to the panacea mania when his philosophy wasexhausted, like any of the rest of us.The panacea is by no means an original one. Wagner was anticipated inthe year 1819 by a young country gentleman from Sussex named Shelley, ina work of extraordinary artistic power and splendor. Prometheus Unboundis an English attempt at a Ring; and when it is taken into account thatthe author was only 27 whereas Wagner was 40 when he completed the poemof The Ring, our vulgar patriotism may find an envious satisfaction ininsisting upon the comparison. Both works set forth the same conflictbetween humanity and its gods and governments, issuing in the redemptionof man from their tyranny by the growth of his will into perfectstrength and self-confidence; and both finish by a lapse intopanacea-mongering didacticism by the holding up of Love as the remedyfor all evils and the solvent of all social difficulties.The differences between Prometheus Unbound and The Ring are asinteresting as the likenesses. Shelley, caught in the pugnacity of hisyouth and the first impetuosity of his prodigious artistic power bythe first fierce attack of the New Reformation, gave no quarter tothe antagonist of his hero. His Wotan, whom he calls Jupiter, is thealmighty fiend into whom the Englishman's God had degenerated during twocenturies of ignorant Bible worship and shameless commercialism. He isAlberic, Fafnir Loki and the ambitious side of Wotan all rolled intoone melodramatic demon who is finally torn from his throne and hurledshrieking into the abyss by a spirit representing that conceptionof Eternal Law which has been replaced since by the conception ofEvolution. Wagner, an older, more experienced man than the Shelley of1819, understood Wotan and pardoned him, separating him tenderly fromall the compromising alliances to which Shelley fiercely held him;making the truth and heroism which overthrow him the children of hisinmost heart; and representing him as finally acquiescing in and workingfor his own supersession and annihilation. Shelley, in his later works,is seen progressing towards the same tolerance, justice, and humilityof spirit, as he advanced towards the middle age he never reached. Butthere is no progress from Shelley to Wagner as regards the panacea,except that in Wagner there is a certain shadow of night and death comeon it: nay, even a clear opinion that the supreme good of love is thatit so completely satisfies the desire for life, that after it the Willto Live ceases to trouble us, and we are at last content to achieve thehighest happiness of death.This reduction of the panacea to absurdity was not forced upon Shelley,because the love which acts as a universal solvent in his PrometheusUnbound is a sentiment of affectionate benevolence which has nothing todo with sexual passion. It might, and in fact does exist in the absenceof any sexual interest whatever. The words mercy and kindness connote itless ambiguously than the word love. But Wagner sought always for somepoint of contact between his ideas and the physical senses, so thatpeople might not only think or imagine them in the eighteenth centuryfashion, but see them on the stage, hear them from the orchestra, andfeel them through the infection of passionate emotion. Dr. Johnsonkicking the stone to confute Berkeley is not more bent on common-senseconcreteness than Wagner: on all occasions he insists on the needfor sensuous apprehension to give reality to abstract comprehension,maintaining, in fact, that reality has no other meaning. Now he couldapply this process to poetic love only by following it back to itsalleged origin in sexual passion, the emotional phenomena of which hehas expressed in music with a frankness and forcible naturalism whichwould possibly have scandalized Shelley. The love duet in the first actof The Valkyries is brought to a point at which the conventions of oursociety demand the precipitate fall of the curtain; whilst the preludeto Tristan and Isolde is such an astonishingly intense and faithfultranslation into music of the emotions which accompany the union of apair of lovers, that it is questionable whether the great popularity ofthis piece at our orchestral concerts really means that our audiencesare entirely catholic in their respect for life in all its beneficentlycreative functions, or whether they simply enjoy the music withoutunderstanding it.But however offensive and inhuman may be the superstition which brandssuch exaltations of natural passion as shameful and indecorous, there isat least as much common sense in disparaging love as in setting it up asa panacea. Even the mercy and loving-kindness of Shelley do not hold goodas a universal law of conduct: Shelley himself makes extremely shortwork of Jupiter, just as Siegfried does of Fafnir, Mime, and Wotan; andthe fact that Prometheus is saved from doing the destructive part ofhis work by the intervention of that very nebulous personification ofEternity called Demogorgon, does not in the least save the situation,because, flatly, there is no such person as Demogorgon, and ifPrometheus does not pull down Jupiter himself, no one else will. Itwould be exasperating, if it were not so funny, to see these poetsleading their heroes through blood and destruction to the conclusionthat, as Browning's David puts it (David of all people!), "All's Love;yet all's Law."Certainly it is clear enough that such love as that implied bySiegfried's first taste of fear as he cuts through the mailed coat ofthe sleeping figure on the mountain, and discovers that it is a woman;by her fierce revolt against being touched by him when his terror givesway to ardor; by his manly transports of victory; and by the womanlymixture of rapture and horror with which she abandons herself to thepassion which has seized on them both, is an experience which it is muchbetter, like the vast majority of us, never to have passed through, thanto allow it to play more than a recreative holiday part in our lives. Itdid not play a very large part in Wagner's own laborious life, and doesnot occupy more than two scenes of The Ring. Tristan and Isolde, whollydevoted to it, is a poem of destruction and death. The Mastersingers,a work full of health, fun and happiness, contains not a single barof love music that can be described as passionate: the hero of it isa widower who cobbles shoes, writes verses, and contents himself withlooking on at the sweetheartings of his customers. Parsifal makes an endof it altogether. The truth is that the love panacea in Night Falls OnThe Gods and in the last act of Siegfried is a survival of the firstcrude operatic conception of the story, modified by an anticipation ofWagner's later, though not latest, conception of love as the fulfillerof our Will to Live and consequently our reconciler to night and death.NOT LOVE, BUT LIFEThe only faith which any reasonable disciple can gain from The Ring isnot in love, but in life itself as a tireless power which is continuallydriving onward and upward--not, please observe, being beckoned or drawnby Das Ewig Weibliche or any other external sentimentality, but growingfrom within, by its own inexplicable energy, into ever higher andhigher forms of organization, the strengths and the needs of which arecontinually superseding the institutions which were made to fit ourformer requirements. When your Bakoonins call out for the demolition ofall these venerable institutions, there is no need to fly into a panicand lock them up in prison whilst your parliament is bit by bit doingexactly what they advised you to do. When your Siegfrieds melt down theold weapons into new ones, and with disrespectful words chop in twainthe antiquated constable's staves in the hands of their elders, the endof the world is no nearer than it was before. If human nature, whichis the highest organization of life reached on this planet, is reallydegenerating, then human society will decay; and no panic-begotten penalmeasures can possibly save it: we must, like Prometheus, set to work tomake new men instead of vainly torturing old ones. On the other hand, ifthe energy of life is still carrying human nature to higher and higherlevels, then the more young people shock their elders and deride anddiscard their pet institutions the better for the hopes of the world,since the apparent growth of anarchy is only the measure of the rate ofimprovement. History, as far as we are capable of history (which isnot saying much as yet), shows that all changes from crudity of socialorganization to complexity, and from mechanical agencies in governmentto living ones, seem anarchic at first sight. No doubt it is naturalto a snail to think that any evolution which threatens to do away withshells will result in general death from exposure. Nevertheless, themost elaborately housed beings today are born not only without houses ontheir backs but without even fur or feathers to clothe them.ANARCHISM NO PANACEAOne word of warning to those who may find themselves attracted bySiegfried's Anarchism, or, if they prefer a term with more respectableassociations, his neo-Protestantism. Anarchism, as a panacea, is just ashopeless as any other panacea, and will still be so even if we breeda race of perfectly benevolent men. It is true that in the sphere ofthought, Anarchism is an inevitable condition of progressiveevolution. A nation without Freethinkers--that is, without intellectualAnarchists--will share the fate of China. It is also true that ourcriminal law, based on a conception of crime and punishment which isnothing but our vindictiveness and cruelty in a virtuous disguise, isan unmitigated and abominable nuisance, bound to be beaten out ofus finally by the mere weight of our experience of its evil anduselessness. But it will not be replaced by anarchy. Applied to theindustrial or political machinery of modern society, anarchy must alwaysreduce itself speedily to absurdity. Even the modified form of anarchyon which modern civilization is based: that is, the abandonmentof industry, in the name of individual liberty, to the upshot ofcompetition for personal gain between private capitalists, is adisastrous failure, and is, by the mere necessities of the case, givingway to ordered Socialism. For the economic rationale of this, I mustrefer disciples of Siegfried to a tract from my hand published by theFabian Society and entitled The Impossibilities of Anarchism, whichexplains why, owing to the physical constitution of our globe, societycannot effectively organize the production of its food, clothes andhousing, nor distribute them fairly and economically on any anarchicplan: nay, that without concerting our social action to a much higherdegree than we do at present we can never get rid of the wasteful andiniquitous welter of a little riches and a deal of poverty which currentpolitical humbug calls our prosperity and civilization. Liberty is anexcellent thing; but it cannot begin until society has paid its dailydebt to Nature by first earning its living. There is no liberty beforethat except the liberty to live at somebody else's expense, a libertymuch sought after nowadays, since it is the criterion of gentility, butnot wholesome from the point of view of the common weal.SIEGFRIED CONCLUDEDIn returning now to the adventures of Siegfried there is little moreto be described except the finale of an opera. Siegfried, having passedunharmed through the fire, wakes Brynhild and goes through all thefancies and ecstasies of love at first sight in a duet which ends withan apostrophe to "leuchtende Liebe, lachender Tod!", which has beenromantically translated into "Love that illumines, laughing at Death,"whereas it really identifies enlightening love and laughing death asinvolving each other so closely as to be usually one and the same thing.NIGHT FALLS ON THE GODSPROLOGUEDie Gotterdammerung begins with an elaborate prologue. The three Nornssit in the night on Brynhild's mountain top spinning their thread ofdestiny, and telling the story of Wotan's sacrifice of his eye, andof his breaking off a bough from the World Ash to make a heft for hisspear, also how the tree withered after suffering that violence. Theyhave also some fresher news to discuss. Wotan, on the breaking of hisspear by Siegfried, has called all his heroes to cut down the witheredWorld Ash and stack its faggots in a mighty pyre about Valhalla. Then,with his broken spear in his hand, he has seated himself in state inthe great hall, with the Gods and Heroes assembled about him as ifin council, solemnly waiting for the end. All this belongs to the oldlegendary materials with which Wagner began The Ring.The tale is broken by the thread snapping in the hands of the thirdNorn; for the hour has arrived when man has taken his destiny in hisown hands to shape it for himself, and no longer bows to circumstance,environment, necessity (which he now freely wills), and all the rest ofthe inevitables. So the Norns recognize that the world has no furtheruse for them, and sink into the earth to return to the First Mother.Then the day dawns; and Siegfried and Brynhild come, and have anotherduet. He gives her his ring; and she gives him her horse. Away then hegoes in search of more adventures; and she watches him from her craguntil he disappears. The curtain falls; but we can still hear thetrolling of his horn, and the merry clatter of his horse's shoestrotting gaily down the valley. The sound is lost in the grander rhythmof the Rhine as he reaches its banks. We hear again an echo of thelament of the Rhine maidens for the ravished gold; and then, finally, anew strain, which does not surge like the mighty flood of the river, buthas an unmistakable tramp of hardy men and a strong land flavor aboutit. And on this the opera curtain at last goes up--for please rememberthat all that has gone before is only the overture.The First ActWe now understand the new tramping strain. We are in the Rhineside hallof the Gibichungs, in the presence of King Gunther, his sister Gutrune,and Gunther's grim half brother Hagen, the villain of the piece. Guntheris a fool, and has for Hagen's intelligence the respect a fool alwayshas for the brains of a scoundrel. Feebly fishing for compliments, heappeals to Hagen to pronounce him a fine fellow and a glory to therace of Gibich. Hagen declares that it is impossible to contemplatehim without envy, but thinks it a pity that he has not yet found awife glorious enough for him. Gunther doubts whether so extraordinarya person can possibly exist. Hagen then tells him of Brynhild and herrampart of fire; also of Siegfried. Gunther takes this rather in badpart, since not only is he afraid of the fire, but Siegfried, accordingto Hagen, is not, and will therefore achieve this desirable matchhimself. But Hagen points out that since Siegfried is riding aboutin quest of adventures, he will certainly pay an early visit to therenowned chief of the Gibichungs. They can then give him a philtre whichwill make him fall in love with Gutrune and forget every other woman hehas yet seen.Gunther is transported with admiration of Hagen's cunning when he takesin this plan; and he has hardly assented to it when Siegfried, withoperatic opportuneness, drops in just as Hagen expected, and is dulydrugged into the heartiest love for Gutrune and total oblivion ofBrynhild and his own past. When Gunther declares his longing for thebride who lies inaccessible within a palisade of flame, Siegfried atonce offers to undertake the adventure for him. Hagen then explainsto both of them that Siegfried can, after braving the fire, appear toBrynhild in the semblance of Gunther through the magic of the wishingcap (or Tarnhelm, as it is called throughout The Ring), the use of whichSiegfried now learns for the first time. It is of course part of thebargain that Gunther shall give his sister to Siegfried in marriage.On that they swear blood-brotherhood; and at this opportunity the oldoperatic leaven breaks out amusingly in Wagner. With tremendous exordiumof brass, the tenor and baritone go at it with a will, showing offthe power of their voices, following each other in canonic imitation,singing together in thirds and sixths, and finishing with a luridunison, quite in the manner of Ruy Gomez and Ernani, or Othello andIago. Then without further ado Siegfried departs on his expedition,taking Gunther with him to the foot of the mountain, and leaving Hagento guard the hall and sing a very fine solo which has often figured inthe programs of the Richter concerts, explaining that his interest inthe affair is that Siegfried will bring back the Ring, and that he,Hagen, will presently contrive to possess himself of that Ring andbecome Plutonic master of the world.And now it will be asked how does Hagen know all about the Plutonicempire; and why was he able to tell Gunther about Brynhild andSiegfried, and to explain to Siegfried the trick of the Tarnhelm. Theexplanation is that though Hagen's mother was the mother of Gunther, hisfather was not the illustrious Gibich, but no less a person than our oldfriend Alberic, who, like Wotan, has begotten a son to do for him whathe cannot do for himself.In the above incidents, those gentle moralizers who find the seriousphilosophy of the music dramas too terrifying for them, may allegorizepleasingly on the philtre as the maddening chalice of passion which,once tasted, causes the respectable man to forget his lawfully weddedwife and plunge into adventures which eventually lead him headlong todestruction.We now come upon a last relic of the tragedy of Wotan. Returningto Brynhild's mountain, we find her visited by her sister ValkyrieValtrauta, who has witnessed Wotan's solemn preparations with terror.She repeats to Brynhild the account already given by the Norns. Clingingin anguish to Wotan's knees, she has heard him mutter that were the ringreturned to the daughters of the deep Rhine, both Gods and world wouldbe redeemed from that stage curse off Alberic's in The Rhine Gold. Onthis she has rushed on her warhorse through the air to beg Brynhild togive the Rhine back its ring. But this is asking Woman to give up lovefor the sake of Church and State. She declares that she will see themboth perish first; and Valtrauta returns to Valhalla in despair. WhilstBrynhild is watching the course of the black thundercloud that marks hersister's flight, the fires of Loki again flame high round the mountain;and the horn of Siegfried is heard as he makes his way through them.But the man who now appears wears the Tarnhelm: his voice is a strangevoice: his figure is the unknown one of the king of the Gibichungs. Hetears the ring from her finger, and, claiming her as his wife, drivesher into the cave without pity for her agony of horror, and sets Nothungbetween them in token of his loyalty to the friend he is impersonating.No explanation of this highway robbery of the ring is offered. Clearly,this Siegfried is not the Siegfried of the previous drama.The Second ActIn the second act we return to the hall of Gibich, where Hagen, in thelast hours of that night, still sits, his spear in his hand, and hisshield beside him. At his knees crouches a dwarfish spectre, his fatherAlberic, still full of his old grievances against Wotan, and urging hisson in his dreams to win back the ring for him. This Hagen swears todo; and as the apparition of his father vanishes, the sun rises andSiegfried suddenly comes from the river bank tucking into his belt theTarnhelm, which has transported him from the mountain like the enchantedcarpet of the Arabian tales. He describes his adventures to Gutruneuntil Gunther's boat is seen approaching, when Hagen seizes a cowhornand calls the tribesmen to welcome their chief and his bride. It is mostexhilarating, this colloquy with the startled and hastily armed clan,ending with a thundering chorus, the drums marking the time with mightypulses from dominant to tonic, much as Rossini would have made them doif he had been a pupil of Beethoven's.A terrible scene follows. Gunther leads his captive bride straight intothe presence of Siegfried, whom she claims as her husband by the ring,which she is astonished to see on his finger: Gunther, as she supposes,having torn it from her the night before. Turning on Gunther, she says"Since you took that ring from me, and married me with it, tell him ofyour right to it; and make him give it back to you." Gunther stammers,"The ring! I gave him no ring--er--do you know him?" The rejoinder isobvious. "Then where are you hiding the ring that you had from me?"Gunther's confusion enlightens her; and she calls Siegfried tricksterand thief to his face. In vain he declares that he got the ring from nowoman, but from a dragon whom he slew; for he is manifestly puzzled;and she, seizing her opportunity, accuses him before the clan of havingplayed Gunther false with her.Hereupon we have another grandiose operatic oath, Siegfried attestinghis innocence on Hagen's spear, and Brynhild rushing to the footlightsand thrusting him aside to attest his guilt, whilst the clansmen callupon their gods to send down lightnings and silence the perjured. Thegods do not respond; and Siegfried, after whispering to Gunther that theTarnhelm seems to have been only half effectual after all, laughs hisway out of the general embarrassment and goes off merrily to prepare forhis wedding, with his arm round Gutrune's waist, followed by theclan. Gunther, Hagen and Brynhild are left together to plot operaticvengeance. Brynhild, it appears, has enchanted Siegfried in such afashion that no weapon can hurt him. She has, however, omitted toprotect his back, since it is impossible that he should ever turn thatto a foe. They agree accordingly that on the morrow a great hunt shalltake place, at which Hagen shall thrust his spear into the hero'svulnerable back. The blame is to be laid on the tusk of a wild boar.Gunther, being a fool, is remorseful about his oath of blood-brotherhoodand about his sister's bereavement, without having the strength of mindto prevent the murder. The three burst into a herculean trio, similarin conception to that of the three conspirators in Un Ballo in Maschera;and the act concludes with a joyous strain heralding the appearance ofSiegfried's wedding procession, with strewing of flowers, sacrificing tothe gods, and carrying bride and bridegroom in triumph.It will be seen that in this act we have lost all connection with theearlier drama. Brynhild is not only not the Brynhild of The Valkyries,she is the Hiordis of Ibsen, a majestically savage woman, in whomjealousy and revenge are intensified to heroic proportions. That is theinevitable theatrical treatment of the murderous heroine of the Saga.Ibsen's aim in The Vikings was purely theatrical, and not, as in hislater dramas, also philosophically symbolic. Wagner's aim in Siegfried'sDeath was equally theatrical, and not, as it afterwards became in thedramas of which Siegfried's antagonist Wotan is the hero, likewisephilosophically symbolic. The two master-dramatists therefore producepractically the same version of Brynhild. Thus on the second evening ofThe Ring we see Brynhild in the character of the truth-divining instinctin religion, cast into an enchanted slumber and surrounded by the firesof hell lest she should overthrow a Church corrupted by its alliancewith government. On the fourth evening, we find her swearing a maliciouslie to gratify her personal jealousy, and then plotting a treacherousmurder with a fool and a scoundrel. In the original draft of Siegfried'sDeath, the incongruity is carried still further by the conclusion, atwhich the dead Brynhild, restored to her godhead by Wotan, and again aValkyrie, carries the slain Siegfried to Valhalla to live there happilyever after with its pious heroes.As to Siegfried himself, he talks of women, both in this second act andthe next, with the air of a man of the world. "Their tantrums," hesays, "are soon over." Such speeches do not belong to the novice of thepreceding drama, but to the original Siegfried's Tod, with its leadingcharacters sketched on the ordinary romantic lines from the old Sagas,and not yet reminted as the original creations of Wagner's genius whoseacquaintance we have made on the two previous evenings. The verytitle "Siegfried's Death" survives as a strong theatrical point in thefollowing passage. Gunther, in his rage and despair, cries, "Save me,Hagen: save my honor and thy mother's who bore us both." "Nothing cansave thee," replies Hagen: "neither brain nor hand, but SIEGFRIED'SDEATH." And Gunther echoes with a shudder, "SIEGFRIED'S DEATH!"A WAGNERIAN NEWSPAPER CONTROVERSYThe devotion which Wagner's work inspires has been illustrated latelyin a public correspondence on this very point. A writer in The DailyTelegraph having commented on the falsehood uttered by Brynhild inaccusing Siegfried of having betrayed Gunther with her, a correspondencein defence of the beloved heroine was opened in The Daily Chronicle. Theimputation of falsehood to Brynhild was strongly resented and combated,in spite of the unanswerable evidence of the text. It was contended thatBrynhild's statement must be taken as establishing the fact that sheactually was ravished by somebody whom she believed to be Siegfried,and that since this somebody cannot have been Siegfried, he being asincapable of treachery to Gunther as she of falsehood, it must have beenGunther himself after a second exchange of personalities not mentionedin the text. The reply to this--if so obviously desperate a hypothesisneeds a reply--is that the text is perfectly explicit as to Siegfried,disguised as Gunther, passing the night with Brynhild with Nothungdividing them, and in the morning bringing her down the mountain THROUGHTHE FIRE (an impassable obstacle to Gunther) and there transportinghimself in a single breath, by the Tarnhelm's magic, back to the hallof the Gibichungs, leaving the real Gunther to bring Brynhild downthe river after him. One controversialist actually pleaded for theexpedition occupying two nights, on the second of which the allegedoutrage might have taken place. But the time is accounted for to thelast minute: it all takes place during the single night watch ofHagen. There is no possible way out of the plain fact that Brynhild'saccusation is to her own knowledge false; and the impossible ways justcited are only interesting as examples of the fanatical worshipwhich Wagner and his creations have been able to inspire in minds ofexceptional power and culture.More plausible was the line taken by those who admitted the falsehood.Their contention was that when Wotan deprived Brynhild of her Godhead,he also deprived her of her former high moral attributes; so thatSiegfried's kiss awakened an ordinary mortal jealous woman. But agoddess can become mortal and jealous without plunging at once intoperjury and murder. Besides, this explanation involves the sacrifice ofthe whole significance of the allegory, and the reduction of The Ring tothe plane of a child's conception of The Sleeping Beauty. Whoever doesnot understand that, in terms of The Ring philosophy, a change fromgodhead to humanity is a step higher and not a degradation, misses thewhole point of The Ring. It is precisely because the truthfulness ofBrynhild is proof against Wotan's spells that he has to contrive thefire palisade with Loki, to protect the fictions and conventions ofValhalla against her.The only tolerable view is the one supported by the known history ofThe Ring, and also, for musicians of sufficiently fine judgment, by theevidence of the scores; of which more anon. As a matter of fact Wagnerbegan, as I have said, with Siegfried's Death. Then, wanting to developthe idea of Siegfried as neo-Protestant, he went on to The YoungSiegfried. As a Protestant cannot be dramatically projected without apontifical antagonist. The Young Siegfried led to The Valkyries, andthat again to its preface The Rhine Gold (the preface is always writtenafter the book is finished). Finally, of course, the whole was revised.The revision, if carried out strictly, would have involved the cuttingout of Siegfried's Death, now become inconsistent and superfluous; andthat would have involved, in turn, the facing of the fact that The Ringwas no longer a Niblung epic, and really demanded modern costumes, tallhats for Tarnhelms, factories for Nibelheims, villas for Valhallas, andso on--in short, a complete confession of the extent to which the oldNiblung epic had become the merest pretext and name directory in thecourse of Wagner's travail. But, as Wagner's most eminent Englishinterpreter once put it to me at Bayreuth between the acts of NightFalls On The Gods, the master wanted to "Lohengrinize" again after hislong abstention from opera; and Siegfried's Death (first sketched in1848, the year before the rising in Dresden and the subsequent eventswhich so deepened Wagner's sense of life and the seriousness of art)gave him exactly the libretto he required for that outbreak of theold operatic Adam in him. So he changed it into Die Gotterdammerung,retaining the traditional plot of murder and jealousy, and with it,necessarily, his original second act, in spite of the incongruity of itsSiegfried and Brynhild with the Siegfried and Brynhild of the allegory.As to the legendary matter about the world-ash and the destruction ofValhalla by Loki, it fitted in well enough; for though, allegorically,the blow by which Siegfried breaks the god's spear is the end of Wotanand of Valhalla, those who do not see the allegory, and take the storyliterally, like children, are sure to ask what becomes of Wotan afterSiegfried gets past him up the mountain; and to this question the oldtale told in Night Falls On The Gods is as good an answer as another.The very senselessness of the scenes of the Norns and of Valtrauta inrelation to the three foregoing dramas, gives them a highly effectiveair of mystery; and no one ventures to challenge their consequentiality,because we are all more apt to pretend to understand great works of artthan to confess that the meaning (if any) has escaped us. Valtrauta,however, betrays her irrelevance by explaining that the gods canbe saved by the restoration of the ring to the Rhine maidens. This,considered as part of the previous allegory, is nonsense; so that eventhis scene, which has a more plausible air of organic connection withThe Valkyries than any other in Night Falls On The Gods, is as clearlypart of a different and earlier conception as the episode whichconcludes it, in which Siegfried actually robs Brynhild of her ring,though he has no recollection of having given it to her. Night Falls OnThe Gods, in fact, was not even revised into any real coherence with theworld-poem which sprang from it; and that is the authentic solution ofall the controversies which have arisen over it.The Third ActThe hunting party comes off duly. Siegfried strays from it and meetsthe Rhine maidens, who almost succeed in coaxing the ring from him. Hepretends to be afraid of his wife; and they chaff him as to her beatinghim and so forth; but when they add that the ring is accursed and willbring death upon him, he discloses to them, as unconsciously as JuliusCaesar disclosed it long ago, that secret of heroism, never to let yourlife be shaped by fear of its end. [*] So he keeps the ring; and they leavehim to his fate. The hunting party now finds him; and they all sitdown together to make a meal by the river side, Siegfried telling themmeanwhile the story of his adventures. When he approaches the subject ofBrynhild, as to whom his memory is a blank, Hagen pours an antidoteto the love philtre into his drinking horn, whereupon, his memoryreturning, he proceeds to narrate the incident of the fiery mountain, toGunther's intense mortification. Hagen then plunges his spear into theback of Siegfried, who falls dead on his shield, but gets up again,after the old operatic custom, to sing about thirty bars to his lovebefore allowing himself to be finally carried off to the strains of thefamous Trauermarsch.     * "We must learn to die, and to die in the fullest sense of     the word. The fear of the end is the source of all     lovelessness; and this fear is generated only when love     begins to wane. How came it that this loves the highest     blessedness to all things living, was so far lost sight of     by the human race that at last it came to this: all that     mankind did, ordered, and established, was conceived only in     fear of the end? My poem sets this forth."--Wagner to     Roeckel, 25th Jan. 1854.The scene then changes to the hall of the Gibichungs by the Rhine. It isnight; and Gutrune, unable to sleep, and haunted by all sorts of vagueterrors, is waiting for the return of her husband, and wonderingwhether a ghostly figure she has seen gliding down to the river bank isBrynhild, whose room is empty. Then comes the cry of Hagen, returningwith the hunting party to announce the death of Siegfried by the tusk ofa wild boar. But Gutrune divines the truth; and Hagen does not deny it.Siegfried's body is brought in; Gunther claims the ring; Hagen willnot suffer him to take it; they fight; and Gunther is slain. Hagen thenattempts to take it; but the dead man's hand closes on it and raisesitself threateningly. Then Brynhild comes; and a funeral pyre is raisedwhilst she declaims a prolonged scene, extremely moving and imposing,but yielding nothing to resolute intellectual criticism except a verypowerful and elevated exploitation of theatrical pathos, psychologicallyidentical with the scene of Cleopatra and the dead Antony inShakespeare's tragedy. Finally she flings a torch into the pyre, andrides her war-horse into the flames. The hall of the Gibichungs catchesfire, as most halls would were a cremation attempted in the middleof the floor (I permit myself this gibe purposely to emphasize theexcessive artificiality of the scene); but the Rhine overflows itsbanks to allow the three Rhine maidens to take the ring from Siegfried'sfinger, incidentally extinguishing the conflagration as it does so.Hagen attempts to snatch the ring from the maidens, who promptly drownhim; and in the distant heavens the Gods and their castle are seenperishing in the fires of Loki as the curtain falls.FORGOTTEN ERE FINISHEDIn all this, it will be observed, there is nothing new. The musicalfabric is enormously elaborate and gorgeous; but you cannot say, as youmust in witnessing The Rhine Gold, The Valkyries, and the first two actsof Siegfried, that you have never seen anything like it before, and thatthe inspiration is entirely original. Not only the action, but mostof the poetry, might conceivably belong to an Elizabethan drama. Thesituation of Cleopatra and Antony is unconsciously reproduced withoutbeing bettered, or even equalled in point of majesty and musicalexpression. The loss of all simplicity and dignity, the impossibilityof any credible scenic presentation of the incidents, and the extremestaginess of the conventions by which these impossibilities are gotover, are no doubt covered from the popular eye by the overwhelmingprestige of Die Gotterdammerung as part of so great a work as The Ring,and by the extraordinary storm of emotion and excitement which the musickeeps up. But the very qualities that intoxicate the novice in musicenlighten the adept. In spite of the fulness of the composer's technicalaccomplishment, the finished style and effortless mastery of harmony andinstrumentation displayed, there is not a bar in the work which movesus as the same themes moved us in The Valkyries, nor is anything butexternal splendor added to the life and humor of Siegfried.In the original poem, Brynhild delays her self-immolation on the pyre ofSiegfried to read the assembled choristers a homily on the efficacy ofthe Love panacea. "My holiest wisdom's hoard," she says, "now I makeknown to the world. I believe not in property, nor money, nor godliness,nor hearth and high place, nor pomp and peerage, nor contract andcustom, but in Love. Let that only prevail; and ye shall be blest inweal or woe." Here the repudiations still smack of Bakoonin; but thesaviour is no longer the volition of the full-grown spirit of Man, theFree Willer of Necessity, sword in hand, but simply Love, and not evenShelleyan love, but vehement sexual passion. It is highly significantof the extent to which this uxorious commonplace lost its hold of Wagner(after disturbing his conscience, as he confesses to Roeckel, for years)that it disappears in the full score of Night Falls On The Gods, whichwas not completed until he was on the verge of producing Parsifal,twenty years after the publication of the poem. He cut the homily out,and composed the music of the final scene with a flagrant recklessnessof the old intention. The rigorous logic with which representativemusical themes are employed in the earlier dramas is here abandonedwithout scruple; and for the main theme at the conclusion he selects arapturous passage sung by Sieglinda in the third act of The Valkyrieswhen Brynhild inspires her with a sense of her high destiny as themother of the unborn hero. There is no dramatic logic whatever in therecurrence of this theme to express the transport in which Brynhildimmolates herself. There is of course an excuse for it, inasmuch as bothwomen have an impulse of self-sacrifice for the sake of Siegfried; butthis is really hardly more than an excuse; since the Valhalla thememight be attached to Alberic on the no worse ground that both he andWotan are inspired by ambition, and that the ambition has the sameobject, the possession of the ring. The common sense of the matter isthat the only themes which had fully retained their significance inWagner's memory at the period of the composition of Night Falls On TheGods are those which are mere labels of external features, such asthe Dragon, the Fire, the Water and so on. This particular theme ofSieglinda's is, in truth, of no great musical merit: it might easilybe the pet climax of a popular sentimental ballad: in fact, the gushingeffect which is its sole valuable quality is so cheaply attained thatit is hardly going too far to call it the most trumpery phrase in theentire tetralogy. Yet, since it undoubtedly does gush very emphatically,Wagner chose, for convenience' sake, to work up this final scene with itrather than with the more distinguished, elaborate and beautiful themesconnected with the love of Brynhild and Siegfried.He would certainly not have thought this a matter of no consequence hadhe finished the whole work ten years earlier. It must always be bornein mind that the poem of The Ring was complete and printed in 1853,and represents the sociological ideas which, after germinating in theEuropean atmosphere for many years, had been brought home to Wagner,who was intensely susceptible to such ideas, by the crash of 1849 atDresden. Now no man whose mind is alive and active, as Wagner's was tothe day of his death, can keep his political and spiritual opinions,much less his philosophic consciousness, at a standstill for quarterof a century until he finishes an orchestral score. When Wagner firstsketched Night Falls On The Gods he was 35. When he finished the scorefor the first Bayreuth festival in 1876 he had turned 60. No wonder hehad lost his old grip of it and left it behind him. He eventampered with The Rhine Gold for the sake of theatrical effect whenstage-managing it, making Wotan pick up and brandish a sword to givevisible point to his sudden inspiration as to the raising up of ahero. The sword had first to be discovered by Fafnir among the Niblungtreasures and thrown away by him as useless. There is no sense in thisdevice; and its adoption shows the same recklessness as to the originalintention which we find in the music of the last act of The Dusk of theGods. [*]     * Die Gotterdammerung means literally Godsgloaming. The     English versions of the opera are usually called The Dusk of     the Gods, or The Twilight of the Gods. I have purposely     introduced the ordinary title in the sentence above for the     reader's information.WHY HE CHANGED HIS MINDWagner, however, was not the man to allow his grip of a greatphilosophic theme to slacken even in twenty-five years if the themestill held good as a theory of actual life. If the history of Germanyfrom 1849 to 1876 had been the history of Siegfried and Wotan transposedinto the key of actual life Night Falls On The Gods would have been thelogical consummation of Das Rheingold and The Valkyrie instead of theoperatic anachronism it actually is.But, as a matter of fact, Siegfried did not succeed and Bismarck did.Roeckel was a prisoner whose imprisonment made no difference; Bakooninbroke up, not Walhall, but the International, which ended in anundignified quarrel between him and Karl Marx. The Siegfrieds of 1848were hopeless political failures, whereas the Wotans and Alberics andLokis were conspicuous political successes. Even the Mimes held their ownas against Siegfried. With the single exception of Ferdinand Lassalle,there was no revolutionary leader who was not an obvious impossibilistin practical politics; and Lassalle got himself killed in a romanticand quite indefensible duel after wrecking his health in a titanicoratorical campaign which convinced him that the great majority of theworking classes were not ready to join him, and that the minority whowere ready did not understand him. The International, founded in 1861by Karl Marx in London, and mistaken for several years by nervousnewspapers for a red spectre, was really only a turnip ghost. Itachieved some beginnings of International Trade Unionism by inducingEnglish workmen to send money to support strikes on the continent, andrecalling English workers who had been taken across the North Sea todefeat such strikes; but on its revolutionary socialistic side it was aromantic figment. The suppression of the Paris Commune, one of themost tragic examples in history of the pitilessness with which capablepractical administrators and soldiers are forced by the pressure offacts to destroy romantic amateurs and theatrical dreamers, made an endof melodramatic Socialism. It was as easy for Marx to hold up Thiersas the most execrable of living scoundrels and to put upon Gallifet thebrand that still makes him impossible in French politics as it was forVictor Hugo to bombard Napoleon III from his paper battery in Jersey.It was also easy to hold up Felix Pyat and Delescluze as men of muchloftier ideals than Thiers and Gallifet; but the one fact that could notbe denied was that when it came to actual shooting, it was Gallifet whogot Delescluze shot and not Delescluze who got Gallifet shot, and thatwhen it came to administering the affairs of France, Thiers could inone way or another get it done, whilst Pyat could neither do it nor stoptalking and allow somebody else to do it. True, the penalty of followingThiers was to be exploited by the landlord and capitalist; but then thepenalty of following Pyat was to get shot like a mad dog, or at best getsent to New Caledonia, quite unnecessarily and uselessly.To put it in terms of Wagner's allegory, Alberic had got the ring backagain and was marrying into the best Walhall families with it. He hadthought better of his old threat to dethrone Wotan and Loki. He hadfound that Nibelheim was a very gloomy place and that if he wanted tolive handsomely and safely, he must not only allow Wotan and Loki toorganize society for him, but pay them very handsomely for doing it. Hewanted splendor, military glory, loyalty, enthusiasm, and patriotism;and his greed and gluttony were wholly unable to create them, whereasWotan and Loki carried them all to a triumphant climax in Germany in1871, when Wagner himself celebrated the event with his Kaisermarsch,which sounded much more convincing than the Marseillaise or theCarmagnole.How, after the Kaisermarsch, could Wagner go back to his idealization ofSiegfried in 1853? How could he believe seriously in Siegfried slayingthe dragon and charging through the mountain fire, when the immediateforeground was occupied by the Hotel de Ville with Felix Pyat endlesslydiscussing the principles of Socialism whilst the shells of Thiers werealready battering the Arc de Triomphe, and ripping up the pavement ofthe Champs Elysees? Is it not clear that things had taken an altogetherunexpected turn--that although the Ring may, like the famous CommunistManifesto of Marx and Engels, be an inspired guest at the historic lawsand predestined end of our capitalistic-theocratic epoch, yetWagner, like Marx, was too inexperienced in technical governmentand administration and too melodramatic in his hero-contra-villainconception of the class struggle, to foresee the actual process by whichhis generalization would work out, or the part to be played in it by theclasses involved?Let us go back for a moment to the point at which the Niblung legendfirst becomes irreconcilable with Wagner's allegory. Fafnir in theallegory becomes a capitalist; but Fafnir in the legend is a merehoarder. His gold does not bring him in any revenue. It does not evensupport him: he has to go out and forage for food and drink. In fact,he is on the way to his drinking-pool when Siegfried kills him. AndSiegfried himself has no more use for gold than Fafnir: the onlydifference between them in this respect is that Siegfried does not wastehis time in watching a barren treasure that is no use to him, whereasFafnir sacrifices his humanity and his life merely to prevent anybodyelse getting it. This contrast is true to human nature; but it shuntsThe Ring drama off the economic lines of the allegory. In real life,Fafnir is not a miser: he seeks dividends, comfortable life, andadmission to the circles of Wotan and Loki. His only means of procuringthese is to restore the gold to Alberic in exchange for scrip inAlberic's enterprises. Thus fortified with capital, Alberic exploits hisfellow dwarfs as before, and also exploits Fafnir's fellow giants whohave no capital. What is more, the toil, forethought and self-controlwhich the exploitation involves, and the self-respect and social esteemwhich its success wins, effect an improvement in Alberic's own characterwhich neither Marx nor Wagner appear to have foreseen. He discovers thatto be a dull, greedy, narrow-minded money-grubber is not the way to makemoney on a large scale; for though greed may suffice to turn tensinto hundreds and even hundreds into thousands, to turn thousands intohundreds of thousands requires magnanimity and a will to power ratherthan to pelf. And to turn thousands into millions, Alberic must makehimself an earthly providence for masses of workmen: he must createtowns and govern markets. In the meantime, Fafnir, wallowing individends which he has done nothing to earn, may rot, intellectuallyand morally, from mere disuse of his energies and lack of incentive toexcel; but the more imbecile he becomes, the more dependent he is uponAlberic, and the more the responsibility of keeping the world-machine inworking order falls upon Alberic. Consequently, though Alberic in 1850may have been merely the vulgar Manchester Factory-owner portrayed byEngels, in 1876 he was well on the way towards becoming Krupp of Essenor Carnegie of Homestead.Now, without exaggerating the virtues of these gentlemen, it willbe conceded by everybody except perhaps those veteran GermanSocial-Democrats who have made a cult of obsolescence under the nameof Marxism, that the modern entrepreneur is not to be displaced anddismissed so lightly as Alberic is dismissed in The Ring. They arereally the masters of the whole situation. Wotan is hardly lessdependent on them than Fafnir; the War-Lord visits their work, acclaimsthem in stirring speeches, and casts down their enemies; whilst Lokimakes commercial treaties for them and subjects all his diplomacy totheir approval.The end cannot come until Siegfried learns Alberic's trade and shouldersAlberic's burden. Not having as yet done so, he is still completelymastered by Alberic. He does not even rebel against him except when heis too stupid and ignorant, or too romantically impracticable, to seethat Alberic's work, like Wotan's work and Loki's work, is necessarywork, and that therefore Alberic can never be superseded by a warrior,but only by a capable man of business who is prepared to continue hiswork without a day's intermission. Even though the proletarians of alllands were to become "class conscious," and obey the call of Marx byuniting to carry the Class struggle to a proletarian victory inwhich all capital should become common property, and all Monarchs,Millionaires, Landlords and Capitalists become common citizens, thetriumphant proletarians would have either to starve in Anarchy the nextday or else do the political and industrial work which is now beingdone tant bien que mal by our Romanoffs, our Hohenzollerns, our Krupps,Carnegies, Levers, Pierpont Morgans, and their political retinues. Andin the meantime these magnates must defend their power and propertywith all their might against the revolutionary forces until theseforces become positive, executive, administrative forces, instead of theconspiracies of protesting, moralizing, virtuously indignant amateurswho mistook Marx for a man of affairs and Thiers for a stage villain.But all this represents a development of which one gathers no forecastfrom Wagner or Marx. Both of them prophesied the end of our epoch, and,so far as one can guess, prophesied it rightly. They also brought itsindustrial history up to the year 1848 far more penetratingly than theacademic historians of their time. But they broke off there and lefta void between 1848 and the end, in which we, who have to live in thatperiod, get no guidance from them. The Marxists wandered for yearsin this void, striving, with fanatical superstition, to suppress theRevisionists who, facing the fact that the Social-Democratic party waslost, were trying to find the path by the light of contemporary historyinstead of vainly consulting the oracle in the pages of Das Kapital.Marx himself was too simpleminded a recluse and too full of thevalidity of his remoter generalizations, and the way in which the rapidintegration of capital in Trusts and Kartels was confirming them, to beconscious of the void himself.Wagner, on the other hand, was comparatively a practical man. It ispossible to learn more of the world by producing a single opera, or evenconducting a single orchestral rehearsal, than by ten years reading inthe Library of the British Museum. Wagner must have learnt between DasRheingold and the Kaisermarsch that there are yet several dramas to beinterpolated in The Ring after The Valkyries before the allegory cantell the whole story, and that the first of these interpolated dramaswill be much more like a revised Rienzi than like Siegfried. Ifanyone doubts the extent to which Wagner's eyes had been opened to theadministrative-childishness and romantic conceit of the heroes ofthe revolutionary generation that served its apprenticeship on thebarricades of 1848-9, and perished on those of 1870 under Thiers'mitrailleuses, let him read Eine Kapitulation, that scandalous burlesquein which the poet and composer of Siegfried, with the levity of aschoolboy, mocked the French republicans who were doing in 1871 what hehimself was exiled for doing in 1849. He had set the enthusiasm of theDresden Revolution to his own greatest music; but he set the enthusiasmof twenty years later in derision to the music of Rossini. There isno mistaking the tune he meant to suggest by his doggerel of Republik,Republik, Republik-lik-lik. The Overture to William Tell is there asplainly as if it were noted down in full score.In the case of such a man as Wagner, you cannot explain this volte-faceas mere jingoism produced by Germany's overwhelming victory in theFranco-Prussian War, nor as personal spite against the Parisians for theTannhauser fiasco. Wagner had more cause for personal spite againsthis own countrymen than he ever had against the French. No doubt hisoutburst gratified the pettier feelings which great men have in commonwith small ones; but he was not a man to indulge in such gratifications,or indeed to feel them as gratifications, if he had not arrived at aprofound philosophical contempt for the inadequacy of the men who weretrying to wield Nothung, and who had done less work for Wagner's ownart than a single German King and he, too, only a mad one. Wagner had bythat time done too much himself not to know that the world is ruled bydeeds, not by good intentions, and that one efficient sinner is worthten futile saints and martyrs.I need not elaborate the point further in these pages. Like all men ofgenius, Wagner had exceptional sincerity, exceptional respect for facts,exceptional freedom from the hypnotic influence of sensational popularmovements, exceptional sense of the realities of political power asdistinguished from the presences and idolatries behind which the realmasters of modern States pull their wires and train their guns. When hescored Night Falls On The Gods, he had accepted the failure of Siegfriedand the triumph of the Wotan-Loki-Alberic-trinity as a fact. He hadgiven up dreaming of heroes, heroines, and final solutions, and hadconceived a new protagonist in Parsifal, whom he announced, not asa hero, but as a fool; who was armed, not with a sword which cutirresistibly, but with a spear which he held only on condition that hedid not use it; and who instead of exulting in the slaughter of adragon was frightfully ashamed of having shot a swan. The change in theconception of the Deliverer could hardly be more complete. It reflectsthe change which took place in Wagner's mind between the compositionof The Rhine Gold and Night Falls On The Gods; and it explains whyhe dropped The Ring allegory and fell back on the status quo ante byLohengrinizing.If you ask why he did not throw Siegfried into the waste paper basketand rewrite The Ring from The Valkyries onwards, one must reply that thetime had not come for such a feat. Neither Wagner nor anyone else thenliving knew enough to achieve it. Besides, what he had already done hadreached the limit of even his immense energy and perseverance and sohe did the best he could with the unfinished and for ever unfinishablework, rounding it off with an opera much as Rossini rounded off some ofhis religious compositions with a galop. Only, Rossini on such occasionswrote in his score "Excusez du peu," but Wagner left us to find out thechange for ourselves, perhaps to test how far we had really followed hismeaning.WAGNER'S OWN EXPLANATIONAnd now, having given my explanation of The Ring, can I give Wagner'sexplanation of it? If I could (and I can) I should not by any meansaccept it as conclusive. Nearly half a century has passed since thetetralogy was written; and in that time the purposes of many halfinstinctive acts of genius have become clearer to the common man thanthey were to the doers. Some years ago, in the course of an explanationof Ibsen's plays, I pointed out that it was by no means certain or evenlikely that Ibsen was as definitely conscious of his thesis as I. Allthe stupid people, and some critics who, though not stupid, had notthemselves written what the Germans call "tendency" works, saw nothingin this but a fantastic affectation of the extravagant self-conceitof knowing more about Ibsen than Ibsen himself. Fortunately, in takingexactly the same position now with regard to Wagner, I can claim his ownauthority to support me. "How," he wrote to Roeckel on the 23rd. August1856, "can an artist expect that what he has felt intuitively shouldbe perfectly realized by others, seeing that he himself feels in thepresence of his work, if it is true Art, that he is confronted by ariddle, about which he, too, might have illusions, just as anothermight?"The truth is, we are apt to deify men of genius, exactly as we deify thecreative force of the universe, by attributing to logical design whatis the result of blind instinct. What Wagner meant by "true Art" is theoperation of the artist's instinct, which is just as blind as any otherinstinct. Mozart, asked for an explanation of his works, said frankly"How do I know?" Wagner, being a philosopher and critic as well asa composer, was always looking for moral explanations of what he hadcreated and he hit on several very striking ones, all different. In thesame way one can conceive Henry the Eighth speculating very brilliantlyabout the circulation of his own blood without getting as near the truthas Harvey did long after his death.None the less, Wagner's own explanations are of exceptional interest. Tobegin with, there is a considerable portion of The Ring, especially theportraiture of our capitalistic industrial system from the socialist'spoint of view in the slavery of the Niblungs and the tyranny of Alberic,which is unmistakable, as it dramatizes that portion of human activitywhich lies well within the territory covered by our intellectualconsciousness. All this is concrete Home Office business, so to speak:its meaning was as clear to Wagner as it is to us. Not so that partof the work which deals with the destiny of Wotan. And here, as ithappened, Wagner's recollection of what he had been driving at wascompletely upset by his discovery, soon after the completion of TheRing poem, of Schopenhaur's famous treatise "The World as Will andRepresentation." So obsessed did he become with this masterpiece ofphilosophic art that he declared that it contained the intellectualdemonstration of the conflict of human forces which he himself haddemonstrated artistically in his great poem. "I must confess," he writesto Roeckel, "to having arrived at a clear understanding of my ownworks of art through the help of another, who has provided me with thereasoned conceptions corresponding to my intuitive principles."Schopenhaur, however, had done nothing of the sort. Wagner'sdetermination to prove that he had been a Schopenhaurite all alongwithout knowing it only shows how completely the fascination of thegreat treatise on The Will had run away with his memory. It is easy tosee how this happened. Wagner says of himself that "seldom has theretaken place in the soul of one and the same man so profound a divisionand estrangement between the intuitive or impulsive part of his natureand his consciously or reasonably formed ideas." And since Schopenhaur'sgreat contribution to modern thought was to educate us into clearconsciousness of this distinction--a distinction familiar, in a fancifulway, to the Ages of Faith and Art before the Renascence, but afterwardsswamped in the Rationalism of that movement--it was inevitable thatWagner should jump at Schopenhaur's metaphysiology (I use a word lesslikely to be mistaken than metaphysics) as the very thing for him. Butmetaphysiology is one thing, political philosophy another. The politicalphilosophy of Siegfried is exactly contrary to the political philosophyof Schopenhaur, although the same clear metaphysiological distinctionbetween the instinctive part of man (his Will) and his reasoning faculty(dramatized in The Ring as Loki) is insisted on in both. The differenceis that to Schopenhaur the Will is the universal tormentor of man, theauthor of that great evil, Life; whilst reason is the divine gift thatis finally to overcome this life-creating will and lead, through itsabnegation, to cessation and peace, annihilation and Nirvana. This isthe doctrine of Pessimism. Now Wagner was, when he wrote The Ring, amost sanguine revolutionary Meliorist, contemptuous of the reasoningfaculty, which he typified in the shifty, unreal, delusive Loki, andfull of faith in the life-giving Will, which he typified in the gloriousSiegfried. Not until he read Schopenhaur did he become bent on provingthat he had always been a Pessimist at heart, and that Loki was the mostsensible and worthy adviser of Wotan in The Rhine Gold.Sometimes he faces the change in his opinions frankly enough. "MyNiblung drama," he writes to Roeckel, "had taken form at a time when Ihad built up with my reason an optimistic world on Hellenic principles,believing that nothing was necessary for the realization of such a worldbut that men should wish it. I ingeniously set aside-the problem whythey did not wish it. I remember that it was with this definitecreative purpose that I conceived the personality of Siegfried, with theintention of representing an existence free from pain." But he appealsto his earlier works to show that behind all these artificial optimisticideas there was always with him an intuition of "the sublime tragedy ofrenunciation, the negation of the will." In trying to explain this, heis full of ideas philosophically, and full of the most amusingcontradictions personally. Optimism, as an accidental excursion into thebarren paths of reason on his own part, he calls "Hellenic." In othershe denounces it as rank Judaism, the Jew having at that time become forhim the whipping boy for all modern humanity. In a letter from Londonhe expounds Schopenhaur to Roeckel with enthusiasm, preaching therenunciation of the Will to Live as the redemption from all error andvain pursuits: in the next letter he resumes the subject with unabatedinterest, and finishes by mentioning that on leaving London he went toGeneva and underwent "a most beneficial course of hydropathy." Sevenmonths before this he had written as follows: "Believe me, I too wasonce possessed by the idea of a country life. In order to become aradically healthy human being, I went two years ago to a HydropathicEstablishment, prepared to give up Art and everything if I could oncemore become a child of Nature. But, my good friend, I was obliged tolaugh at my own naivete when I found myself almost going mad. None ofus will reach the promised land: we shall all die in the wilderness.Intellect is, as some one has said, a sort of disease: it is incurable."Roeckel knew his man of old, and evidently pressed him for explanationsof the inconsistencies of The Ring with Night Falls On The Gods. Wagnerdefended himself with unfailing cleverness and occasional petulances,ranging from such pleas as "I believe a true instinct has kept me from atoo great definiteness; for it has been borne in on me that an absolutedisclosure of the intention disturbs true insight," to a volley ofexplanations and commentaries on the explanations. He gets excited andannoyed because Roeckel will not admire the Brynhild of Night Falls OnThe Gods; re-invents the Tarnhelm scene; and finally, the case beingdesperate, exclaims, "It is wrong of you to challenge me to explain itin words: you must feel that something is being enacted that is not tobe expressed in mere words."THE PESSIMIST AS AMORISTSometimes he gets very far away from Pessimism indeed, and recommendsRoeckel to solace his captivity, not by conquering the will to live atliberty, but by "the inspiring influences of the Beautiful." The nextmoment he throws over even Art for Life. "Where life ends," he says,very wittily, "Art begins. In youth we turn to Art, we know not why; andonly when we have gone through with Art and come out on the other side,we learn to our cost that we have missed Life itself." His only comfortis that he is beloved. And on the subject of love he lets himself loosein a manner that would have roused the bitterest scorn in Schopenhaur,though, as we have seen (Love Panacea), it is highly characteristic ofWagner. "Love in its most perfect reality," he says, "is only possiblebetween the sexes: it is only as man and woman that human beings cantruly love. Every other manifestation of love can be traced back to thatone absorbingly real feeling, of which all other affections are but anemanation, a connection, or an imitation. It is an error to look on thisas only one of the forms in which love is revealed, as if there wereother forms coequal with it, or even superior to it. He who after themanner of metaphysicians prefers UNREALITY to REALITY, and derives theconcrete from the abstract--in short, puts the word before the fact--maybe right in esteeming the idea of love as higher than the expressionof love, and may affirm that actual love made manifest in feelingis nothing but the outward and visible sign of a pre-existent,non-sensuous, abstract love; and he will do well to despise thatsensuous function in general. In any case it were safe to bet that sucha man had never loved or been loved as human beings can love, or hewould have understood that in despising this feeling, what he condemnedwas its sensual expression, the outcome of man's animal nature, andnot true human love. The highest satisfaction and expression of theindividual is only to be found in his complete absorption, and that isonly possible through love. Now a human being is both MAN and WOMAN: itis only when these two are united that the real human being exists; andthus it is only by love that man and woman attain to the full measureof humanity. But when nowadays we talk of a human being, such heartlessblockheads are we that quite involuntarily we only think of man. It isonly in the union of man and woman by love (sensuous and supersensuous)that the human being exists; and as the human being cannot rise to theconception of anything higher than his own existence--his own being--sothe transcendent act of his life is this consummation of his humanitythrough love."It is clear after this utterance from the would-be Schopenhaurian, thatWagner's explanations of his works for the most part explain nothing butthe mood in which he happened to be on the day he advanced them, orthe train of thought suggested to his very susceptible imagination andactive mind by the points raised by his questioner. Especially in hisprivate letters, where his outpourings are modified by his dramaticconsciousness of the personality of his correspondent, do we find himtaking all manner of positions, and putting forward all sorts of caseswhich must be taken as clever and suggestive special pleadings, andnot as serious and permanent expositions of his works. These works mustspeak for themselves: if The Ring says one thing, and a letter writtenafterwards says that it said something else, The Ring must be taken toconfute the letter just as conclusively as if the two had been writtenby different hands. However, nobody fairly well acquainted with Wagner'sutterances as a whole will find any unaccountable contradictions inthem. As in all men of his type, our manifold nature was so marked inhim that he was like several different men rolled into one. When he hadexhausted himself in the character of the most pugnacious, aggressive,and sanguine of reformers, he rested himself as a Pessimist andNirvanist. In The Ring the quietism of Brynhild's "Rest, rest, thou God"is sublime in its deep conviction; but you have only to turn back thepages to find the irrepressible bustle of Siegfried and the revelry ofthe clansmen expressed with equal zest. Wagner was not a Schopenhauriteevery day in the week, nor even a Wagnerite. His mind changes asoften as his mood. On Monday nothing will ever induce him to return toquilldriving: on Tuesday he begins a new pamphlet. On Wednesday heis impatient of the misapprehensions of people who cannot see howimpossible it is for him to preside as a conductor over platformperformances of fragments of his works, which can only be understoodwhen presented strictly according to his intention on the stage: onThursday he gets up a concert of Wagnerian selections, and when it isover writes to his friends describing how profoundly both bandsmen andaudience were impressed. On Friday he exults in the self-assertionof Siegfried's will against all moral ordinances, and is full of arevolutionary sense of "the universal law of change and renewal": onSaturday he has an attack of holiness, and asks, "Can you conceive amoral action of which the root idea is not renunciation?" In short,Wagner can be quoted against himself almost without limit, much asBeethoven's adagios could be quoted against his scherzos if a disputearose between two fools as to whether he was a melancholy man or a merryone.THE MUSIC OF THE RINGTHE REPRESENTATIVE THEMESTo be able to follow the music of The Ring, all that is necessary is tobecome familiar enough with the brief musical phrases out of which itis built to recognize them and attach a certain definite significanceto them, exactly as any ordinary Englishman recognizes and attaches adefinite significance to the opening bars of God Save the King. There isno difficulty here: every soldier is expected to learn and distinguishbetween different bugle calls and trumpet calls; and anyone who cando this can learn and distinguish between the representative themes or"leading motives" (Leitmotifs) of The Ring. They are the easier to learnbecause they are repeated again and again; and the main ones are soemphatically impressed on the ear whilst the spectator is looking forthe first time at the objects, or witnessing the first strong dramaticexpression of the ideas they denote, that the requisite association isformed unconsciously. The themes are neither long, nor complicated, nordifficult. Whoever can pick up the flourish of a coach-horn, the note ofa bird, the rhythm of the postman's knock or of a horse's gallop, willbe at no loss in picking up the themes of The Ring. No doubt, when itcomes to forming the necessary mental association with the theme, itmay happen that the spectator may find his ear conquering the tune moreeasily than his mind conquers the thought. But for the most part thethemes do not denote thoughts at all, but either emotions of a quitesimple universal kind, or the sights, sounds and fancies common enoughto be familiar to children. Indeed some of them are as frankly childishas any of the funny little orchestral interludes which, in Haydn'sCreation, introduce the horse, the deer, or the worm. We have both thehorse and the worm in The Ring, treated exactly in Haydn's manner, andwith an effect not a whit less ridiculous to superior people who declineto take it good-humoredly. Even the complaisance of good Wagneritesis occasionally rather overstrained by the way in which Brynhild'sallusions to her charger Grani elicit from the band a little rum-ti-tumtriplet which by itself is in no way suggestive of a horse, although acontinuous rush of such triplets makes a very exciting musical gallop.Other themes denote objects which cannot be imitatively suggested bymusic: for instance, music cannot suggest a ring, and cannot suggestgold; yet each of these has a representative theme which pervades thescore in all directions. In the case of the gold the association isestablished by the very salient way in which the orchestra breaks intothe pretty theme in the first act of The Rhine Gold at the moment whenthe sunrays strike down through the water and light up the glitteringtreasure, hitherto invisible. The reference of the strange littletheme of the wishing cap is equally manifest from the first, since thespectator's attention is wholly taken up with the Tarnhelm and its magicwhen the theme is first pointedly uttered by the orchestra. The swordtheme is introduced at the end of The Rhine Gold to express Wotan's heroinspiration; and I have already mentioned that Wagner, unable, when itcame to practical stage management, to forego the appeal to the eye aswell as to the thought, here made Wotan pick up a sword and brandishit, though no such instruction appears in the printed score. When thissacrifice to Wagner's scepticism as to the reality of any appeal to anaudience that is not made through their bodily sense is omitted, theassociation of the theme with the sword is not formed until that pointin the first act of The Valkyries at which Siegmund is left alone byHunding's hearth, weaponless, with the assurance that he will have tofight for his life at dawn with his host. He recalls then how his fatherpromised him a sword for his hour of need; and as he does so, a flickerfrom the dying fire is caught by the golden hilt of the sword in thetree, when the theme immediately begins to gleam through the quiver ofsound from the orchestra, and only dies out as the fire sinks and thesword is once more hidden by the darkness. Later on, this theme, whichis never silent whilst Sieglinda is dwelling on the story of the sword,leaps out into the most dazzling splendor the band can give it whenSiegmund triumphantly draws the weapon from the tree. As it consists ofseven notes only, with a very marked measure, and a melody like a simpleflourish on a trumpet or post horn, nobody capable of catching a tunecan easily miss it.The Valhalla theme, sounded with solemn grandeur as the home of the godsfirst appears to us and to Wotan at the beginning of the second sceneof The Rhine Gold, also cannot be mistaken. It, too, has a memorablerhythm; and its majestic harmonies, far from presenting those novel orcurious problems in polyphony of which Wagner still stands suspected bysuperstitious people, are just those three simple chords which festivestudents who vamp accompaniments to comic songs "by ear" soon findsufficient for nearly all the popular tunes in the world.On the other hand, the ring theme, when it begins to hurtle throughthe third scene of The Rhine Gold, cannot possibly be referred to anyspecial feature in the general gloom and turmoil of the den of thedwarfs. It is not a melody, but merely the displaced metric accent whichmusicians call syncopation, rung on the notes of the familiar chordformed by piling three minor thirds on top of one another (technically,the chord of the minor ninth, ci-devant diminished seventh). One soonpicks it up and identifies it; but it does not get introduced in theunequivocally clear fashion of the themes described above, or of thatmalignant monstrosity, the theme which denotes the curse on the gold.Consequently it cannot be said that the musical design of the work isperfectly clear at the first hearing as regards all the themes; butit is so as regards most of them, the main lines being laid down asemphatically and intelligibly as the dramatic motives in a Shakespeareanplay. As to the coyer subtleties of the score, their discovery providesfresh interest for repeated hearings, giving The Ring a Beethovenianinexhaustibility and toughness of wear.The themes associated with the individual characters get stamped on thememory easily by the simple association of the sound of the theme withthe appearance of the person indicated. Its appropriateness is generallypretty obvious. Thus, the entry of the giants is made to a vigorousstumping, tramping measure. Mimmy, being a quaint, weird old creature,has a quaint, weird theme of two thin chords that creep down eerily oneto the other. Gutrune's theme is pretty and caressing: Gunther's bold,rough, and commonplace. It is a favorite trick of Wagner's, when oneof his characters is killed on the stage, to make the theme attachedto that character weaken, fail, and fade away with a broken echo intosilence.THE CHARACTERIZATIONAll this, however, is the mere child's play of theme work. The morecomplex characters, instead of having a simple musical label attachedto them, have their characteristic ideas and aspirations identified withspecial representative themes as they come into play in the drama; andthe chief merit of the thematic structure of The Ring is the masterywith which the dramatic play of the ideas is reflected in thecontrapuntal play of the themes. We do not find Wotan, like the dragonor the horse, or, for the matter of that, like the stage demon inWeber's Freischutz or Meyerbeer's Robert the Devil, with one fixed themeattached to him like a name plate to an umbrella, blaring unalteredfrom the orchestra whenever he steps on the stage. Sometimes we have theValhalla theme used to express the greatness of the gods as an idea ofWotan's. Again, we have his spear, the symbol of his power, identifiedwith another theme, on which Wagner finally exercises his favoritedevice by making it break and fail, cut through, as it were, by thetearing sound of the theme identified with the sword, when Siegfriedshivers the spear with the stroke of Nothung. Yet another themeconnected with Wotan is the Wanderer music which breaks with such amajestic reassurance on the nightmare terror of Mimmy when Wotan appearsat the mouth of his cave in the scene of the three riddles. Thus notonly are there several Wotan themes, but each varies in its inflexionsand shades of tone color according to its dramatic circumstances. So,too, the merry ham tune of the young Siegfried changes its measure,loads itself with massive harmonies, and becomes an exordium of the mostimposing splendor when it heralds his entry as full-fledged hero in theprologue to Night Falls On The Gods. Even Mimmy has his two or threethemes: the weird one already described; the little one in triplemeasure imitating the tap of his hammer, and fiercely mocked in thesavage laugh of Alberic at his death; and finally the crooning tune inwhich he details all his motherly kindnesses to the little foundlingSiegfried. Besides this there are all manner of little musical blinkingsand shamblings and whinings, the least hint of which from the orchestraat any moment instantly brings Mimmy to mind, whether he is on the stageat the time or not.In truth, dramatic characterization in music cannot be carried very farby the use of representative themes. Mozart, the greatest of all mastersof this art, never dreamt of employing them; and, extensively as theyare used in The Ring, they do not enable Wagner to dispense with theMozartian method. Apart from the themes, Siegfried and Mimmy are stillas sharply distinguished from one another by the character of theirmusic as Don Giovanni from Leporello, Wotan from Gutrune as Sarastrofrom Papagena. It is true that the themes attached to the charactershave the same musical appropriateness as the rest of the music: forexample, neither the Valhalla nor the spear themes could, without themost ludicrous incongruity, be used for the forest bird or the unstable,delusive Loki; but for all that the musical characterization mustbe regarded as independent of the specific themes, since the entireelimination of the thematic system from the score would leave thecharacters as well distinguished musically as they are at present.One more illustration of the way in which the thematic system is worked.There are two themes connected with Loki. One is a rapid, sinuous,twisting, shifty semiquaver figure suggested by the unsubstantial,elusive logic-spinning of the clever one's braincraft. The other is thefire theme. In the first act of Siegfried, Mimmy makes his unavailingattempt to explain fear to Siegfried. With the horror fresh upon him ofthe sort of nightmare into which he has fallen after the departureof the Wanderer, and which has taken the form, at once fanciful andsymbolic, of a delirious dread of light, he asks Siegfried whether hehas never, whilst wandering in the forest, had his heart set hammeringin frantic dread by the mysterious lights of the gloaming. To this,Siegfried, greatly astonished, replies that on such occasions his heartis altogether healthy and his sensations perfectly normal. Here Mimmy'squestion is accompanied by the tremulous sounding of the fire theme withits harmonies most oppressively disturbed and troubled; whereas withSiegfried's reply they become quite clear and straightforward, makingthe theme sound bold, brilliant, and serene. This is a typical instanceof the way in which the themes are used.The thematic system gives symphonic interest, reasonableness, and unityto the music, enabling the composer to exhaust every aspect and qualityof his melodic material, and, in Beethoven's manner, to work miraclesof beauty, expression and significance with the briefest phrases. As aset-off against this, it has led Wagner to indulge in repetitions thatwould be intolerable in a purely dramatic work. Almost the first thingthat a dramatist has to learn in constructing a play is that the personsmust not come on the stage in the second act and tell one another atgreat length what the audience has already seen pass before its eyesin the first act. The extent to which Wagner has been seduced intoviolating this rule by his affection for his themes is startling toa practiced playwright. Siegfried inherits from Wotan a mania forautobiography which leads him to inflict on every one he meets thestory of Mimmy and the dragon, although the audience have spent a wholeevening witnessing the events he is narrating. Hagen tells the storyto Gunther; and that same night Alberic's ghost tells it over again toHagen, who knows it already as well as the audience. Siegfried tellsthe Rhine maidens as much of it as they will listen to, and then keepstelling it to his hunting companions until they kill him. Wotan'sautobiography on the second evening becomes his biography in the mouthsof the Norns on the fourth. The little that the Norns add to it isrepeated an hour later by Valtrauta. How far all this repetition istolerable is a matter of individual taste. A good story will bearrepetition; and if it has woven into it such pretty tunes as the Rhinemaidens' yodel, Mimmy's tinkling anvil beat, the note of the forestbird, the call of Siegfried's horn, and so on, it will bear a good dealof rehearing. Those who have but newly learnt their way through The Ringwill not readily admit that there is a bar too much repetition.But how if you find some anti-Wagnerite raising the question whether thethematic system does not enable the composer to produce a music dramawith much less musical fertility than was required from his predecessorsfor the composition of operas under the old system!Such discussions are not within the scope of this little book. But asthe book is now finished (for really nothing more need be said aboutThe Ring), I am quite willing to add a few pages of ordinary musicalcriticism, partly to please the amateurs who enjoy that sort of reading,and partly for the guidance of those who wish to obtain some hints tohelp them through such critical small talk about Wagner and Bayreuth asmay be forced upon them at the dinner table or between the acts.THE OLD AND THE NEW MUSICIn the old-fashioned opera every separate number involved thecomposition of a fresh melody; but it is quite a mistake to suppose thatthis creative-effort extended continuously throughout the number fromthe first to the last bar. When a musician composes according to a setmetrical pattern, the selection of the pattern and the compositionof the first stave (a stave in music corresponds to a line in verse)generally completes the creative effort. All the rest follows moreor less mechanically to fill up the pattern, an air being very like awall-paper design in this respect. Thus the second stave is usually aperfectly obvious consequence of the first; and the third and fourth anexact or very slightly varied repetition of the first and second. Forexample, given the first line of Pop Goes the Weasel or Yankee Doodle,any musical cobbler could supply the remaining three. There is verylittle tune turning of this kind in The Ring; and it is noteworthy thatwhere it does occur, as in Siegmund's spring song and Mimmy's croon,"Ein zullendes Kind," the effect of the symmetrical staves, recurringas a mere matter of form, is perceptibly poor and platitudinous comparedwith the free flow of melody which prevails elsewhere.The other and harder way of composing is to take a strain of freemelody, and ring every variety of change of mood upon it as if it werea thought that sometimes brought hope, sometimes melancholy, sometimesexultation, sometimes raging despair and so on. To take several themesof this kind, and weave them together into a rich musical fabricpassing panoramically before the ear with a continually varying flow ofsentiment, is the highest feat of the musician: it is in this way thatwe get the fugue of Bach and the symphony of Beethoven. The admittedlyinferior musician is the one who, like Auber and Offenbach, not tomention our purveyors of drawing-room ballads, can produce an unlimitedquantity of symmetrical tunes, but cannot weave themes symphonically.When this is taken into account, it will be seen that the fact thatthere is a great deal of repetition in The Ring does not distinguish itfrom the old-fashioned operas. The real difference is that in them therepetition was used for the mechanical completion of conventionalmetric patterns, whereas in The Ring the recurrence of the theme isan intelligent and interesting consequence of the recurrence of thedramatic phenomenon which it denotes. It should be remembered alsothat the substitution of symphonically treated themes for tunes withsymmetrical eight-bar staves and the like, has always been the rule inthe highest forms of music. To describe it, or be affected by it, asan abandonment of melody, is to confess oneself an ignoramus conversantonly with dance tunes and ballads.The sort of stuff a purely dramatic musician produces when he hampershimself with metric patterns in composition is not unlike what mighthave resulted in literature if Carlyle (for example) had been compelledby convention to write his historical stories in rhymed stanzas. Thatis to say, it limits his fertility to an occasional phrase, and threequarters of the time exercises only his barren ingenuity in fittingrhymes and measures to it. In literature the great masters of the arthave long emancipated themselves from metric patterns. Nobody claimsthat the hierarchy of modern impassioned prose writers, from Bunyanto Ruskin, should be placed below the writers of pretty lyrics, fromHerrick to Mr. Austin Dobson. Only in dramatic literature do we find thedevastating tradition of blank verse still lingering, giving factitiousprestige to the platitudes of dullards, and robbing the dramatic styleof the genuine poet of its full natural endowment of variety, force andsimplicity.This state of things, as we have seen, finds its parallel in musicalart, since music can be written in prose themes or in versified tunes;only here nobody dreams of disputing the greater difficulty of the proseforms, and the comparative triviality of versification. Yet in dramaticmusic, as in dramatic literature, the tradition of versification clingswith the same pernicious results; and the opera, like the tragedy, isconventionally made like a wall paper. The theatre seems doomed to bein all things the last refuge of the hankering after cheap prettiness inart.Unfortunately this confusion of the decorative with the dramatic elementin both literature and music is maintained by the example of greatmasters in both arts. Very touching dramatic expression can be combinedwith decorative symmetry of versification when the artist happens topossess both the decorative and dramatic gifts, and to have cultivatedboth hand in hand. Shakespeare and Shelley, for instance, far from beinghampered by the conventional obligation to write their dramas in verse,found it much the easiest and cheapest way of producing them. But ifShakespeare had been compelled by custom to write entirely in prose, allhis ordinary dialogue might have been as good as the first scene of AsYou Like It; and all his lofty passages as fine as "What a piece ofwork is Man!", thus sparing us a great deal of blank verse in which thethought is commonplace, and the expression, though catchingly turned,absurdly pompous. The Cent might either have been a serious drama ormight never have been written at all if Shelley had not been allowed tocarry off its unreality by Elizabethan versification. Still, bothpoets have achieved many passages in which the decorative and dramaticqualities are not only reconciled, but seem to enhance one another to apitch otherwise unattainable.Just so in music. When we find, as in the case of Mozart, a prodigiouslygifted and arduously trained musician who is also, by a happy accident,a dramatist comparable to Moliere, the obligation to compose operas inversified numbers not only does not embarrass him, but actually saveshim trouble and thought. No matter what his dramatic mood may be, heexpresses it in exquisite musical verses more easily than a dramatist ofordinary singleness of talent can express it in prose. Accordingly, hetoo, like Shakespeare and Shelley, leaves versified airs, like Dalla suapace, or Gluck's Che fare senza Euridice, or Weber's Leise, leise, whichare as dramatic from the first note to the last as the untrammelledthemes of The Ring. In consequence, it used to be professoriallydemanded that all dramatic music should present the same double aspect.The demand was unreasonable, since symmetrical versification is no meritin dramatic music: one might as well stipulate that a dinner fork shouldbe constructed so as to serve also as a tablecloth. It was an ignorantdemand too, because it is not true that the composers of theseexceptional examples were always, or even often, able to combinedramatic expression with symmetrical versification. Side by sidewith Dalla sua pace we have Il mio tesoro and Non mi dir, in whichexquisitely expressive opening phrases lead to decorative passages whichare as grotesque from the dramatic point of view as the music whichAlberic sings when he is slipping and sneezing in the Rhine mud is fromthe decorative point of view. Further, there is to be considered themass of shapeless "dry recitative" which separates these symmetricalnumbers, and which might have been raised to considerable dramatic andmusical importance had it been incorporated into a continuous musicalfabric by thematic treatment. Finally, Mozart's most dramatic finalesand concerted numbers are more or less in sonata form, like symphonicmovements, and must therefore be classed as musical prose. And sonataform dictates repetitions and recapitulations from which the perfectlyunconventional form adopted by Wagner is free. On the whole, there ismore scope for both repetition and convention in the old form than inthe new; and the poorer a composer's musical gift is, the surer he is toresort to the eighteenth century patterns to eke out his invention.THE NINETEENTH CENTURYWhen Wagner was born in 1813, music had newly become the mostastonishing, the most fascinating, the most miraculous art in the world.Mozart's Don Giovanni had made all musical Europe conscious of theenchantments of the modern orchestra and of the perfect adaptability ofmusic to the subtlest needs of the dramatist. Beethoven had shown howthose inarticulate mood-poems which surge through men who have, likehimself, no exceptional command of words, can be written down in musicas symphonies. Not that Mozart and Beethoven invented these applicationsof their art; but they were the first whose works made it clear that thedramatic and subjective powers of sound were enthralling enough to standby themselves quite apart from the decorative musical structures ofwhich they had hitherto been a mere feature. After the finales in Figaroand Don Giovanni, the possibility of the modern music drama lay bare.After the symphonies of Beethoven it was certain that the poetry thatlies too deep for words does not lie too deep for music, and thatthe vicissitudes of the soul, from the roughest fun to the loftiestaspiration, can make symphonies without the aid of dance tunes. As much,perhaps, will be claimed for the preludes and fugues of Bach; butBach's method was unattainable: his compositions were wonderful websof exquisitely beautiful Gothic traceries in sound, quite beyond allordinary human talent. Beethoven's far blunter craft was thoroughlypopular and practicable: not to save his soul could he have drawn onelong Gothic line in sound as Bach could, much less have woven severalof them together with so apt a harmony that even when the composer isunmoved its progressions saturate themselves with the emotion which (asmodern critics are a little apt to forget) springs as warmly from ourdelicately touched admiration as from our sympathies, and sometimesmakes us give a composer credit for pathetic intentions which he doesnot entertain, just as a boy imagines a treasure of tenderness and noblewisdom in the beauty of a woman. Besides, Bach set comic dialogue tomusic exactly as he set the recitatives of the Passion, there being forhim, apparently, only one recitative possible, and that the musicallybest. He reserved the expression of his merry mood for the regularset numbers in which he could make one of his wonderful contrapuntaltraceries of pure ornament with the requisite gaiety of line andmovement. Beethoven bowed to no ideal of beauty: he only sought theexpression for his feeling. To him a joke was a joke; and if it soundedfunny in music he was satisfied. Until the old habit of judging allmusic by its decorative symmetry had worn out, musicians were shocked byhis symphonies, and, misunderstanding his integrity, openly questionedhis sanity. But to those who were not looking for pretty new soundpatterns, but were longing for the expression of their moods in music,he achieved revelation, because, being single in his aim to express hisown moods, he anticipated with revolutionary courage and frankness allthe moods of the rising generations of the nineteenth century.The result was inevitable. In the nineteenth century it was no longernecessary to be a born pattern designer in sound to be a composer.One had but to be a dramatist or a poet completely susceptible tothe dramatic and descriptive powers of sound. A race of literary andtheatrical musicians appeared; and Meyerbeer, the first of them, madean extraordinary impression. The frankly delirious description of hisRobert the Devil in Balzac's short story entitled Gambra, and Goethe'sastonishingly mistaken notion that he could have composed music forFaust, show how completely the enchantments of the new dramatic musicupset the judgment of artists of eminent discernment. Meyerbeer was,people said (old gentlemen still say so in Paris), the successor ofBeethoven: he was, if a less perfect musician than Mozart, a profoundergenius. Above all, he was original and daring. Wagner himself ravedabout the duet in the fourth act of Les Huguenots as wildly as anyone.Yet all this effect of originality and profundity was produced by aquite limited talent for turning striking phrases, exploiting certaincurious and rather catching rhythms and modulations, and devisingsuggestive or eccentric instrumentation. On its decorative side, it wasthe same phenomenon in music as the Baroque school in architecture: anenergetic struggle to enliven organic decay by mechanical oddities andnovelties. Meyerbeer was no symphonist. He could not apply the thematicsystem to his striking phrases, and so had to cobble them into metricpatterns in the old style; and as he was no "absolute musician" either,he hardly got his metric patterns beyond mere quadrille tunes, whichwere either wholly undistinguished, or else made remarkable by certainbrusqueries which, in the true rococo manner, owed their singularity totheir senselessness. He could produce neither a thorough music dramanor a charming opera. But with all this, and worse, Meyerbeer had somegenuine dramatic energy, and even passion; and sometimes rose to theoccasion in a manner which, whilst the imagination of his contemporariesremained on fire with the novelties of dramatic music, led them tooverrate him with an extravagance which provoked Wagner to conduct along critical campaign against his leadership. Thirty years ago thiscampaign was mentably ascribed to the professional jealousy of adisappointed rival. Nowadays young people cannot understand how anyonecould ever have taken Meyerbeer's influence seriously. Those whoremember how his reputation stood half a century ago, and who realizewhat a nothoroughfare the path he opened proved to be, even to himself,know how inevitable and how impersonal Wagner's attack was.Wagner was the literary musician par excellence. He could not, likeMozart and Beethoven, produce decorative tone structures independentlyof any dramatic or poetic subject matter, because, that craft beingno longer necessary for his purpose, he did not cultivate it. AsShakespeare, compared with Tennyson, appears to have an exclusivelydramatic talent, so exactly does Wagner compared with Mendelssohn.On the other hand, he had not to go to third rate literary hacks for"librettos" to set to music: he produced his own dramatic poems, thusgiving dramatic integrity to opera, and making symphony articulate. ABeethoven symphony (except the articulate part of the ninth) expressesnoble feeling, but not thought: it has moods, but no ideas. Wagner addedthought and produced the music drama. Mozart's loftiest opera, his Ring,so to speak, The Magic Flute, has a libretto which, though none theworse for seeming, like The Rhine Gold, the merest Christmas tomfooleryto shallow spectators, is the product of a talent immeasurably inferiorto Mozart's own. The libretto of Don Giovanni is coarse and trivial:its transfiguration by Mozart's music may be a marvel; but nobody willventure to contend that such transfigurations, however seductive, canbe as satisfactory as tone poetry or drama in which the musician andthe poet are at the same level. Here, then, we have the simple secret ofWagner's preemminence as a dramatic musician. He wrote the poems as wellas composed the music of his "stage festival plays," as he called them.Up to a certain point in his career Wagner paid the penalty ofundertaking two arts instead of one. Mozart had his trade as a musicianat his fingers' ends when he was twenty, because he had served anarduous apprenticeship to that trade and no other. Wagner was very farfrom having attained equal mastery at thirty-five: indeed he himself hastold us that not until he had passed the age at which Mozart died did hecompose with that complete spontaneity of musical expression which canonly be attained by winning entire freedom from all preoccupation withthe difficulties of technical processes. But when that time came, he wasnot only a consummate musician, like Mozart, but a dramatic poet and acritical and philosophical essayist, exercising a considerable influenceon his century. The sign of this consummation was his ability at last toplay with his art, and thus to add to his already famous achievements insentimental drama that lighthearted art of comedy of which the greatestmasters, like Moliere and Mozart, are so much rarer than the tragediansand sentimentalists. It was then that he composed the first two acts ofSiegfried, and later on The Mastersingers, a professedly comedic work,and a quite Mozartian garden of melody, hardly credible as the work ofthe straining artifices of Tanehauser. Only, as no man ever learns to doone thing by doing something else, however closely allied the two thingsmay be, Wagner still produced no music independently of his poems. Theoverture to The Mastersingers is delightful when you know what it isall about; but only those to whom it came as a concert piece without anysuch clue, and who judged its reckless counterpoint by the standard ofBach and of Mozart's Magic Flute overture, can realize how atrociousit used to sound to musicians of the old school. When I first heard it,with the clear march of the polyphony in Bach's B minor Mass fresh in mymemory, I confess I thought that the parts had got dislocated, and thatsome of the band were half a bar behind the others. Perhaps they were;but now that I am familiar with the work, and with Wagner's harmony, Ican still quite understand certain passages producing that effect organadmirer of Bach even when performed with perfect accuracy.THE MUSIC OF THE FUTUREThe success of Wagner has been so prodigious that to his dazzleddisciples it seems that the age of what he called "absolute" musicmust be at an end, and the musical future destined to be an exclusivelyWagnerian one inaugurated at Bayreuth. All great geniuses produce thisillusion. Wagner did not begin a movement: he consummated it. He was thesummit of the nineteenth century school of dramatic music in the samesense as Mozart was the summit (the word is Gounod's) of the eighteenthcentury school. And those who attempt to carry on his Bayreuth traditionwill assuredly share the fate of the forgotten purveyors of second-handMozart a hundred years ago. As to the expected supersession of absolutemusic, it is sufficient to point to the fact that Germany produced twoabsolute musicians of the first class during Wagner's lifetime: one, thegreatly gifted Goetz, who died young; the other, Brahms, whose absolutemusical endowment was as extraordinary as his thought was commonplace.Wagner had for him the contempt of the original thinker for the man ofsecond-hand ideas, and of the strenuously dramatic musician for merebrute musical faculty; but though his contempt was perhaps deserved bythe Triumphlieds, and Schicksalslieds, and Elegies and Requiems inwhich Brahms took his brains so seriously, nobody can listen to Brahms'natural utterance of the richest absolute music, especially in hischamber compositions, without rejoicing in his amazing gift. A reactionto absolute music, starting partly from Brahms, and partly from suchrevivals of medieval music as those of De Lange in Holland and Mr.Arnold Dolmetsch in England, is both likely and promising; whereas thereis no more hope in attempts to out-Wagner Wagner in music drama thanthere was in the old attempts--or for the matter of that, the newones--to make Handel the starting point of a great school of oratorio.BAYREUTHWhen the Bayreuth Festival Playhouse was at last completed, and openedin 1876 with the first performance of The Ring, European society wascompelled to admit that Wagner was "a success." Royal personages,detesting his music, sat out the performances in the row of boxes setapart for princes. They all complimented him on the astonishing "push"with which, in the teeth of all obstacles, he had turned a fabulous andvisionary project into a concrete commercial reality, patronized bythe public at a pound a head. It is as well to know that thesecongratulations had no other effect upon Wagner than to open his eyesto the fact that the Bayreuth experiment, as an attempt to evade theordinary social and commercial conditions of theatrical enterprise,was a failure. His own account of it contrasts the reality with hisintentions in a vein which would be bitter if it were not so humorous.The precautions taken to keep the seats out of the hands of thefrivolous public and in the hands of earnest disciples, banded togetherin little Wagner Societies throughout Europe, had ended in theirforestalling by ticket speculators and their sale to just the sort ofidle globe-trotting tourists against whom the temple was to have beenstrictly closed. The money, supposed to be contributed by the faithful,was begged by energetic subscription-hunting ladies from people who musthave had the most grotesque misconceptions of the composer's aims--amongothers, the Khedive of Egypt and the Sultan of Turkey!The only change that has occurred since then is that subscriptions areno longer needed; for the Festival Playhouse apparently pays its own waynow, and is commercially on the same footing as any other theatre. Theonly qualification required from the visitor is money. A Londoner spendstwenty pounds on a visit: a native Bayreuther spends one pound. Ineither case "the Folk," on whose behalf Wagner turned out in 1849,are effectually excluded; and the Festival Playhouse must therefore beclassed as infinitely less Wagnerian in its character than Hampton CourtPalace. Nobody knew this better than Wagner; and nothing can be furtheroff the mark than to chatter about Bayreuth as if it had succeeded inescaping from the conditions of our modern civilization any more thanthe Grand Opera in Paris or London.Within these conditions, however, it effected a new departure in thatexcellent German institution, the summer theatre. Unlike our operahouses, which are constructed so that the audience may present asplendid pageant to the delighted manager, it is designed to securean uninterrupted view of the stage, and an undisturbed hearing of themusic, to the audience. The dramatic purpose of the performances istaken with entire and elaborate seriousness as the sole purpose ofthem; and the management is jealous for the reputation of Wagner. Thecommercial success which has followed this policy shows that the publicwants summer theatres of the highest class. There is no reason why theexperiment should not be tried in England. If our enthusiasm for Handelcan support Handel Festivals, laughably dull, stupid and anti-Handelianas these choral monstrosities are, as well as annual provincialfestivals on the same model, there is no likelihood of a Wagner Festivalfailing. Suppose, for instance, a Wagner theatre were built at HamptonCourt or on Richmond Hill, not to say Margate pier, so that we couldhave a delightful summer evening holiday, Bayreuth fashion, passing thehours between the acts in the park or on the river before sunset, isit seriously contended that there would be any lack of visitors? If alittle of the money that is wasted on grand stands, Eiffel towers, anddismal Halls by the Sea, all as much tied to brief annual seasons asBayreuth, were applied in this way, the profit would be far more certainand the social utility prodigiously greater. Any English enthusiasm forBayreuth that does not take the form of clamor for a Festival Playhousein England may be set aside as mere pilgrimage mania.Those who go to Bayreuth never repent it, although the performancesthere are often far from delectable. The singing is sometimes tolerable,and sometimes abominable. Some of the singers are mere animated beercasks, too lazy and conceited to practise the self-control and physicaltraining that is expected as a matter of course from an acrobat, ajockey or a pugilist. The women's dresses are prudish and absurd. Itis true that Kundry no longer wears an early Victorian ball dress with"ruchings," and that Fresh has been provided with a quaintly modish copyof the flowered gown of Spring in Botticelli's famous picture; but themailclad Brynhild still climbs the mountains with her legs carefullyhidden in a long white skirt, and looks so exactly like Mrs. Leo Hunteras Minerva that it is quite impossible to feel a ray of illusion whilstlooking at her. The ideal of womanly beauty aimed at reminds Englishmenof the barmaids of the seventies, when the craze for golden hair wasat its worst. Further, whilst Wagner's stage directions are sometimesdisregarded as unintelligently as at Covent Garden, an intolerablyold-fashioned tradition of half rhetorical, half historical-pictorialattitude and gesture prevails. The most striking moments of the dramaare conceived as tableaux vivants with posed models, instead of aspassages of action, motion and life.I need hardly add that the supernatural powers of control attributedby credulous pilgrims to Madame Wagner do not exist. Prima donnas andtenors are as unmanageable at Bayreuth as anywhere else. Casts arecapriciously changed; stage business is insufficiently rehearsed; thepublic are compelled to listen to a Brynhild or Siegfried of fifty whenthey have carefully arranged to see one of twenty-five, much as inany ordinary opera house. Even the conductors upset the arrangementsoccasionally. On the other hand, if we leave the vagaries of the starsout of account, we may safely expect always that in thoroughness ofpreparation of the chief work of the season, in strenuous artisticpretentiousness, in pious conviction that the work is of such enormousimportance as to be worth doing well at all costs, the Bayreuthperformances will deserve their reputation. The band is placed out ofsight of the audience, with the more formidable instruments beneaththe stage, so that the singers have not to sing THROUGH the brass. Theeffect is quite perfect.BAYREUTH IN ENGLANDI purposely dwell on the faults of Bayreuth in order to show that thereis no reason in the world why as good and better performances of TheRing should not be given in England. Wagner's scores are now before theworld; and neither his widow nor his son can pretend to handle them withgreater authority than any artist who feels the impulse to interpretthem. Nobody will ever know what Wagner himself thought of the artistswho established the Bayreuth tradition: he was obviously not in aposition to criticize them. For instance, had Rubini survived to createSiegmund, it is quite certain that we should not have had from Wagner'spen so amusing and vivid a description as we have of his Ottavio in theold Paris days. Wagner was under great obligations to the heroes andheroines of 1876; and he naturally said nothing to disparage theirtriumphs; but there is no reason to believe that all or indeed any ofthem satisfied him as Schnorr of Carolsfeld satisfied him as Tristan, orSchroder Devrient as Fidelio. It is just as likely as not that thenext Schnorr or Schroder may arise in England. If that should actuallyhappen, neither of them will need any further authority than their owngenius and Wagner's scores for their guidance. Certainly the less theirspontaneous impulses are sophisticated by the very stagey traditionswhich Bayreuth is handing down from the age of Crummles, the better.WAGNERIAN SINGERSNo nation need have much difficulty in producing a race of Wagneriansingers. With the single exception of Handel, no composer has writtenmusic so well calculated to make its singers vocal athletes as Wagner.Abominably as the Germans sing, it is astonishing how they thrivephysically on his leading parts. His secret is the Handelian secret.Instead of specializing his vocal parts after the manner of Verdi andGounod for high sopranos, screaming tenors, and high baritones withan effective compass of about a fifth at the extreme tiptop of theirranges, and for contraltos with chest registers forced all over theircompass in the manner of music hall singers, he employs the entire rangeof the human voice freely, demanding from everybody very nearly twoeffective octaves, so that the voice is well exercised all over, andone part of it relieves the other healthily and continually. He usesextremely high notes very sparingly, and is especially considerate inthe matter of instrumental accompaniment. Even when the singer appearsto have all the thunders of the full orchestra raging against him, aglance at the score will show that he is well heard, not because of anyexceptionally stentorian power in his voice, but because Wagner meanthim to be heard and took the greatest care not to overwhelm him. Suchbrutal opacities of accompaniment as we find in Rossini's Stabat orVerdi's Trovatore, where the strings play a rum-tum accompanimentwhilst the entire wind band blares away, fortissimo, in unison with theunfortunate singer, are never to be found in Wagner's work. Even in anordinary opera house, with the orchestra ranged directly between thesingers and the audience, his instrumentation is more transparent tothe human voice than that of any other composer since Mozart. At theBayreuth Buhnenfestspielhaus, with the brass under the stage, it isperfectly so.On every point, then, a Wagner theatre and Wagner festivals are muchmore generally practicable than the older and more artificial formsof dramatic music. A presentable performance of The Ring is a bigundertaking only in the sense in which the construction of a railwayis a big undertaking: that is, it requires plenty of work and plenty ofprofessional skill; but it does not, like the old operas and oratorios,require those extraordinary vocal gifts which only a few individualsscattered here and there throughout Europe are born with. Singers whocould never execute the roulades of Semiramis, Assur, and Arsaces inRossini's Semiramide, could sing the parts of Brynhild, Wotan andErda without missing a note. Any Englishman can understand this if heconsiders for a moment the difference between a Cathedral service andan Italian opera at Covent Garden. The service is a much more seriousmatter than the opera. Yet provincial talent is sufficient for it, ifthe requisite industry and devotion are forthcoming. Let us admit thatgeniuses of European celebrity are indispensable at the Opera (thoughI know better, having seen lusty troopers and porters, without art ormanners, accepted by fashion as principal tenors at that institutionduring the long interval between Mario and Jean de Reszke); but let usremember that Bayreuth has recruited its Parsifals from the peasantry,and that the artisans of a village in the Bavarian Alps are capable of afamous and elaborate Passion Play, and then consider whether England isso poor in talent that its amateurs must journey to the centre of Europeto witness a Wagner Festival.The truth is, there is nothing wrong with England except the wealthwhich attracts teachers of singing to her shores in sufficient numbersto extinguish the voices of all natives who have any talent as singers.Our salvation must come from the class that is too poor to have lessons.End of Project Gutenberg's The Perfect Wagnerite, by George Bernard Shaw*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PERFECT WAGNERITE ******** This file should be named 1487.txt or 1487.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/4/8/1487/Produced by Dianne BeanUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Case of Mrs. Clive, by Catherine CliveThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Case of Mrs. CliveAuthor: Catherine CliveRelease Date: October 27, 2004 [EBook #13881]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: UTF-8*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CASE OF MRS. CLIVE ***Produced by David Starner, Susan Skinner and the PG Online DistributedProofreading Team.THE AUGUSTAN REPRINT SOCIETYCATHERINE CLIVETHE CASE OF Mrs. _CLIVE_(1744)_Introduction by_RICHARD C. FRUSHELLToH.T. Swedenberg, Junior_founder, protector, friend_    _He that delights to_ Plant _and_ Set,    _Makes_ After-Ages _in his_ Debt.    Where could they find another formed so fit,    To poise, with solid sense, a sprightly wit?    Were these both wanting, as they both abound,    Where could so firm integrity be found?The verse and emblem are from George Wither, _A Collection of Emblems,Ancient and Modern_ (London, 1635), illustration xxxv, page 35.The lines of poetry (123-126) are from "To My Honoured Kinsman JohnDriden," in John Dryden, _The Works of John Dryden_, ed. Sir WalterScott, rev. and corr. George Saintsbury (Edinburgh: William Patterson,1885), xi, 78.       *       *       *       *       *GENERAL EDITORSWilliam E. Conway, William Andrews Clark Memorial LibraryGeorge Robert Guffey, University of California, Los AngelesMaximillian E. Novak, University of California, Los AngelesDavid S. Rodes, University of California, Los AngelesADVISORY EDITORSRichard C. Boys, University of MichiganJames L. Clifford, Columbia UniversityRalph Cohen, University of VirginiaVinton A. Dearing, University of California, Los AngelesArthur Friedman, University of ChicagoLouis A. Landa, Princeton UniversityEarl Miner, Princeton UniversitySamuel H. Monk, University of MinnesotaEverett T. Moore, University of California, Los AngelesLawrence Clark Powell, William Andrews Clark Memorial LibraryJames Sutherland, University College, LondonH.T. Swedenberg, Jr., University of California, Los AngelesRobert Vosper, William Andrews Clark Memorial LibraryCurt A. Zimansky, State University of IowaCORRESPONDING SECRETARYEdna C. Davis, William Andrews Clark Memorial LibraryEDITORIAL ASSISTANTJean T. Shebanek, William Andrews Clark Memorial LibraryTypography by Wm. M. CheneyINTRODUCTIONAmong other things, the licensing act of 1737 stipulated that CoventGarden and Drury Lane exclusively were the patented and licensedtheaters (respectively) in London, a fact directly related to the revoltof prestigious players six years later. Although there were sporadicperformances of "legitimate" drama in unlicensed playhouses between 1737and 1743, full-time professional actors and actresses were in effectlocked into the approved theaters during the regular theatrical season.Suspecting a cartel directed against them personally and professionallyby the "Bashas" Rich at Covent Garden and Fleetwood at Drury Lane,[1]the players from Drury Lane in the summer of 1743 banded together andrefused to perform the next season until salaries and playing conditionsimproved. Tardy and partial payment of salary was the surface sorepoint, unprincipled and unwarranted manipulation by the managers theunderlying one. As the Macklin-Garrick quarrel attests,[2] the conflictwas not only between labor and management; but the latter confrontationis central to the conflict in 1743 and the subject of _The Case of Mrs.Clive Submitted to the Publick_, published in October, 1744, by whichtime Catherine (Kitty) Clive had established herself as not only firstlady of comedy but also as somewhat of a patriot of the actingprofession and the Drury Lane company.Coming to Drury Lane in 1728 while still in her teens, Kitty Rafter(1711-1785) quickly became a favorite of the town by virtue of hersinging voice, vivacity, and gift for mimicry. Admired first as asinging actress, Miss Rafter in 1731 gave unequivocal notice of herconsiderable talent as a comic actress in the role of Nell in Coffey's_The Devil to Pay_, one of several hundred she mastered. Herspecialties: Flora in _The Wonder_, Lady Bab in _High Life BelowStairs_, Lappet in _The Miser_, Catherine in _Catherine and Petruchio_,Mrs. Heidelberg in _The Clandestine Marriage_, and the Fine Lady in_Lethe_. Mrs. Clive's (on 4 Oct. 1733, Miss Rafter married George Clive,a barrister) popularity as comedienne and performer of prologues andepilogues is indicated by the frequency of her performances and longtenure at Drury Lane (she retired in 1769) and documented by thepanegyrics of Fielding, Murphy, Churchill, Garrick, Dr. Johnson, HoraceWalpole, Goldsmith, fellow players, contemporary memoir writers, andaudiences who admired her.[3] Dr. Johnson, I feel, gives the mostbalanced, just contemporary appraisal of Mrs. Clive the actress: "WhatClive did best, she did better than Garrick; but could not do half somany things well; she was a better romp than any I ever saw innature."[4] Part of the half she could not do well were tragedy roles,attested to by Thomas Davies, who comments on her performances asOphelia in _Hamlet_ and Zara in _The Mourning Bride_: "Of Mrs. Clive'sOphelia I shall only say, that I regret that the first comic actress inthe world should so far mistake her talents as to attempt it." And onZara, "for her own benefit, the comic Clive put on the royal robes ofZara: she found them too heavy, and, very wisely, never wore themafterwards."[5] Part of the half she could do well is noticed, onceagain, by Davies: particularly adroit and distinguished in chambermaidparts, Mrs. Clive     excelled also in characters of caprice and affectation, from the     high-bred Lady Fanciful to the vulgar Mrs. Heidelberg; in country     girls, romps, hoydens and dowdies, superannuated beauties, viragos     and humourists; she had an inimitable talent in ridiculing the     extravagant action and impertinent consequence of an     Opera-singer--of which she gave an excellent specimen in _Lethe_.     Her mirth was so genuine that whether it was restrained to the arch     sneer, and suppressed half-laugh, or extended to the downright     honest burst of loud laughter, the audience was sure to accompany     her [my punctuation].[6]Mrs. Clive's stature as a comic actress would, then, seemingly make hera prize for Rich or Fleetwood, but they did their best to thwart hercareer and happiness at their theaters.I suspect that their motivation in so doing was fear that her temper,her influence with other actors and her audiences, and her strongloyalty to her profession would hinder their legislated power to controlabsolutely London theaters, players, and audiences in 1743. Not muchinvestigation is required to see Mrs. Clive at her clamoring best, atvarious times head to head with Susannah Cibber, Peg Woffington,Woodward, Shuter, or Garrick. Her letters to Garrick show that as lateas the sixties she was quite capable of vitriol when she felt that sheor her friends were unjustly treated. Tate Wilkinson was surely correctin describing her as "a mixture of combustibles; she was passionate,cross, and vulgar," often simultaneously.[7] If this were the case inmere greenroom tiffs or casual correspondence, how the ire of "theClive" must have been excited by the cartelists, who did their utmost tokeep her out of joint and almost out of sight.In 1733, Fielding, who furthered Mrs. Clive's career by writing andediting parts of his plays for her and publicly praising her as a womanand as an actress, wrote the following encomium on her professionalintegrity in his "Epistle to Mrs. Clive," prefatory to _The IntriguingChambermaid_:     The part you have maintained in the present dispute between the     players and the patentees, is so full of honour, that had it been     in higher life, it would have given you the reputation of the     greatest heroine of the age. You looked on the cases of Mr.     Highmore and Mrs. Wilks with compassion, nor could any promises or     views of interest sway you to desert them; nor have you scrupled     any fatigue ... to support the cause of those whom you imagine     injured and distressed; and for this you have been so far from     endeavouring to exact an exorbitant reward from persons little able     to afford it, that I have known you to offer to act for nothing,     rather than the patentees should be injured by the dismission of     the audience.[8]Fielding is, of course, referring to the 1733 dispute in which Mrs.Clive (and Macklin) among the principal players stayed with theineffective proprietor of Drury Lane, John Highmore. Jealous thatHighmore and not he gained control of Drury Lane after formershareholders either died or sold out, Theophilus Cibber demanded, amongother things, that Highmore share profits with his players rather thanpay fixed salaries. He then led the Drury Lane players in revolt in theautumn of 1733 to the New Haymarket where they played without a licenseuntil March of the 1733-1734 season, at which time they returned toDrury Lane under the new management of Fleetwood. The actors at leastpartially won this battle, and although Highmore tried to have thevagrant act enforced, the players returned to Drury Lane unscathed. WithHighmore gone, a period of uneasy peace obtained. The players, however,were not to win so easily the next dispute, the one that took placeafter the passage of the licensing act.[9]Mrs. Clive's decision to stay with Highmore rather than defect wasprobably made because "two women--Mrs. Wilks, the widow of her [Kitty's]old theatrical idol, and Mrs. Booth--were in he direction of thetheater.[10] But in light of Fielding's words and her actions andstatements in regard to the welfare of Drury Lane and its actorsthroughout her career, I believe that Mrs. Clive, although not pleasedwith aspects of Highmore's reign, also refused to defect because shefelt that the manager was basically in the right, that her fellowplayers would be destitute or at least open to hardship withoutemployment there, and that the audiences would take offense at suchunprofessional and selfish behavior from their "servants." The "Town,"as her own play _The Rehearsal_ (I.i. 159-170) shows, was always herjudge in matters professional.Fielding's prologue to his revised _Author's Farce_ (1734), spoken byMrs. Clive, compares the settled, prosperous former days at Drury Lanewith those of 1734, when "... _alas! how alter'd is our Case!/ I viewwith Tears this poor deserted Place_."[11] With few exceptions, the"place" continued strangely in decline even with a competent company andoften with a full house. The falling-off continued until the advent ofGarrick, who with Lacy in 1747 co-managed the theater into a new era.From the mid-thirties until 1743, Mrs. Clive appears in roles she hadmade famous as well as those newly written with her particular talentsin mind. Fielding, turning more and more to political satire and soon toanother literary form, had little need of her services;[12] but othersdid, and the years between the licensing act and 1743 find Mrs. Clive indemand as the affected lady of quality, speaker of humorous epilogues,performer in Dublin, and singer of such favorites as "Ellen-a-Roon,""The Cuckoo," and "The Life of a Beau." This period is also marked byMrs. Clive's first professional venture with David Garrick, in his_Lethe_, the beginning of a relationship to become one of the mosttempestuous and fruitful in all theater history.As I intimated at the outset, the licensing act mainly troubled theLondon players because of the power of monopoly it invested in Fleetwoodand Rich. Not only were the forums for dramatic presentation nowrestricted, but so was professional freedom. The problem, therefore, wasas much philosophical as it was geographical. From the sixteenth centuryto 1737, English players had some freedom (albeit limited) to rebel fromintolerable authority and to form their own company.[13] This freedom,this choice, as Lord Chesterfield pointed out in his speech against theact, was severely attenuated in 1737, and was to remain so in varyingdegrees until the monopoly the act allowed was legislated dead in 1843.But it was a cartel between the managers that the players most feared,and there is evidence in the pamphlets growing out of the struggle of1743 that such a fear was well-founded.The playing conditions at Drury Lane in the early forties were not good,a situation directly attributable to the ineptitude and highhandednessof Fleetwood (and his treasurer Pierson) and his refusal to pay salariesin full and on time. The manager's accommodating side-show performers inhis company did not help. Macklin, as Fleetwood's lieutenant, had to tryto pacify actors, workmen, creditors; as actor he commiserated with theplayers. With the coming of Garrick from Goodman's Fields to Drury Lanelate in the 1741-1742 season and with a progressively disgruntled Cliveall the principals in the revolt are under one--leaky--roof.In light of the number and variety of the published commentary whichaccompanied the revolt, perhaps a highlighting of Clive's _Case_ wouldbe the most efficient way to elucidate some of the major difficultiesinvolved. After addressing herself to "the Favour of the Publick," withencouragement from her friends,[14] Mrs. Clive strikes the key note ofher essay: injustice and oppression, specifically seen in the cartel'sthreat to "Custom," an iterative word throughout the essay. Mrs. Clivefirst speaks of salary, a matter obviously important to her "Liberty andLivelihood."[15] One writer on the dispute, in a quasi-satirical tract,denounces the managers in this regard and in so doing echoes Mrs. Clive:"When there are but two Theatres allowed of, shall the Masters of thosetwo Houses league together, and oblige the Actors either to take whatSalary or Treatment they graciously vouchsafe to offer them, and to beparcelled out and confined to this House or t'other, just as they intheir Wisdoms think meet; or else to be banished the Kingdom for aLivelihood? This is Tyranny with a Vengeance--but perhaps these generousnoble-spirited Masters may intend their Performers a Compliment in it,and by thus fixing them to one Place, effectually wipe off that odiousAppellation of Vagabonds, which has been sometimes given them."[16] Thelicensing act, subsequent cartel, and mistreatment of players were thennot only in the mind of Mrs. Clive. Treated in most of the arguments foror against the players was salary, but it was only a cover hiding anunderlying malaise.Implying that the managers set out to ruin certain performers, includingherself, Mrs. Clive accuses them of putting on "a better Face to theTown" by publishing (inaccurate) salary figures--a ploy to get publicsanction for lower salaries. Mrs. Clive alludes to salaries publishedostensibly by Fleetwood in the papers (e.g., _Gentleman's Magazine_,XIII, October 1743, 553), where the pay of such lights as Garrick,Macklin, Pritchard, and Clive in the 1742-1743 season is made to seemhigher than the salaries of such worthies as Wilks, Betterton, Cibber,and Oldfield in the 1708-1709 season. The actors, in presenting theircase (_Gentleman's Magazine_, XIII, November 1743, 609), hit atFleetwood for citing 1708-1709 salaries, for "the Stage [then] both of_Drury-Lane_ and the _Hay-market_, were in so wretched a Condition ...as not to be worth any body's Acceptance." The players use insteadsalaries of the 1729 players "to place the salaries of the presentActors in a true light," since the stage in that year flourished. In1729, Wilks, the highest paid actor, earned more than his later equal,Garrick. All other principals' salaries were comparable.The main complaint of Fleetwood's company, then, was not only basesalary but the "Fallacy" of the manager's account and his "setting downbesides the Manager's Charges, every benefit Night, what is got by theActor's own private Interests in Money and Tickets, as also the Articleof 50L for Cloaths, added to the Actresses Account, which is absolutelyan Advantage to the Manager, as they always lay out considerably more."This evidence, if not in itself damning to Fleetwood's designs towardhis actors, at least indicates the internecine breach at Drury Lane.(The inter-theater conflict, important for its effect on repertory andmorale, is adequately examined in theater histories and lies outside myinterests in this essay.)Mrs. Clive admits, however, that reduced, unpaid, or "handled" salarieswere not the first fear of the actors; it was instead, she says, thefear of what "would happen from an Agreement supposed to be concludedbetwixt the two Managers, which made 'em apprehend, that if theysubmitted to act under such Agreements, they must be absolutely in theManagers Power." As the writer of _The Case Between the Managers_ (p.11) presents it, a conversation between a personified Covent Garden andDrury Lane would have gone like this: "Well, but, Brother _Drury_, wecan manage that matter [how to keep audiences]--Suppose you and I make aCartel; for instance, agree for every other Theatre, and obligeourselves by this Cartel to reduce by near one half the Salaries of ourprincipal Performers--I'gad, we may cramp 'em rarely this way--they mustserve us at any rate we tax their Merit at, for they'll then have nowhere else to go to." Drury Lane responds, "D--n me, if that is notdivinely thought--my dear Friend, give me a Kiss."Late in the summer of 1743, several months before the salary figuresdescribed above, Garrick, Macklin, Clive, and Mrs. Pritchard among theprincipal players attempted to obtain another license to set up theirown company in the Haymarket: shades of 1733. They applied to theChamberlain Grafton--who denied it, in part perhaps because put out thatGarrick commanded over L500 a year. There was no chance, therefore, tosidestep the monopoly effected by the licensing act. Leading thesecession, Garrick agreed with his colleagues to stay out until redresswas forthcoming. Redress did not come, the defectors lost, Fleetwoodwon. He starved them in not out, Garrick was persuaded to return toDrury Lane (which he does in early December, 1743) by the entreaties ofseveral of the destitute seceded players who asked him to accede toFleetwood's terms. As Garrick explains to Macklin (see note 2), he didso because he had the economic welfare of his fellow actors at heart.Macklin infuriated with him and Clive disappointed in him, both refusedto accept Garrick's decision, and hence became renegade. Macklin,uninvited back by Fleetwood, admired Olive's decision to have no part insigning a petition presented to her by her fellow defectors whounderstood that the refusal of a separate license dissolved their bond.Macklin writes in his Reply to _Mr. Garrick's Answer_ (p. 27) that "itought to be known that when this Letter was carried to Mrs. Clive, andher Name to it desired, she had the Honour and Spirit to refuse, uponany Consideration, to be made so ridiculous a Tool to so base aPurpose."Others were not so generous as Macklin. The author of _The Disputesbetween the Director of D----y, and the Pit Potentates,_ one "B.Y.,"champions the cause of the non-principal players against such as Mrs.Clive, "for the low-salary'd Players are always at the labouring Oar,and at constant Expence, while the rest are serv'd up once or twice in aWeek each, as very fine Dishes," one of whom, he says, is Mrs. Clive, an"avaritious" person whom he is confident "has found, and feels, herError by this Time."[17] The writer then details the particularhardships of Mrs. Roberts, Mrs. Horton, and Mr. Mills, hardships causedby such greedy principals as Clive. B.Y. obviously chose to ignore thecompassion of Mrs. Clive for the low-salaried players expressed in herCase.Evidence that Mrs. Clive was in no position to be avaricious and that adebilitating cartel in fact existed is found in her own essay. When thedefected players returned to Drury Lane (except Macklin, whom Fleetwoodconsidered the cause of the theater's troubles) late in 1743, Fleetwoodoffered Mrs. Clive a salary incompatible with her talent and lower thanhis previous "agreements" with her. Clive says, "They were such as I wasadvis'd not to accept, because it was known they were proposed for noreason but to insult me, and make me seek for better at the otherTheatre; for I knew it had been settled, by some dark Agreement, thatPart of the Actors were to go to Covent-Garden Theatre, and others toDrury-Lane."Led to believe that she would find comfort and acceptance at CoventGarden based on previous encouragement by Rich to have her join hiscompany,[18] Mrs. Clive realized that the dark agreement was a fact, for"When I apply'd to him, he offered me exactly the same which I hadrefused at the other Theatre." She managed a bit more salary, however,and out of necessity agreed to play. More rankling to Mrs. Clive thanbasic salary was her being forced to pay for her benefit. The extantClive-Garrick correspondence points to the pride she took in not only a"clear" benefit but one held during that part of the month she dictated.As is the case with salary, the basis for this complaint wasunreasonable manipulation by the managers, loss of freedom, and anunjustified break with tradition: "I had had one [a benefit] clear ofall Expence for Nine Years before; an Advantage the first Performers hadbeen thought to merit for near Thirty Years, and had grown into aCustom."Mrs. Clive did not regularly play for Rich until December 1743, fromwhich time she "determined to stay there," doing all in her power toplease her audiences and him. Yet she "found, by his Behaviour to me, itwas designed I should not continue with him." Clive's specificexposition of Rich's mistreatment of her is a portrait of an actressaware of her worth and of a manager at his worst. Fired from CoventGarden--against custom and justice--at the end of the season withoutbeing told, Mrs. Clive could not arrange to play in Ireland, where shewas a great favorite,[19] for Rich's cheat did not become clear to heruntil summer was too far advanced. Clive says it all when she observes"it is unlawful to act any where but with them." Fleetwood was the onlyalternative for the next season, and he still owed her 160. 12s. At thetime of Clive's Case (October, 1744) Fleetwood had not yet contacted herfor engagement at Drury Lane even though he could not "but know I amdisengag'd from the other Theatre." Nor could have Clive expected muchof a salary from him even if he did call on her since the last season heoffered her "not near half as much as he afterwards agreed to giveanother Performer, and less than he then gave to some others in hisCompany." Mrs. Clive could not but conclude that the managers were inleague to distress her.[20] In the final third of her essay, Mrs. Clivepresents a rather touching account of the personal costs of a piece oflegislation which was itself manipulated and "interpreted in the narrowsense of forming the legal safeguard to the patent monopoly."[21]The "Ladies" who had promised their protection to Mrs. Clive obviouslywere influential in convincing Rich to re-hire her, for less than onemonth after the appearance of Clive's Case the Prince of Wales and hisPrincess sponsored at the Haymarket a concert for her benefit,[22] andher name is regularly listed in the Covent Garden playbills soon after.The absence of publicity from Mrs. Clive, or about her, suggests thather second short year at Covent Garden was fairly acceptable to allconcerned, although Portia in _The Merchant of Venice_ was hardly herforte.The next season finds her back at Drury Lane, where she reignsuncontested queen of comedy for more than twenty years. In addition tothe return of Clive, the 1745-1746 season (one poor in attendance andnew plays) at Drury Lane is noteworthy because of a reinstated Macklin,a de-throned Fleetwood, a new manager (Lacy), a well-balanced companysoon to be augmented by player-manager Garrick, prospects for a brightfuture--and a theatrical monopoly stronger than ever.[23] In the latterregard Mrs. Clive's case is revealing in that it gives a new emphasis tothe epithet His Majesties' Servants.[24]Indiana State UniversityTerre HauteNOTES TO THE INTRODUCTION[1] _The Dramatic Congress_ (London, 1743). Throughout I use shorttitles.[2] Three major documents concerning this quarrel are published underthe title _Mr. Macklin's Reply to Mr. Garrick's Answer_ (London, 1743).[3] Mrs. Clive's four afterpieces, with their allusions to herpersonality and career, are equally revealing. I treat this subject in"An Edition of the Afterpieces of Kitty Clive," Diss. Duquesne Univ.1968, and "The Textual Relationship and Biographical Significance of TwoPetite Pieces by Mrs. Catherine (Kitty) Clive," RECTR, 9 (May 1970),51-58, and "Kitty Clive as Dramatist," _DUJ_, N.S., 32 No. 2 (March1971), 125-132.[4] James Boswell, _Boswell's Life of Johnson_, ed. George BirkbeckHill, rev. L.F. Powell (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1934-1950), IV, 243.[5] _Dramatic Miscellanies_ (London, 1785), III, 131, 376.[6] Quoted by [John Genest], _Some Account of the English Stage_ (Bath:H.E. Carrington, 1832), V, 230.[7] _Memoirs of His Own Life_ (York, 1790), II, 257. See _TheatricalCorrespondence in Death. An Epistle from Mrs. Oldfield_ (London, 1743),p. 7.[8] _The Complete Works of Henry Fielding, Esq._, ed. William ErnestHenley (New York: Croscup & Sterling Co., [1902]; reprinted Barnes &Noble, 1967), X, 277-278.[9] For a useful exposition of the 1733 and 1743 disputes in terms ofthe licensing act see Watson Nicholson, _The Struggle for a Free Stagein London_ (Cambridge, Mass.: Archibald Constable & Co., 1906.).[10] Percy Fitzgerald, _The Life of Mrs. Catherine Clive_ (London: A.Reader, 1888), p. 24. P.J. Crean, "The Life and Times of Kitty Clive,"Diss. Univ. of London, 1933, is, however, the authority on Clive's life.I am indebted to Professor Crean.[11] Quoted in Mary E. Knapp, _Prologues and Epilogues of the EighteenthCentury_ (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1961), p. 69.[12] Yet, with Fitzgerald (_Life_, p. 34), I believe that Fielding couldhave helped Mrs. Clive ready her Case for the press. Certainly the"correctness" of that printed text could not have been achieved by heralone. Cf. Clive's MS letters, Appendix, "An Edition of theAfterpieces."[13] See Crean, "Life and Times," p. 215. A pertinent example of actors'seeking redress is, of course, the revolt of 1694-1695, described byJohn Downes, _Roscius Anglicanus_ (London. 1708), pp. 43-44; AugustanReprint Society publication number 134 (Los Angeles, 1969), with anIntroduction by John Loftis, is a facsimile of the first edition.[14] See Arthur H. Scouten, "Introduction," _The London Stage_(Carbondale, III.: Southern Illinois University Press, 1961), Pt. 3,xcv, cxlvii, and Dramatic Congress, p. 20.[15] Cf. James Ralph, _The Case of our Present Theatrical Disputes_(London, 1743), pp. 3, 48.[16] _The Case Between the Managers of the Two Theatres, and theirPrincipal Actors_ (London, 1743, misdated 1713), p. 20. Cf. _AnImpartial Examen_ (London, 1744), pp. 10-11, 21-22. See also the three_Queries_ pamphlets: _Queries to be Answered by the Manager ofDrury-Lane_ (London, 1743); _Queries upon Queries_ (London, 1743); _AFull Answer to Queries upon Queries_ (London, 1743).[17] (London, 1744), pp. 15-16.[18] _Dramatic Congress_, p. 22. Thomas Davies, _Memoirs of the Life ofDavid Garrick_, 3rd Ed. (London, 1781), I, 90, says of Rich: he "seemsto have imbibed, from his very early years, a dislike of the people withwhom he was obliged to live and converse."[19] See Clive's afterpiece _The Faithful Irish Woman_ in "An Edition ofthe Afterpieces."[20] See _Mr. Macklin's Reply to Mr. Garrick's Answer_, pp. 18, 29-30,and _An Impartial Examen_, pp. 10-11.[21] Nicholson, _Struggle for a Free Stage_, p. 124; see, too, pp.83-86.[22] Crean, "Life and Times," p. 254 n. 1, points out that on the veryday of this benefit (2 Nov.) a second notice of Mrs. Clive's Caseappeared.[23] See Nicholson's concluding chapter. For other effects of thelicensing act see Scouten, _London Stage_, cxlvii, and Ralph, _Case ofthe Present Theatrical Disputes_, pp. 22, 43.[24] Since the pamphlets cited here are scarce, some rare, perhaps thefollowing list of locations will prove helpful. Full titles and partialbibliographical information are available in Robert W. Lowe, _ABibliographical Account of English Theatrical Literature_ (London: J.C.Nimmo, 1888), p. 95._Dramatic Congress_, Univ. Chicago, Austrian Coll., PR 3346. C3D7 1743._Mr. Macklin's Reply_, Newberry Library, V1845. 54._Theatrical Correspondence in Death_, Harvard, Thr 417. 43. 12._Case of Present Theatrical Disputes_, Newberry Library, Rare Book Room._Case Between the Managers_, Univ. Chicago, Austrian Coll., PN 2596.L6C22._An Impartial Examen_, Harvard, Thr 465. 20. 23._Queries to be Answered_, Harvard, Thr 465. 20. 22._Queries upon Queries_, Harvard, Thur 465. 20. 12._A Full Answer to Queries_, Harvard, Thr 465. 20. 12._Disputes between the Director_, Univ. Chicago, Austrian Coll., PN 2596.L7D832.BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTEThe facsimile of _The Case of Mrs. Clive_ (1744) is reproduced from acopy of the first edition (Shelf Mark: PN 2598. C45A2) in The LillyLibrary, Indiana University. The total type-page (p. 9) measures 145 X78 mm.       *       *       *       *       *THE CASE OF MRS. _CLIVE_[Price Six Pence.]       *       *       *       *       *THE CASE OF MRS. _CLIVE_Submitted to the PUBLICK.[Illustration: Printer's trophy-style decoration]_LONDON:_Printed for B. DOD at the _Bible_ and _Key_ in _Ave-Mary-Lane_ near_Stationers-Hall_. MDCCXLIV.[Price Six Pence.]       *       *       *       *       *THE CASE OF MRS. _CLIVE_Submitted to the PUBLICK.In order to put an End to ome fale Reports, which have been raied inRelation to my not acting this Seaon, as well as to bepeak the Favourof the Publick, I have, by the Advice of my Friends, ventured to addresmy elf to them, from whom I have received many and great Marks ofFavour, and whoe further Protection I now tand in need of.I know Appeals of this Nature, which relate to Diputes that happen at aTheatre, are by ome thought preuming and impertinent, uppoing theyare too trifling to demand Attention: But, as I peruade my elf thatInjutice and Oppreion are by no means thought Matters of Indifferenceby any who have Humanity, I hope I hall not be thought to take toogreat a Liberty. I am the more encouraged to hope this from Experience;it having been oberved, that thoe Performers, who have had theHappines to pleae on the Stage, and who never did any thing to offendthe Publick, whenever they have been injured by thoe who preided overTheatres, have eldom, if ever, failed of Redres upon repreenting theHardhips they met with: And, as I at this time, apprehend my elf tobe greatly oppreed by the Managers of both Theatres, I hope I hall bejutified in taking this Method of acquainting the Publick with my Cae,ubmitting it to their Determination.Before the Diputes happened betwixt the Manager of _Drury-Lane_ Theatreand his Actors, I had articled for Five Years to receive Three HundredPounds a Year, tho' another Performer on that Stage received for SevenYears Five Hundred Guineas, _per_ Year; and at the Expiration of myAgreements the Manager offered me an additional Salary to continue atthat Theatre.And ince I have mentioned thoe Diputes, which ended o greatly to theDiadvantage of the Actors, I mut beg Leave to endeavour to et thatMatter in a clear Light, which hitherto has been mirepreented to thePublick: I think my elf obliged to this, as the Hardhips I at preentlabour under are owing to that Diagreement; if any think I treat thisMatter too eriouly, I hope they will remember, that however triflinguch Things may appear to them, to me, who am o much concerned in 'em,they are of great Importance, uch as my Liberty and Livelihood dependon.As only two Theatres were authoried, the Managers thought it was intheir Power to reduce the Incomes of thoe Performers, who could notlive independant of their Profeion; but in order to make this appearwith a better Face to the Town, it was agreed to complain of the ActorsSalaries being too great, and accordingly a fale Account was publihedof them in the daily Papers, by whom I will not ay: Whether, or no,ome particular Salaries were o, I will not pretend to determine; yet,in the whole, they did not amount to more than had been allowed formany Years, when the Theatre was under a frugal and exact Regulation;when the Managers punctually fulfilled, not only all Engagements totheir Actors, but to every other Peron concerned in the Theatre, andraied very coniderable Fortunes for themelves.But uppoing the Expence of the Theatre too high, I am very certain itwas not the Actors refuing to ubmit to a proper Reduction of them,which made o many of them quit the Stage, but from great Hardhips theyunderwent, and greater which they feared would happen from an Agreementuppoed to be concluded betwixt the two Managers, which made 'emapprehend, that if they ubmitted to act under uch Agreements, theymut be abolutely in the Managers Power; and the Event has proved thattheir Fears were not ill-grounded, as I doubt not but I hall makeappear.When the Actors Affairs obliged 'em to return to the Theatres latWinter, under uch Abatements of their Salaries as hardly afforded thegreater Part of them a Subitence, I was offered, by the Manager of_Drury-Lane_ Theatre, uch Terms as bore no Proportion to what he gaveother Performers, or to thoe he had offered me at the beginning of theSeaon. They were uch as I was advi'd not to accept, becaue it wasknown they were propoed for no reaon but to inult me, and make meeek for better at the other Theatre; for I knew it had been ettled, byome dark Agreement, that Part of the Actors were to go to_Covent-Garden_ Theatre, and others to _Drury-Lane_; I did, indeed,apprehend I hould meet with better Terms at _Covent-Garden_, becauethat Manager had made many Overtures to get me into his Company thepreceding Seaon, and many times before: But when I apply'd to him, heoffered me exactly the ame which I had refued at the other Theatre,and which I likewie rejected, but was peruaded to accept ome verylittle better, rather than eem obtinate in not complying as well asothers, and yielded o far to the Neceity of the Time, as to Act undera much les Salary than everal other Performers on that Stage, andubmitted to pay a Sum of Money for my Benefit, notwithtanding I hadhad one clear of all Expence for Nine Years before; an Advantage thefirt Performers had been thought to merit for near Thirty Years, andhad grown into a Cutom.When I was fixed at that Theatre I determined to tay there; I did, inall things which related to my Profeon, ubmit intirely to thatManager's Direction, and, with the help of other principal Performers,did greatly promote his Interet, as was evident from the Audiencesafter we went to Act there; but I found, by his Behaviour to me, it wasdeigned I hould not continue with him, but return the next Seaon to_Drury-Lane._The Agreements betwixt that Manager and me were verbal, but made beforetwo Gentlemen of Character and Fortune, on whom I mut depend for thefulfilling of them; they were for one Year. At the end of theActing-eaon the Manager ent an Office-keeper to me with ome Salarythat was due, who required a Receipt in full; I told him a very greatPart of my Agreements were yet due, and requeted to ee the Manager,who came and acknowledged them, and promied to bring one of theGentlemen who was present at our Ingagements in a Day or two and pay me,and then he aid he had done with me; but he has not paid me, nor have Iever een him ince, or as much as heard from him.It has always been a Cutom in Theatres, that if ever any Actor orActres was to be dicharged, or their Allowance leen'd, they wereacquainted with it at the End of the Seaon; the Reaon of this willappear to be the giving them a proper Notice to provide for themelves:This the Manager of _Covent-Garden_ did to all his Company whom hedeigned to dicharge, or whoe Allowance was to be leen'd, except tome, which made me actually then conclude he determined I houldcontinue with him, 'till I was undeceived by his Play-Bills with theNames of other Actrees in Parts I ued to perform; o that he has notonly broke thro' the Cutoms of the Theatre, but thoe in practicealmot every where, in dimiing me, and has done me a real Injury inuch an unprecedented Act of Injutice; for had I been informed of hisDeign at the End of the Seaon, I could have made Terms to have actedin _Ireland_, where I had met with mot uncommon Civilities, andreceived very great Advantages, which I hall ever remember with theutmot Gratitude, and take this and every other Opportunity toacknowledge.As I have aid, it has been a Cutom to give Actors Notice of aDicharge: I mut at the ame time oberve, That it never was a Cutomto dicharge any, but upon Neglect of their Buines, or uch as wereobnoxious to the Publick; this Maxim extended even to thoe of thelowet Clas; but to thoe, on whoe Performances the Town had beenpleaed to tamp a Value, by their Indulgence and Applaue, the Stagewas always a Support, even after Age or any Accident had made 'emincapable of their Profeion; for the then Patentees thought it asgreat a Piece of Inolence to deprive the Publick of their Pleaures, asof Cruelty and Injutice to deny thoe a Subitence who had contributedtowards 'em; for they knew and acknowledged, that the Publick was theonly Support of all, conequently had an indiputable Right to bepleaed in the bet manner poible.It is pretended by the Managers, that they have the ame Right todicharge an Actor that a Mater has to turn away a Servant, than whichnothing can be more fale and aburd; for, when a Mater dimies aServant, there are many thouands beides to apply to; but when theManagers dimis an Actor, where are they to apply? It is unlawful toact any where but with them; Neceity or Inclination brings every oneto the Stage; if the former happens to be the Cae, they will notreadily find an Employment; and if the latter, they will not be fit forone; o that it will appear an Act of great Injutice and Oppreion. Ifit hould be objected, That the Actors Demands are o exorbitant, thatthe Managers cannot comply with 'em? I have already endeavoured to how,that tho' two or three Salaries might be thought o in general, they didnot amount to more than had been allowed, and very coniderable Profitsariing to the Patentees. But there is a very melancholy Intance, thatthe Actors Demands is not the Reaon of dimiing 'em, but the Will ofthe Manager alone; since lat Seaon an Actor and Actres returned to_Drury-Lane_ under uch Abatements as that Manager thought proper, anduch as were in no degree equal to their Merit; and yet, at thebeginning of this Seaon, were dimied, after having been from theirInfancy on the Stage, and having no other Profeions to live by, andvery numerous Families to upport.The Manager of _Drury-Lane_ tho' he can't but know I am diengag'd fromthe other Theatre, has not made any Application to me to act with him,which he has done to everal others who quitted that Stage at the Time Idid: The Reaons which obliged me to leave him till ubit: He owesme a Hundred and Sixty Pounds, twelve Shillings, which he hasacknowledged to be jutly due, and promied Payment of it by lat_Chritmas_ to a Peron of too great Conequence for me to mention here,the greater Part of it Money I expended for Cloaths for his Ue. Heoffer'd me, lat Seaon, not near half as much as he afterwards agreedto give another Performer, and les than he then gave to ome others inhis Company; o that I mut conclude, as every one knows there areAgreements betwixt the Managers, that there is a Deign to ditres me,and reduce me to uch Terms as I cannot comply with.I am orry I am reduced to ay any thing in favour of myelf; but, as Ithink I merit as much as another Performer, and the Managers are odeirous to convince me of the contrary, I hope I hall be excued;epecially when I declare, that at this time, I am not in the leat vainof my Profeion.As to my Performances, the Audience are the only, proper Judges: But Imay venture to affirm, That my Labour, and Application, have beengreater than any other Performers on the Stage. I have not only acted inalmot all the Plays, but in Farces and Muical Entertainments; and veryfrequently two Parts in a Night, even to the Prejudice of my Health. Ihave been at a very great Expence in Maters for Singing; for whichArticle alone, the Managers now give five and ix Pounds a Week. Myadditional Expences, in belonging to the Theatre, amount to upwards ofone Hundred Pounds a Year, in Clothes, and other Necearies; and thepretended great Salaries, of ten and twelve Pounds a Week, which havebeen o artfully, and fally repreented to the Town, to the Prejudiceof the Actors, will, upon Enquiry, appear to be no more than half asmuch, ince they performed half Seaon, at the Theatres, very eldomabove three or four Days a Week; o taking in the long Vacation, whenthere are no Plays at all, to thoe Days the preent Managers omitacting, a Salary which appears to be great, will be found, in effect, tobe very moderate; and thoe which are les, not a Sufficiency.I have now finihed all I propoed; I have hown in how aggravating amanner, without any Reaon aigned, and at a Time a very coniderableSum of Money was owing to me, I have been turn'd out of _Covent-Garden_Theatre. The Manager of _Drury-Lane,_ tho' he can't but know what jutReaons I had for quitting him, has never apply'd to me to return, normade the leat Excue for not paying my Arrears, tho' due o long, andafter promiing Payment near a Year, notwithtanding I have, for manyYears, not only endeavour'd, but ucceeded, in greatly promoting thatManager's Interet, as is known to himelf and his whole Company.The Reaon of my taking the Liberty to communicate thee Things to thePublick, is mot earnetly to interceed for their Favour and Protection,from whom I have always met with great Generoity and Indulgence: For,as I have already declared, in a Letter publihed by me lat Year in theDaily Papers, that I had not a Fortune to upport me, independent of myProfeion, I doubt not but it will appear, I have not made anyconiderable Acquiition to it ince, having not received two HundredPounds Salary for acting in Plays, Farces, and Singing; tho' otherPerformers have received more than twice that Sum. I have, inConideration of thee Hardhips, been promied the Protection of manyLadies, to whom I have the Honour to be peronally known, and will notdoubt the Concurrence of the Publick, in receiving my Performance in thebet manner I am, at preent, capable of, which I hall always motgratefully Acknowledge.C. CLIVEFINIS.       *       *       *       *       *WILLIAM ANDREWS CLARK MEMORIAL LIBRARYUNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, LOS ANGELESTHE AUGUSTAN REPRINT SOCIETYPUBLICATIONS IN PRINT       *       *       *       *       *The Augustan Reprint SocietyPUBLICATIONS IN PRINT1948-194916. Henry Nevil Payne, _The Fatal Jealousie_ (1673).17. Nicholas Rowe. _Some Account of the Life of Mr. William Shakespear_(1709).18. Anonymous, "Of Genius," in _The Occasional Paper_, Vol. III, No. 10(1719), and Aaron Hill, Preface to _The Creation_ (1720).1949-195019. Susanna Centlivre, _The Busie Body_ (1709).20. Lewis Theobald, _Preface to the Works of Shakespeare_ (1734).22. Samuel Johnson, _The Vanity of Human Wishes_ (1749), and two_Rambler_ papers (1750).23. John Dryden, _His Majesties Declaration Defended_ (1681).1951-195226. Charles Macklin, _The Man of the World_ (1792).31. Thomas Gray, _An Elegy Wrote in a Country Churchyard_ (1751), and_The Eton College Manuscript_.1952-195341. Bernard Mandeville, _A Letter to Dion_ (1732).1962-196398. Selected Hymns Taken Out of Mr. Herbert's _Temple_ ... (1697).1964-1965109. Sir William Temple, _An Essay Upon the Original and Nature ofGovernment_ (1680).110. John Tutchin, _Selected Poems_ (1685-1700).111. Anonymous, _Political Justice_ (1736).112. Robert Dodsley, _An Essay on Fable_ (1764).113. T.R., _An Essay Concerning Critical and Curious Learning_ (1698).114. Two Poems Against Pope: Leonard Welsted. _One Epistle to Mr. A.Pope_ (1730), and Anonymous, _The Blatant Beast_ (1742).1965-1966115. Daniel Defoe and others, _Accounts of the Apparition of Mrs. Veal_.116. Charles Macklin, _The Covent Garden Theatre_ (1752).117. Sir Roger L'Estrange, _Citt and Bumpkin_ (1680).118. Henry More, _Enthusiasmus Triumphatus_ (1662).119. Thomas Traherne, _Meditations on the Six Days of the Creation_(1717).120. Bernard Mandeville, _Aesop Dress'd or a Collection of Fables_(1740).1966-1967123. Edmond Malone, _Cursory Observations on the Poems Attributed to Mr.Thomas Rowley_ (1782).124. Anonymous, _The Female Wits_ (1704).125. Anonymous, _The Scribleriad_ (1742). Lord Hervey, _The DifferenceBetween Verbal and Practical Virtue_ (1742).1967-1968129. Lawrence Echard, Prefaces to _Terence's Comedies_ (1694) and_Plautus's Comedies_ (1694).1968-1969133. John Courtenay, _A Poetical Review of the Literary and MoralCharacter of the Late Samuel Johnson_ (1786).134. John Downes, _Roscius Anglicanus_ (1708).135. Sir John Hill, _Hypochondriasis, a Practical Treatise_ (1766).136. Thomas Sheridan, _Discourse ... Being Introductory to His Course ofLectures on Elocution and the English Language_ (1759).137. Arthur Murphy, _The Englishman From Paris_ (1736).1969-1970138. [Catherine Trotter], _Olinda's Adventures_ (1718).139. John Ogilvie, _An Essay on the Lyric Poetry of the Ancients_(1762).140. _A Learned Dissertation on Dumpling_ (1726) and _Pudding Burnt toPot or a Compleat Key to the Dissertation on Dumpling_ (1727).141. Selections from Sir Roger L'Estrange's _Observator_ (1681-1687).142. Anthony Collins, _A Discourse Concerning Ridicule and Irony inWriting_ (1729).143. _A Letter From A Clergyman to His Friend, With An Account of theTravels of Captain Lemuel Gulliver_ (1726).144. _The Art of Architecture, A Poem. In Imitation of Horace's Art ofPoetry_ (1742).1970-1971145-146. Thomas Shelton, _A Tutor to Tachygraphy, or Short-writing_(1642) and _Tachygraphy_ (1647).147-148. _Deformities of Dr. Samuel Johnson_ (1782).149. _Poeta de Tristibus: or the Poet's Complaint_ (1682).150. Gerard Langbaine, _Momus Triumphans: or the Plagiaries of theEnglish Stage_ (1687).1971-1972151-152. Evan Lloyd, _The Methodist._ A Poem (1766).153. _Are these Things So?_ (1740), and _The Great Man's Answer to Arethese Things So?_ (1740).154. Arbuthnotiana: _The Story of the St. Alb-ns Ghost_ (1712), and _ACatalogue of Dr. Arbuthnot's Library_ (1779).155-156. A Selection of Emblems from Herman Hugo's _Pia Desideria_(1624), with English Adaptations by Francis Quarles and Edmund Arwaker.End of Project Gutenberg's The Case of Mrs. Clive, by Catherine Clive*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CASE OF MRS. CLIVE ******** This file should be named 13881-0.txt or 13881-0.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/3/8/8/13881/Produced by David Starner, Susan Skinner and the PG Online DistributedProofreading Team.Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Tinder-Box, by Maria Thompson DaviessThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Tinder-BoxAuthor: Maria Thompson DaviessRelease Date: February 1, 2005 [EBook #14863]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TINDER-BOX ***Produced by Kentuckiana Digital Library, David Garcia, Chuck Greif, LeonardJohnson and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.THE TINDER-BOX[Illustration: "You don't need another vine," I answered mutinously.]THE TINDER-BOXBYMARIA THOMPSON DAVIESSAuthor of"The Melting of Molly," "Miss Selina Lue," "Sue Jane," Etc.WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY JOHN EDWIN JACKSONNEW YORK THE CENTURY CO._Published, November, 1913_I DEDICATE THIS BOOK TO HANNAH DAVIESS PITTMAN WHO BLAZED MY TRAIL ANDSTILL DOESCONTENTSCHAPTER                              PAGEI. THE LOAD                             3II. THE MAIDEN LANCE                   26III. A FLINT-SPARK                     48IV. SWEETER WHEN TAMED?                79V. DEEPER THAN SHOULDERS OR RIBS      105VI. MAN AND THE ASAFETIDA SPOON       136VII. SOME SMOLDERINGS                 173VIII. AN ATTAINED TO-MORROW           211IX. DYNAMITE                          248X. TOGETHER?                          282ILLUSTRATIONS"You don't need another vine," I answered mutinously....._Frontispiece_He stood calmly in the midst of Sallie's family and baggage, bothanimate and inanimate 38"Say, Polk, I let the Pup git hung by her apron to the wheel of yourcar" 98His gray eyes were positively mysterious with interrupted dreams 182"We must not allow the men time to get sore over this matter of theLeague" 218"Is this right?" he asked 244"She's our Mother," he said 276Scrouged so close to his arm that it was difficult for both of them towalk 280THE TINDER BOXCHAPTER ITHE LOADAll love is a gas, and it takes either loneliness, strength ofcharacter, or religion to liquefy it into a condition to be ladled outof us, one to another. There is a certain dangerously volatile state ofit; and occasionally people, especially of opposite sexes, try toadminister it to each other in that form, with asphyxiation resulting toboth hearts. And I'm willing to confess that it is generally a woman'sfault when such an accident occurs. That is, it is a mistake of hernature, not one of intent. But she is learning!Also when a woman is created, the winds have wooed star-dust, rose-dew,peach-down, and a few flint-shavings into a whirlwind of deviltry, andthe world at large looks on in wonder and sore amazement, as well asbreathless interest. I know, because I am one, and have just been wakedup by the gyrations of the cyclone; and I'm deeply confounded. I don'tlike it, and wish I could have slept longer, but Fate and Jane Mathersdecreed otherwise. At least Jane decreed, and Fate seems so far helplessto controvert the decree.I might have known that when this jolly, easy-going old Fate of mine,which I inherited from a lot of indolent, pleasure-loving Harpeth ValleyTennesseans, let me pack up my graduating thesis, my B.S., and somedelicious frocks, and go off to Paris for a degree from the Beaux Artsin Architecture, we would be caught up with by some kind of Nemesis orother, and put in our place in the biological and ethnological scheme ofexistence. Yes, Fate and I are placed, and Jane did it.Also, I am glad, now that I know what is going to happen to me, that Ihad last week on shipboard, with Richard Hall bombarding my cardiacregions with his honest eyes and booming voice discreetly muffled toaccord with the moonlight and the quiet places around the deck. I maynever get that sort of a joy-drink again, but it was so well done thatit will help me to administer the same to others when the awful occasionarrives."A woman is the spark that lights the flame on the altar of the innerman, dear, and you'll have to sparkle when your time comes," he warnedme, as I hurried what might have been a very tender parting, the lastnight at sea."_Spark_"--she's a conflagration by this new plan of Jane's, but I'mglad he didn't know about it then. He may have to suffer from it yet. Itis best for him to be as happy as he can as long as he can."Evelina, dear," said Jane, as she and Mary Elizabeth Conners and I satin the suite of apartments in which our proud Alma Mater had lodged usold grads, returned for our second degrees, "your success has beenremarkable, and I am not surprised at all that that positively creativethesis of yours on the Twentieth Century Garden, to which I listenedto-night, procured you an honorable mention in your class at the BeauxArts. The French are a nation that quickly recognizes genius. I am veryhappy to-night. All your honors and achievements make me only the morecertain that I have chosen the right person for the glorious mission Iam about to offer you.""Oh, no, Jane!" I exclaimed, from a sort of instinct for trouble tocome. I know that devoted, twenty-second century look in Jane's intense,near-sighted eyes, and I always fend from it. She is a very dear person,and I respectfully adore her. Indeed, I sometimes think she is the realspine in my back that was left out of me, and of its own strength gotdeveloped into another and a finer woman. She became captain of myFreshman soul, at the same time she captured the captaincy of the boatcrew, on which I pulled stroke, and I'm still hitting the water when shegives the word, though it now looks as if we are both adrift on the highand uncharted seas--or sitting on the lid of a tinder-box, jugglinglighted torches."You see, dear," she went on to say slowly, drawing Mary Elizabeth intothe spell-bound circle of our intensity, as we three sat together withour newly-engraved sheepskins on our knees, "for these two years whileyou have been growing and developing along all your natural lines in acountry which was not your own, in a little pool I should call it, outof even sight and sound of the current of events, we have been here inyour own land engaged in the great work of the organization andreorganization which is molding the destinies of the women of ourtimes, and those that come after us. That is what I want to talk to youabout, and devoutly have I been praying that your heart will bereceptive to the call that has claimed the life of Mary Elizabeth andme. There is a particular work, for which you are fitted as no otherwoman I have ever known is fitted, and I want to lay the case plainlybefore you to-night. Will you give me a hearing?"And the hearing I gave that beloved and devout woman was the _reveille_that awakened me to this--this whirlwind that seems to be both inside meand outside me, and everywhere else in the whole world.It's not woman's suffrage; it has gone way down past the road from votesfor women. I wish I could have stopped in that political field ofendeavor before Jane got to me. She might have left me there doinglittle things like making speeches before the United States Senate andrunning for Governor of Tennessee, after I had, single-handed, remadethe archaic constitution of that proud and bat-blind old State of mybirth; but such ease was not for me.Of course for years, as all women have been doing who are sensibleenough to use the brains God gave them and stop depending on theircenturies-seasoned intuitions and fascinations, I have been readingabout this feminist revolution that seems all of a sudden to haverevoluted from nobody knows where, and I have been generally indignantover things whether I understood them or not, and I have felt that I wasbeing oppressed by the opposite sex, even if I could not locate theexact spot of the pain produced. I have always felt that when I got toit I would shake off the shackles of my queer fondness and of mydependence upon my oppressors, and do something revengeful to them.When my father died in my Junior year and left me all alone in theworld, the first thing that made me feel life in my veins again was theunholy rage I experienced when I found that he had left me bodaciouslyand otherwise to my fifth cousin, James Hardin.Cousin James is a healthy reversion to the primitive type of FatherAbraham, and he has so much aristocratic moss on him that he reminds meof that old gray crag that hangs over Silver Creek out on ProvidenceRoad. Artistically he is perfectly beautiful in an Old-Testamentfashion. He lives in an ancient, rambling house across the road from myhome, and he is making a souvenir collection of derelict women.Everybody that dies in Glendale leaves him a relict, and including hismother, Cousin Martha, he now has either seven or nine female charges,depending on the sex of Sallie Carruthers's twin babies, which I can'texactly remember, but will wager is feminine.My being left to him was an insult to me, though of course Father didnot see it that way. He adored the Crag, as everybody else in Glendaledoes, and wouldn't have considered not leaving him precious me. Wantingto ignore Cousin James, because I was bound out to him until mytwenty-fifth year or marriage, which is worse, has kept me from Glendaleall these four years since father died suddenly while I was away atcollege, laid up with the ankle which I broke in the gymnasium. Still,as much as I resent him, I keep the letter the Crag wrote me the nightafter Father died, right where I can put my hand on it if life suddenlypanics me for any reason. It covers all the circumstances I have yetmet. I wonder if I ought to burn it now!But, to be honest with myself, I will have to confess that theexplosively sentimental scene on the front porch, the night I left forcollege, with Polk Hayes has had something to do with my cowardice inlingering in foreign climes. I feel that it is something I will have togo on with some day, and the devil will have to pick up the chips. Polkis the kind of man that ought to be exterminated by the government insympathy for its women wards, if his clan didn't make such good citizenswhen they do finally marry. He ought at least to be labeled "poison forthe very young." I was very young out on the porch that night. Still, Idon't resent him like I do the archaic Crag.And as Jane talked, my seasoned indignation of four years against mykeeper flared up, and while she paused at intervals for breath I hurledout plans for his demolishment. I wish now I had been moreconservatively quiet, and left myself a loophole, but I didn't. I walkedinto this situation and shut the door behind me."Yes, Evelina, I think you will have to insist forcibly on assumingcharge of your own social and financial affairs in your own home. It maynot be easy, with such a man as you describe, but you will accomplishit. However, many mediocre women have proved their ability to attend totheir own fortunes, and do good business for themselves; but your battleis to be fought on still higher grounds. You are to rise and establishwith your fellow-man a plane of common citizenship. You do it for hissake and your own, and for that of humanity.""Suppose, after I get up there on that plateau, I didn't find any man atall," I ventured faint-heartedly, but with a ripple of my risibles; thelast in life I fear."You must reach down your hands to them and draw them up to you," sheanswered in a tone of tonic inspiration. "You are to claim the sameright to express your emotions that a man has. You are to offer yourfriendship to both men and women on the same frank terms, with nodegrading hesitancy caused by an embarrassment on account of your sex.It is his due and yours. No form of affection is to be withheld fromhim. It is to be done frankly and impressively, and when the timecomes--" I can hardly write this, but the memory of the wonderful thoughfanatic light in Jane's eyes makes me able to scrawl it--"that you feelthe mating instinct in you move towards any man, I charge you that youare to consider it a sacred obligation to express it with the samehonesty that a man would express the same thing to you, in like case,even if he has shown no sign of that impulse toward you. No contortionsand contemptible indirect method of attack, but a fearless one that isyours by right, and his though he may not acknowledge it. The barbaricand senseless old convention that denies women the right of selection,for which God has given her the superior instinct, is to be broken downby just such women as you. A woman less dowered by beauty and allfeminine charm could not do it just yet, but to you, to whom thecommand of men is a natural gift, is granted the wonderful chance toprove that it can be done, honestly and triumphantly, with no sacrificeof the sacredness of womanhood.""Oh, Jane." I moaned into the arm of the chair on which I had bowed myhead.I am moaning; now just as much, down in the bottom of my heart. Whereare all my gentle foremothers that smiled behind their lace fans and hadtheir lily-white hands kissed by cavalier gentlemen in starched ruffles,out under the stars that rise over Old Harpeth, that they don't claim mein a calm and peaceful death? Still, as much as I would like to die, Iam interested in what is going to happen."Yes, Evelina," she answered in an adamant tone of voice, "and when Ihave the complete record of what, I know, will be your triumphantvindication of the truth that it is possible and advisable for women toassert their divine right to choose a mate for their sacred vocation ofbearing the race, I shall proceed, as I have told you, to choose fiveother suitable young women to follow your example, and furnish them themoney, up to the sum of a hundred thousand dollars, after having beenconvinced by your experience. Be careful to make the most minuterecords, of even the most emotional phases of the question, in this bookfor their guidance. Of course, they will never know the source of thedata, and I will help you elucidate and arrange the book, after it isall accomplished."If Jane hadn't had two million dollars all this trouble would not be."I can never do it!" I exclaimed with horror, "And the men will hateit--and me. And if I did do it, I couldn't write it."I almost sobbed as a vision flashed before me of thus verballysnap-shotting the scene with dear old Dickie as we stood against therail of the ship and watched the waves fling back silvery radiance atthe full moon, and I also wondered how I was to render in serviceablewritten data his husky:"A woman is the flame that lights the spark--"Also, what would that interview with Polk Hayes look like reproducedwith high lights?"Now," she answered encouragingly, "don't fear the men, dear. They aresensible and business-like creatures, and they will soon see how much totheir advantage it is to be married to women who have had an equalprivilege with themselves of showing their preferences. Then only canthey be sure that their unions are from real preferences and notcompromises, on the part of their wives, from lack of other choice. Ofcourse, a woman's pride will make her refrain from courtship, as doesher brother man, until she is financially independent, andself-supporting, lest she be put in the position of a mendicant." Janehas thought the whole thing out from Genesis to Revelation.Still, that last clause about the mendicant leaves hope for thebenighted man who still wants the cling of the vine. A true vine wouldnever want--or be able--to hustle enough to flower sordid dollarsinstead of curls and blushes."A woman would have to be--to be a good deal of a woman, not any lessone, to put such a thing across, Jane," I said, with a preflash of someof the things that might happen in such a cruel crusade of reformationand deprivation of rights."That is the reason I have chosen you to collect the data, Evelina,"answered Jane, with another of those glorious tonic looks, issuing frommy backbone in her back. "The ultimate woman must be superb in body,brain, and heart. You are that now more nearly than any one I have everseen. You are the woman!"I was silenced with awe."Jane plans to choose five girls who would otherwise have to spend theirlives teaching in crowded cities after leaving college and to start themin any profession they choose, with every chance of happiness, in thesmaller cities of the South and Middle West," said Mary Elizabethgently, and somehow the tears rose in my eyes, as I thought how the poordear had been teaching in the high school in Chicago the two gloriousyears I had been frolicking abroad. No time, and no men to have goodtimes with.And there were hundreds like her, I knew, in all the crowded parts ofthe United States. And as I had begun, I thought further. Just because Iwas embarrassed at the idea of proposing to some foolish man, who is ofno importance to me, himself, or the world in general, down in Glendale,where they have all known me all my life, and would expect anything ofme anyway after I have defied tradition and gone to college, fivelovely, lonely girls would have to go without any delightful suitorslike Richard--or Polk Hayes, forever.And, still further, I thought of the other girls, coming under theinfluence of those five, who might be encouraged to hold up their headsand look around, and at least help out their Richards in theirmatrimonial quest, and as I sat there with Jane's compelling and MaryElizabeth's hungry eyes on me, I felt that I was being besought by allthe lovers of all the future generations to tear down some sort of awfulbarrier and give them happiness. And it was the thought of the men thatwas most appealing. It takes a woman who really likes them as I do, andhas their good really at heart, to see their side of the question asJane put it, poor dears. Suddenly, I felt that all the happiness of thewhole world was in one big, golden chalice, and that I had to hold itsteadily to give drink to all men and all women--with a vision oflittle unborn kiddies in the future.Then, before I could stop myself, I decided--and I hope the dear Lord--Isay it devoutly--indeed I do!--will help that poor man in Glendale if Ipick out the wrong one. I'm going to do it."I accept your appointment and terms, Jane," I said quietly, as I lookedboth those devout, if fanatic, women in the face. "I pledge myself to goback to Glendale, to live a happy, healthy, normal life, as useful as Ican make it. I had intended to do that anyway, for if I am to evolve thereal American garden. I can't do better than sketch and study those inthe Harpeth Valley, for at least two seasons all around. I shall work atmy profession whole-heartedly, take my allotted place in the community,and refuse to recognize any difference in the obligations andopportunities in my life and that of the men with whom I am thrown, andto help all other women to take such a fearless and honest attitude--ifGlendale blows up in consequence. I will seek and claim marriage inexactly the same fearless way a man does, and when I have found what Iwant I shall expect you to put one hundred thousand dollars, twenty toeach, at the disposal of five other suitable young women, to follow myexample, as noted down in this book--if it has been successful. Shall Igive you some sort of written agreement?""Just record the agreement as a note in the book, and I will sign it,"answered Jane, in her crispest and most business-like tone of voice,though I could see she was trembling with excitement, and poor MaryElizabeth was both awe-struck and hopeful.I'll invite Mary Elizabeth down to Glendale, as soon as I stake out myown claim, poor dear!And here I sit alone at midnight, with a huge, steel-bound,lock-and-keyed book that Jane has had made for me, with my name and theinscription, "In case of death, send unopened to Jane Mathers, Boston,Massachusetts," on the back, committed to a cause as crazy and asserious as anything since the Pilgrimages, or the Quest of the Knightsfor the Grail. It also looks slightly like trying to produce a modernDon Quixote, feminine edition, and my cheeks are flaming so that Iwouldn't look at them for worlds. And to write it all, too! I havealways had my opinion of women who spill their souls out of anink-bottle, but I ought to pardon a nihilist, that in the dead of night,cold with terror, confides some awful appointment he has had made him,to his nearest friend. I am the worst nihilist that ever existed, andthe bomb I am throwing may explode and destroy the human race. But, onthe other hand, the explosion might be of another kind. Suppose thatsuddenly a real woman's entire nature should be revealed to the world,might not the universe be enveloped in a rose glory and a lovesymphony? We'll see!Also, could the time ever come when a woman wouldn't risk hanging overthe ragged edge of Heaven to hold on to the hand of some man? Never!Then, as that is the case, I see we must all keep the same firm grip onthe creatures we have always had, and haul them over the edge, but wemust not do it any more without letting them know about it--it isn'thonest. Yes, women must solidify their love into such a concrete formthat men can weigh and measure it, and decide for themselves whetherthey want to--to climb to Heaven for it, or remain comfortable oldbachelors. We mustn't any more lead them into marriage blinded by theoverpowering gaseous fragrance called romantic love.But, suppose I should lose all love for everybody in this queer questfor enlightenment I have undertaken? Please, God, let a good man be inGlendale, Tennessee, who will understand and protect me--no, that's thewrong prayer! Protect him--no--both of us!CHAPTER IITHE MAIDEN LANCEA woman may shut her eyes, and put a man determinedly out of her heart,and in two minutes she will wake up in an agony of fear that he isn'tthere. Now, as I have decided that Glendale is to be the scene of thisbloodless revolution of mine--it would be awful to carry out such anundertaking anywhere but under the protection of ancestral traditions--Ihave operated Richard Hall out of my inmost being with the utmostcruelty, on an average of every two hours, for this week Jane and I havebeen in New York; and I have still got him with me.I, at last, became determined, and chose the roof-garden at the Astor totell him good-by, and perform the final operation. First I tried toestablish a plane of common citizenship with him, by telling him howmuch his two years' friendship across the waters had meant to me, whilewe studied the same profession under the same masters, drew at the samedrawing-boards and watched dear old Paris flame into her jewelednight-fire from Montmarte, together. I was frankly affectionate, and itmade him suspicious of me.Then I tried to tell him just a little, only a hint, of my new attitudetowards his sex, and before he had had time even to grasp the idea heexploded."Don't talk to me as if you were an alienist trying to examine anabstruse case, Evelina," he growled, with extreme temper. "Go on downand rusticate with your relatives for the summer, and fly the bats inyour belfry at the old moss-backs, while I am getting this Cincinnatiand Gulf Stations commission under way. Then, when I can, I will comefor you. Let's don't discuss the matter, and it's time I took you backto your hotel."Not a very encouraging tilt for my maiden lance.I've had a thought. If I should turn and woo Dickie, like he does me, Isuppose we would be going-so fast in opposite directions that we wouldbe in danger of passing each other without recognizing signals. I wonderif that might get to be the case of humanity at large if women doundertake the tactics I am to experiment with, and a dearth of any kindof loving and claiming at all be the result. I will elucidate that ideaand shoot it into Jane. But I have no hope; she'll have the answerticketed away in the right pigeon-hole, statistics and all, ready tofire back at me.I have a feeling that Jane won't expect such a diary as this locked cellof a book is becoming, but I can select what looks like data for theyoung from these soul squirmings, and only let her have those for TheFive. I don't know which are which now, and I'll have to put down thewhole drama.And my home-coming last night was a drama that had in it so much comedy,dashed with tragedy, that I'm a little breathless over it yet. Jane, andmy mind is breathing unevenly still.Considering the situation, and my intentions, I was a bit frightened asthe huge engine rattled and roared its way along the steel rails thatwere leading me back, down into the Harpeth Valley. But, when we crossedthe Kentucky line, I forgot the horrors of my mission, and I thrilledgloriously at getting hack to my hills. Old Harpeth had just come intosight, as we rounded into the valley and Providence Knob rested backagainst it, in a pink glow that I knew came from the honeysuckle inbloom all over it like a mantle. I traveled fast into the twilight, andI saw all the stars smile out over the ridge, in answer to the hearthstars in the valley, before I got across Silver Creek. I hadn't let anyone know that I was coming, so I couldn't expect any one to meet me atthe station at Glendale. There was nobody there I belonged to--just anempty house. I suppose a man coming home like that would have whistledand held up his head, but I couldn't. I'm a woman.Suddenly, that long glowworm of a train stopped just long enough atGlendale to eject me and my five trunks, with such hurried emphasis thatI felt I was being planted in the valley forever, and I would have toroot myself here or die. I still feel that way.And as I stood just where my feet were planted, in the dust of the road,instead of on the little ten-foot platform, that didn't quite reach tomy sleeper steps, I felt as small as I really am in comparison to theuniverse. I looked after the train and groveled.Then, just as I was about to start running down the track, away fromnowhere and to nowhere, I was brought to my senses by a loud boohoo, andthen a snubby choke, which seemed to come out of my bag andsteamer-blanket that stood in a pile before me."Train's gone, train's gone and left us! I knew it would, when Salliestopped to put the starch on her face all over again. And Cousin James,he's as slow as molasses, and I couldn't dress two twins in not time tobutton one baby. Oh, damn, oh, damn!" And the sobs rose to a perfectstorm of a wail.Just at that moment, down the short platform an electric light, that wasso feeble that it seemed to show a pine-knot influence in its heredity,was turned on by the station-agent, who was so slow that I perceived theinfluence of a descent from old Mr. Territt, who drove the stage thatcame down from the city before the war, and my fellow-sufferer stoodrevealed.She was a slim, red-haired bunch of galatea, stylish of cut as toupturned nose and straight little skirt but wholly and defiantly unshodsave for a dusty white rag around one pink toe. A cunning little strawbonnet, with an ecru lace jabot dangled in her hand, and her big browneyes reminded me of Jane's at her most inquisitive moments."If you was on a train, what did you git offen it _here_ for?" shedemanded of me, with both scorn and curiosity in her positive youngvoice."I don't know why," I answered weakly, not at all in the tone of ayoung-gallant-home-from-the-war mood I had intended to assume towardsthe first inhabitant of my native town to whom I addressed a remark."We was all a-goin' down to Hillsboro, to visit Aunt Bettie Pollard fora whole week, to Cousin Tom's wedding, but my family is too slow fornothing but a funeral. And Cousin James, he's worse. He corned for usten minutes behind the town clock, and Mammy Dilsie had phthisic, so Ihad to fix the two twins, and we're done left. I wisht I didn't have nofamily!" And with her bare feet the young rebel raised a cloud of dustthat rose and settled on my skirt."There they come now," she continued, with the pained contempt stillrising in her voice.And around the corner of the station hurried the family party, with allthe haste they would have been expected to use if they had not, just twominutes earlier, beheld their train go relentlessly on down the valleyto Hillsboro and the wedding celebration. I hadn't placed the kiddie,but I might have known, from her own description of her family, to whomshe belonged.First came Sallie Carruthers, sailing along in the serene way that Iremembered to have always thought like a swan in no hurry, and in herhands was a wet box from which rose sterns protruded.Next in the procession came Aunt Dilsie, huge and black and wheezing,fanning herself with a genteel turkey-tail fan, and carrying a largecovered basket.But the tail-piece of the procession paralyzed all the home-comingemotions that I had expected to be feeling, save that of pure hilarity.James Hardin was carrying two bubbly, squirmy, tousle-headed babies, onone arm, and a huge suitcase in the other hand, and his gray felt hatset on the back of his shock of black hair at an angle of deepdesperation, though patience shone from every line of his strong, gauntbody, and I could see in the half light that there were no lines ofirritation about his mouth, which Richard had said looked to him likethat of the prophet Hosea, when I had shown him the picture that Fatherhad had snapped of himself and the Crag, with their great string ofquail, on one of their hunting-trips, just before Father died."Eve!" he exclaimed, when he suddenly caught sight of me, standing inthe middle of the dusty road, with my impedimenta around me, and as hespoke he dropped both babies on the platform in a bunch, and the smalltrunk on the other side. Then he just stood and looked, and I had tostraighten the roar that was arising in me at the sight of him into aconventional smile of greeting, suitable to bestow on an enemy.But before the smile was well launched, Sallie bustled in and got thefull effect of it."Why, Evelina Shelby, you darling thing, when did you come?" she fairlybubbled, as she clasped me in the most hospitable of arms, and bestoweda slightly powdery kiss on both my cheeks. I weakly and femininelyenjoyed the hug, not that a man might not have--Sallie is a dear, and Ialways did like her gush, shamefacedly."She got often that train that left us, and she ain't got a bit ofsense, or she wouldn't," answered the Blue Bunch for me, in amatter-of-fact tone of voice."What for did you all unpack outen the surrey, if you sawed the train goby?" she further demanded, with accusing practicality. "Don't you knowwhen youse left?""Oh, Henrietta," exclaimed Sallie, looking at the young-philosopher withterrified helplessness. "Please don't mind her, Evelina. I don'tunderstand her being my child, and nobody does, unless it was Henry'sgrandmother on his mother's side. You had heard of my loss?"If I hadn't heard of the death of Henry Carruthers, Sallie's elaborateblack draperies, relieved by the filmy exquisiteness of white creperuches at the neck and wrists, would have proclaimed the fact.Suddenly, something made me look at Cousin James, as he stood calmly inthe midst of Sallie's family and baggage, both animate and inanimate,and the laugh that had threatened for minutes fairly flared out into hisplacid, young prophet face."Oh, I am so sorry, Sallie, and so glad to see all of you that I'mlaughing at the same time," I exclaimed to save myself from theawfulness of greeting a young widow's announcement of her sorrow in suchan unfeeling manner. To cover my embarrassment and still furtherstruggles with the laugh that never seemed to be able to have itselfout, I bent and hugged up one of the toddlers, who were balancingagainst the Crag's legs, with truly feminine fervor."I'm glad to see you, Evelina," said Cousin James gently, and I couldsee that the billows of my mirth had got entirely past him.I was glad he had escaped, and I found myself able to look withcomposure at his queer, long-tailed gray coat, which made me know thatlittle old Mr. Pinkus, who had been Father's orderly all through thewar, was still alive and tailoring in his tiny shop down by thepost-office, though now that Father is dead he probably only does it forCousin James. The two of them had been his only customers for years. Andas I looked, I saw that the locks that curled in an ante-bellum fashionaround the Crag's ears, were slightly sprinkled with gray, andremembered how he had loved and stood by Father, even in the manner ofwearing Pinkus clothes; my heart grew very large all of a sudden, and Iheld out my hand to him.[Illustration: He stood calmly in the midst of Sallie's family andbaggage, both animate and inanimate.]"I'm glad to be at home," I said, gazing straight into his eyes, with alook of affection that you would have been proud of, Jane,--usingunconsciously, until after I had done it, the warmth I had triedunsuccessfully on Richard Hall at the Astor, not forty-eight hoursago, but two thousand miles away. And it got a response that puzzles meto think of yet. It was just a look, but there was a thought of Fatherin it, also a suggestion of the glance he bestowed on Sallie's twins. Iremembered that the Crag seldom speaks, and that's what makes you spendyour time breathlessly listening to him."Well, come on, everybody, let's go home and undress, and forget aboutthe wedding," came in Henrietta's positive and executive tones. "Let'sgo and take the strange lady with us. We can have company if we can't beit. She can sleep other side of me, next the wall."I have never met anybody else at all like Henrietta Carruthers, and Inever shall unless Jane Mathers marries and--I sincerely hope that someday she and Jane will meet.And the next ten minutes was one of the most strenuous periods of time Iever put in, in all my life. I longed, really longed, to go home withSallie and Henrietta, and sleep next the wall at Widegables with therest of the Crag's collection. But I knew Glendale well enough to seeplainly that if I thus once give myself up to the conventions that bySaturday night they would have me nicely settled with his relicts, or inmy home with probably two elderly widows and a maiden cousin or so tolook after me. And then, by the end of the next week, they would havethe most suitable person in town fairly hunted by both spoken and mentalinfluence, to the moonlight end of my front porch, with matrimonialintentions in his pocket. I knew I had to take a positive stand, andtake it immediately. I must be masculinely firm. No feminine wiles wouldserve in such a crisis as this.So, I let Cousin James pack me into his low, prehistoric old surrey, inthe front seat, at his side, while Sallie took Aunt Dilsie and one twinwith her on the back seat. Henrietta scrouged down at my feet, and Ifearingly, but accommodatingly, accepted the other twin. It was aperfect kitten of a baby, and purred itself to sleep against my shoulderas soon as anchored.The half-mile from the station, along the dusty, quiet village streets,was accomplished in about the time it would take a modern vehicle totraverse Manhattan lengthwise, and at last we stopped at the gate ofWidegables. The rambling, winged, wide-gabled, tall-columned old pile oftime-grayed brick and stone, sat back in the moonlight, in its tangle ofa garden, under its tall roof maples, with a dignity that went straightto my heart. There is nothing better in France or England, and I feelsure that there are not two hundred houses in America as good. I'llpaint it, just like I saw it to-night, for next Spring's Salon. A brightlight shone from the windows of the dining-room in the left wing, wherethe collection of clinging vines were taking supper, unconscious of thereturn of the left-behinds that threatened.And as I glanced at my own tall-pillared, dark old house, that standsjust opposite Widegables, and is of the same period and style, I knewthat if I did not escape into its emptiness before I got into CousinMartha's comfortable arms, surrounded by the rest of the Crag's family,I would never have the courage to enter into the estate of freedom I hadplanned."Sallie," I said firmly, as I handed the limp Kitten down to AuntDilsie, as Henrietta took the other one--"Puppy" I suppose I will haveto call the young animal,--from her mother and started on up the walk inthe lead of the return expedition, "I am going over to stay in my ownhome to-night. I know it seems strange, but--I _must_. Please don'tworry about me.""Why, dear, you can't stay by yourself, with no man on the place,"exclaimed Sallie, in a tone of absolute panic. "I'll go tell CousinMartha you are here, while Cousin James unpacks your satchel andthings." And she hurried in her descent from the ark, and also hurriedin her quest for the reinforcement of Cousin Martha's authority."I'm going to escape before any of them come back," I said determinedlyto the Crag, who stood there still, just looking at me. "I'm not up toarguing the question to-night, for the trip has been a long one, andthis is the first time I have been home since--Just let me have to-nightto myself, please." I found myself pleading to him, as he held up hisarms to lift me clear of the wheels.His eyes were hurt and suffering for a second, then a strange light ofcomprehension came from them into mine, like a benediction, as he gentlyset me on my feet."Must you, Eve?""Yes," I answered, with a gulp that went all the way down to myfeminine toes, as I glanced across the road at the grim, dark old pilethat towered against the starlit sky. "I want to stay in my own houseto-night--and--and I'm not afraid.""You won't need to be frightened. I understand, I think--and here's yourkey, I always carry it in my pocket. Your Father's candle is on themantel. You shall have to-night to yourself. Good-night, and bless yourhome-coming, dear!""Good-night," I answered as I turned away from his kind eyes quickly, tokeep from clinging-to him with might and main, and crossed the road tomy own gate. With my head up, and trying for the whistle, at least in myheart, I went quickly along the front walk with its rows of blushpeonies, nodding along either edge. The two old purple lilacs beside thefront steps have grown so large they seemed to be barring my way into myhome with longing, sweet embraces, and a fragrant little climbingrose, that has rioted across the front door, ever since I couldremember, bent down and left a kiss on my cheeks.The warm, mellow old moon flooded a glow in front of me, through the bigfront door, as I opened it, and then hastened to pour into the widewindows as I threw back the shutters.Logs lay ready for lighting in the wide fireplace at the end of the longroom, and Father's tobacco jar gleamed a reflected moonlight from itspewter sides from the tall mantel-shelf. The old hooks melted into thedusk of their cases along the wall, and the portrait of GrandfatherShelby lost its fierce gaze and became benign from its place between thewindows.I was being welcomed to the home of my fathers, with a soft dusk thatwas as still and sweet as the grave. Sweet for those that want it; but Ididn't. Suddenly, I thrilled as alive as any terror-stricken woman thatever found herself alone anywhere on any other edge of the world, andthen as suddenly found myself in a complete condition of frightprostration, crouched on my own threshold. I was frightened at the dark,and could not even cry. Then almost immediately, while I crouchedquivering in every nerve I seemed to hear a man's voice saycomfortingly:"You don't need to be frightened."Courageously I lifted my eyes and looked down between the old lilacbushes, and saw just what I expected I would, a tall, gray figure,pacing slowly up and down the road. Then it was that fear came into me,stiffened my muscles and strengthened my soul--fear of myself and my ownconclusions about destiny and all things pertaining thereto.I never want to go through such another hour as I spent putting thingsin order in Father's room, which opens off the living-room, so I couldgo to bed by candle-light in the bed in which he and I were both born.I wanted to sleep there, and didn't even open any other part of thegrim old house.And when I put out the candle and lay in the high, old four-post bed, Iagain felt as small as I really am, and I was in danger of a badcollapse from self-depreciation when my humor came to the rescue. Imight just as well have gone on and slept between Henrietta and thewall, as was becoming my feminine situation, for here my determinationto assert my masculine privileges was keeping a real man doing sentryduty up and down a moonlight road all night--and I wanted it."After this, James Hardin, you can consider yourself safe from any of myattentions or intentions," I laughed to myself, as I turned my face intothe pillow, that was faintly scented from the lavender in which Motherhad always kept her linen. "I've been in Glendale two hours, and one manis on the home base with his fingers crossed. James, you are free! Oh,Jane!"CHAPTER IIIA FLINT SPARKThe greatest upheavals of nature are those that arrive suddenly, withoutnotifying the world days beforehand of their intentions of splitting thecrust of the Universe wide open. One is coming to Glendale by degrees,but the town hasn't found out about it yet. I'm the only one who seesit, and I'm afraid to tell.When Old Harpeth, who has been looking down on a nice, peaceful, manordained, built, and protected world, woke Glendale up the morning aftermy arrival and found me defiantly alone in the home of my fathers--alsoof each of my foremothers, by the courtesy of dower--he muttered anddrew a veil of mist across his face. Slight showers ensued, but he hadto come out in less than an hour from pure curiosity. I found the oldgarden heavenly in its riot of neglected buds, shoots, and blooms, wetand welcoming with the soft odors of Heaven itself.It was well I was out early to enjoy it, for that was to be the day ofmy temptation and sore trial. I am glad I have recorded it all, for Imight have forgotten some day how wonderfully my very pliant, feminineattitude rubbed in my masculine intentions as to my life on the blindside of all the forces brought to bear on me to put me back into mypredestined place in the scheme of the existence."Your Cousin James's home is the place for you, Evelina, and until heexplained to me how you felt last night I was deeply hurt that youhadn't come straight, with Sallie, to me and to him," said CousinMartha, in as severe a voice as was possible for such a placidindividual to produce. Cousin Martha is completely lovely, and theMossback gets his beauty from her. She is also such a perfect dear thather influence is something terrific, even if negatively expressed."I have come to help you get your things together, so you can move overbefore dinner," she continued with gentle force. "Now, what shall we putin the portmanteau first? I see you have unpacked very little, and I amglad that it confirms me in my feeling that your coming over here forthe night was just a dutiful sentiment for your lost loved ones, and notany unmaidenly sense of independence in the matter of choice where it isbest for you to live. Of course, such a question as that must be left toyour guardian, and of course James will put you under my care.""I--I really thought that perhaps Cousin James did not have room for me,Cousin Martha," I answered meekly. "How many families has he with himnow?" I asked with a still further meekness that was the depths ofwiliness."There are three of us widows, whom he sustains and comforts for theloss of our husbands, and also the three Norton girls, cousins on hisfather's side of the house, you remember. It is impossible for them tolook after their plantation since their father's death robbed them of aprotector, at least, even though he had been paralyzed since Gettysburg.James is a most wonderful man, my dear--a most wonderful man. Though ashe is my son I ought to think it in silence.""Indeed he is," I answered from the heart. "But--but wouldn't it be alittle crowded for him to have another--another vine--that is, exactlywhat would he do with me? I know Widegables is wide, but that is ahouseful, isn't it?""Well, all of us did feel that it made the house uncomfortably full whenSallie came with the three children, but you know Henry Carruthers leftJames his executor and guardian of the children, and Sallie of coursecouldn't live alone, so Mrs. Hargrove and I moved into the south roomtogether, and gave Sallie and the children my room. It is a large room,and it would be such a comfort to Sallie to have you stay with her andhelp her at night with the children. She doesn't really feel able to getup with them at all. Then Dilsie could sleep in the cabin, as she oughtto on account of the jimsonweed in her phthisic pipe. It would be such abeautiful influence in your lonely life, Evelina, to have the childrento care for."I wondered if Cousin Martha had ever heard that galatea bunch indulge insuch heartfelt oaths as had followed that train down the track lastnight!"It would be lovely," I answered--and the reply was not all insincerity,as I thought of the darkness of that long night, and the Bunch's offerof a place at her sturdy little back "next the wall.""But I will be so busy with my own work, Cousin Martha, that I am afraidI couldn't do justice to the situation and repay the children and Salliefor crowding them.""Why, you couldn't crowd us, Evelina, honey," came in Sallie's richvoice, as she sailed into the room, trailing the Pup and the Kit at herskirts and flying lavender ribbons at loose ends. "We've come to helpyou move over right away.""Well, not while I have a voice in the affairs of my own husband'sniece! How are you, Evelina, and are you crazy, Sallie Carruthers?" camein a deep raven croak of a voice that sounded as if it had harked partlyfrom the tomb, as Aunt Augusta Shelby stood in the doorway, with reproofon her lips and sternness on her brow. "Peter and I will have Evelinamove down immediately with us. James Hardin has as much in the way of afamily as he can very well stand up under now."And as she spoke, Aunt Augusta glared at Sallie with such ferocity thateven Sallie's sunshiny presence was slightly dimmed."Are you ready, Evelina? Peter will send the surrey for your baggage,"she continued, and for a moment I quailed, for Aunt Augusta'sdetermination of mind is always formidable, but I summoned my woman'swit and man's courage, and answered quickly before she fairly snatchedme from under my own roof-tree."That would be lovely, Aunt Augusta, and how are you?" I answered andasked in the same breath, as I drew near enough to her to receive abusiness-like peck on my cheek. "I expect to have you and Uncle Peter tolook after me a lot, but somehow I feel that Father would haveliked--liked for me to live here and keep my home--his home--open. Someway will arrange itself. I haven't talked with Cousin James yet," Ifelt white feathers sprouting all over me, as I thus invoked themasculine dominance I had come to lay."You'll have to settle that matter with your Uncle Peter, then, for,following his dictates of which I did not approve, I have done our dutyby the orphan. Now, Evelina, let me say in my own person, that Ithoroughly approve of your doing just as you plan." And as she utteredthis heresy, she looked so straight and militant and altogethercommanding, that both Cousin Martha and Sallie quailed. I felt elated,as if my soul were about to get sight of a kindred personality. Orrather a soul-relative of yours, Jane."Oh, she would be so lonely, Mrs. Shelby, and she--" Sallie wasventuring to say with trepidation, when Aunt Augusta cut her shortwithout ceremony."Lonely, nonsense! Such a busy woman as I now feel sure Evelina is goingto be, will not have time to be lonely. I wish I could stay and talkwith you further about your plans, but I must hurry back and straightenout Peter's mind on that question of the town water-supply that is tocome up in the meeting of the City Council to-day. He let it bepresented all wrong last time, and they got things so muddled that itwas voted on incorrectly. I will have to write it out for him so he canexplain it to them. I will need you in many ways to help me help Peterbe Mayor of Glendale, Evelina. I am wearied after ten years of thestrain of his office. I shall call on you for assistance often in themost important matters," with which promise, that sounded like a threat,she proceeded to march down the front path, almost stepping onHenrietta, who was coming up the same path, with almost the sameemphasis. There was some sort of an explosion, and I hope the kind ofwords I heard hurled after the train were not used."That old black crow is a-going to git in trouble with me some day,Marfy," Henrietta remarked, as she settled herself on the arm of CousinMartha's chair, after bestowing a smudgy kiss on the little white curlthat wrapped around one of the dear old lady's pink little ears. I hadfelt that way about Cousin Martha myself at the Bunch's age, and weexchanged a sympathetic smile on the subject."Well, what _are_ you going to do, Evelina?" asked Sallie, and sheturned such a young, helpless, wondering face up to me from the centerof her cluster of babies, that my heart almost failed me at the idea ofpouring what seemed to me at that moment the poison of modernity intothe calm waters of her and Cousin Martha's primitive placidity."You'll have to live some place where there is a man," she continued,with worried conviction.My time had come, and the fight was on. Oh, Jane!"I don't believe I really feel that way about it," I began in thegentlest of manners, and slowly, so as to feel my way. "You see, Salliedear, and dearest Cousin Martha, I have had to be out in the world somuch--alone, that I am--used to it. I--I haven't had a man's protectionfor so long that I don't need it, as I would if I were like you twoblessed sheltered women.""I know it has been hard, dear," said Cousin Martha gently looking hersympathy at my lorn state, over her glasses."I don't see how you have stood it at all," said Sallie, about todissolve in tears. "The love and protection and sympathy of a man arethe only things in life worth anything to a woman. Since my loss I don'tknow what I would have done without Cousin James. You must come into hiskind care, Evelina.""I must learn to endure loneliness," I answered sadly, about to begin togulp from force of example, and the pressure of long hereditaryinfluence.I'm glad that I did not dissolve, however, before what followedhappened, for in the twinkling of two bare feet I was smothered in theembrace of Henrietta, who in her rush brought either the Pup or the Kit,I can't tell which yet, along to help her enfold me."I'll come stay with you forever, and we don't need no men! Don'tlike 'em no-how!" she was exclaiming down my back, when a drawl from thedoorway made us all turn in that direction."Why, Henrietta, my own, can it be you who utter such cruel sentimentsin my absence?" and Polk Hayes lounged into the room, with the samedaring listlessness that he had used in trying to hold me in his armsout on the porch the night I had said good-by to him and Glendale, fouryears ago.Henrietta's chubby little body gave a wriggle of delight, and muchsentiment beamed in her rugged, small face, as she answered him withenthusiasm, though not stopping to couch her reply in exactlycomplimentary terms."You don't count, Pokie," she exclaimed, as she made a good-natured faceat him."That's what Evelina said four years ago--and she has proved it," heanswered her, looking at me just exactly as if he had never left offdoing it since that last dance."How lovely to find you in the same exuberant spirits in which I leftyou, Polk, dear," I exclaimed, as I got up to go and shake hands withhim, as he had sunk into the most comfortable chair in the room, withouttroubling to bestow that attention upon me.Some men's hearts beat with such a strong rhythm that every feminineheart which comes within hearing distance immediately catches step, andgoes to waltzing. It has been four years since mine swung aroundagainst his, at that dance, but I'm glad Cousin Martha was there, andinterrupted, us enough to make me drag my eyes from his, as he looked upand I looked down."Please help us to persuade Evelina to come and live with James and me,Polk, dear," she said, glancing at him with the deepest confidence andaffection in her eyes. There is no age-limit to Polk's victims, andCousin Martha had always adored him."All women do, Evelina, why not you--live with James?" he asked, and Ithought I detected a mocking flicker in his big, hazel, dangerous eyes."If I ever need protection it will be James--and Cousin Martha I willrun to for it--but I never will," I answered him, very simply, with nota trace of the defiance I was fairly flinging at him in either my voiceor manner.Paris and London and New York are nice safe places to live in, incomparison with Glendale, Tennessee, in some respects. I wonder why Ihadn't been more scared than I was last night, as the train whirled medown into proximity to Polk Hayes. But then I had had four years offorgetting him stored up as a bulwark."But what _are_ you going to do, Evelina?" Sallie again began toquestion, with positive alarm in her voice, and I saw that it was timefor me to produce some sort of a protector then and there--orcapitulate.And I record the fact that I wanted to go home with Sallie and CousinMartha and the babies and--and live under the roof of the Mossbackforever. All that citizenship-feeling I had got poured into me from Janeand had tried on Dickie, good old Dickie, had spilled out of me at thefirst encounter with Polk.There is a great big hunt going on in this world, and women are the onesonly a short lap ahead. Can we turn and make good the fight--or won'twe be torn to death? It has come to this it seems: women must either beweak, and cling so close to man that she can't be struck, keep entirelyout of the range of his fists and arms,--or develop biceps equal to his.Jane ought to have had me in training longer, for I'm discovering thatI'm weak--of biceps."Are you coming--are you coming to live with us, Evelina? Are youcoming? Answer!" questioned the small Henrietta, as she stoodcommandingly in front of me."Please, Evelina," came in a coax from Sallie, while the Kit crawledover and caught at my skirt as Cousin Martha raised her eyes to mine,with a gentle echo of the combined wooings.Then suddenly into Polk's eyes flamed still another demand, thatsomething told me I would have to answer later. I had capitulated andclosed this book forever when the deliverance came.Jasper, a little older, but as black and pompous as ever, stood in thedoorway, and a portly figure, with yellow, shining face, on the stepbehind him."Why, Uncle Jasper, how did you know I was here?" I exclaimed, as Ifairly ran to hold out my hand to him."Mas' James sont me word last night, and I woulder been here bydaybreak, Missie, 'cept I had to hunt dis yere suitable woman to bringalong with me. Make your 'beesence to Miss Evelina, Lucy Petunia," hecommanded."You needn't to bother to show her anything, child," he continuedcalmly, "I'll learn her all she needs to know to suit us. Then, if in aweek she have shown suitable ability to please us both, my word is outto marry her next Sunday night. Ain't that the understanding, Tuny?" hethis time demanded."Yes, sir," answered the Petunia with radiant but modest hope shiningfrom her comely yellow face."I've kept everything ready for you child, since Old Mas' died, and Iain't never stayed offen the place a week at a time--I was just visitingout Petunia's way when I heard you'd come, and gittin' a wife to tend tous and back to you quick was the only thing that concerned me. Now, wecan all settle down comf'table, while I has Tuny knock up some dinner, acompany one I hopes, if Miss Martha and the rest will stay with us."Jasper's manner is an exact copy of my Father's courtly grace, done insepia, and my eyes misted for a second, as I reciprocated hisinvitation, taking acceptance for granted."Of course they will stay, Uncle Jasper.""Well," remarked Sallie with a gasp, "you've gone to housekeeping in twominutes, Evelina.""Jasper has always been a very forceful personality," said CousinMartha. "He managed everything for your Father at the last, Evelina,and I don't know how the whole town would have been easy about theColonel unless they had trusted Jasper.""I like the terms on which he takes unto himself a wife," drawled Polk,as he lighted a cigarette without looking at me. "Good for Jasper!""However, it does take a 'forceful personality' to capture a 'suitablewoman' in that manner," I answered with just as much unconcern, and thenwe both roared, while even Sallie in all her anxiety joined in.The commanding, black old man, and the happy-faced, plump, little yellowwoman, had saved one situation--and forced another, perhaps?Jasper's home-coming dinner party was a large and successful one. Two ofthe dear little old Horton lady-cousins got so impatient at CousinMartha's not bringing me back to Widegables that they came teeteringover to see about it, heavily accompanied by Mrs. Hargrove, whose sonhad been Cousin James's best friend at the University of Virginia, anddied and left her to him since I had been at college. The ponderosity ofher mind was only equaled by that of her body. I must say Petunia made ahit with the dear old soul, by the seasoning of her chicken gravy.Sallie wanted to send the children home, but Jasper wouldn't let her,and altogether we had eleven at the table.Polk maneuvered for a seat at the head of my festive board, with a sparkof the devil in his eyes, but Jasper's sense of the proprieties did notfail me, and he seated Cousin Martha in Father's chair, with greatceremony.And as I looked down the long table, bright with all the old silverJasper had had time to polish, gay with roses from my garden, that hehad coaxed Henrietta into gathering for him, which nodded back andforth with the bubbling babies, suddenly my heart filled to the verybrim with love of it all--and for mine own people.But, just as suddenly, a vision came into my mind of the long tableacross the road at Widegables, with the Mossback seated at one end withonly two or three of his charges stretched along the empty sides to keephim company.I wanted him to be here with us! I wanted him badly, and I went to gethim. I excused myself suddenly, telling them all just why. I didn't lookat Polk, but Cousin Martha's face was lovely, as she told me to runquickly.I found him on the front porch, smoking his pipe alone, while the twolittle relics, whom he had had left to dine with him, were taking theirtwo respective naps. Our dinner was late on account of the initiation ofPetunia, and he had finished before we began."I stole most of your family to-day," I plunged headlong into myerrand, "but I want you, too, most of all.""You've got me, even if you do prefer to keep me across the road fromyou," he answered, with the most solemn expression on his face, but witha crinkle of a smile in the corners of his deep eyes.I can't remember when I didn't look with eagerness for that crinkle inhis eyes, even when I was a child and he what I at that time considereda most glorious grownup individual, though he must have been the mosthelpless hobbledehoy that ever existed."You don't need another vine," I answered mutinously."You know I want you, but Jasper's is the privilege of looking afteryou," he answered calmly. "I want you to be happy, Evelina," and I knewas I raised my eyes to his that I could consider myself settled in myown home."Well, then, come and have dinner number two with me," I answered witha laugh that covered a little happy sigh that rose from my heart at thelook in the kind eyes bent on mine.I felt, Jane, you would have approved of that look! It was so human tohuman.He came over with me, and that was one jolly party in the olddining-room. They all stayed until almost sunset, and almost everybodyin town dropped in during the afternoon to welcome me home, and ask mewhere I was going to live. Jasper and Petunia hovering in thebackground, the tea-tray out on the porch set with the silver and damaskall of them knew of old, and the appearance of having been installedwith the full approval of Cousin Martha and James and the rest of thefamily, stopped the questions on their lips, and they spent theafternoon much enlivened but slightly puzzled.Time doesn't do much to people in a place like the Harpeth Valley, thatis out of the stream of modern progress; and most of my friends seem tohave just been sitting still, rocking their lives along in the greatestease and comfort.Still, Mamie Hall has three more kiddies, which, added to the four shehad when I left, makes a slightly high, if charming, set of stair-steps.Mamie also looks decidedly worn, though pathetically sweet. Ned was withher, and as fresh as any one of the buds. Maternity often wilts women,but paternity is apt to make men bloom with the importance of it. Nedshowed off the bunch as if he had produced them all, while Mamie onlysmiled like an angel in the background.A slight bit of temper rose in a flush to my cheeks, as I watchedCaroline Lellyett sit on the steps and feed cake to one twin and twostair-steps with as much hunger in her eyes for them as there was intheirs for the cake. Lee Greenfield is the responsible party in thiscase, and she has been loving him hopelessly for fifteen years. Lots ofother folks wanted to marry her, but Lee has pinned her in the psychicspot and is watching her flutter.Polk departed in the trail of Nell Kirkland's fluffy muslin skirts,smoldering dangerously, I felt. Nell has grown up into a most lovelyindividual, and I felt uneasy about her under Folk's ministrations. Hereyes follow him rather persistently. On the whole, I am glad Janecommitted me to this woman's cause. I'll have to begin to exercise thebiceps of Nell's heart--as soon as I get some strength into my own.And after they had all gone, I sat for an hour out on the front steps ofmy big, empty old house, and enjoyed my own loneliness, if it could becalled enjoying. I could hear the Petunia's happy giggle, answeringJasper's guttural pleasantries, out on the cabin porch behind the row oflilac bushes. I do hope that Petunia gets much and the right sort ofcourting during this week that Jasper has allowed her!With the last rays of the sun, I had found time to read a long, dearletter from Richard Hall, and though I had transferred it from my pocketto my desk, while I dressed for the afternoon, its crackle was still inmy mind. I wondered what it all meant, this dissatisfied longing thathuman beings send out across time and distance, one to and for another.If a woman's heart were really like a great big golden chalice, full tothe brim with the kind of love she is taught God wants her to have in itfor all mankind, both men and women, why shouldn't she offer drafts ofit to every one who is thirsty, brothers as well as sisters? I wonderhow that would solve Jane's problem of emotional equality! I do loveDicky--and--and I do love Polk--with an inclination to dodge. Now, ifthere were enough of the right sort of love in me, I ought to be able toget them to see it, and drink it for their comforting, and have notrouble at all with them about their wanting to seize the cup, drainall the love there is in it, shut it away from the rest of theworld--and then neglect it.Yes, why can't I love Polk as I love you, Jane, and have him enjoy it?Yes, why?I think if I had Dicky off to myself for a long time, and very gentlyled him up to the question of loving him hard in this new way, he mightbe induced to sip out of the cup just to see if he liked it--and itmight be just what he craved, for the time being; but I doubt it. Hewould storm and bluster at the idea.Of course the Crag would let a woman love him in any old kind of new orexperimental way she wanted to, if it made her happy. He would take hercup of tenderness and drink it as if it were sacramental wine, on hisknees. But he doesn't count. He has to be man to so many people thatthere is danger of his becoming a kind of superman. Think of the oldMossback being a progressive thing like that! I laughed out loud at theidea--but the echo was dismal.I wonder if Sallie will marry him.And as I sat and thought and puzzled, the moonlight got richer and moreglowing, and it wooed open the throats of the thousand littlehoneysuckle blossoms, clinging to the vine on the trellis, until theypoured out a perfect symphony of perfume to mingle in a hallelujah fromthe lilacs and roses that ascended to the very stars themselves.I had dropped my head on my arms, and let my eyes go roaming out to thedim hills that banked against the radiant sky, when somebody seatedhimself beside me, and a whiff of tobacco blew across my face, sweetwith having joined in the honeysuckle chorus. Nobody said a word for along time, and then I looked up and laughed into the deep, gray eyeslooking tenderly down into mine. With a thrill I realized that therewas one man in the world I could offer the chalice to and _trust_ him todrink--moderately."Jamie," I said in a voice as young as it used to be when I trailed athis heels, "thank you for letting me be contrary and independent andpuzzling. I have been busy adventuring with life, in queer places andwith people not like--like us. Now I want a little of real living and tothink--and feel. May I?""You may, dear," the Crag answered in a big comfortable voice, that wasa benediction in itself. "I understood last night when you told me thatyou wanted to come home alone. I can trust Jasper with you, and I amgoing to sleep down at the lodge room, right across the road here, so Ican hear you if you even think out loud. No one shall worry you about itany more. Now will you promise to be happy?"I could not answer him, I was so full of a deepness of peace. I justlaid my cheek against the sleeve of his queer old gray coat, to showhim what I could not say.He let me do it, and went on smoking without noticing me.Then, after a little while, he began to tell me all about Father and hisdeath, that had come so suddenly while he seemed as well as ever, andhow he had worried about my probably not wanting to be left to him, andthat he wanted me to feel independent, but to please let him do all thatI would to help me, and not to feel that I was alone with nobody to loveme. That he was always there, and would be forever and ever.And he did stay so late that Jasper had to send him home!There is such a thing as a man's being a father and mother and grownsister and brother and a college-chum and a preacher of the Gospel and afamily physician to a woman--with no possibility of being her husbandeither. She wouldn't so drag such a man from his high estate as to thinkof such a worldly relation in connection with him.I have certainly collected some phenomena in the reaction of a woman'sheart this day. Did you choose me wisely for these experiments, Jane?It takes a woman of nerve to go to housekeeping in a tinder-box, whenshe isn't sure she even knows what flint is when she sees it, and mightstrike out a spark without intending it at all.CHAPTER IVSWEETER WHEN TAMED?I wonder if men ever melt suddenly into little boys, and try to squirmand run back to hide their heads in their mothers' skirts. It is an opensecret that starchy, modern women often long to wilt back into droopymusk roses, that climb over gates and things, but they don't let eachother. When I feel myself getting soluble, I write it out to Jane and Iget a bracing cold wave of a letter in reply. The one this morning wason the subject of love, or, at least, that is what Jane would have saidit was on. She wrote:Yes, it is gratifying to know that Mary Elizabeth is so happily engagedto the young teacher who has been in her work with her. She writes thatshe was encouraged by our resolution, at last to be her best self whilein his presence as she had not had the courage to do last year. You see,Evelina? And also, you are right in your conclusion that there is notenough abstract love in this world of brotherhood and sisterhood; thatthe doctrine of divine love calls us to give more and more of it. Wecannot give too much! But also, considerations for the advancement ofthe world call for experiments by the more illumined women along moredefinite and concrete lines. How old is this Mr. Hayes, on whom you havechosen to note the reactions of sisterly affection? Are you sure that heis not a fit subject for your consideration in the matter of a choicefor a mate?Remember to be as frank in your expressions of regard for him as he isin his of regard for you. That is the crux of the whole matter. Befrank, be courageous! Let a man look freely into your heart, and thusencouraged he will open his to you. Then you will both have anopportunity to judge each other with reference to a life-long union. Itis the only way; and remember what rests on you in this matter. Thedestinies of many women are involved.       *       *       *       *       *I don't say this in a spirit of levity, but I do wish Polk Hayes andJane Mathers were out on the front steps in the moonlight, after a goodsupper that has made him comfortable, Jane to be attired in somethingsoft that would float against his arm, whether she wanted it to or not!I believe it would be good for Jane, and make things easier for me. Befrank with Polk as to how much he asphyxiates me? I know better than toblow out the gas like that! No, Jane!But what is a woman going to do when she is young and hearty and husky,with the blood running through her veins at a two-forty rate, when herorchard is in bloom, the mocking-birds are singing the night through,and she is not really in love with anybody? The loneliness does fillher heart full of the solution of love, and she has got to pour off someof it into somebody's life. There is plenty of me to be both abstractand concrete, at the same time, and I thought of Uncle Peter.Uncle Peter Is the most explosive and crusty person that ever happenedin Glendale, and it takes all of Aunt Augusta's energy, common-sense andforce of character to keep him and the two chips he carries on hisshoulders, as a defiance to the world in general, from being in aconstant state of combustion. He has been ostensibly the Mayor ofGlendale for twenty-five years, and Aunt Augusta has done the work ofthe office very well indeed, while he has blown up things in generalwith great energy. He couldn't draw a long breath without her, but ofcourse he doesn't realize it. He thinks he is in a constant feud withher and her sex. His ideas on the woman question are so terrific that Ihave always run from them, but I concluded that it would be a goodthing for me to liquefy some of my vague humanitarianism, and help AuntAugusta with him, while she wrestles with the City Council on the waterquestion. Anyway, I have always had a guarded fondness for the old chap.I chose a time when I knew Aunt Augusta had to be busy with his reportof the disastrous concrete paving trade the whole town had been sold outon, and I lay in wait to capture him and the chips. This morning Iwaited behind the old purple lilac at the gate, which immediately gotinto the game by sweeping its purple-plumed arms all around me, so thatnot a tag of my dimity alarmed him as he came slowly down the street."Uncle Peter," I said, as I stepped out in front of him suddenly,"please, Uncle Peter, won't you come in and talk to me?""Hey? Evelina?""Yes, Uncle Peter, it's Evelina," and I hesitated with terror at thesnap in his dear old eyes, back under their white brows. Then I let myeyes uncover my heart full of the elixir I had prepared for him, andoffered him as much as he could drink."I'm lonely," I said, with a little catch in my voice."Lonely--hey?" he grumbled, but his feet hesitated opposite my gate.In about two and a half minutes I had him seated in a cushioned rockeron the south side of the porch. Jasper had given us both a mint julep,and Uncle Peter was much Jess thirsty than he had been for a long time.Aunt Augusta is as temperate in all things as a steel ramrod."You see, Uncle Peter, I needed you so that I just had to kidnap you," Isaid to him, as he wiped his lips with a pocket-handkerchief, as stifflystarched as was his wife herself."Why didn't you go over and live in James's hennery--live with James--hey?"he snapped, with the precision of a pistol cap.To be just, I suppose Aunt Augusta's adamant disposition accounts, tosome extent, for Uncle Peter's explosive way of thinking and speaking. Ahusband would have to knock Aunt Augusta's nature down to make anyimpression whatever on it. Uncle Peter always has the air of firing anidea and then ducking his head to avoid the return shot."His house is so full, and I need a lot of space to carry on my work," Ianswered him, with the words I have used so often in the last two weeksthat they start to come when the Petunia asks me if I want waffles orbatter-cakes for supper."Well, Sallie Carruthers will get him, and then there'll be a dozen moreto run the measure over--children--hey? All girls! A woman like Salliewould not be content with producing less than a dozen of herkind--hey?"His chuckle was so contagious that I couldn't help but join him, thoughI didn't like it so very much. But why shouldn't I? Sallie is such agorgeous woman that a dozen of her in the next generation will be ofvalue to the State. Still, I didn't like it. I didn't enjoy thinking ofCousin James as so serving his country."Carruthers left her to James--he'll have to take care of her. Henryturned toes in good time. Piled rotten old business and big family on toJames's shoulders, and then died--good time--hey? Get a woman on yourhands, only thing to do is to marry or kill her. Poor James--hey?" Hepeered at me with a twinkle in his eyes that demanded assent from me."Why, Uncle Peter, I don't know that Sallie has any such idea. Shegrieves dreadfully over Mr. Carruthers, and I don't believe she wouldthink of marrying again," I answered, trying to put enough warmth in mydefense to convince myself."Most women are nothing but gourd-vines, grow all over a corn-stalk,kill it, produce gourds until it frosts, and begin all over again in thenext generation. James has to do the hoeing around Sallie's roots, andfeed her. Might as well marry her--hey?""Does--does Cousin James have to support Sallie and the children, UnclePeter?" I asked, coming with reluctance down to the rock-bed of thediscussion."Thinks he does, and it serves him right--serves him right for startingout to run a widow-ranch in the first place; it's like making acollection of old shoes. He let Henry Carruthers persuade him tomortgage everything and buy land on the river for the car-shops of thenew railroad, which just fooled the town out of a hundred thousanddollars, and is going by on the other side of the river with the shopsup at Bolivar. If James didn't get all the lawing in Alton County theywould all starve to death--which would be hard on the constitution ofold lady Hargrove, and her two hundred-weight.""Oh, has Cousin James really lost all of his fortune?" I asked, and Iwas surprised at the amount of sympathetic dismay that rose in me at theinformation."Everything but what he carries around under that old gray hat ofhis--not so bad a fortune, at that!--hey?"I feel I am going to love Uncle Peter for the way he disdainfullyadmires Cousin James."And--and all of his--his guests are really dependent on him?" I askedagain, as the stupendous fact filtered into my mind."All the flock, all the flock," answered Uncle Peter, with what seemed,under the circumstances, a heartless chuckle. "They each one have littledabs of property, about as big as a handful of chicken feed, and as theyhave each one given it all to James to manage, they expect an income inreturn--and get it--all they ask for. A lot of useless old livestock--all but Sallie, and she's worse--worse, hey?"I agreed with his question--but I didn't say so."Glad your money is safe in Public Town Bonds and City Securities,Evelina. If James could, he might lose it, and you'd have to move over.It would then be nip and tuck between you and Sallie which gotJames--nip and tuck--hey?""Oh, Uncle Peter!" I exclaimed with positive horror that was flavoredwith a large dash of indignation."Well, yes, a race between a widow and a girl for a man is about likeone between a young duck and a spring chicken, across a mill-pond--girland chicken lose--hey? But let Sallie have him, since you don't needhim. I've got to go home and listen to Augusta talk about my business,that she knows nothing in the world about, or I won't be ready for townmeeting this afternoon. Women are all fools,--hey?""Will you come again, Uncle Peter?" I asked eagerly. I had set out tooffer Uncle Peter a cup of niecely affection, and I had got a good,stiff bracer to arouse me in return."I will, whenever I can escape Augusta," he answered, and there was sucha kindly crackle in his voice that I felt that he had wanted and neededwhat I had offered him. "I'll drop in often and analyze the annals ofthe town with you. Glad to have you home, child, good young blood tostir me up--hey?"And as I sat and watched the Mayor go saunteringly down the street, withhis crustiness carried like a child on his shoulder, which it delightedhim to have knocked off, so that he could philosophize in the restoringof it to its position, suddenly a realization of the relation ofGlendale to the world in general was forced upon me--and I quailed.Glendale is like a dozen other small towns in the Harpeth Valley; theyare all drowsy princesses who have just waked up enough to be wonderingwhat did it. The tentative kiss has not yet disclosed the presence ofthe Prince of Revolution, and they are likely to doze for anothercentury or two. I think I had better go back into the wide world and letthem sleep on. One live member is likely to irritate the repose of thewhole body.Their faint stirrings of progress are pathetic.They have an electric plant, but, as I have noted before, the lightstherefrom show a strong trace of their pine-knot heredity, and go out onall important occasions, whether of festivity or tragedy. Kerosene lampshave to be kept filled and cleaned if a baby or a revival or a lawnfestival is expected.They have a lovely, wide concrete pavement in front of six of the storesaround the public square, but no two stretches of the improvement joineach other, and it makes a shopping progression around the town somewhatdangerous, on account of the sudden change of grade of the sidewalk,about every sixty feet. Aunt Augusta wanted Uncle Peter to introduce abill in the City Council forcing all of the property owners on theSquare to put down the pavement in front of their houses, at smallpayments per annum, the town assuming the contract at six per cent.Uncle Peter refused, because he said that he felt a smooth walk aroundthe Square would call out what he called "a dimity parade" everyafternoon.They have a water system that is supplied by so much mud from the riverthat it often happens that the town has to go unwashed for a week, whilethe pipes are cleaned out. There is a wonderful spring that could beused, with a pump to supply the town, Aunt Augusta says.The City Council tied up the town for a hundred thousand dollars'subscription to the new railroad, and failed to tie the shops down inthe contract. They are to be built in Bolivar. A great many of the richmen have lost a lot of money thereby, Cousin James the most of all, andeverybody is sitting up in bed blinking.There are still worse things happening in the emotional realm ofGlendale.Lee Greenfield has been in the state of going to ask Caroline Lellyettto marry him for fifteen years, and has never done it. Caroline has beenbeautiful all her life, but she is getting so thin and faded at thirtythat she is a tragedy. Lee goes to see her twice a week, and on Sundayafternoon takes her out in his new and rakish runabout, that is asmodern as his behavior is obsolete. Caroline knows no better, and standsit with sublime patience and lack of character. That is a situation Iwon't be able to keep my hands off of much longer.Ned Hall's wife has seven children with the oldest one not twelve, andshe looks fifty. Ned goes to all the dances at the Glendale Hoteldining-room and looks thirty. He dresses beautifully and Nell and allthe girls like to dance with him. Just ordinary torture wouldn't do forhim.Polk Hayes wouldn't be allowed to run loose in London society.Sallie Carruthers is a great big husky woman, with three children thatshe is responsible for having had. She and her family must consume tonsof green groceries every month and a perfectly innocent man pays forthem.Mrs. Dodd, the carpenter-and-contractor's wife is a Boston woman whocame down here--Before I could write all about that Boston girl so thatJane could understand perfectly the situation Polk came around from theside street and seated himself on the railing of the porch so near thearm of my chair that I couldn't rock without inconveniencing him.I am glad he found me in the mood I was in and I am glad to record thestrong-minded--it came near being the strong-armed--contest in which weindulged."Me for a woman that has a lot of spirit--she is so much sweeter whentamed, Evelina," was one of the gentle remarks with which heprecipitated the riot. "I think it has been spunkily fascinating of youto come and live by yourself in this old barn. It keeps me awake nightsjust to think of you over here--alone. How long is the torture to goon?"Jane, I tried, but if I had frankly and courageously shown Polk Hayeswhat was in my heart for him at that moment, I couldn't have answeredfor the results.From the time I was eighteen until I was twenty the same sort of assaultand battery had been handed out to me from him. He had beaten me withhis love. He didn't want me--he doesn't want any woman except so long ashe is uncertain that he can get her. Just because I had been firm withhim when even a child and denied him, he has been merciless. And nowthat I am a woman and armed for the combat, it will be to the death.Shall I double and take refuge in a labyrinth of subterfuge or turn andfight? So I temporized to-day."It is lonely--but not quite 'torture' to me, with the family so close,across the street," I answered him, and I went on whipping the lace on apiece of fluff I am making, to discipline myself because I loathe aneedle so. "Please don't you worry over me, dear." I raised my eyes tohis and I tried the common citizenship look. It must have carried alittle way for he flushed, the first time I ever saw him do it, and hishand with the cigarette in it shook."Evelina, are you real or a--farce?" he asked, after a few minutes ofpeace."I'm trying to be real, Polk," I answered, and this time I raised myeyes with perfect frankness. "If you could define a real woman, Polk,in what terms would you express her?" I asked him straight out from theshoulder."Hell fire and a hallelujah chorus, if she's beautiful," he answered mepromptly.I laughed. I thought it was best under the circumstances."I'll tell you, Evelina," he continued, stealthily. "A man just can'tgeneralize the creatures. Apparently they are craving nothing so much asemotional excitement and when you offer it to them they want to go tohousekeeping with it. Love is a business with them and not an art.""Would you like to try a genuine friendship with one. Polk?" I asked,and again struck from the shoulder--with my eyes."Help! Not if you mean yourself, beautiful," he answered promptly andwith fervor. "I wouldn't trust myself with you one minute off-guard likethat.""You could safely.""But I won't!""Will you try?""No!""Will you go over and sit in that chair while I tell you somethingcalmly, quietly, and seriously? It'll give you a new sensation and maybeit will be good for you." I looked him straight in the face and thebattle of our eyes was something terrific. I had made up my mind to haveit out with him then and there. There was nothing else to do. I would befrank and courageous and true to my vow--and accept the consequences.He slid along the railing of the porch and down into the chair in almosta daze of bewilderment."Polk," I began, concealing a gulp of terror, "I love you more than Ican possibly--"[Illustration: "Say, Polk, I let the Pup git hung by her apron to thewheel of your car."]"Say, Polk, I let the Pup git hung by her apron to the wheel of your carout in the road and her head is dangersome kinder upside down. Itmight run away. Can you come and git her loose for me?"Henrietta's calmness under dire circumstances was a lesson to both Polkand me, for with two gasps that sounded as one we both raced across theporch, down the path and out to the road where Folk's Hupp runaboutstood by the worn old stone post that had tethered the horses of thewooers of many generations of the maids of my house.But, prompt as our response to Henrietta's demand for rescue had been,Cousin James was there before us. He stood in the middle of the dustyroad with the tousled mite in his arms, soothing her frightened sobsagainst his cheek with the dearest tenderness and patting Sallie on theback with the same comforting."Oh, Henrietta, how could you nearly kill your little sister like this?"Sallie sobbed. "Please say something positive to her, James!""Henrietta," began Cousin James with a suspicion of embarrassment atPolk's and my presence at the domestic scene. Polk choked a chuckle andI could have murdered him."Wait a minute," said Henrietta, in her most commanding voice. "Sallie,didn't you ask me to take that Pup from Aunt Dilsie, 'cause of thephthisic, and keep her quiet while the Kit got a nap, and didn't I askyou if it would be all right if I got her back whole and clean?""Yes, Henrietta, but you--""Ain't she whole all over and clean?""Yes, but--""Couldn't nobody do any better than that with one of them twins. I won'ttry. If I have to 'muse her it has to be in my own way." And with herhead in the air the Bunch marched up the walk to the house.At this Polk shouted and the rest of us laughed."Polk, please don't encourage Henrietta in the way she treats me and herlittle sisters," Sallie begged between her laughs and her half-swallowedsobs. "I need my friends' help with my children, not to have them makeit hard for me. Henrietta is devoted to you and you could influence herso for the best. Please try to help me make a real woman out of her andnot some sort of a terrible--terrible suffragette."Sallie is the most perfectly lovely woman I almost ever saw. She hasgreat violet eyes with black lashes that beg you for a piece of yourheart, and her mouth is as sweet as a blush rose with cheeks that almostmatch it in rosiness. She and the babies always remind me of a clusterrose and roses, flower and buds, and I don't see why every man that seesher is not mad about her. They all used to be before she married, and Isuppose they will be again as soon as the crepe gets entirely worn offher clothes. As she stood with the bubbly baby in her arms and lookedup at Polk I couldn't see how he could take it calmly."Sallie," he answered seriously, with a glint in his eyes over at me,"if you'll give me a few days longer, I will then have found out byexperience what a real woman is and I'll begin on Henrietta for youaccordingly.""Don't be too hard on the kiddie," Cousin James answered him with thecrinkle in the corner of his eyes that might have been called shrewd ineyes less beautifully calm. "Let's trust a lot to Henrietta's powers ofobservation of her mother and--her neighbors." He smiled suddenly, withhis whole face, over both Sallie and me, and went on down the street ina way that made me sure he was forgetting all about all of us before hereached the corner of the street."Isn't that old mossback a treat for the sight of gods and men?" askedPolk with a laugh as we all stood watching the old gray coat-tailsflapping in the warm breeze that was rollicking across the valley."I don't know what I would do without him," said Sadie softly, withtears suddenly misting the violets in her eyes as she turned away fromus with the baby in her arms and went slowly up the front walk ofWidegables."Please come stay with me a little while, Evelina," she pleaded backover her shoulder. "I feel faint."I hesitated, for, as we were on my side of the Road, Polk was still myguest."Go on with Sallie, sweetie," he answered my hesitating. "I don't wantthe snapped-off fraction of a declaration like you were about to offerme. I can bide my time--and get my own." With which he turned and gotinto his car as I went across the street.Jane, I feel encouraged. I have done well to-day to get half way throughmy declaration of independence--though he doesn't think that is what itis going to be--to Polk. If I can just tell him how much I love him,before he makes love to me we can get on such a sensible footing witheach other. I'll command the situation then.But suppose I do get Polk calmed down to a nice friendship after oldPlato's recipe, what if I want to marry him?Do I want to marry a friend?Yes, I do!No--no!CHAPTER VDEEPER THAN SHOULDERS AND RIBSThere are many fundamental differences between men and women whichstrike deeper than breadth of shoulders and number of ribs on the rightside.Men deliberately unearth matters of importance and women stumble on thesame things in the dark. It is then a question of the individual as tothe complications that result. One thing can be always counted on. Awoman likes to tangle life into a large mass and then straighten out thethreads at her leisure--and the man's leisure too.Glendale affairs interest me more every day.This has been a remarkable afternoon and I wish Jane had been inGlendale to witness it."Say, Evelina, all the folks over at our house have gone crazy, and Iwish you would come over and help Cousin James with 'em," Henriettademanded, as I sat on my side porch, calmly hemming a ruffle on a dressfor the Kitten. Everybody sews for the twins and, as much as I hate it,I can't help doing it."Why, Henrietta, what is the matter?" I demanded, as I hurried down thefront walk and across the road at her bare little heels. By the time Igot to the front gate I could hear sounds of lamentation."A railroad train wants to run right through the middle of all theirdead people and Sallie started the crying. Dead's dead, and if CousinJames wants 'em run over. I wants 'em run over too." She answered overher shoulder as we hurried through the wide front hall.And a scene that beggars description met my eyes, as I stood in theliving-room door. I hope this account I am going to try and write willget petrified by some kind of new element they will suddenly discoversome day and the manuscript be dug up from the ruins of Glendale tointerest the natives of the Argon age about 2800 A. D.Sallie sat in the large armchair in the middle of the room weeping inthe slow, regular way a woman has of starting out with tears, when shemeans to let them flow for hours, maybe days, and there were just fiveechoes to her grief, all done in different keys and characters.Cousin Martha knelt beside the chair and held Sallie's head on her amplebosom, but I must say that the expression on her face was one ofbewilderment, as well as of grief.The three little Horton cousins sat close together in the middle of theold hair-cloth sofa by the window and were weeping as modestly andhelplessly as they did everything else in life, while Mrs. Hargrove, inher chair under her son's portrait, was just plainly out and outhowling.And on the hearth-rug, before the tiny fire of oak chips that the oldladies liked to keep burning all summer, stood the master of the houseand, for once in my life, I have seen the personification of masculinehelplessness. He was a tragedy and I flew straight to him with arms wideopen, which clasped both his shoulders as I gave him a good shake toarouse him from his paralyzation."What's the matter?" I demanded, with the second shake."I'm a brute, Evelina," he answered, and a sudden discouragement linedevery feature of his beautiful biblical face. I couldn't stand that andI hugged him tight to my breast for an instant and then administeredanother earthquake shake."Tell me exactly what has happened," I demanded, looking straight intohis tragic eyes and letting my hands slip from his shoulders down hisarms until they held both of his hands tight and warm in mine.Jane, I was glad that I had offered the cup of my eyes to him full ofthis curious inter-sex elixir of life that you have induced me to seekso blindly, for he responded to the dose immediately and the color cameback into his face as he answered me just as sensibly as he wouldanother man."The men who are surveying the new railroad from Cincinnati to the Gulfhave laid their experimental lines across the corner of GreenwoodCemetery and they say it will have to run that way or go across theriver and parallel the lines of the other road. If they come on thisside of the river they will force the other road to come across, too,and in that case we will get the shops. It just happens that such a linewill make necessary the removal of--of poor Henry's remains to anotherlot. Sallie's is the only lot in the cemetery that is that high on thebluff. Henry didn't like the situation when he bought it himself, and Ithought that, as there is another lot right next to her mother's forsale, she would not--but, of course, I was brutal to mention it to her.I hope you will find it in your heart to forgive me, Sallie." And as hespoke he extracted himself from me and walked over and laid his hand onSallie's head."It was such a shock to her--poor Henry," sobbed little Cousin Jasmine,and the other two little sisters sniffed in chorus."To have railroad trains running by Greenwood at all will be disturbingto the peace of the dead," snorted Mrs. Hargrove. "We need no railroadin Glendale. We have never had one, and that is my last word--no!""Four miles to the railroad station across the river is just a pleasantdrive in good weather," said Cousin Martha, plaintively, as she cuddledSallie's sobs more comfortably down on her shoulder."I feel that Henry would doubt my faithfulness to his memory, if Iconsented to such a desecration," came in smothered tones from thepillowing shoulder.And not one of all those six women had stopped to think for one minutethat the minor fact of the disturbing of the ashes of Henry Carrutherswould be followed by the major one of the restoration of the widow'sfortune and the lifting of a huge financial burden off the strongshoulders they were all separately and collectively leaning upon.I exploded, but I am glad I drew the Crag out on the porch and did it tohim alone."Evelina, you are refreshing if strenuous," he laughed, after I hadspent five minutes in stating my opinions of women in general and a fewin particular. "But I ought not to have hurt Sallie by telling herabout the lines until they are a certainty. It is so far only apossibility. They may go across the river anyway.""And as for seeing Sallie swaddled in your consideration, and fedyourself as a sacrifice from a spoon, I am tired of it," I flamed upagain. "It's not good for her. Feed and clothe her and her progeny,--menin general have brought just such burdens as that upon you in particularby their attitude towards us,--but do let her begin to exert just asmall area of her brain on the subject of the survival of the fit tolive. You don't swaddle or feed me!""Eve," he said, softly under his breath as his wonderful gentle eyessank down way below the indignation and explosiveness to the quiet poolthat lies at the very bottom of my heart.Nobody ever found it before and I didn't know it was there myself, but Ifelt as if it were being drained up into Heaven."Eve!" He said again, and it is a wonder that I didn't answer:"Adam!"I don't know just what would have happened if Uncle Peter hadn't brokenin on the interview with his crustiest chips on both shoulders and somuch excitement bottled up that he had to let it fly like a doublereporter."Dodson is down at the Hotel looking for you, James," he began as hehurried up the steps. "Big scheme this--got him in a corner if the C. &G. comes along this side of Old Harpeth--make him squeal--hey?""Who's Dodson?" I asked with the greatest excitement. I was for thefirst time getting a whiff of the schemes of the masculine mighty, but Iwas squelched promptly by Uncle Peter."We've no time for questions, Evelina, now--go back to yourtatting--hey?" He answered me as he began to buttonhole the Crag andlead him down the steps."Dodson is the man who is laying down and contracting for the lineacross the river, Evelina," answered Cousin James without taking anynotice whatever of Uncle Peter's squelching of me. "If this other linecan just be secured he will have to come to our terms--and the situationwill be saved." As he spoke he took my hand in his and led me at hisside, down the front walk to the gate, talking as he went, for UnclePeter was chuckling on ahead like a steam tug in a hurry."And the shades of Henry will again assume the maintenance of hisfamily," I hazarded with lack of respect of the dead, impudence toCousin James about his own affairs, and unkindness by implication toSallie, who loves me better than almost anybody in the world does. And Igot my just punishment by seeing a lovely look of tender concern rise inCousin James's eyes as he stopped short in the middle of the walk."I want to go back a minute to speak to Sallie before I go on downtown," he said, quickly, and before Uncle Peter's remonstrances hadexploded, he had taken the steps two at a bound and disappeared in thefront door."Sooner he marries that lazy lollypop the better," fumed Uncle Peter, ashe waited at the gate. "The way for a man to quench his thirst forwoman-sweets is to marry a pot of honey like that, and then come righton back to the bread and butter game. Here's a letter Jasper gave me tobring along for you from town. Go on and read it and do not disturb theworkings of my brain while I wait for James--workings of a greatbrain--hey?"I took the letter and hurried across the street because I wanted anywayto get to some place by myself and think. There was no earthly reasonfor it but I felt like an animal that has been hurt and wants to go offand lick its wounds. A womanly woman that lives a lovely appealing liferight in a man's own home has a perfect right to gain his love,especially if she is beautifully unconscious of her appeal. Besides, whyshould a man want to take an independent, explosive, impudent firebrandwith all sorts of dreadful plots in her mind to his heart? He wouldn'tand doesn't!There is no better sedative for a woman's disturbed and wounded emotionsthan a little stiff brain work. Richard's letter braced my viny droopingof mind at once and from thinking into the Crag's affairs of sentiment,I turned with masculine vigor to begin to mix into his affairs offinance. However, I wish that the first big business letter I ever gotin my life hadn't had to have a strain of love interest running throughit! Still Dickie is a trump card in the man pack.It seems that as his father is one of the most influential directorsand largest stockholders in this new branch of the Cincinnati and Gulfrailroad he has got the commission for making the plans for all thestations along the road, and he wants to give me the commission fordrawing all the gardens for all the station-yards. It will be tremendousfor both of us so young in life, and I never dared hope for such athing. I had only hoped to get a few private gardens of some of myfriends to laze and pose over, but this is startling. My mind isbeginning to work on in terms of hedges and fountains already and Dickiemay be coming South any minute.And besides the hedges and gravel paths I have a feeling that Dickie'sfather and the Crag and Sallie's girl-babies are fomenting around in mymind getting ready to pop the cork of an idea soon. The combinationfeels like some kind of a hunch--I sat still for a long time and let itseethe, while I took stock of the situation.There is a strange, mysterious kind of peace that begins to creep acrossthe Harpeth Valley, just as soon as the sun sinks low enough to throwthe red glow over the head of Old Harpeth. I suppose it happens in otherhill-rimmed valleys in other parts of the Universe, but it does seem asif God himself is looking down to brood over us, and that the valley isthe hollow of His hand into which he is gathering us to rest in thedarkness of His night. I felt buffeted and in need of Him as I sank downunder the rose-vine over the porch and looked out across my garden tothe blue and rose hills beyond.I have been in Glendale a whole month now, and I can't see that myinfluence has revolutionized the town as yet. I don't seem to be of halfthe importance that I thought I was going to be. I have tried, and Ihave offered that bucket of love that I thought up to everybody, butwhether they have drunk of it to profit I am sure I can't say. In fact,my loneliness has liquefied my gaseous affection into what almost lookslike officiousness.Still, I know Uncle Peter is happier than he ever was before, because hehas got me to come to as a refuge from Aunt Augusta, a confidante forhis views of life that he is not allowed to express at home, and alsothe certainty of one of Jasper's juleps.Sallie has grown so dependent on me that my shoulders are assuming amasculine squareness to support her weight. I am understudying CousinJames to such an extent over at Widegables that I feel like the heir tohis house. Cousin Martha sends for me when the chimney smokes and thecows get sick. I have twice changed five dollars for little CousinJasmine, and sternly told the man from out on their farm on ProvidenceRoad that he must not root up the lavender bushes to plant turnip-greensin their places. I afterwards rented the patch from him to grow thelavender because he said he couldn't lose the price that the greenswould bring him "for crotchets."Mrs. Hargrove has given me her will to keep for her, and the sealedinstructions for her burial. I hope when the time comes the two behestswill strike a balance, but I doubt it.Her ideas of a proper funeral seem to coincide with those of QueenVictoria, whom she has admired through life and mourns sincerely.Henrietta has not been heard to indulge in profane language since I hada long talk with her last week out in the garden, that ended in stubbytears and the gift of a very lovely locket which I impressed upon herwas as chaste in design as I wished her speech to become.The twins have been provided with several very lovely pieces of wearingapparel from my rapidly skill-acquiring needle. That's on the creditside of my balance. But that is _all_--and it doesn't soundrevolutionary, does it, Jane?Petunia married Jasper according to his word of promise, and I havetaught her to cook about five French dishes that he couldn't concoct tosave his life, and which help her to keep him in his place. Hispomposity grows daily but he eyes me with suspicion when he sees me insecret conclave with Petunia."We needs a man around this place," I heard him mutter the other day asI left the kitchen.I wonder!The garden has been weeded, replanted, trained, clipped and garnished,and my arms are as husky and strong as a boy's and my nose badlysunburned from my strenuosity with hoe and trimming scissors.All of which I have done and done well. But when I think of all thosefive girls that are waiting for me to solve the emotional formula bywhich they can work out and establish the fact that man equals woman, Iget weak in the knees.Jane's letters are just prods.       *       *       *       *       *Your highly cultivated artistic nature ought to be a very beautifulrevelation to the spiritual character of the young Methodist divine youwrote me of in your last letter. Encourage him in every way withaffectionate interest in his work, especially in the Epworth League onhis country circuit. I am enclosing fifty dollars' subscription to thework and I hope you will give as much You have not mentioned Mr. Hayesfor several letters. I fear you are prejudiced against him. Seek to knowand weigh his character before you judge him as unfit for your love.       *       *       *       *       *The highly spiritual Mr. Haley glared at Polk for an hour out here on myporch, when he interrupted us in one of our Epworth League talks, insuch an unspiritual manner that Polk said he felt as if he had beenintroduced to the Apostle Paul while he was still Saul of Tarsus. I hadto pet the Dominie decorously for a week before he regained his benignmanner. Of course, however, it was trying to even a highly spiritualnature like his to have Polk insist on pinning a rose in my hair rightbefore his eyes.About Polk I feel that I am in the midst of one of those great calm,oily stretches of ocean that a ship is rocked gently in for a few hoursbefore the storm tosses it first to Heaven and then to hell. He is sopsychic, and in a way attuned to me, that he partly understands mypurpose in declaring my love for him to put him at a disadvantage in hislove-making to me, and he hasn't let me do it yet, while his tacit suitgoes on. It is a drawn battle between us and is going to be fought tothe death. In the meantime Nell--And while I was on the porch sitting with Richard Hall's letter in myhand, still unread, Nell herself came down the front walk and sat downbeside me."Why, I thought you had gone fishing with Polk," I said as I cuddled herup to me a second. She laid her head on my shoulder and heaved such asigh that it shook us both."I didn't quite like to go with him alone and Henrietta wouldn't gobecause a bee had stung the red-headed twin, and she wanted to stay toscold Sallie," she answered with both hesitation and depression in hervoice."Polk is--is strenuous for a whole day's companionship," I answered,experimentally, for I saw the time had come to exercise some of thebiceps in Nell's femininity in preparation for just what I knew she wasto get from Polk. My heart ached for what I knew she was suffering. Ihad had exactly those growing pains for months following that experiencewith him on the front porch after the dance four years ago. And I hadhad change of scene and occupation to help."I don't understand him at all," faltered Nell, and she raised her eyesas she bared her wound to me."Nell," I said with trepidation, as I began on this my first disciple,"you aren't a bit ashamed or embarrassed or humiliated in showing methat you love me, are you?""You know I've adored you ever since I could toddle at your heels,Evelina," she answered, and the love-message her great brown eyesflashed into mine was as sweet as anything that ever happened to me."Then, why should you wonder and suffer and restrain and be humiliatedat your love for Polk?" I asked, firing point blank at all of Nell'straditions. "Why not tell him about it and ask him if he loves you?"The shot landed with such force that Nell gasped, but answered asstraight out from the shoulder as I had aimed."I would rather die than have Polk Hayes know how he--he affects me,"she answered with her head held high."Then, what you feel for him is not worthy love, but something entirelyunworthy," I answered loftily, with a very poor imitation of Jane'simpressiveness of speech."I know it," she faltered into my shoulder, "if it were Mr. James HardinI loved, I wouldn't mind anybody's knowing it, but something must bewrong with Polk or me or the way I feel. What is it?"For a moment I got so stiff all over that Nell raised her head from myshoulder in surprise. Do all women feel about the Crag as I do?"I don't know," I answered weakly.And I don't know! Oh, Jane, your simple experiment proposition is aboutto become compound quadratics.Then I got a still further surprise."I wouldn't in the least mind telling Mr. James how I like him--if youthink it is all right," Nell mused, looking pensively at the first palestar that was rising over Old Harpeth. "I would enjoy it, because Ihave always adored him, and it would be so interesting to see what he'dsay.""Nell," I said suddenly with determination, "do it! Tell any man youlike how much you like him--and see what happens.""I feel as if--as if"--Nell faltered and I don't blame her; I wouldn'thave said as much to her--"I feel that to tell Mr. James I love _him_would ease the pain, the--pain--that I feel about Polk. It would be sointeresting to tell a man a thing like that.""Do it!" I gasped, and went foot in the class in romantics.If any jungle explorer thinks he has mapped and charted a woman's hearthe had better pack up his instruments of warfare and recorders and comedown to Glendale, Tennessee.Nell and I must have talked further along the same lines, but I don'tremember what we said. I have recorded the high lights on theconversation, but long after I lost her I kept my whirlwind feeling ofamazement. It was like trying to balance calmly on the lid of thetinder-box when you didn't know whether or not you had touched off thefuse.Has honeysuckle-garbed Old Harpeth been seeing things like this go onfor centuries and not interrupted? I think I would have been sittingthere questioning him until now, if Lee and Caroline hadn't stopped atthe gate and called to me.I think Lee was giving Caroline this stroll home from the post-office inthe twilight as an extra treat in her week's allowance of him, and shewas so soft and glowing and sweet and pale that I wonder the Cherokeeroses on my hedge didn't droop their heads with humility before her."What's a lovely lady doing sitting all by herself in the gloaming?" Leeasked in his rich, warm voice.I hate him!"Come take a walk with us, Evelina, dear," Caroline begged softly,though I knew what it would mean to her if I should intrude on thisprecious hour with her near-lover.Please, God--if I seem to be calling You into a profane situation Ican't help it; I must have help!--show me some way to assist Caroline tomake Lee into a real man and then get him for herself. She must have himand he needs her. And show me a way quick! Amen!Jane, I hope you will be able to pick the data out of this jumble, but Idoubt it. Anyway I'm grateful for the lock and key on this book.As I stood at the gate and watched Lee and Caroline saunter down themoon-flecked street a mocking bird in the tallest of the oak twins thatare my roof shelter called wooingly from one of the top boughs and gothis answer from about the same place on the same limb.If a woman starts out to be a trained nurse to an epidemic oflove-making, she is in great danger of doing something foolish her ownself. I am even glad it is prayer-meeting night for Mr. Haley; he issafe in performing his rituals. He might misunderstand this mood.I wonder if I ever was really over in sunny France being wooed andhappy!Of course, I decided the first night I was here that, as circumstancesover which I had no control had decreed that Cousin James should standin the position of enforced protector to me, decent, communisticfemino-masculine honor demands that I refrain from any manoeuvers in hisdirection to attract his thoughts and attention to the feminine me. Ican only meet him on the ordinary grounds of fellowship. And I supposethe glad-to-see him coming up the street was of the neuter gender, butit was very interesting."What did Dodson have to say--is he coming across?" I demanded of himbefore he got quite to my gate."Not if he can help it," he answered as he came close and leaned againstone of the tall stone posts, so that his grandly shaped head with itsante-bellum squirls of hair was silhouetted against the white-starredwistaria vine in a way that made me frantic for several buckets ofmonochrome water-colors and a couple of brushes as big as those used forwhite-washing. In about ten great splotches I could have done amasterpiece of him that would have drawn artistic fits from the publicof gay Paris. I never see him that I don't long for a box of pastels orget the ghost of the odor of oil-paint in my nose."The whole thing will be settled in a month," he continued, with a sighthat had a hint of depression in it and an astral shape of Salliemanifested itself hanging on his shoulder. However, I controlled myselfand listened to him. "There is to be a meeting of the directors of bothroads over in Bolivar in a few weeks and they are to come to someunderstanding. The line across the river is unquestionably the cheapestand best grade and there is no chance of getting them to run along ourbluff--unless we can show them some advantage in doing so, and I can'tsee what that will be.""What makes it of advantage for a railroad to run through any givenpoint in a rural community like this, Cousin James?" I asked, with aglow of intellect mounting to my head, the like of which I hadn't feltsince I delivered my Junior thesis in Political Economy with Janelooking on, consumed with pride."Towns that have good stock or grain districts around them with goodroads for hauling do what is called 'feeding' a railroad," he answered."Bolivar can feed both roads with the whole of the Harpeth Valley onthat side of the river. They'll get the roads, I'm thinking. Poor oldGlendale!""Isn't there anything to feed the monsters this side of the river?" Idemanded, indignant at the barrenness of the south side of the valley ofOld Harpeth."Very little unless it's the scenery along the bluff," he replied, withthe depression sounding still more clearly in his voice and hisshoulders drooped against the unsympathetic old stone post in a way thatsent a pang to my heart."Jamie, is all you've got tied up in the venture?" I asked softly, usingthe name that a very small I had given him in a long ago when the worldwas young and not full of problems."That's not the worst, Evelina," he answered in a voice that waspositively haggard. "But what belongs to the rest of the family is allin the same leaky craft. Carruthers put Sallie's in himself, but Iinvested the mites belonging to the others. Of course, as far as theold folks are concerned, I can more than take care of them, and ifanything happens there's enough life insurance and to spare for them. Idon't feel exactly responsible for Sallie's situation, but I do feel theresponsibility of their helplessness. Sallie is not fitted to cope withthe world and she ought to be well provided for. I feel that more andmore every day. Her helplessness is very beautiful and tender, but in away tragic, don't you think?"I wish I had dared tell him for the second time that day what I didthink on the subject but I denied myself such frankness.Anyway, men are just stupid, faithful children--some of them faithful, Imean.I felt that if I stood there talking with the Crag any longer, I mightgrow pedagogical and teach him a few things so I sent him home acrossthe road. I knew all six women would stay awake until they heard himlock them in, come down to the lodge and lock his own door.It is very unworthy of me to enjoy his playing a watch-dog of traditionacross the road to an emancipated woman like myself. The situation bothkeeps me awake and puts me to sleep--and it is sweet, though I don'tknow why.God never made anything more wonderful than a good man,--even a stupidone. Lights out!CHAPTER VIMAX AND THE ASAFETIDA SPOONI do wish the great man who is discovering how to put people into somesort of metaphysical pickle that will suspend their animations until hegets ready to wake them up, would hurry up with his investigations, sohe can catch Sallie before she begins to fade or wilt. Sallie, just asshe is, brought to life about five generations from now, would cause asensation.Some women are so feminine that they are sticky, unless well spiced withdeviltry. Sallie's loveliness hasn't much seasoning. Still, I do loveher dearly, and I am just as much her slave as are any of the others. Ican't get out of it."Do you suppose we will ever get all of the clothes done for the twins?"Nell sighed gently as we sat on my porch whipping yards of lace uponwhite ruffles and whipping up our own spirits at the same time.Everybody in Glendale sews for Sallie's children and it takes her allher time to think up the clothes."Never," I answered."She's coming, and I do believe she has got more of this ruffling. I seeit floating down her skirt," Nell fairly groaned.Nell ought to like to sew. She isn't emancipated enough to hate a needleas I do. But the leaven is working and she's rising slowly. It might bewell for some man to work the dough down a little before she runs overthe pan. That's a primitively feminine wish and not at all in accordancewith my own advanced ideas.I was becoming slightly snarled with my thread, and I was glad whenSallie and her sweetness seated itself in the best rocker in the softestbreeze, which Nell had vacated for her."Children are the greatest happiness in life and also the greatestresponsibility, girls," she said, in her lovely rich voice that alwaysmelts me to a solution of sympathy whenever she uses it pensively on me."Of course, I should be desolate without mine, but what could I do withthem, if I didn't have all of you dear people to help me with them?"Her wistful dependence had charm.I looked at the twin with the yellow fuzz on the top of its head thathas hall-marked it as the Kitten in my mind, seated on Sallie's lap withher head on Sallie's shoulder looking like a baby bud folded against thefull rose, and I couldn't help laughing. Kit had been undressed threetimes after her bath this morning while Cousin Martha, Cousin Jasmineand Mrs. Hargrove argued with each other whether she should or shouldn'thave a scrap of flannel put on over her fat little stomach. Henriettafinally decided the matter by being impudent and sensible to them allabout the temperature."Don't you all 'spose God made the sun some to heat up Kit's stomach?"she demanded scornfully, as she grabbed the little roly-poly bone ofcontention and marched off with her to finish dressing her on the frontporch in the direct rays of her instituted heater.The household at large at Widegables can never agree on the clothing ofthe twins and Henrietta often has to finish their toilets thus, byforce. Aunt Dilsie being reduced by her phthisic to a position that isalmost entirely ornamental, Henrietta's strength of character is theonly thing that has made the existence of the twins bearable tothemselves or other people.As I have said before, I do wish that some day in the future you willcome under the direct rays of Henrietta's influence, Jane, dear!"Yes, Sallie, I should call them a responsibility," I answered her witha laugh, as I reached up my arms for the Kitten. Then, as the littleyellow head snuggled in the hollow that was instituted in the beginningbetween a woman's breast and arm for the purpose of just such nestlings,I whispered as I laid my lips against her little ear, "and a happiness,too, darling."And as Sallie rocked and recuperated her breath Nell eyed the ruffleapprehensively."Are you going to let us make another dress for the kiddies, Sallie,dear?" she finally was forced by her uneasiness to ask, though with thedeepest sweetness and consideration in her voice.If I am ever a widow with young children I hope they will burn us all upwith the deceased rather than keep me wrapped in a cotton-wool ofsympathy, as all of us do Sallie."It's lovely of you, Nell, to want to do more for the babies after allthe beautiful things you and Evelina have made them, and I may be ableto get another white dress apiece for them after I give Cousin James thebills, that are awful already, but this is some ruffling that I justforced Mamie Hall to let me bring up to you girls to do for her baby.The poor little dear is two months old and Mamie is just beginning onhis little dress for him. He has been wearing the plainest little slips.Mamie says Ned remarked on the fact that the baby was hardly presentablewhen you girls stopped in with him to see it the other day, Nell. Iurged her to get right to work fixing him up. It is wrong for childrennot to be kept as daintily as their father likes to see them."How any woman that is as spiritually-minded as I am, and who has so muchlove for the whole world in her heart, and such a deep purpose always tooffer it to her fellowmen according to their need of it, can have thevile temper I possess I cannot see."And the sight that would please me better than anything else I haveeven thought up to want to see," I found myself saying when I becameconscious--I hope I didn't use any of the oaths of my forefathers whichmust have been tempting my refined foremothers for generations and whichI secretly admire Henrietta for indulging in on occasions of impatiencewith Sallie--"would be Ned Hall left entirely alone with that squirmingbaby, that looks exactly like him, when it is having a terrible spell ofcolic and Ned is in the midst of a sick headache, with all the otherchildren cold, hungry, and cross, the cook gone to a funeral, and thenurse in a grouch because she couldn't go and--and he knowing that Mamiewas attired in a lovely, cool muslin dress, sitting up here on the porchwith us sipping a mint julep and smoking a ten-cent cigar, resting andgetting up an appetite for supper. I want him to have about five yearsof such days and then he would deserve the joys of parenthood that henow does not appreciate.""Oh, Mamie wouldn't smoke a cigar!" was the exclamation that showed howmuch Sallie got of the motif of my eruption."Glorious!" exclaimed Nell, with shining eyes.I must be careful about Nell, she is going this new gait too fast forone so young. Women must learn to fletcherize freedom if it is not togive them indigestion of purpose."Still Ned provides everything in the world he can think of to helpMamie," said Caroline, who had come up the walk just in time to fan theflame in me by her sweet wistfulness, with a soft judiciousness in hervoice and eyes. "And Mamie adores the children and him."If one man is unattainable to a woman all the other creatures take onthe hue of being valuable from the reflection. Caroline is pathetic!"It would be robbing a woman of a privilege not to let her trot thecolic out of her own baby," Sallie got near enough in sight of thediscussion to shout softly from the rear.I have often seen Cousin Martha on one side of the fire trotting thePup, and Cousin Jasmine on the other ministrating likewise to the Kit.so Sallie could take a good nap, which she didn't at all need, on thelong sofa in the living-room at Widegables."Ned is a delightful man and, of course, Mamie adores him." Nell agreedwith an attitude of mind like to the attitude of a body sustained on thetop rail of a shaky fence."He doubtless would be just as delightful to Mamie standing by droppingasafetida into a spoon to administer to the baby, as he is dancing withyou at the Assembly, Nell," I said, still frothy around the temper."He'll never do it again," was the prompt result I got from my shot."The trouble with you, Evelina," said Sallie, with ruminativereflectiveness in her eyes, "is that you have never been married and donot understand how noble a man can be under--""Yes, I should say that you had hit Evelina's trouble exactly on thehead, Sallie," came in Polk's drawl as he came over the rose hedge fromthe side street and seated himself beside Caroline on the steps."Well, if I ever have a husband he'll prove his nobility by beingcompetent to make the correct connection between the asafetida spoon andhis own baby," was the answer that came with so much force that Icouldn't stop it after I fully realized Folk's presence and sex."Help!" exclaimed Polk, weakly, while Nell blushed into the fold of herruffle, Caroline looked slightly shocked and Sallie wholly scandalizedat my lack of delicacy.I felt that the place had been reached, the audience provided, and thetime ripe for the first gun in my general revolution planned forGlendale. I spoke calmly in a perfect panic of fear."I am glad Polk is here to speak for the masculine side of thequestion," I said, looking all the three astonished women straight inthe face. "Polk, do you or do you not think that a man with a wife andseven children ought to assume at least some of the domestic strainresulting therefrom, like dropping the asafetida in the spoon for herwhile she is wrestling with the youngest-born's colic?""Do I have to answer?" pleaded Polk, with desperation."Yes!""Then, under the circumstances I think the man ought to say: 'To hellwith the spoon,' grab a gun, go out and shoot up a bear and a couple ofwild turkeys for breakfast, throttle some coin out of some nearbybusiness corporation, send two to five trained nurses back to thewigwam, stay down town to lunch and then go home with a tender littlekiss for the madame who meets him fluffy and smiling at the door. That'smy idea of true connubial bliss. Applications considered in the order oftheir reception. Nell, you are sweet enough to eat in that blue muslin.I'm glad I asked you to get one just that shade!"And the inane chorus of pleased laughs that followed Polk Hayes'sbrainless disposal of the important question in hand made me ashamed ofbeing a woman--though it was funny. Still I bided my time and Polk sawthe biding, I could tell by the expression in the corners of his eyesthat he kept turned away from me.And in less than a half-hour he was left to my mercies, anything buttender. Sallie took Nell and Caroline over home to help her decide howwide a band of white it would be decorous for her to sew in the neck ofher new black meteor crepe. I see it coming that we will all have tounite in getting Sallie out of mourning and into the trappings offrivolity soon and I dread it. It takes so many opinions on any givensubject to satisfy Sallie that she ought to keep a tabulatedadvice-book."Evelina," said Polk, experimentally, after he had seen them safelyacross the street, and he moved along the steps until he sat against myskirts, "are your family subject to colic?""No, they have strong brains instead," I answered icily."Said brains subject to colic, though," he mused in an impudentundertone.I laughed: I couldn't help it. One of the dangerous things about Polk isthat he gets you comfortable and warm of heart whenever he gets nearyou. It wouldn't matter at all to him if you should freeze later forlack of his warmth, just so he doesn't know about it."Polk," I began to say in a lovely serious tone of voice, looking himsquare in the eyes and determined that as we were now on the subject ofbasic things, like infantile colic, I would have it out with him alongall lines, "there is an awful shock coming to you when you realizethat--""That in the heat of this erudite and revolutionary discussion, which anevil fate led me to drop in on, I have forgotten to give you thistelegram that came for you while I was down at the station shipping somelumber. Be as easy as you can with me, Evelina, and remember that I amyour childhood's companion when you decide between us." With which hehanded me a blue telegram.I opened it hastily and found that it was from Richard:     Am coming down to Bolivar with C. & G. Commission. Be deciding     about what I wrote you. Must.     RICHARD.I sat perfectly still for several seconds because I felt that a goodstrong hand had reached out of the distance and gently grabbed me.Dickie had bossed me strenuously through two years of the time before Ihad awakened to the fact that, for his good, I must take the directionof the affairs of him and his kind on my and my kind's shoulders.I suppose a great many years of emancipation will have to pass over theheads of women before they lose the gourd kind of feeling at the sightof a particularly broad, strong pair of shoulders. My heart sparkled atthe idea of seeing Dickie again and being browbeaten in a good old,methodical, tender way. I suppose the sparkle in my heart showed in myeyes, for Polk sat up quickly and took notice of it very decidedly."Wire especially impassioned?" he asked, with a smolder in his eyes."Not especially." I answered serenely, "One of my friend's father is adirector in the C. & G. and he is coming down with him for theconference over at Bolivar between the two roads next week.""Good," answered Polk, heartily, as the flare died out of his eyes.I was glad he didn't have to see the wire for I wanted to use Polk'sbrain a while if I could get his emotions to sleep in my presence. It isvery exasperating for a woman to be offered flirtation when she is inneed of common sense from a man. There are so many times she needs theone rather than the other, but the dear creatures refuse to realize it,if she's under forty."Polk, do you see any logical, honest or dishonest way to get that Roadto take the Glendale bluff line?" I asked, with trepidation, for thatwas the first time I had ever even begun to discuss anythingintelligently with Polk."None in the world, Evelina," he answered with a nice, straight,intellectuality showing over his whole face and even his lazy, posingfigure. "I remonstrated with James and Henry Carruthers both when theyused their influence to have the bonds voted and I told James it wasmadness to invest in all that field and swamp property with just achance of the shops. The trouble was that James had always left all hisbusiness to Henry, along with the firm's business, for a man can't bethe kind of lawyer James is, and carry the details of the handling offilthy lucre in the same mind that can make a speech like the one hemade down in Nashville last April, on the exchange of the Judiciary.James can be the Governor of this good State any time he wants to, orcould, if Henry hadn't turned toes and left him such a bag to hold--noreference to Sallie's figure intended, which is all to the good if youlike that kind of curves!"I took a moment to choose my words."The C. & G. is going to take that bluff route," I answered calmly fromsomewhere inside me that I had never used to speak from before."Do you know anything of the character of Mrs. Joshua?" asked Polk,admiringly, but slipping down from his intellectual attitude of mind andbody and edging an inch nearer. "Bet she had a strong mind or Joshuanever could have pulled off that sun and moon stunt.""Do you know, Polk, there is one woman in the world who could--couldhandle you?" I said, as a sudden vision of what Jane would do, if Polksat on her skirts as he did on mine, flashed across my troubled brain."I'd be mighty particular as to who handles me," he answered impudently,"Want to try?" And with the greatest audacity he laid his head gentlyagainst my knee. I let it rest there a second and then tipped it backagainst the arm of the rocker."It does hurt me to see a man like Cousin James fairly throttled bywomen as he is being," I said as I looked across the street and notedthat the porch of Widegables was full to overflowing with the householdof women."Evelina," said Polk, as he stood up suddenly in front of me, "that oldMossback is the finest man in this commonwealth, but from his situationnobody can extract him, unless it is a woman with the wiliness of thedevil himself. Poison the whole bunch and I'll back you. But we'll haveto plot it later on. I see his reverence coming tripping along with atract in his hand for you and I'll be considerate enough to sneakthrough the kitchen, get a hot muffin-cake that has been tantalizing mynose all this time you have been sentimentalizing over me, and returnanon when I can have you all to myself in the melting moonlight in thesmall hours after all religious folk are in bed. Until then!" And as hewent back through the front hall Mr. Haley came down the front walk."My dear Miss Shelby, how fortunate I am to find you alone," heexclaimed with such genuine delight beaming from his nice, good,friendly, gray eyes that I beamed up myself a bit out of pureresponsiveness."I am so glad to see you, Mr. Haley. Hasn't it been a lovely day?" Ianswered, as I offered him the large rocker Sallie had vacated."It has, indeed, and I don't know when I have been as deeply happy. Thishour with you will be the very climax of the day's perfections, I feelsure."I smiled.To follow you, Jane, I "let a man look freely into my heart and thusencouraged he opened his to mine" and behold, I found Sallie and thetwins and Henrietta all squatting in the Dominie's cardiac regions, justas comfortably as they do it at Widegables."My sympathies have become so enlisted in the struggle which Mrs.Carruthers is having to curb the eccentricities of her oldest daughterthat I feel I must lay definite plans to help her. It is very difficultfor a young and naturally yielding woman like Mrs. Carruthers todiscipline alone even so young a child as Henrietta. I know you willhelp me all you can to help her. Believe me, my dear friend, even in theshort time you have been in Glendale you have become a tower of strengthto me. I feel that I can take my most difficult and sacred perplexitiesto you."Now, what do you think of that, Jane? Be sure and rub this situation inon all the waiting Five disciples. I defy any of them to do so well inless than three months. This getting on a plane of common citizenshipwith a fellow-man is easy. That is, with some men.Still while you are getting on the plane somebody else gets the man.What about that? I didn't want Mr. Haley, but what if I had?"Yes, Henrietta is a handful, Mr. Haley," I answered with enthusiasm,for even the mention of Henrietta enlivens me and somehow Mr. Haley'sgetting in the game of "curbing" her stirred up my risibles. "But--butSallie already has a good many people to help her with the children. Ihave been trying to--to influence Henrietta--and she does not swearexcept on the most exasperating occasions now.""The dear little child created a slight consternation in her SundaySchool class last week when they were being taught the great dramaticstory of Jonah's three days' incarceration in the whale. To quote herexactly, so that you may see how it must have affected the otherchildren, she said: 'I swallowed a live fly onct myself and I'm not damnfool enough to believe that whale kept Jonah down three days, alive andkicking, no matter who says so.'"She then marched out of the class and has not returned these twosucceeding Sabbaths. It was to talk over the matter I called on Mrs.Carruthers this afternoon, and I have never had my sympathies sostirred. We must help her, my dear friend!"I never enjoyed anything more in my life than the hour I spent helpingthat dear, good, funny man plan first aids to the rearing of Sallie'schildren. Besides my cooeperation he has planned to enlist that of AuntAugusta, and I was wicked enough to let him do it. In a small villagewhere the inhabitants have no chance at diversions like Wagnerian operasand collapsing skyscrapers I felt that I had no right to avert thespectacle of Aunt Augusta's disciplining Henrietta.I'll write you all about it, Jane, in a special delivery letter.Jasper whipped Petunia with great apparent severity day beforeyesterday, and we have been having the most heavenly waffles and broiledchicken ever since. I dismissed Jasper for doing it, but Petunia cameinto my room and cried about it a half-hour, so I had to go out where hewas rubbing the silver and forgive him and hire him over."When a woman gits her mouth stuck out at a man and the world in generalthree days hand running they ain't nothing to cure it but a stick," heanswered with lofty scorn."Yes'm, dat's so," answered Petunia. "I never come outen a spell so easybefore." And her yellow face had a pink glow of happiness all over it asshe smiled lovably on the black brute.I went off into a corner and sat down for a quiet hour to think. Nobodyin the world knows everything."Supper's on the table," Jasper announced, after having seen Mr. Haleygo down the front walk to-night. Jasper has such great respect for thecloth that never in the world would he have asked Mr. Haley in to supperwithout having at least a day to prepare for him. Any of my otherfriends he would have asked, regardless of whether or not I wanted them.I somehow didn't feel that I could eat alone to-night, but it was toolate to go for Sallie or Cousin Jasmine, and besides it is weak-mindedto feel that way. Why shouldn't I want to eat by myself?This is a great big house for just one woman, and I don't see why I haveto be that one! I never was intended to be single. I seem to even thinkdouble. Way down in me there is a place that all my life I have beenlaying things aside in to tell some day to somebody that willunderstand. I don't remember a single one of them now, but when the timecomes somebody is going to ask me a question very softly and it is goingto be the key that will unlock the treasures of all my life, and he willtake them out one by one, and look at them and love them and smile overthem and scold over them and be frightened even to swearing over them,perhaps weep over them, and then--while I'm very close--pray over them.I could feel the tears getting tangled in my lashes, but I forced themback.Now, I don't see why I should have been sentimentalizing over myselflike that. Just such a longing, miserable, wait-until-he-comes--andwhy-doesn't-he-hurry-or-I'll-take-the-wrong-man attitude of mind andsentiment in women in general is what I have taken a vow on my soul, andmade a great big important wager to do away with. There are millions oflovely men in the world and all I have to do is to go out and find theright one, be gentle with him until he understands my mode of attack tobe a bit different from the usual crawfish one employed by women fromprehistoric times until now, but not later: and then domesticate him inany way that suits me.Here I've been in Glendale almost three months and have let my time beoccupied keeping house for nobody but myself and to entertain myfriends, planting a flower garden that can't be used at all fornourishment, and sewing on another woman's baby clothes.I've written millions of words in this book and there is as yet not oneword that will help the Five in the serious and important task ofproving that they have a right to choose their own mates, and certainlynothing to help them perform the ceremonial.If I don't do better than this Jane will withdraw her offer and there isno telling how many years the human race will be retarded by my lack ofstrength of character.What do men do when they begin to see the gray hairs on their templesand when they have been best-man at twenty-three weddings, and are tiredof being at christenings and buying rattles, and things at the club alltaste exactly alike, and they have purchased ten different kinds ofhair-tonic that it bores them to death to rub on the tops of their ownheads?I don't want any man I know! I might want Polk, if I let him have half achance to make me, but that would be dishonorable.I've got up so much nice warm sisterly love for Dickie and Mr. Haleythat I couldn't begin to love them in the right way now, I am afraid.Still, I haven't seen Dickie for three months and maybe my desperationwill have the effect of enhancing his attractions. I hope so.Still I am disgusted deeply with myself. I believe if I could experimentwith mankind I could make some kind of creature that would be a lotbetter than a woman for all purposes, and I would--"Supper's ready and company come," Jasper came to the front door toannounce for the third time, but this time with the unctuous voice ofdelight that a guest always inspires in him. I promptly went in towelcome my materialized desire whoever it happened to be.The Crag was standing by the window in the half light that came, partlyfrom the candles in their tall old silver candlesticks that wereGrandmother Shelby's, and partly from the last glow of the sun down overthe ridge. That was what I needed!"I was coming in from the fields across your back yard and I saw thetable lighted and you on the front porch, star-gazing, and--and I gotJasper to invite me." he said as he came over and drew out my chair onone side of that wide square table, while Jasper stood waiting to seathim at the other, about a mile away."I wanted you," I answered him stupidly, as I sank into my place andleaned my elbows on the table so I could drop my warm cheeks into myhands comfortably. I didn't see why I should be blushing."That's the reason I came then," he answered, as he looked at me acrossthe bowl of musk roses that were sending out waves of sweetness to meetthose that were coming in from the honeysuckle climbing over the window."If you were ever lonely and needed me, Evelina, you would tell me,wouldn't you?" he asked, as he leaned towards me and regarded me stillmore closely.And again those two treacherous tears rose and tangled themselves in mylashes, though I did shake them away quickly as a smile quivered its wayto command of my mouth. But I was not quick enough and he saw them.And what he did was just what I wanted him to do! He rose, picked up hischair and came around that huge old table and sat down at the cornerjust as near to my elbow as the steaming coffee pot would let him."If you wanted me any time, would you tell me, Evelina?" he insistedfrom this closer range."No, I wouldn't," I answered with a laugh. "I would expect you to knowit, and come just like you did to-night.""But--but it was I that wanted you badly in this case," he answered withan echo of the laugh.But even under the laugh I saw signs of excitement in his deep eyes andhis long, lean hands shook as they handed me his cup to pour the coffee.Jasper had laid his silver and napkin in front of him and retired toadmonish Petunia as to the exact crispness of her first waffle."What is it?" I asked breathlessly, as I moved the coffee pot frombetween us to the other side."Just a letter that came to me from the Democratic Headquarters in theCity, that shook me up a bit and made me want to--to tell _you_ aboutit. Nobody else can know--I have been out on Old Harpeth all afternoonfighting that out, and telling you is the only thing I have allowedmyself.""They want you to be the next Governor," I said quickly. "And you willbe, too," I added, again using that queer place in my brain that seemsto know perfectly unknowable things and that only works in matters thatconcern him."No!""Yes, Your Excellency," I hurled at him defiantly."You witch, you," he answered me with a pleased, teasing whimsicalitycoming into his eyes. "Of course, you guessed the letter and it was dearto have you do it, but we both know it is impossible. Nobody must hearof it, and the telling you has been the best I could get out of itanyway. Jasper, take my compliments to Petunia, this chicken isperfection!"That eighth wonder of the world which got lost was something even moremysterious than the Sphinx. It was a marvel that could have been usedfor women to compare men to. That man sat right there at my side andate four waffles, two large pieces of chicken and a liver-wing, dranktwo cups of coffee, and then devoured a huge bowl of peaches and cream,with three muffin-cakes, while enduring the tragedy of the realizationof having to decline the Governorship of his State.I watched him do it, first in awe and then with a dim understanding ofsomething, I wasn't sure what. Most women, under the circumstances,would have gone to bed and cried it out or at least have refused foodfor hours. We've got to get over those habits before we get to the pointof having to refuse to be Governors of the States and railroadpresidents and things like that.And while he ate, there I sat not able to more than nibble because I wasmaking up my mind to do something that scared me to death to thinkabout. That gaunt, craggy man in a shabby gray coat, cut ante-bellumwise, with a cravat that wound itself around his collar, snowy anddainty, but on the same lines as the coat and evidently of ruralmanufacture in the style favored by the flower and chivalry of the dayof Henry Clay, had progressive me as completely overawed for severalminutes as any painted redskin ever dominated a squaw--or as Jasper didPetunia in my own kitchen.But after we were left alone with the roses and the candles and hiscigar, with only Jasper's gratified voice mumbling over compliments toPetunia in the distance, I took my courage in my hands and plunged.This can he used as data for the Five."James." I said, with such cool determination in my voice that it almostfroze my own tongue, "I meant to tell you about it several weeks ago, Ihave decided to adopt Sallie and all the children. I intend to legallyadopt the children and just nominally adopt Sallie, but it will amountto the same thing. I don't have to have your consent but I think it iscourteous to ask for it.""What!" he exclaimed, as he sat up and looked at me with the expressionan alienist might use in an important examination."Yes," I answered, gaining courage with time. "You see, I was crying outhere on the porch with loneliness when you found me. I can't stand thisany longer. I must have a family right away and Sallie's just suits me.I have to take a great deal of interest in them anyway and it would beeasier if I had complete control of them. It will leave you with enoughfamily to keep you from being lonely and then we can all be happytogether down into old age.""Have you said anything about this to Sallie?" he asked weakly as hedipped the end of his cigar into his glass of water and watched thesputter with the greatest interest."Not yet, but don't you feel sure that she will consent?" I asked, withconfidence in my plan at fever heat. "Sallie is so generous and shecan't want to see me live lonely always, without any family at all. Now,will she?""She would consent!" he answered slowly, and then he laid his head downon the table right against my arm and shook so that the candlesticksrattled against the candles. "But I don't," he gasped, and for the lifeof me I couldn't tell whether he was crying or laughing, until he sat upagain."Eve," he said, with his eyes fairly dancing into mine, "if women ingeneral mean to walk over political difficulties as you are planning towalk away with this one of mine, I'm for feminine rule. Don't you daresay one word about such a thing to Sallie. Of course, it is impossibleas it is funny."It was a tragedy to have such a lovely scheme as I had thought up on thespur of the moment, knocked down suddenly by a half dozen positive wordsfrom a mere man, and for a moment my eyes fought with his in openrebellion. Then I rose haughtily and walked out on the front porch."Dear," he said, as he followed me and took my hand in his and drew menear him, "don't you know that your wanting to put your shoulder underany burden I may be bearing lifts it completely? There are things inthis situation that you can't understand. If I seem to make sacrifices,they come from the depths of my heart and are not sacrifices. Will youbelieve me?"How can he help loving Sallie with her so emphatically there?I answered him I suppose to his liking and he went on across the road toWidegables and left me alone in the cruel darkness.Please, God, when things seem to be drowning me like this make me swimwith head up. Amen!CHAPTER VIISOME SMOLDERINGSI'm a failure! Yes, Jane, I am!Polk Hayes is an up-to-date, bright man of the world, with lots ofbrains and I should say about the average masculine nature, and a greatdeal more than the average amount of human charm. However, he has got nomore brains than I have, has had really fewer advantages, and it oughtto be easy for me to hold my own against him. But I am about to fail onhim.For the last two weeks he has been constantly with Nell and has got herin a dreamy state that shows in her face and every movement of her slimbody. And yet I know without the shadow of a doubt that he is justbiding his time to try me out and get me on his own terms. My heartaches for Nell, and I just couldn't see him murder her girlhood, and itwill amount to that if he involves her heart any more than it is. I madeup my mind to have it out with him and accordingly let him come and siton my side steps with me late yesterday afternoon, when I have avoidedbeing alone with him for a month."Polk," I asked him suddenly without giving him time to get thesituation into his own hands, skilled in their woman-handling, "do youintend to marry Nell or just plain break her heart for the fun you getout of it?"His dangerous eyes smoldered back at me for a long minute before heanswered me:"Men don't break women's hearts, Evelina.""I think you are right," I answered slowly, "they do just wring anddistort them and deform them for life. But I intend to see that Nell'shas no such torturous operation performed on it if I can appeal to youor convince her.""When you argue with Nell be sure and don't tell her just exactly thethings _you_ have done to _me_ all this summer through, Evelina." heanswered coolly."What do you mean?" I demanded, positively cold with a kind ofastonished fear."I mean that I have never offered Nell one half of the torture you haveoffered me, every day since you came home, with your damned affectionatefriendliness. When I laugh, you answer it before it gets articulate, andwhen I gloom, you are as sympathetic as sympathy itself. I have heldyour hand and kissed it, instituting and not quenching a raging thirstthereby, as you are experienced enough to know. You have made yourselfeverything for me that is responsive and desirable and beautiful andworthy and have put me back every time I have reached out to grasp you.You don't want me, you don't want to marry me at all, you just want--excitement. You are as cold as ice that grinds and generates fire.Very well, you don't have to take me--and I'll get what I can fromNell--and others.""Oh, Polk, how could you have misunderstood me like this?" I moaned fromthe depths of an almost broken heart. But as I moaned I understood--Iunderstood!I'm doing it all wrong! I had the most beautiful human love for him inmy heart and he thought it was all dastardly, cold coquetting. An awfulspark has been struck out of the flint. I'm not worthy to experimentwith this dreadful man-and-woman question. I just laid my head down onmy arms, resting on my knees and cowered at Polk's feet."Don't--Evelina, I didn't mean it." he said quickly in a shaken voice.But he did!I couldn't answer him and as I sat still and prayed in my heart for somewords to come that would do away with the horror I heard Sallie's voicefrom my front walk, and she and Mr. Haley, each carrying a sleepingtwin, came around the corner of the porch.That interruption was a direct answer to prayer, for God knew that Ijust must have time to think before having this out with Polk. Isometimes feel ashamed of the catastrophes I have to pray quick about,but what would I do if I couldn't?I don't know how I got through the rest of this evening, but I did--Ipray for sleep. Amen!Watching the seasons follow each other in the Harpeth Valley gives methe agony of a dumb poet, who can feel though not sing.It was spring when I came down here four months ago, a young, tender,mist-veiled, lilac-scented spring that nestled firmly in your heart andmade it ache with sweetness that you hardly understood yourself.But before I knew it the young darling, with her curls and buds andapple-blooms had gone and summer was rioting over the gardens and fieldsand hills, rich, lush colored, radiant, redolent, gorgeous, rose-scentedand pulsing with a life that made me breathless. Even the roads alongthe valley were bordered with flowers that the sun had wooed to theswooning point.But this week, early as it is, there has been a hint of autumn in theair, and a haze is beginning to creep over the whole world, especiallyin the early mornings, which are so dew-gemmed that they seem to behinting a warning of the near coming of frost and snow.My garden has grown into a perfect riot of blooms, but for the last twoweeks queer slugs have begun to eat the tender buds that are forming forOctober blooming, and I have been mourning over it by day and by nightand to everybody who will listen.Aunt Augusta insists that the only thing to do is to get up with thefirst crack of dawn and carefully search out each slug, remove it anddestroy it. She says if this is done for a week they will beexterminated.I carefully explained it all to Jasper and when I came down to breakfasthe was coming in with three queer green things, also with an injured airof having been kept up all night. I didn't feel equal to making him goon with the combat and ignored the question for two days until I saw allthe buds on my largest Neron done for in one night.I have always been able to get up at the break of day to gosketching--it was at daybreak that I made my sketch in the Defleurygardens that captured the French art eye enough to get me my Salonmention. If I could get up to splash water-colors at that hour, I surelycould rush to the protection of my own roses, so I went to bed with graydawn on my mind and the shutters wide open so the first light would getfull in my eyes.I am glad that it was a good bright ray that woke me and partly dazzledme, for the sight I had, after I had been kneeling down in the rose bedfor fifteen minutes, was something of a shock to me, though no reason inthe world why it should have been. I can't remember that I everspeculated as to whether the Crag wore pajamas or not, and I don't seethat I should have been surprised that he did instead of the night shirtof our common ancestry.He came around the side of the house out of the sun-shot mist and washalf way down the garden path before I saw him or he saw me, and I mustsay that his unconcern under the circumstances was rather remarkable.He was attired in a light blue silk pajama jacket that was open at thethroat and half way down his broad breast. He had on his usual graytrousers, but tag's of blue trailed out and ruffled around his bareankles, and across his bare heels that protruded from his slippers. Hishair was in heavy tousled black curls all over his head and his grayeyes were positively mysterious with interrupted dreams. In one hand hecarried a tin can and in the other a small pointed stick, which lookedmurderously fitted for the extermination of the marauders.I was positively nervous over the prospect of his embarrassment when heshould catch sight of me, but there was none."Eve!" he exclaimed, with surprise, and a ray of pure delight drove awaythe dreams in his eyes. Nobody in the wide world calls me Eve but justthe Crag, and he does it in a queer, still way when he is surprised tosee me, or glad, or sorry, or moved with any kind of sudden emotion.And queer as it is I have to positively control the desire to answer himwith the correlated title--Adam!"I forgot to tell you yesterday that I was coming over to get the slugsfor you, dear," he said as he came down the row of roses next to mine,squatted opposite to where I was kneeling by the bushy, suffering Neronand began to examine the under side of each leaf carefully. He was themost beautiful thing I have ever seen in the early light with his greatchest bare and the blue of the pajamas melting into the bronze of histhroat and calling out the gray in his eyes. I had to force myself intobeing gardener rather than artist, as we laughed together over the glassbowl and silver spoon I had brought out for the undoing of the slugs.Some day I'm going to paint him like that![Illustration: His gray eyes were positively mysterious with interrupteddreams]I found out about the pajamas from questioning Aunt Martha discreetly.They seemed so incongruous in relation to the usual old Henry Clay coatand stock collar, that I had to know the reason why. Mrs. Hargrove's sonwas a very worldly man, she says, and wore them. It comforts her to makethem for the Crag to wear in memoriam. He wears the collars CousinMartha makes him with her own fingers after the pattern she made hisfather's by, for the same reason, and lets Cousin Jasmine cut his hairbecause she always cut her father's, Colonel Horton's, until his death.That accounts for the ante-bellum curls and the irregular tags in theback. I almost laughed when Cousin Martha was telling me, but Iremembered how a glow rose in my heart when I saw that he still hadFather's little old Confederate comrade tailor cut his coats on the samepattern on which he had cut Father's, since the days of reconstruction.Sometimes it startles me to find that with all my emancipation I am verylike other women.But I wonder what I would do if Sallie attired him in any of the lateHenry's wearing apparel?"What do you suppose is the why of such useless things as slugs?" Ispeculated to stop that thought off sharp as we crawled down the rowtogether, he searching one side of each bush and I the other."Well, they brought on this nice companionable hunt for them, didn'tthey?" he asked, looking over into my eyes with a laugh."I wanted to see you early this morning anyway," he hastily resumed."Sallie and the Dominie sat talking to you so late last night that Ididn't feel it was fair to come across after they left. But I wanted youso I could hardly get to sleep, and I was just half awake from a dreamof you, when I came into the garden.""My evenings don't belong to anybody, if you need them, Jamie, and youdon't have to be told that," I answered crossly when I thought what agrand time I might have been having talking about real things with theCrag, instead of wrestling with Polk's romantics or Sallie's and Mr.Haley's gush."Go on and tell me all about it, while I crawl after you like a wormmyself," I snapped still further."Well, here goes! In the City Council meeting last night your UnclePeter told us about the plans that they have made up at Bolivar forentertaining the C. & G. Commission, and the gloom of Polk and Lee, Nedand the rest of them could have easily been cut in blocks and used forcold storage purposes. They are just all down and out about it and nofight left. Of course, they all lose by the bond issue, but I can't seethat it is bad enough to knock them all out like this. I got up inmighty wrath and--and I have got myself into one job. My eloquencelanded me right into one large hole, and I am reaching out for a handfrom you.""Here it is," and I reached over and left a smear of loam across theback of his hand, while I brought away a brown circle around my wristthat the responsive grasp of his fingers left. "Do you want mesingle-handed to get the bluff line chosen?""Not quite, but almost," he answered with another laugh. "You would ifyou tried. I haven't a doubt. Do you remember the talk we had the othernight about its seeming inhospitable of you not to invite the othergentlemen in the Commission over to see you when you invite Hall and hisfather? And you know you had partly planned some sort of entertainmentfor the whole bunch. You had the right idea at the right place, as youalways do. As you said, we don't want Bolivar to see us with what lookslike a grouch on us at their good fortune, and I think that as theCommission are all to be here as the guests of a private citizen,Glendale ought to entertain them publicly. There is no hope to get theline for us, but I would like those men at least to see what the beautyof that bluff road would be. The line across the river runs through theonly ugly part of the valley, and while I know in the balance betweendollars and scenery, scenery will go down and out, still it would begood for them to see it and at least get a vision of what might havebeen, to haunt them when they take their first trip through the swampsacross the country there. Now, as you are to have them anyway, I want tohave the whole town entertain the whole Commission and Bolivar with whatis classically called among us a barbecue-rally, the countryside to beinvited. Bolivar is going to give them a banquet, to be as near likewhat the Bolivarians imagine they have in New York as possible, and Mrs.Doctor Henderson is to give them a pink tea reception to which carefullychosen presentables, like you and me, are to be invited. You rememberthat circus day in July?--a rally will be like that or more so. What doyou think?""Oh, I think you are a genius to think about it," I gasped, as I satdown on a very cruet Killarney branch and just as quickly sat up again,receiving comforting expressions of sympathy from across the bush, towhich I paid no heed. "Those blase city men will go crazy about it. Wecan have the barbecue up on the bluff, where we have always had it forthe political rallies, and a fish-fry and the country people in theirwagons with children tumbling all over everything and--and you will makea great speech with all of us looking on and being proud of you, becausenobody in New York or beyond can do as well. We can invite a lot ofpeople up from the City and over from Bolivar and Hillsboro andProvidence to hear you tell them all about Tennessee while things arecooking and--""This rally is to show off Glendale not--the Crag," he interrupted mewith a quizzical laugh.Now, how did he know I called him the Crag in my heart? I suppose I didit to his face and never knew. I seem to think right out loud when I amwith him and feel out loud, too. I ignored his levity, that was out ofplace when he saw how my brain was beginning to work well and rapidly."You mean, don't you, Jamie, that you want to get Glendale past thisplace that is--humiliating--swimming with her head up?" I asked softlypast a rose that drooped against my cheek.Perfectly justifiable tears came to my lashes as I thought what ahumiliation it all was to him and the rest of them, to be passed by anopportunity like that and left to die in their gray moldiness off themain line of life--shelved."That is one of my prayers, to get past humiliations, swimming with myhead up," I added softly, though I blushed from my toes to my top curlat the necessity that had called out the prayer the last time. It'sawful on a woman to feel herself growing up stiff and sturdy by a man'sside and then to get sight of a gourd-vine tangling itself up betweenthem. I'm the dryad out of one of my own twin oaks down by the gate,and I want the other twin to be--I wonder if his eyes really look to other women like deep gray poolsthat you can look deeper and deeper into and never seem to get to thebottom, no matter if the look does seem to last forever and you feelyourself blushing and wanting to take your eyes away, or if it is just Ithat get so drowned in them!"You've a gallant stroke, Evelina," he said softly, as I at last gainedpossession of my own sight. "And here I am with a hand out to you forassistance in carrying out your own plan that seems to be just the thingto--""Say, Cousin James. Aunt Marfy says for you to come home to breakfastright away. Mis' Hargrove won't let nobody begin until you says theblessing, and Cousin Jasmine have got the headache from waiting for hercoffee. What do you want to fool with Evelina this time of day foranyway?" And with the delivery of which message and reproof Henriettastood on the edge of the path looking down upon us with great andscornful interest."You've got on your night shirt and haven't combed your hair or washedyour face," she continued sternly. "There'll be hell to pay with all thebreakfast getting cold, and I'm empty down to my feet. Come on, quick!""Henrietta," I said, sternly, as I rose to my feet, "I've asked you oncenot to say ugly words like that.""I'll go make the lightning toilet, Henrietta. Do run like a good girland ask Mrs. Hargrove to let Cousin Jasmine have her cup of coffee rightaway. I'll be there before the rest are dead from hunger," and CousinJames skilfully interrupted the threatened feminine clash as he emptiedmy glass bowl into his tin can and stuck the sharp stick in the groundfor future reference. Even Henrietta's pointed allusion to his toilethad not in the least ruffled his equanimity or brought a shade ofconsciousness to his face."Mis' Hargrove said that the Bible said not for any woman to say ablessing at any table or at any place that anybody can hear her, whenCousin Marfy wanted to be polite to the Lord by saying just a little oneand go on before we was all too hungry," answered Henrietta, in her mostscornfully tolerant voice. "If women eat out loud before everybody whycan't they pray their thank-you out loud like any man?""Answer her, Evelina," laughed Cousin James, as he hurried down the walkaway from us."Henrietta," I asked, in a calmly argumentative tone of voice as she andI walked up the path to the house, "didn't Mr. Haley talk to you justyesterday and tell you how wicked it is for you to use--use such strongwords as you do?"Mr. Haley had told me just a few days ago that he and Aunt Augusta hadagreed to open their campaign of reform on Henrietta by a pastorallecture from him, to be followed strongly by a neighborly one from her."No, he never did any such thing," answered Henrietta, promptly--andwhat Henrietta says is always the truth, because she isn't afraid ofanybody or anything enough to tell a lie---"he just telled me over andover in a whole lot of words how I ought to love and be good to Sallie.If I was to love Sallie that kind of way, he said, I would be so busy Icouldn't do none of the things Sallie don't like to do herself and makesme do. 'Stid er saying, 'my precious mother, I love you and want to begood because you want me to,' about every hour, I had better wipe thetwins' noses, and wash the dirt often them, and light Aunt Dilsie'sphthisic pipe, and get things upstairs for Sallie and Miss Jasmine andeverybody when they are downstairs. I'm too busy, I am, to be soreligious. And I'm too hungry to talk any more about it." With which shedeparted.I sank on the side steps and laughed until a busy old bumble-bee camedown from a late honeysuckle blossom and buzzed around to see what itwas all about. Henrietta's statement of the case was a graphic and justone. Sallie has got a tendril around Henrietta which grows by the day.Poor tot, she does have a hard and hardening time--and how can I lectureher for swearing?With a train of thought started by Henrietta I sat at my solitarybreakfast in a deeply contemplative mood. Life was going to press hardon Henrietta. And reared in the fossilized atmosphere of Widegables,which tried to draw all its six separate feminine breaths as one with alone, supporting man, how was she to develop the biceps of strength ofmind and soul, as well as body, to meet the conditions she was likelyto have to meet? Still her coming tussle with Aunt Augusta would be atonic at least. I was just breaking a last muffin and beginning to smilewhen I saw a delegation coming down the street and turning into my frontgate; I rose to meet it with distinction.Aunt Augusta marched at the head and Nell and Caroline were on each sideof her, while Sallie and Mamie Hall brought up the rear, walking moredeliberately and each carrying a baby, comparing some sort of white tagsof sewing. Cousin Martha was crossing the Road in their wake with herknitting bag and palm leaf fan.One thing I am proud of having accomplished this summer is theestablishing of friendly relations with Aunt Augusta. I made up my mindthat she probably needed to have some of my affection ladled out to hermore than anybody in Glendale, and I worked on all the volatile fear andresentment and dislike I had ever had for her all my life, and I havesucceeded in liquefying it into a genuine liking for the martial oldpersonality. If Aunt Augusta had been a man she would have probably leda regiment up San Juan Hill, died in the trenches, and covered herselfand family with glory. She is the newest woman in the Harpeth Valley,and though sixty years old, she is lineally Sallie Carruthers's owngranddaughter."Evelina," she began, as soon as she had martialed her forces intorocking-chairs, though she had Jasper bring her the stiffest andstraightest-backed one in the house, "I have collected as many women asI had time to, and have come up here to tell you, and them, that the menin Glendale are so lacking in sense and judgment that the time has comefor women to stand forth and assume the responsibility of them andGlendale in general. As the wife of the poor decrepit Mayor, I appointmyself chairman of the meeting pro tem and ask you to take the firstminutes. If disgrace is threatening us we must at least face it in anorderly and parliamentary way. And I--""Oh, Mrs. Shelby, is it--is it smallpox?" and as Sallie spoke she huggedup the Puppy baby, who happened to be the twin in her arms, so that shebubbled and giggled, mistaking her embraces for those of frolicsomeaffection.Mamie turned pale and held her baby tight and I could see that she washaving light spasms of alarm, one for each one of the children and onefor Ned."Smallpox, fiddlesticks--I said disgrace, Sallie Carruthers, and theworst kind of disgrace--municipal disgrace." And as Aunt Augusta namedthe plague that was to come upon us, she looked as if she expected it towilt us all into sear and dried leaves. And in point of fact, we all didrustle."Tell us about it," said Nell, with sparkling eyes and sitting up in herlow rocker as straight as Aunt Augusta did in her uncompromising seat.The rest of them just looked helpless and undecided as to whether to berelieved or not."Yes, municipal disgrace threatens the town, and the women must rise intheir strength and avert it," she declaimed majestically with her darkeyes snapping."Yesterday afternoon James Hardin, who is the only patriotic male inGlendale, put before the Town Council a most reasonable andpride-bestirring proposition originated by Evelina Shelby, one ofGlendale's leading citizens, though a woman. She wants to offer thefar-famed hospitality of Glendale--which is the oldest and mostaristocratic town in the Harpeth Valley, except perhaps Hillsboro, andwhich is not in the class with a vulgarly rich, modern place likeBolivar, that has a soap-factory and streetcars, and was a mud-hole inthe landscape when the first Shelby built this very house,--to theCommission of magnates who are to come down about the railroad linesthat are to be laid near us. James agrees with her and urges that it isfitting and dignified that, when they are through with their vulgartrafficking over at insignificant Bolivar, they be asked to partake ofreal southern hospitality at its fountain head, especially as Evelina isobliged to invite two of them as personal friends. Do you not see it inthat light?" And Aunt Augusta looked at us with the martial mien of ageneral commanding his army for a campaign."It would be nice," answered Mamie, as she turned little Ned over on hisstomach across her knee and began to sway him and trot him at the sametime, which was his signal to get off into a nap. "But Ned said lastnight that he had lost so much in the bond subscription, that he didn'tfeel like spending any more money for an entertainment, that wouldn't doone bit of good about the taxes or bonds or anything. The baby wasbeginning to fret, so I don't think I understood it exactly.""I don't think you did," answered Aunt Augusta, witheringly, "That isnot the point at all, and--""But Mr. Greenfield said last night, while he was discussing it withFather, that it would do no good whatever and probably be anembarrassment to the Commission, our putting in a pitiful bid like that.He--" but Caroline got no further with the feminine echo of hermasculine opinion-former."Peter Shelby put that objection much more picturesquely than LeeGreenfield," Aunt Augusta snapped. "He said that licking those men'shands would turn his stomach, after swallowing that bond issue. However,all this has nothing to do with the case. I am trying to--""Polk said last night that he thought it would be much more spectacularfor all the good looking women in town to go when we are invited to Mrs.Henderson's tea for the big bugs, and dazzle 'em so that it would atleast put Glendale on the map," said Nell, with spirit. "He made me somad that I--""Mr. Haley thinks that we should be very careful not to feel malice orenvy towards Bolivar, but to rejoice at their good fortune in gettingboth roads and the shops, even if it does mean a loss to us. What ismaterial wealth in this world anyway when we can depend so on--"Sallie's expression was so beautifully silly and like the Dominie's,that it was all that I could do not to give vent to an unworthy shout.Nell saw it as I did and I felt her smother a giggle.But before Aunt Augusta could get her breath to put the crux of thematter straight before her feminine tribunal, Aunt Martha beat her to itas she placidly rocked back and forth knitting lace for a petticoat forHenrietta."Of course, Glendale doesn't really care about the railroad; in fact, wewould much rather not have our seclusion broken in upon, especially asthey might choose the route they have prospected"--with a glance atSallie--"but it is to show them our friendliness, more Bolivar than theactual Commission, and our desire to rejoice with them in their goodfortune. It would be very mean spirited of us to ignore them and notassist them in entertaining their guests, especially as some of themmust be invited. We've never been in such an attitude as that toBolivar!""Exactly, Martha," answered Aunt Augusta with relief. "The thought ofproud old Glendale putting herself in an attitude of municipal sulkstowards common Bolivar seemed an unbearable disgrace to me. Didn't weinvite them up for a great fish-fry on the river when they opened thatodious soap factory, and ask them to let us help take care of some oftheir delegates when they had the Methodist Conference? They sent one ofthe two bishops to you, you remember, Martha, and I am sure yourentertainment of him was so lavish that he went home ill. No man saidus nay in the exercising our right of religious hospitality, why shouldthey in our civic? We must not allow the town to put us in such anattitude! Must Not! It was for this that I called this meeting atEvelina's, as she was the one to propose this public-spirited andcreditable plan.""But what shall we do if they don't want to have it?" asked Mamie."I have asked, when did the men of Glendale begin to dictate to thewomen as to whom they should offer their hospitality?" answered AuntAugusta, as she arose to her feet. "Are we free women, and have we, orhave we not, command of our own storerooms and our own servants and ourown time and strength?"And as I looked up at the tall, fierce, white-haired old dame of highdegree, daughter of the women of the Colonies and the women of theWilderness days, I got exactly the same sensation I had when I saw theGoddess of Liberty loom up out of the mist as I sailed into the harborof my own land from a foreign one. And what I was feeling I knew everywoman present was feeling in a greater or less degree, except perhapsSallie, for her face was a puzzle of sore amazement and a pleadingdesire for further sleep."Have we or have we not?" Aunt Augusta again demanded, and just then amost wonderful thing happened!Jane stood in our midst!Oh, Jane, you were a miracle to me, but I must go on writing about itall calmly for the sake of the Five!I made a mad rush from my rocker to throw myself into her arms, but shestopped me with one glance of her cold, official eye that quelled me,and stood attention before Aunt Augusta."Madam President," she said in her grandest parliamentary voice, "it wasby accident that I interrupted the proceedings of what I take to be anofficial meeting. Have I your permission to withdraw? I am Miss Shelby'sguest, Miss Mathers, and I can easily await her greetings until theadjournment of this body."Oh, Jane, and my arms just hungry for you!"Madam," answered Aunt Augusta, in her grandest manner and a voice sofilled with cordiality that I hardly knew it, "it is the pleasure of thechair to interrupt proceedings and to welcome you. Evelina, introduce usall!"It was all just glorious! I never saw anybody get a more lovely ovationthan Jane did from my friends, for they had all heard about her, readwith awe clippings I showed them about her speeches and--were aboutready for her.Sallie kissed her on both cheeks, Mamie laid the baby in her arms with adevout expression, and Nell clung to her with the rapture of the newlyproselyted in her face. Aunt Martha made her welcome in her dearestmanner and Caroline beamed on her with the return of a lot of the fireand spirit of the youth that hanging on the doled-out affections of LeeGreenfield had starved in her.And it was characteristic of Jane and her methods that it took much lesstime than it takes me to write it, for her to get all the greetings overwith, explain that she had sent me a letter telling me that she wascoming that must have gone astray, get everybody named and ticketed inher mind, and get us all back to business.Aunt Augusta explained the situation to her with so much feeling andeloquence that she swept us all off our feet, and when she was ready toput the question again to us as to our willingness to embark on ourdefiance of our fellow-townsmen, the answer of enthusiastic acquiescencewas ready for her."Of course, as none of you have any official municipal status, theinvitation will have to be given informally, in a social way, to theCommission through Miss Shelby's friend, Mr. Richard Hall," said Jane,when Aunt Augusta had called on her to give us her opinion of thesituation in general and the mode of procedure. "We find it best in allwomen-questions of the present, to do things in a perfectly legal andparliamentary way.""Must we tell them about it or not?" asked Mamie, in a wavering voice,looking up devoutly at Jane, who had held young Ned against the stiffwhite linen shirt of her traveling dress just as comfortably as if hewere her own seventh."Did they consult you before deciding to refuse your suggestion?" askedJane, calmly and thoughtfully."They did not," trumpeted Aunt Augusta."Then wouldn't it be the most regular way to proceed to get anacceptance of the invitation from the Commission and then extend themone to be present?" pronounced Jane, coolly, seemingly totallyunconscious that she was exploding; a bomb shell."It would, and we will consider it so settled," answered Aunt Augusta,dominatingly.This quick and revolutionary decision gave me a shock. I could see thata woman doesn't like to feel that there is a stick of dynamitebetween her and a man, when she puts her head down under his chin or hercheek to his, but advanced women must suffer that. Still I'm glad thatthe Crag is on our side of the fence. I felt sorry for Mamie andCaroline--and Sallie looked a tragedy.In fact, a shade of depression was about to steal over the spirits ofthe meeting when Aunt Augusta luckily called for the discussion of plansfor the rally.Feeding other human beings is the natural, instituted, physiological,pathological, metaphysical, and spiritual outlet for a woman's nature,and that is why she is so happy when she gets out her family receiptbook for a called rehearsal for the functioning of her hospitality. Therevolution went home happy and excited over the martialing of theirflesh pots.I'm glad Jane is asleep across the hall to-night. If I had had toshoulder all this outbreak by myself I would have compromised byinstituting a campaign of wheedling, the like of which this town neversuffered before, and then when this glorious rally was finally pulledoff, the cajoled masculine population would have fairly swelled withpride over having done it!Of course, by every known test of conduct and economics, their attitudein the matter is entirely right. Men work to all given points instraight, clear-cut, logical lines only to find women at the point ofresults waiting for them, with unforeseen culminations, which wouldhave been impossible to them.And I am also glad the Crag is partly responsible for starting, or atleast unconsciously aiding, this scheme in high finance of mine; and heis also in reality the silent sponsor for this unhatched revolution. Iam deeply contented to go to sleep with that comforting; thought tuckedunder my pillow.CHAPTER VIIIAN ATTAINED TO-MORROWI've changed my mind about a woman's being like a whirlwind. The womenof now are the attained to-morrow that the world since the beginning hasbeen trying to catch up with. Jane is that, and then the day after, too,and what she has done to Glendale in these two weeks has stunned the oldtown into a trance of delight and amazement. She has recreated us,breathed the breath of modernity into us, and started the machine up thegrade of civilization at a pace that makes me hold my breath for fear ofsomething jolting us.She and Aunt Augusta have organized an Equality League, and that wheelcame very near flying loose and being the finish of Uncle Peter.He came to see me the morning of the first meeting and, when I saw himcoming up the front walk, I got an astral vision of the chips on hisshoulder enlarged to twice their natural size, and called to Jasper tomix the juleps very long and extra deep. But deep as they were, to thevery top of the longest glasses, he couldn't drown his wrath in his."Women, women," he exploded from over the very mint sprig itself, "allfools, all fools from the beginning of time; made that way onpurpose--on purpose--hey? World needs some sort of creature with nobetter sense than to want to spend their lives fooling with babies andthe bread of life. Human young and religion are the only things in theworld men can't attend to for themselves and that's what they need womenfor. Women with no brains--but all heart--all heart--hey?""Why should just a little brain hurt their heart-action. Uncle Peter?" Iasked mildly. There is nothing in the world that I ever met that I enjoyany more than one of Uncle Peter's rages, and I always try to be meeklyinflammatory."They're never satisfied with using them to run church societies andchildren's internal organs, but they want to use 'em on men andcivilization in general. Where'd you get that Yankee school-marm--hey?Why don't she get a husband and a baby and settle down? Ten babies,twenty babies if necessary--hey?""You are entirely mistaken as to the plans that Jane and Aunt Augustahave for the League they are forming this morning, Uncle Peter." I beganto say with delight as to what was likely to ensue. "If you would onlylisten to Jane while she--""Don't want to hear a word she has to say! All 'as the crackling ofthorns under a pot'--all the talk of fools.""But surely you are not afraid to listen to her, Uncle Peter," I daredto say, and then stood away."Afraid, afraid--never was afraid of anybody in my life, Augusta notexcepted!" he exclaimed, as he rose in his wrath. "The men of this townwill show the uprising hussies what we think of 'em, and put 'em back tothe heels of men, where they belong--belong--hey?"And before I could remonstrate with him he was marching down the streetlike a whole regiment out on a charge that was to be one ofextermination, or complete surrender.The Crag told me that evening that the Mayor's office of Glendale hadreeked of brimstone, for hours, and the next Sunday Aunt Augusta sat intheir pew at church, militantly alone, while he occupied a seat in thefarthest limits of the amen corner, with equal militancy.But Uncle Peter's attitude during the time of Jane's campaign forgeneral Equality in Glendale was pathetically like that of an old log,that has been drifting comfortably down the stream of life with the tidethat bore its comrades, and suddenly got its end stuck in the mud sothat it was forced to stem alone the very tide it had been floating on.Jane didn't throw any rocks at anybody's opinions or break the windowsof anybody's prejudices. She had the most lovely heart to heart talkswith the women separately, collectively, and in both small and largebunches. I had them in to tea in the combinations that she wanted them,and I must say that she was the loveliest thing with them that could beimagined. She was just her stiff, ugly self, starchily clad in the mostbeautifully tailored white linen, and they all went mad about her. ThePup and the Kit clutched at her skirts until anybody else would havebeen a mass of wrinkles, and the left breast of her linen blouse didalways bear a slight impress of little Ned's head. The congeniality ofJane and that baby was a revelation to me and his colic ceased after thefirst time she kneaded it out of his fat little stomach with her long,slim, powerful hands according to a first-aid method she had learned inher settlement work, with Mamie looking on in fear and adoration. It mayhave been bloodless surgery but I suspect it of being partly hypnotism,because the same sort of surgery was used on the minds of all my womenfriends and with a like result.The subject of the rally was a fine one for everybody to get together onfrom the start and, before any of them realized that they were doinganything but plan out the details of a big spread, the like of whichthey had been doing for hospitable generations, for the railroadCommission, they were organized into a flourishing Equality League, withofficers and by-laws and a sinking fund in the treasury."Now, Evelina," said Jane, as she sat on the edge of my bed braiding herheavy, sleek, black braid that is as big as my wrist and that shedeclares is her one beauty, though she ought to know that her straight,strong-figure, ruddy complexion, aroma of strength and keen,near-sighted eyes are--well, if not beauties, something very winning,"we must not allow the men time to get sore over this matter of theLeague. We must make them feel immediately that they are needed andwanted intensely in the movement. They must be asked to take theirplace, shoulder to shoulder, with us in this fight for better conditionsfor the world and mankind in general. True to our theory we must offerthem our comradely affection and openly and honestly express our need ofthem in our lives and in our activities. I was talking to Mrs.Carruthers and Nell and Mrs. Hall and Caroline, as well as your CousinMartha, about it this afternoon and they all agreed with me that the menwould have cause to be aggrieved at us about seeming thus to beorganizing a life for ourselves apart from theirs, with no place in itprovided for them. Mrs. Carruthers said that she had felt that theReverend Mr. Haley had been deeply hurt already at not being masked toopen any of the meetings with prayer, and she volunteered to talk to himand express for herself and us our need of him.""That will be easy for Sallie, for she has been expressing need ofpeople in her fife as long as she has been living it," I answered with agood-natured laugh, though I would have liked to have that interviewwith the Dominie myself. He is so enthusiastic that I like to bask inhim once in a while.[Illustration: "We must not allow the men to get sore over this matterof the League"]"I asked young Mr. Hayes to take me fishing with him to-morrow in orderto have a whole quiet day with him alone so that we could get closely intouch with each other. I have had very little opportunity to talk withhim, but I have felt his sympathy in several interested glances wehave exchanged with each other. I am looking forward to theestablishment of a perfect friendship with him."I told myself that I was mistaken in thinking that the expression inJane's eyes was softened to the verge of dreaminess and my inmost soulshouted at the idea of Jane and Polk and their day alone in the woods.Since that night that Polk humiliated me as completely as a man canhumiliate a woman, he has looked at me like a whipped child, and Ihaven't looked at him at all I have used Jane as a wide-spread fanbehind which to hide from him. How was I to know what was going on onthe other side of the fan?It is a relief to realize that in the world there are at least a fewwomen like Jane that don't have to be protected from Polk and his kind.Jane is one of the hunted that has turned and has come back to meet thepursuer with outstretched and disarming hand. This, I suspect, is to beabout her first real tussle; skoal to the victor!"I advised your Aunt Augusta to ask you to talk again to your UnclePeter, and Nell is to seek an interview with Mr. Hardin at her earliestopportunity, though I think the only result will be instruction anduplift for Nell, as a more illumined thing I never had said to me on thesubject of the relation of men and women than the one he uttered to melast night, as he said good-by to me out on the porch in that gloriousmoonlight that seems brighter here in Glendale than I have ever seen itout in the world anywhere else.""What did he say?" I asked perfectly naturally, though a double-bladedpain was twisted around in my solar plexus as the vision of Jane's lastnight interview in the moonlight with the Crag, and Nell'ssoon-to-be-one, hit me broadside at the same time. I haven't had one bymyself with him for a week."Why, of course, women are the breath that men draw into their lungs oflife to supply eternal combustion," was what he said when I asked himpoint-blank what he thought of the League. "Only let us breathe slowlyas we ascend to still greater elevations with their consequent rarefiedair," he added, with the most heavenly thoughtfulness in his fine face."Did it ever occur to you, Evelina, that your Cousin James is really aradiantly beautiful man? How could you be so mistaken, as to both himand his personal appearance, as to apply such a name as Crag to him?"Glendale is going to Jane's head!"Don't you think he looks scraggy in that long-tailed coat, shocks oftaggy hair and a collar big enough to fit Old Harpeth?" I askeddeceitfully.Why shouldn't I tell Jane what I really thought of Cousin James anddiscuss him broadly and frankly? I don't know! Lately I don't want tothink about him or have anybody mention him in my presence. I've got aconsciousness of him way off in a corner of me somewhere and I'm justbrooding over it. Everybody in town has been in this house since Janehas been here, all the time, and I haven't seen him alone for ages itseems. Maybe that's why I have had to make a desert island inside myselfto take him to."And I have been thinking since you told me of the situation in which heand Mrs. Carruthers have been placed by this financial catastrophe, howwonderful it will be if love really does come to them, when her grief ishealed by time. He will rear her interesting children into women thatwill be invaluable to the commonwealth," Jane continued as she tied ablue bow on the end of her long black plait."Do you think that there--there are any signs of--of such a thing yet?"I asked with pitiful weakness as I wilted down into my pillow."Just a bit in his manner to her, though I may be influenced in myjudgment by the evident suitability of such a solution of thesituation," she answered as she settled herself back against one of theposts of my high old bed and looked me clean through and through, evenunto the shores of that desert island itself."I hope you have been noting these different emotional situations andreactions among your friends carefully in your record, Evelina," shecontinued in an interested and biological tone of voice and expressionof eye. "In a small community like this it is much easier to get at thereal underlying motive of such things than it is in a more complicatedcivilization. I have seen you transcribing notes into our book. Since Ihave come to Glendale I am more firmly determined than ever that theattitude of emotional equality that we determined upon in the spring isthe true solution of most of the complicated man-and-woman problems. Iam anxious to see it tried out in five other different communities thatwe will select. I would not seem to be indelicate, dear, but I do notsee any signs of your having been especially drawn emotionally towardsany of your friends, though your attitude of sisterly comradeship andfrankness with them is more beautiful than I thought it was possible forsuch a thing to be. You are not being tempted to shirk any of yourduties of womanhood because of your interest in your art, are you? Iwill confess to you that the thing that brought me down upon you wasyour news of this commission for the series of station-gardens. I thinkyou will probably work better after this side of your nature is at rest.Of course, a union with Mr. Hall would be ideal for you. You mustconsider it seriously."The "must" in Jane's voice sounded exactly like that "must" looked inRichard's telegram, which has been enforced with others just asemphatic ever since.There are some men who are big enough to take a woman with a wound inher heart and heal both it and her by their love. Richard is one of thatkind. What could any woman want more than her work and a man like that?After Jane had laid her strong-minded head on the hard pillow, that Ihad had to have concocted out of bats of cotton for her, I laid my faceagainst my own made of the soft breast feathers of a white flock ofhovering hen-mothers and wept on their softness.A light was burning down in the lodge at the gate of Widegables. Hehasn't gone back to his room to sleep, even when I have Jane'sstrong-mindedness in the house with me. I remember that I gave my wordof honor to myself that I wouldn't try any of my modern emotionalexperiments on him the first night I slept in this house alone, withonly him over there to keep me from dying with primitive woman fright. Ishall keep my word to myself and propose to Richard if my contract withJane and the Five seems to call for it. In the meantime if I choose tocry myself to sleep it is nobody's business.I wonder if a mist rises up to Heaven every night from all thewoman-tears in all the world, and if God sees it, as it clings damparound the hem of His garment, and smiles with such warm understandingthat it vanishes in a soft glow of sleep that He sends down to us!Jane has arisen early several mornings and spent an hour beforebreakfast composing a masterly and Machiavellian letter of invitationfrom the Equality League to the inhabitants of Glendale and thesurrounding countryside to and beyond Bolivar to attend the rally givenby them in honor of the C. & G. Railroad Commission on Tuesday next. Itis to come out to-day in the weekly papers of Glendale, Bolivar,Hillsboro, and Providence, and I hope there will not be so many cases ofheart-failure from rage that the gloom of many funerals will put out thelight of the rally. I hope no man will beat any woman in the HarpethValley for it, and if he does, I hope he will do it so neither Jane norI will hear of it.It was Aunt Augusta who thought up the insulting and incendiary plan ofhaving the rally as an offering of hospitality from the League, and Ihope if Uncle Peter is going to die over it he will not have the finalexplosion in my presence.Privately I spent a dollar and a half sending a night-letter to Richardall about it and asking him if the Commissioners would be willing tostand for this feminist plank in the barbecue deal. He had sent me thenicest letter of acceptance from the Board when I had written theinvitation to them through him, as coming from the perfectly ladylikefeminine population of Glendale, and I didn't like to get them into awoman-whirlwind without their own consent. I paid the boy at thetelegraph office five dollars not to talk about the matter to a humansoul, and threatened to have him dismissed if he did, so the bomb-shellwas kept in until this afternoon.Richard replied to the telegram with characteristic directness:     Delighted to be in at the fight. Seven of us rabid suffragists, two     on the fence, and a half roast pig will convert the other. Found no     answer to my question in letter of last Tuesday. Must!     RICHARD.It was nice of Jane to write out and get ready her bomb-shell and thengo off with Polk, so as not to see it explode. But I'm glad she did.However, I did advise her to take a copy of it along with the reels andthe lunch-basket to read to him, as a starter of their day to bedevoted to the establishment of a perfect friendship between them.Polk didn't look at me even once as I helped pack them and their trapsinto his Hupp, but Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like Polk inhis white flannels, and he and Jane made a picture of perfectly blendedtailored smartness as they got ready for the break-away.There are some men that acquire feminine obligations as rough cheviotdoes lint and Henrietta is one of Polk's when it comes to the fishingdays. He takes her so often that she thinks she owns him and all thetrout in Little Harpeth, and she landed in the midst of the picnic withher fighting clothes on."Where are you and her going at,--fishing?" she asked in a calmlycontrolled voice that both of them had heard before, and which made usquail in our boots and metaphorically duck our heads."Yes, we--er thought we would," he answered with an uncertainty ofvoice and manner that bespoke abject fear."I'll be d---- if you shall," came the explosion, hot and loud. "I wantto go fishing with you, Polk, my own self, and she ain't no good fornothing any way. You can't take her!""Henrietta!" I both beseeched and commanded in one breath."No, she ain't no good at all," was reiterated in the stormy young voiceas Henrietta caught hold of the nose of the panting Hupp and stooddirectly in the path of destruction, if Polk had turned the drivingwheel a hair's breadth. "Uncle Peter says that she is er going to turnthe devil loose in Glendale, so they won't be no more whisky and no morebabies borned and men will get they noses rubbed in their plates, ifthey don't eat the awful truck she is er going to teach the women tocook for their husbands. An' the men won't marry no more then at all,and I'll have to be a old maid like her."Now, why did I write weeks ago that I would like to witness an encounterbetween Jane and Henrietta! I didn't mean it, but I got it!Without ruffling a hair or changing color Jane stepped out of the Huppand faced the foe. Henrietta is a tiny scrap of a woman, intense in awild, beautiful, almost hunted kind of way, and she is so thin that itmakes my heart ache. She is being fairly crushed with the beautifuldepending weight of her mother and the responsibility of the twins, andsomehow she is most pathetic. I made a motion to step between her andJane, but one look in Jane's face stopped me."Dear," she said, in her rich, throaty, strong voice as she lookedpleadingly at the militant midget facing her. Suddenly I was thatlonesome, homesick freshman by the waters of Lake Waban, with Jane'sawkward young arm around me, and I stood aside to let Henrietta comeinto her heritage of Jane. "Don't you want to come with us?" was thesoft question that followed the commanding word of endearment."No!" was the short, but slightly mollified answer as Henrietta dug hertoes into the dust and began to look fascinated."I'm glad you don't want to come, because I've got some very importantbusiness to ask you to attend to for me," answered Jane, in the brisktone of voice she uses in doing business with women, and which intereststhem intensely by its very novelty and flatters them by seeming to endowthem with a kind of brain they didn't know they possessed. "I want youto go upstairs and get my pocketbook. Be careful, for there is over ahundred dollars in the roll of bills--Evelina will give you the key tothe desk--and go down to the drug store where they keep nice littleclocks and buy me the best one they have. Then please you wind it upyourself and watch it all day to see if it keeps time with the clock inyour hall, and if it varies more than one minute, take it back and getanother. While you are in the drug store, if you have time, won't youplease select me a new tooth-brush and some nice kind of paste that youthink is good? Make them show you all they have. Pay for it out of oneof the bills.""Want any good, smelly soap?" I came out of my trance of absoluteadmiration to hear Henrietta ask in the capable voice of a secretary toa millionaire. Her thin little face was flushed with excitement andimportance, and she edged two feet nearer the charmer."It would be a good thing to get about a half dozen cakes, wouldn't it?"answered Jane, with slight uncertainty in her voice as if leaving thedecision of the matter partly to Henrietta."Yes, I believe I would," Henrietta decided judicially. "The 'New MownHay' is what Jasper got for Petunia because he hit her too hard lastweek and swelled her eye. They is a perfumery that goes with it at onequarter a bottle. That makes it all cheaper.""Exactly the thing, and we mustn't spend money unnecessarily," Janeagreed. "But I don't want to trespass on your time, Henrietta, dear,"she added with the deference she would have used in speaking to thePresident of the Nation League or the founder of Hull House."No, ma'am, I'm glad to do it, and I'll go quick 'fore it gets any laterin the day for me to watch the clock," answered Henrietta in statelytones that were very like Jane's and which I had never heard her employbefore.And before any of the three of us got our breath her bare little feetwere flashing up my front walk."Help!" exclaimed Polk as he leaned back from his wheel and fannedhimself with his hat. "Do you use the same methods with grown beaststhat you do with cubs?" he added weakly."It's the same she has always used on me, only this is more dramatic.Beware!" I said with a laugh as I insisted on just one squeeze of Jane'swhite linen arm as she was climbing back into the car."That's a remarkably fine child and she should have good, dependable,business-like habits put in the place of faulty and useless ones. Herprofanity will make no difference for the present and can be easilycorrected. Don't interfere with her attending to my commissions,Evelina. Let's start, Mr. Hayes." And Jane settled herself calmly forthe spin out Providence Road."All the hundred dollars all by herself, Jane?" I called after them."Yes," floated back positively in the wake of the Hupp.For several hours I attended to the business of my life in a haze ofmeditation. If Henrietta ticks off the same number of minutes on thewoman-clock from Jane's standpoint, that Jane has marked off from herown mother's, high noon is going to strike before we are ready for it.But it was only an hour or two of high-minded communing with the futurethat I got the time for, before I was involved in the whirl of dust thatswirled around the storm center, to darken and throw a shadow overGlendale about the time of the publication of the Glendale News, whichoccurs every Thursday near the hour of noon, so that all the subscriberscan take that enterprising sheet home to consume while waiting fordinner, and can leave it for the women of their families to enjoy in theafternoon.I suspect that the digestion of Jane's Equality rally invitationinterfered with the digestion of much fried chicken, corn, and sweetpotatoes, under the roof-trees of the town and I spent the afternoon inhearing results and keeping up the spirits of the insurgents.Caroline came in with her head so high that she had difficulty in seeingover her very slender and aristocratic nose, with a note from LeeGreenfield which had just come to her, asking her to go with him in hiscar over to Hillsboro to spend the day with Tom Pollard's wife, a visithe knows she has been dying to make for two months, for she was one ofPet's bridesmaids. He made casual and dastardly mention that there wouldbe a moon to come home by, but ignored completely the fact that Tuesdaywas the day on which he had been invited by the League, of which he knewshe was a member, to meet and rally around the C. & G. Commission.I helped her compose the answer, and I must say we hit Lee only in highspots. I could see she was scared to death, and so was I, but her danderwas up, and I backed mine up along side it for the purpose of support.Besides I feel in my heart that that note will dynamite the rocky oldsituation between them into something more easily handled.She had just gone to dispatch the missive by their negro gardener whenMamie and Sallie came clucking in. Mamie's face was pink andhigh-spirited, but Sallie was in one complete slump of mind and body."Mr. Haley has just stopped by to say that he thinks no price is toogreat to pay for peace, and fellowship, and good-will in a community,"she said, as she dropped into a rocker and looked pensively after theretreating figure of the handsome young Dominie, who had accompaniedthem to the gate but wisely no farther. He didn't know that Jane hadgone with Polk."And women to pay the price," answered Mamie, spiritedly. "I have justtold Ned that as yet I do not know enough to argue the question ofwoman's wrongs with him, but I have learned a few of her rights. One of_mine_ is to have him accept any invitation I am responsible for havingmy friends offer him, and to accompany me to the entertainment if Idesire to go. I reminded him that I had not troubled him often as anescort since my marriage. He was so scared that he almost let little Neddrop out of his arms, and he got in an awful hurry to go to town, but heasked me to have his gray flannels pressed before Tuesday and to buy hima blue tie to go with a new shirt he has. I never like to spank Ned orthe children, but I must say it does clear the atmosphere.""You don't think we could put it off or--or--" Sallie faltered."No!" answered Mamie and I together, and as I spoke I called Jasper toset out more rockers and have Petunia get the tea-tray ready, for I sawAunt Augusta go across the road to collect Cousin Martha and Mrs.Hargrove and the rest, while Nell whirled by in her rakish little car onher way to the Square and called that she would be back.When Nell used a thousand dollars of her own money, left her by hergrandmother, to buy that little Buick, Glendale promptly had a spell ofepilepsy that lasted for days. The whole town still dodges and swearswhen it sees her coming, for she drives with a combination of femininerecklessness and masculine speed that is to say the least alarming. Tosee Aunt Augusta out for a spin with her is a delicious sight.And it was most interesting to listen to a minute description of thecomposite fit thrown by the male population of Glendale, at their rallyinvitation, but as time was limited I finally coaxed the conversationaround to the subject of the viands to be offered the lordly creaturesin the way of propitiation for the insult that we were forcing them toswallow by taking matters in our own hands, and then we had a reallyglorious time.I am glad I have had a year or more in Paris, months in Italy, weeks inBerlin, and a sojourn in England, just so that I can be sure myself andassure the others with authority that there are no such cooks in all theworld as the women in the Harpeth Valley of Tennessee, United States ofAmerica.The afternoon wore away on the wings of magic, and the long, purpleshadows were falling across the street, a rustle of cool night wind wasstirring the tree-tops and the first star was coming timidly out intothe gloaming, before they all realized that it was time to hurry andscurry under roof-trees.Lee Greenfield was waiting at the gate for Caroline.Just as Henrietta had taken a last peep at the clock on the hall tableand gone to answer Sallie's call to come and help Aunt Dilsie in thebedding of the Kitten and the Pup, Polk's Hupp stopped at the gate, andhe and Jane came up the front walk in the twilight together.She had on his flannel coat over her linen one and his expression wasone of glorified and translucent daze. I didn't look at her--I felt asif I couldn't. I was scared! For a second she held me in her arms andkissed me, _really_--the first time she had ever done it in all mylife--and then went on upstairs with a nice, cool good-night and "thankyou" to Polk."Evelina," he said, as he handed me the empty lunch-basket and also theempty fish-bucket, the first he had ever in his life brought in fromLittle Harpeth, "I was right about that Hallelujah chorus being the truedefinition of the real woman--only they are more so. I have seen alight, and you pointed the way. Will you forgive me for being what Iwas--and trust me--with--with--good-night!" He was gone!Jane's kiss had been one of revelation--to me!For a long time I sat out there in the cool, hazy, windy autumntwilight breeze, that was heavy with the scent of luscious wild grapesand tasseled corn, fanning the flame of loneliness in me until Icouldn't have stood it any longer if a tall gray figure of relief hadnot come up the street and called me down to my front gate."Hail the instigator of a bloodless revolution," laughed the Crag as Istopped myself with difficulty on the opposite side of the gate fromhim. "The city fathers will have to capitulate, and now for the reign ofthe mothers!""And the same old route to subjection chosen, through their stomachs totheir civic hearts," I answered impudently.Overlooking my pertness he went on:"Mayor Shelby was at home with Mrs. Augusta for two hours after dinnerand, as I came by the post-office, I heard him telling Polk inremarkably chastened, if not entirely chaste language, that it was'better to let the women have their kick-up on a feeding propositionthan on something worse,' as he classically put it.""I know it is a great victory," I answered weakly, "but I'm too tired toglory in it. I wish I was Sallie's Puppy being trotted across AuntDilsie's knee, or Kit, getting a rocking in Cousin Martha's arms.""Would any other arms do for the rocking?" came in a queer, audaciousvoice, with a note in it that stilled something in me and made all theworld seem to be holding its breath."I'm tired of revoluting and it's--it's tenderness I want," I falteredin a voice that hardly seemed strong enough to get so far up out of myheart as to reach the ears of the Crag as he bent his head down closeover mine. He had come on my side of the gate at the first weak littlecry I had let myself make a minute or two before.[Illustration: "Is this right?" he asked]"Is this right?" he asked, as he gently took me in his arms, hollowedhis shoulder for a place for my head, and leaning against the oldgate he began to swing me gently to and fro, his cheek against my hairand humming Aunt Dilsie's"Swing low sweet chariot, fer to carry me home."It was.I know now what I want and I am going to have it. I'll fight the wholeworld with naked hands for him. And I'm also going to find some way toget him with all his absurd niceties of honor intact, just because thatwill make him happier.I'll begin at the beginning and some way unclasp those gourdy tendrilsthat Sallie has been strangling him with. I will bunch all the rest ofhis feminine collection and take them on my own hands. I'm going to makea Governor out of him, and then a United States Senator and finally aSupreme Judge. Help! Think of the old Mossback being a progressive, butthat's my party and Jane's.I know he is going to hate terribly to have me ask him to marry me, andI hate to hurt him so, but it is my duty to get Jane's fifty thousanddollars so the Five may be as happy as I am to-night; only there aren'tfive other Crags. I know it will be a life-long mortification to him tohave me do it, but he lost his chance to-night grand-mothering me. Still,I did turn my lips away. I was not quite ready then--I am now.If he wants to go on wearing clothes like that I'm going to let him,even on the Senate floor, but I can't ever stand for Cousin Jasmine tocut his hair any more. I want to do it myself, and I'm going to tell herso, and why. She and I have cried over that miniature of the lost youngConfederate cousin of hers and she'll understand me.But as I think it over--it always is best to be kind, and I believe I'lllet him get through this rally--it's just four days--free and happy man.I don't know whether to go in and wake up Jane or not. I would like togo to sleep with that kiss revelation between us, but maybe it is myduty to the Five to extract some data from her while it is fresh, on thefoam. I am afraid it is going to go hard with her, but somehow I have anewborn faith in Polk that makes me feel that he will make it as easy ashe can for her.Isn't it a glorious thing to realize that neither she nor I will have tosit and be tortured by waiting to see what those men are going to do?CHAPTER IXDYNAMITEWhen a man injures a woman's feelings by any particular course ofconduct to which she objects, the maternal in her rises to the surfaceand she treats and forgives him as she would a naughty child,--but a manmakes any kind of woman-affront into a lover's quarrel. That is whatmasculine Glendale has been doing to its women folks for four days, andI believe everybody has been secretly enjoying it.As to the rally, they have stood aside with their hands in their pocketsand their noses in the air, and if it hadn't been for Aunt Augusta andNell and Jane being natural-born carpenters and draymen, we might havehad to give it up and let them go on with it to their own glory.When Nell and Jane went to see Mr. Dodd about building the long tablesto serve the barbecue dinner on, he said he was too busy to do it andhadn't even any lumber to sell.Then things happened in my back yard that it sounds like a romance towrite about. Jane sent me over to borrow the Crag's team and wagon andHenrietta and Cousin Martha and any of the rest of his woman-impedimentathat I could get. He was out of town, trying a case over at Bolivar, andwouldn't get back until Monday night.I am glad he wasn't here, for it would have gone hard with me to treathim in the manner that Jane decided it was best for all the women inGlendale to treat all the men in this crisis. It sounded sweet and coldas molasses dispenses itself to you in midwinter, and I could see it wasa strain on Mamie and Caroline and Mrs. Kirkland, Nell's mother, andyoung Mrs. Dodd, the carpenter's wife,--the Boston girl that married himbefore she realized him,--to keep it up from day to day.Besides that I'm going to be a politician's wife--though he doesn't knowit yet--and I want the Crag to be away from the necessity of taking anysides in this civilized warfare. That's one reason I am such ago-between for Uncle Peter and the League, I am making votes for my man,so I consider it all right for me never to deliver any of their messagesto each other as they are given to me, but to twist them intoagreeability to suit myself.Sallie said the Dominie was entirely on our side and that was why shewent walking with him Sunday afternoon. All the other men were cool tohim and he is so sensitive.But to get back to the back yard. I glory in writing it and want theFive to consider it as almost sacred data, though I hope they will neverhave to do likewise.Jane and Nell and Aunt Augusta took the two axes and one large hammerand tore down my back fence while I and the others loaded the planks onthe wagon. Jane appointed Henrietta to sit and hold the slow old horsesin case they should have got demoralized by the militant atmospherepervading Glendale and try to bolt. I never saw any human being enjoyherself as Henrietta did, and it was worth it all just to look into herradiant countenance.Jane took all the hard top blows to do herself and left the unlooseningof the lower nails to Aunt Augusta while Nell ripped off the planks thatstuck. I could almost hear Nell's long, polished finger nails go with arip every time she jerked a particularly tough old plank intosubjection, and Aunt Augusta dispensed encouraging axioms about pioneerwork as she banged along behind Jane. Jane herself looked as cool as acucumber, didn't get the least bit ruffled, and had the expression onher face that the truly normal woman has while she is hemming a baby'sflannel petticoat.And though during the day many delightful crises were precipitated, themost interesting were the expressions that devastated Polk Hayes's andLee Greenfield's faces as they came around the side of the house to seewhat all that hammering was about."Caroline!" exclaimed Lee, in perfect agony, as he beheld the lady ofhis ardent, though long-restrained, affections poised across the wheelof the wagon tugging at the middle of a heavy plank which Mrs. Dodd andI were pushing up to her, while Mamie, the mother of seven, stood firmlyon top of the wagon guiding it into place."Help!" gasped Polk, as he started to take the ax from Jane by force.Then we all stopped while Jane quietly gurgled the molasses of thesituation to them, and sent them on down the street sadder and wisermen. I thought Polk was going to cry on her shoulder before he wasfinally persuaded to go and leave us to our fate, and the expression onLee's face as he looked up at torn, dirty, perspiring Caroline, with asmudge on her nose and blood on her hand from an absolutelyinsignificant scratch, was such as ought to have been on Ned's face ashe ought to have been standing by Mamie with the asafetida bottle.That's mixed up but the Five ought to catch the point.It took up all of Saturday afternoon and part of Monday morning, but webuilt those tables, thereby disciplining masculine Glendale with aseverity that I didn't think could have been in us.We all rested on Sunday, that is, ostensibly. Jane put down all sorts ofthings on paper that everybody had to do on Monday and on Tuesday.Henrietta sat by her in a state of trance and it did me good to seeSallie out in the hammock at Widegables taking care of both the Kit andthe Pup, laboriously assisted by panting Aunt Dilsie, because Janeexplained to her so beautifully that she needed a lot of Henrietta'stime, that Sallie acquiesced with good-natured bewilderment. Of course,Cousin Jasmine helped her some, but she was busy aiding Cousin Martha tobeat up some mysterious eggs in the kitchen--with the shutters shutbecause it was Sunday. It was something that takes two days to "set" andwas to be the _piece de resistance_, after the barbecue.Mrs. Hargrove couldn't help Sallie at all with the kiddies, either,because she was looking through all her boxes and bundles for a letterfrom her son, which she thought said something about favoring woman'srights, and if it is like she thinks it is, she is going to go to thebarbecue and get things nice and hot instead of having them brought toher cold.I had hoped to get a few minutes Sunday afternoon to myself so I couldgo up into the garret and look through one of the trunks I brought fromParis with me to see how many sets of things I have got left. I am goingto need a trousseau pretty soon, and I might need it more suddenly thanI expect. I don't see any reason for people's not marrying immediatelywhen they make up their minds, and my half of ours is made up strongenough to decidedly influence rapidity in his. But then I really don'tbelieve that the Crag would care very much about the high lights of atrousseau, and it was just as well that Nell came in to get me to helpher write a letter to National Headquarters to know if she could haveany kind of assignment in the Campaign for the Convention to alter theConstitution in Tennessee when it meets next winter."Have you made up your mind fully to go in for public life, Nell?" Iasked mildly. "Some of your friends might not like it very muchand--and--""If you mean Polk Hayes, Evelina," Nell answered with the positivenessthat only a very young person can get up the courage to use, "I haveforgot that I was ever influenced by his narrow-minded, primitivepersonality at all. If I ever love and marry it will be a man who canappreciate and further my real woman's destiny.""Well, then, that's all right," I answered with such relief in my heartthat it must have showed in my voice and face. I had worried about Nellsince I could see plainly, though she hasn't told me yet, and I am surehe doesn't realize it, that Jane had decided Folk's destiny. Nell is nottwenty-one yet and she will find lots of men in the world that will befully capable of making her believe they feel that way about herdestiny, until they succeed in tying her up to using it for the realutilitarian purposes they are sure such a pretty woman is created for.It will take men in general another hundred years yet, and lots ofsuffering, to realize that a woman's destiny is anything but himself,and get to housekeeping with her on that basis.Of course, I see the justice and need of perfect equality in all thingsbetween the sexes, emotional equality especially, but I hope the timewill never come when men get as hungry to see their women folks as saidfeminists get to see them, after they have been away about four days outin the Harpeth Valley. It takes a woman's patience to stand the tug.The Crag didn't jog into Glendale on his raw-boned old horse untilone-thirty Monday night. I had been watching down Providence Road forhim from my pillow ever since I put out my light at eleven, because Janehad decided that it was our duty to go to bed early so as to be as freshas possible for the rally in the morning. She had walked to the gatewith Polk at ten and hadn't come back until eleven, so, of course, shewas ready to turn in. It was just foolish, primitive old conventionthat kept me from slipping on my slippers and dressing-gown--I've gotthe prettiest ones that ever came across the Atlantic, Louise deMereton, Rue de Rivoli, Paris--and going down to the gate to see him forjust a minute. That second he stood undecided in the middle of the roadlooking at my darkened house was agony that I'm not going to put up withvery much longer.Scientifically I feel that I'm thinking life with one lobe of my brainand breathing with one lung. Still I made myself go to sleep.Everybody believes in God in a different kind of way, and mine satisfiesme entirely. I know that the hairs of my head are numbered and that nota sparrow falls; and I don't stop at that. I feel sure that my tears aremeasured and my smiles are rejoiced over, and when I want a good day tocome to me I ask for it and mostly get it. There never was another likethe one He sent me down this morning on the first slim ray of dawn thatslid over the side of Old Harpeth!The sun was warm and jolly and hospitable from the arrival of its firstrays, but the wind was deliciously cool and bracing and full of the wineof October. It came racing across the fields laden with harvest scents,blustering a bit now and then enough to bring down a shower of nuts orto make the yellow corn in the shocks in the fields rustle ominously ofa winter soon to come.The maples on the bluff were garmented in royal crimson brocaded withyellow, the buck-bushes that grew along the edges of the rocks werestrung with magenta berries and regiments of tall royal purple ironweeds and yellow-plumed golden-rod were marshaled in squads and clumpsfor a background for the long tables.Jane and I with Henrietta were out by the old gray moss rock at thefirst break of day, installing Jasper and Petunia and a few of their_confreres_. Jasper has always been king of all Glendale barbecue-pitsand he had had them dug the day before and filled with dry hickory firesall night, and his mien was so haughty that I trembled for the slavesunder his command. His basket of "yarbs" was under the side of the rockin hoodoo-like shadows and the wagons of poor, innocent, sacrificedlambs and turkeys and sucking-pigs were backed up by the largestinfernal pit. Petunia was already elbow deep in a cedar tub of corn mealfor the pones, and another minion was shucking late roasting-ears andwashing the sweet potatoes to be packed down with the meat by eighto-clock. A wagon was to collect the baked hams and sandwiches andbiscuits and confections of all variety and pedigree from the rest ofthe League at ten o'clock.We didn't know it then but another wagon was already being loaded veryprivately in town with ice and bottles, glasses and lemons and mint andkegs and schooners. I am awfully glad that the Equality League hadforgotten all about the wetting up of the rally, because I don't believewe would have been equal to the situation with Aunt Augusta and Janeboth prohibition enthusiasts, but it did so promote the sentiment ofpeace and good cheer during the day for us to all feel that the men hadnot failed us in a crisis, as well as in the natural qualities inherentin their offering for the feast. There was a whole case of Uncle Peter'sprivate stock. Could human nature have done better than that?But if we did forget to provide the liquids, I am glad we had theforesight to provide other viands enough to feed a regiment, because awhole army came."Evelina," gasped Jane, as we stood on the edge of the bluff thatcommands a view of almost all the Harpeth Valley stretched out like thevery garden of Eden itself, crossed by silver creeks, lined with broadroads and mantled in the richness of the harvest haze, "can all thosewagons full of people be coming to accept our invitation?""Yes, they're our guests," I answered, with the elation of generationsof rally-givers rising in my breast, as I saw the stream of wagons andcarriages and buggies, with now and then a motor-car, all approachingGlendale from all points of the compass."Have we enough to feed them. Jasper?" she turned and asked in stillfurther alarm."Nothing never give out in Glendale yit, since we took the cover offenthe pits for Old Hickory in my granddad's time," he answered, with atrace of offense in his voice, as he stood over a half tub of buttermixing in his yarbs with mutterings that sounded like incantations. Idrew Jane away for I felt that it was no time to disturb him, when thebasting of his baked meats was just about to begin.I was glad that about all the countryside had gathered, unhitched theirwagons, picketed their horses, and got down to the enjoyment of the daybefore the motor-cars bringing the distinguished guests had even startedfrom Bolivar. It was great to watch the farmers slap neighbors on theback, exchange news and tobacco plugs, while the rosy women folksgrouped and ungrouped in radiant good cheer with children squirming andtangling over and under and around the rejoicings."This, Evelina," remarked Jane, with controlled emotion in her voice anda mist in her eyes behind their glasses, "is not only the bone and sinewbut also the rich red blood in the arteries of our nation. I feelhumbled and honored at being permitted to go among them."And the sight of dear old Jane "mixing" with those Harpeth Valley farmerfolk was one of the things I have put aside to remember for always. Theyall knew me, of course, and I was a bit teary at their greetings. Bigmotherly women took me in their arms and younger ones laid their babiesin my arms and laughed and cried over me, while every few minutes somerugged old farmer would call out for Colonel Shelby's "little gal" andlook searchingly in my face for the likeness to my fire-eating, oldConfederate, politician father.But it was Jane that took them by storm and kept them, too, through thecrisis of the day. Jane is the _reveille_ the Harpeth Valley has beenwaiting for for fifty years. I thought I was, but Jane is it.And it was into an atmosphere of almost hilarious enjoyment that thedistinguished Commission arrived a few minutes before noon, just asJasper's barbecue-pits were beginning to send forth absolutely maddeningaromas.Nell whirled up the hill first and turned her Buick across the road bythe bluff with that rakish skill of hers that always sends my heart intomy throat. And whom did she have sitting at her blue, embroidered linenelbow but Richard Hall himself? Good old big, strong dandy Dickie, howgreat it was to see him again, and if I had had my own heart in mybreast it would have leaped with delight at the sight of him! But eventhe Crag's that I had exchanged mine for, though it was an entirestranger to Dickie, beat fast enough in sympathy with the dance in myeyes to send the color up to my face in good fashion as I hurried acrossa clump of golden-rod to meet him."Evelina, the Lovely!" he exclaimed in his big booming voice, as he tookme by both shoulders and shook me instead of shaking merely my hand."Richard the Royal!" I answered in our old _Quartier Latin_ form ofgreeting. I didn't look right into his eyes as I always had, however,and something sent a keen pain through the exchanged heart in my breastat the thought that I might be obliged to hurt the dandy old dear.But suddenly the sight of Nell's loveliness cheered me. She had hadDick in that car with her ever since nine o'clock, almost three hours,showing him the sights of that teeming heavy lush harvest countrysidearound Bolivar and Glendale, all over which are low-roofed old countryhouses which brood over families that cluster around the unit that oneman and a woman make in their commonwealth. Nell's eyes were sweet asshe looked at him. I'll wait and see if I need to worry over him. Withthe fervor I felt I had a right to, I then avoided the issue ofRichard's eyes, put it up to God and Nell, and introduced him to Jane.And while the three of them stood waiting for Nell to back up the Buickand put her spark-plug in her pocket,--only Richard calmly took it andput it in his,--the rest of the cars came up the hill and turned intothe edge of the golden-rod.Aunt Augusta was in the first one with the Chairman of the Commission,whose name even would have paralyzed anybody but Aunt Augusta; andMamie and Cousin Martha, Caroline and several more of the ladies made upthe rest of the Committee who had gone to escort the distinguishedguests to the rally.The Crag was in the last car with a perfectly delicious old gray-hairededition of Dickie, and I almost fell on both their necks at once. Whatsaved them was Polk appearing between us with three long mint-toppedglasses.I'm glad old Dick immediately had his eyebrows well tangled in the mintof his julep, for I got my own eyes farther down into Cousin James'sdeep gray ones than I expected and it was hard to come up. I hadn't hada plunge in them for three days and I went pretty deep."Eve!" he said softly, as he raised his glass and smiled across hisgreen tuft.Yes, I know he knows that I know, there is an answer to that name whenhe says it that way, but I'm not going to give it until I am ready andthe place is romantically secluded enough to suit me. He just dares mewhen he says it to me before other people. That reminds me, the harvestmoon is full to-night and rises an hour later every evening from now on.I don't want to wait another month before I propose to him. I've alwayschosen moonlight for that catastrophe of my life. I wonder if men haveas good times planning the culmination of their suits as I am havingwith mine?But I had to come down quickly to a little thing like the rally and givethe signal to feed all the five hundred people, who by that time werenice, polite, ravening wolves, for Jasper had uncovered the turkey-pitto keep them from getting too brown while the lambs caught up with them.Jane was the master of ceremonies, because I balked at the last minute.I think I would be capable of managing even a National Convention inChicago--that far away from the Harpeth Valley,--but I couldn't do itwith my friends of pioneer generations looking on. A man or woman nevergrows up at all to the woman who has knitted baby socks for them or theman who has let them ride down the hill on the front of his saddle.And at the head of the center table Jane asked the Crag to sit besideher, so that he would be in place to command attention for her when shewanted to speak, and where everybody could hear him when he did.And while the table was piled high and emptied, and piled high again, somany bouquets of oratory were culled, tied, and cast at the guests alongthe table that I believe they would have been obliged to pay exclusiveattention to them if the things to eat had not been just as odoriferousand substantial. Before dinner was over everybody had spoken that was ofa suitable age, and some that had heretofore in the Harpeth Valley beenconsidered of an unsuitable sex.Jane's speech of welcome made such an impression that it is no wondersome of the old mothers in Israel got up to iterate it, as the dinnerprogressed.She, as usual, refrained from prejudice-smashing andstones-at-glass-houses throwing, and she hadn't said ten sentencesbefore she had the whole feeding multitude with her.She began on the way our pioneer mothers had to contrive to keep lardersstocked and good things ready for the households, and she tickled thepalate of every man present by mentioning every achievement in aculinary way that every woman of his household had made in all thegenerations that had gone over Harpeth Valley. She called all theconcoctions by their right names, too, and she always gave the name ofthe originator, who was some dear old lady that was sleeping in theGreenwood at the foot of the hill, or in some grave over at Providenceor Hillsboro or Bolivar, and who was grandmother or great-grandmother toa hundred or more of the guests. I had wondered why Jane had been poringover that old autograph manuscript receipt book in my desk for days, andas she paid these modern resurrecting compliments to the long gonecooks, tears and laughed literally deluged the table.And as she built up, achievement by achievement, the domesticwoman-history of the valley, Jane showed in the most insidious waypossible how the pioneer women had been really the warp on which hadbeen woven the woof of the whole history of their part of the Nation,political, financial, and religious. I never heard anything like it inall my life, and as I looked down those long tables at those aroused,tense, farmer faces, I knew Jane had cracked the geological crust of theHarpeth Valley, and built a brake that would stop any whirlwind on thewoman-question that might attempt to come in on us over the Ridge fromthe outside world. They saw her point and were hard hit. When "Votes forWomen" gets to coming down Providence Road the farmers will hitch up awagon and take mother and the children with a well-packed lunch basketto meet it half way. This is a prophecy!Then, after Jane sat down, I don't believe such a speechifying ever wasbefore as resounded out over the river, even in the time of Old Hickory.Everybody had something to say and got to his feet to say it well, evenif some of them did brandish a turkey wing or a Iamb rib to emphasizetheir points.And the women were the funniest things I ever beheld, as we were treatedto one maiden speech after another, issuing from the lips of plumpmatrons anywhere from thirty to sixty. They had never done it before,but liked it after they had tried.Mother Mayberry from Providence, who is the grand old woman of the wholevalley, having established her claim to the title thirty years ago bytaking up her dead doctor husband's practice and "riding saddlebags tosuffering ever since," as she puts it, broke the feminine ice by risingfrom her seat by the side of one of the entranced Magnates,--who hadbeen so delighted with her and her philosophies that he could hardly dohis dinner justice,--and addressing the rally in her wonderful old voicewith her white curls flying and her cheeks as pink as a girl's."Children," she said, after everybody had clapped and clapped so shecouldn't get a start for several minutes, "The Harpeth Valley women havebeen a-marching along behind the men for many a day, because theirstrong shoulders had to break undergrowth for both, but now husbands andfathers and sons have got their feet up on the bluff of Paradise Ridge,and it does look like they will be a-reaching down their hands to helpus up, in the break of a new day, to stand by their side; and I, forone, say mount!--I'm ready!"A perfect war of applause answered her, and Dickie's father got up to godown the whole length of the table to shake hands with her, but had towait until she came out of the embrace of Nell's fluffy arms, and got ahand free from the Magnate on one side and Aunt Augusta on the other.Even Sallie began to look speechful, and I believe she would have got upand spoken a few words on the subject of women, and how they need men tolook after them, but she said something to Mr. Haley, who shook his headand then got up and prosed beautifully to us for ten minutes, and wouldhave gone on longer, if he hadn't seen Henrietta begin to look mutinous.The feast had begun at one o'clock, but by Jasper's skilful maneuveringof one gorgeous viand after the other, into the right place, by havingrelays of pones browned to the right turn and potatoes at the properbursting point, it had been prolonged until the shadows of lateafternoon were beginning to turn purple."Don't nobody ever leave one of my barbecue tables until sundown beginsto tetch up the empty bones," has been his boast for years. And as hehad cleared away the last scrap from the last table, he leaned against atree, exhausted and triumphant, with alert, adoring eyes fixed on theCrag, who had risen in his place at the head of the long central table.I had felt entirely too far away from him down at the other end with oneof the junior Magnates and Dickie, but I was glad then that I sat so Icould look straight into his face as the light from across the HarpethValley illumined it without, while a wonderful glow lit it from within.All of the others had spoken of the achievements of their families andforefathers and vaunted the human history of the valley, but he spokeof the great hill-rimmed Earth Pocket itself. He gave the Earth creditfor the crops that she had yielded up for her children's sustenance. Hedescribed how she had bred forest kings for the building of their homes,granted stores of fuel from her mines for their warming, and nourishedgreat white cotton patches and flocks of sheep to clothe them fromfrosts and winds.And as he spoke in a powerful voice that intoned up in the tree-topslike a great deep bell, he turned and looked out over the valley with anexpression like what must have been on Moses's face when he saw into thepromised land.[Illustration: "She's our mother," he said]"She's our Mother," he said, as he flung back the long lock from acrosshis forehead and stretched out his strong arm and slender hand towardsthe sun that was dropping fast down to the rim of Old Harpeth. "She hasbared her breasts to suckle us, covered us from sun and snow, and nowshe expects something from us. If she has built us strong and ready,then we are to answer when the world has need of us and her storehousesand mines. We are to give out her invitations and welcome all who arehungry and who come a-seeking. Gentlemen, her wealth and her fertilityare yours--and her beauty!"For a long, long minute every face in the assembly was turned to thesetting sun, and a perfect glory rose from the valley and burned thecall of its grandeur into their eyes. We seemed to be looking acrossfields and forests and streams to the dim purple hills that might be theramparts of the Holy City itself, while just below us lay the littlequiet village of the dead whose souls must just have gone before.And after that everybody rose with one accord and began to hurry tostart out upon the long roads homeward, just as the great yellow moonrose in the east to balance the red old sun that was sinking in thewest. Only the Magnate sat still in his place for several long minuteslooking out across to Old Harpeth, and I wondered whether he wasthinking about the Eternal City or how many rails it was going to taketo span the valley at his feet.And I--I just stood on the edge of the bluff by myself and let my soullift up its wings of rejoicing that my Crag had got his beautiful desirefor apostrophizing the Mother-Valley so all the world might hear. Andthen suddenly it came over me in a great warm, uplifting, awe-inspiringrush that a woman who takes on herself voluntarily the responsibility ofmarrying a poet and an orator and a mystic, who is the complete editionof a Mossback that all those qualities imply, must square her shouldersfor a long, steady, pioneer march through a strange country.Could such achievement be for me?"Please God!" I prayed right across into the sunset, "make me a fullcup that never fails him!"I don't know how long I stood talking with God that way about my man,but when I turned and looked back under the maples everybody was gone,and I could hear the last rattle and whirl going down the hill. For asecond I felt that there was nobody but Him and me left on the hill, buteven in that second my heart knew better."Now?" I questioned myself softly, out over to the yellow moon that hadat last languidly and gracefully risen, putting the finishing touch tothe scene I had been planning for my proposal."Evelina," said the Crag quietly from where he stood leaning against thetallest maple, "shall we stay here forever and ever, or hurry downthrough the cemetery by the short cut to the station to say good-by tothe railroaders as they expect us to do?"Nobody ever had a better opening than that, and I ought to have said,"Be mine, be mine," with some sort of personal variation of the theme,and have clapped him to my breast and been happy ever after. That iswhat a courageous man would have done under the circumstances, with anopportunity like that, but I got the worst kind of scare I everexperienced, and answered:"How much time have we got? Do you think we can make it?""Plenty," he answered comfortably as I began to quicken my pace to thelittle gate that leads between the hedge into the little half-acre ofthose who rest. Then as I tried to pass him, he caught my hand and mademe walk in the narrow path close at his side.[Illustration: Scrounged so close to his arm that it was difficult forboth of them to walk.]Now even a very strong-minded woman, who had to go through a littlegraveyard with moonlight making the tombstones glower out from deepshadows of cedar trees, in the depths of which strange birds croak,while the wind rustles the dry leaves into piles as they fall, wouldn'tfeel like honorably proposing to the man she intended to marry, evenif she was scrouged so close to his arm that it was difficult for bothof them to walk, would she?I excuse myself this time, but I must hold myself to the same standardthat I want to hold Lee Greenfield to. How do I know that he hasn't hadall sorts of cold, creepy feeling's keeping him from proposing toCaroline?I hereby promise myself that I will ask Cousin James to marry me thenext favorable opportunity I get, if I die with fright the next minute,or have to make the opportunity.Still, I can't help wondering what does keep him so composed under thecircumstances. Surely he wouldn't refuse me, but how do I know for sure?How does a man even know if a woman is--?CHAPTER XTOGETHER?When business and love crowd each other on a man's desk he calmly putslove in a pigeon-hole to wait for a convenient time and attends strictlyto business, while a woman takes up and coddles the tender passion andstands business over in the corner with its face to the wall to keep itfrom intruding.Dickie has been here a whole week since the barbecue-rally, ostensiblytrying to get me down to making a few preliminary sketches for thegardens to his C. & G. railroad stations, and, of course, I am going todo them. I'm interested in them and I'm sensible of the honor it is toget the chance of making them: but the moon didn't rise until after teno'clock last night and I'm getting nervous about that scene of sentimentI'm planning. I can't think of gardens!Still, I am glad he stayed and that everybody has been giving him aparty and that Nell is always there, for he hasn't had time to noticehow I'm treating business and coddling--Jane and Polk and Nell and Caroline and Lee and everybody else,including Sallie and the Dominie, have been all over my house all dayand into the scandalous hours of the night, which in Glendale begin ateleven o'clock and pass the limit at twelve, and I don't see how theystand so much of not being alone with each other. It is wearing me out.I had positively decided on my own side steps for the scene of myproposal to the Crag, under the honeysuckle vine that still has a fewbrave and hearty blossoms to encourage me, with the harvest moonlooking on, but moons and honeysuckle blossoms wait for no man and nowoman especially. They are both fading, and I've never got the spot tomyself more than a minute at a time yet. The Crag, with absolutely noknowledge of my intentions, except it may be a psychic one, sits thereevery night and smokes and looks out at Old Harpeth and maddens me,while some one of the others walks in and out and around and about andsits down beside him, where I want to be.And as for the day time, I am so busy all day long, providing for thisperpetual house-party, that I am dead to even friendship by night. Janeis doing over Glendale from city limits to the river, and I have tospend my time keeping the dear town from finding out what is being doneto it.She is hunting out everybody's pet idea or ideal for some sort of changeor improvement to his, especially _his_, native town, and then leadinghim gently up to accomplishing it so that he will think he has done itentirely by himself, but will tell the next man he meets that there isnothing in the world like a tine energetic woman with good horse sense.In fact, Jane is courting the entire male population in a mostscandalous fashion, and they'll be won before they know it."Now, that Confederate monument ought to have been built long ago out ofthat boulder from the river instead of hauling in a slicked-up graniteslab that would er made the Glendale volunteers of '61 feeluncomfortable like they would do in the beds in the city hotels. Greatidea of mine and that Yankee girl's--great idea--hey?" sputtered UnclePeter, after Jane had spent the evening down with him and Aunt Augusta."It is a fine idea, Uncle Peter," I agreed with a concealed giggle."I've subscribed the first five dollars of the fifty for hauling,setting up and inscribing it, and we are going to let the women givehalf of it out of the egg-money they have got in that Equality QuiltingSociety--some kind of horse sense epidemic has broken out in this town,horse sense, Evelina, hey?" And he went on down the street perfectlydelighted at having at last accomplished his pet scheme. He thought ofit as exclusively his own by now, of course.And the monument is just the beginning of what is going to begin inGlendale. Jane says so."There could be no better place than this rural community to try out anumber of theories I have had in political economy as related to theactivities of women, Evelina," she said to me to-day, looking at me in abenign and slightly confused way from behind her glasses. "Mr. Hayes andI were just talking some of them over to-night, and he seems sointerested in seeing me institute some of the most important ones. Howcould you have ever thought such a man as he is lacking in seriousnessof purpose, dear?""I feel sure that it was just my own frivolous streak that called outthe frivolous in Polk, Jane dear," I answered with trepidation, hopingand praying that the inquisition would not go much further, and tryingto remember just what I had written her about Polk."It may have been that," Jane answered, in a most naively relieved toneof voice. "But you don't know how happy I am, dear, to see that thatstreak is only an occasional charming vein that shows in you, but thatyou are now settling down steadily to your profession. I feel sure thatwhen these garden drawings are done, you and Mr. Hall will have foundyour correct places in each other's lives and it will be just a gloriousexample of how superbly a man and woman can work together at the sameprofession. Mr. Hardin and I were talking about it just last night outon the side porch, and though he said very little I could see howgratified he was at the honors that had come to you and how much helikes Mr. Hall."That settled it, and I made up my mind that when the Harvest Lady leftus to-night to sink behind Old Harpeth, she wasn't going to leave meweakly lonesome. She doesn't set until two o'clock, and I'm going totake all the time I need.And as serious and solemn as I feel over taking such a step for two as Iam deciding on, I can't help looking forward to scribbling a terse andimpersonal account of my having proposed to the man of my choice in thisstrong-minded book, adding a few words of sage advice for the Five,locking it and handing it, key and all, to Jane with a dramatic demandthat she put her hundred thousand dollars in the Trust Company and beginto choose the Five from those she has had in mind.Then before she has had time to read it, I am going to sneakily get itback and blot or tear out some of the things I have written. I candecide later what will be data and what will be dangerous to the cause."And you will be glad to have me--come and live for a time in your homelife, dear?" Jane recalled me to the question in hand by sayingwistfully. "I feel that I have never had such good friends before,anywhere, as these of yours are to me, Evelina," she added.That's one time I got Jane completely in my arms and showed her what areally good hugging means south of Mason and Dixon's line. From laterdevelopments I am glad she had that slight initiation. It must have beenserviceable to her New England disposition.Then just as I was going to ask some of the plans she--and Polk--hadmade, over came Cousin Jasmine, with Cousin Annie and Mary, with Mrs.Hargrove puffing along behind them. They had come to see Jane, but Iwas allowed to stay and have my breath knocked out by their mission.It seems Jane had got a great big book from some firm in New York thattells alt about herb-growing, and how difficult it is to get the onesneeded for condiments and perfumes, and offering to buy first-classlavender and thyme and bergamot and sweet fern and things of that kindin any quantities at a good price. She had shown it to the little oldladies who had been secretly grieving at the separation from theirgarden out on their poorly rented farm, and the leaven had worked--onMrs. Hargrove also. They go back to the farm and she with them! She haddecided on raising mint to both dry and ship fresh, because he of thegay pajamas always liked to have it strong and fresh for the julep ofhis ancestors. I hope she won't forget to take that pattern of Japaneseextraction with her and make some for the Crag now and then, for it willsave my time. Horrors!"We have fully decided on our course of action, Jane, and Evelina,dears," said Cousin Jasmine in a positive little manner that she wouldhave been as incapable of a month ago, as is a pet kitten of barking atthe family dog, "but we do so dread to break it to dear James, becausewe feel that he may think we are not happy under his roof and bedistressed. Do you believe we shall be able to make him see that we mustpursue our independent life, though always needing the support of hisaffection and interest?""I believe you will, Cousin Jasmine," I said, wanting to both laugh andcry to see the Crag's burdens begin to roll off his shoulders like this.And the tears that didn't rise would have been real ones, too, for Ifound that, down in the corner of my heart, I had adored the picture ofmy oak with the tender little old vines clinging around him. It was theproducing gourd I had most objected to and I couldn't see but she wouldbe there until I unclasped her tendrils.But I was forgetting that, in the modern theory of thought-waves, it isthe simplest minds that get the ripples first and hardest. Sallie cameover just as soon as the other delegation had got home to take the twinsoff her hands. Jane had gone upstairs to make more calculations on ourreconstruction, and I was trying to get a large deep breath."Evelina." she said, as she sank in a chair near me and fastened herlarge, very young-in-soul, eyes on mine, "were you just joking Nell, ordid you mean it, when you said the other day that you thought it wouldbe cowardly of a woman not to show a man that she loved him, if he forany reason was not willing to make the first advances to her?" Sallie isperfectly lovely in the faint lavender and pink things that Jane madeher decide to get in one conversation, whereas while Nell and Carolineand I had been looking up and bringing her surreptitious samples of allcolors from the store all summer."Well, I don't know that I exactly meant Nell to take it all to heart,"I answered without the slightest suspicion of what was coming. "But I dothink, Sallie, it would be no more than honest, fearless, and within awoman's own greater rights.""Mr. Haley was saying the other evening that a woman's sweet dependencewas a man's most precious heritage," Sallie gently mused out on theatmosphere that was beginning to be pretty highly charged."Doesn't a woman have to depend on her husband's tenderness and care allof the time--time she is bearing a child, Sallie, even up to theasafoetida spoon crisis?" I asked with my cheeks in a flame butdetermined to stand my ground. "It does seem to me that nature puts herin a position to demand so much support from him in those times that sheought to rely on herself when she can. Especially as she is likely tobring an indefinite number of such crises into their joint existence."Sallie laughed, for she remembered the high horse I had mounted on thesubject of Mamie and Ned Hall the day after the Assembly dance.And as I laughed suddenly a picture I had seen down at the Hall'sflashed across my mind. I had gone down to tell Mamie something AuntAugusta wanted her to propose next day at a meeting of the EqualityLeague about drinking water in the public school building. Mamie haslearned to make, with pink cheeks and shining eyes, the quaintest littlespeeches that always carry the house--and even made one at a publicmeeting when we invited the men to hand over our fifty dollars for themonument. Ned's face was a picture as he held a ruffle of her muslingown between his fingers while she stood up to do it.But the picture that flashed through my mind was dearer than that and Iput it away in that jewel-box that I am going to open some day for myown man.Both Mamie's nurse and cook had gone to the third funeral of the seasonand Mamie was feeding the entire family in the back yard. The kiddieswere sitting in a row along the top of the back steps, eating cookiesand milk, with bibs around their necks,--from the twelve year oldJennie, who had tied on hers for fun, down to the chubby-kins next tothe baby,--and Mamie was sitting flat on the grass in front of themnursing little Ned, with big Ned sitting beside her with his arm aroundboth her and the baby. He was looking first down into her face, and thenat the industrious kiddie getting his supper from the maternal fount,and then at the handsome bunch on the steps, as he alternately munched abite of his cookie and fed Mamie one, to the delight of the children.The expression on his face as he looked at them, and her, and ate andlaughed, is what is back of all that goes to make the American nationthe greatest on earth. Amen!"Sallie," I said, as I reached out and took her plump white hand inmine, "our men are the most wonderful in the world and they are ours anyway we get them. They don't care how it is done, and neither do we, justso we belong in the right way.""Then you don't think it would be any harm for me to tell Mr. Haley Ithink I could live on eighteen hundred dollars a year, until he getssent to a larger church?" was the bomb that, thus encouraged, Sallieexploded in my face.I'm awfully glad that I didn't get a chance to answer, for I don't wantto be responsible for the future failure or success of Mr. Haley'sministry. Just then Henrietta burst into the room with the Kitten in herarms."Keep her for me, Evelina, please, ma'am," she said, with the dearestlittle chuckle, but not forgetting the polite "please," which Jane hadhad to suggest to her just once. What you've done for that waywardunmanageable genius of a child, Jane dear, makes you deserve ten of yourown. That is--help!"Cousin Augusta and Nell and Dickie and me is a going out to watch theman put the dyn'mite in the hole to blow the creek right up andGlendale, too, so they can see if they is enough clean water to put inthe waterworks," she continued to explain. "Nell is a-going to takeDickie in her car, and Cousin Augusta is a-going to take me and UnclePeter in her buggy. Dilsie have got the Kit and Cousin Marfy isa-watching to see she don't do nothing wrong with her. Oh, may I go,Sallie? Jane said I must always ask you.""Yes, dearest," answered Sallie, immensely flattered by the deferencethus paid her."How wonderful an influence the little talks Mr. Haley has had withHenrietta have had on her," she said, with such a happy glow on her faceas the reformed one departed that I succeeded in suppressing the laughthat rose in me at the memory of Henrietta's account of the first one ofthe series.Men need not fear that the time will ever come when they will cease toget the credit for making Earth's wheels go around, from the femaleinhabitants thereof. So I smiled to myself and buried my face in thefragrance under the bubbly Puppy girl's chin and coaxed her arms to clasparound my neck.They are the holy throb of a woman's life--babies. Less than tenwouldn't satisfy me unless well scattered in ages, Jane. On somequestions I am not modern."Still I do feel so miserable leaving Cousin James so alone all winter,"Sallie continued with the most beautiful sympathy in her voice, as shelooked out of the window towards Widegables. "I wonder if I ought tomake up my mind to stay with him? He loves the children so, and you knowthe plans of Cousin Jasmine and the others to go back to their farm.""But he'll have his mother left," I said quietly but very encouragingly.I seemed to see the little green tendril that had unclasped from the oakturning on its stem and winding tight again."Miss Mathers was encouraging Cousin Martha to go to Colorado to seeElizabeth and her family for a long visit this winter. She hasn't seenElizabeth since her mother died and she was so much interested in theeasy way of traveling these days, as Miss Mathers described it, that sheasked her to write for a time-table and what a ticket costs, just thismorning. I really ought not to desert Cousin James.""But think how lonely Mr. Haley is down in the parsonage and of hisinfluence on Henrietta," I urged."Yes, I do feel drawn in both ways," sighed the poor tender gourd. "Andthen you will be here by yourself, so you can watch over Cousin James,as much as your work will allow you, can't you, Evelina?""Yes, I'll try to keep him from being too much alone," I answered withthe most deceitful unconcern."I see him coming to supper and I must go, for I want to be with him allI can, if I am to leave him so soon. I may not make up my mind to it,"with which threat Sallie departed and left me alone in the gloaming, asituation which seems to be becoming chronic with me now.If I had it, I'd give another hundred thousand dollars to the cause, tohear that interview between Sallie and the Dominie. I wager he'll neverknow what happened and would swear it didn't, if confronted with awitness.And also I felt so nervous with all this asking-in-marriage surging inthe atmosphere that it was with difficulty that I sat through supperand listened to Jane and Polk, who had come in with her, plan townsewerage. To-morrow night I knew the moon wouldn't rise until eleveno'clock, and how did I know anyway that Sallie's emancipation might notget started on the wrong track and run into my Crag? His chivalry wouldnever let him refuse a woman who proposed to him and he'll be in dangeruntil I can do it and tell the town about it.Jane and Polk had promised Dickie and Nell to motor down Providence Roadas far as Cloverbend in the moonlight, and I think Caroline and Lee weregoing too. Polk looked positively agonized with embarrassed sorrow atleaving me all alone, and it was with difficulty that I got them off. Ipleaded the greatest fatigue and my impatience amounted to crossness.After they had gone I dismissed Jasper and Petunia and locked the backdoors, put out all the lights in the house and retired to the sidesteps, determined to be invisible no matter who called--and wait!And for one mortal hour there I sat alone in that waning old moonlight,that grew colder and paler by the minute, while the stiff breeze thatpoured down from Old Harpeth began to be vicious and icy as it nipped myears and hands and nose and sent a chill down to my very toes.Nobody came and there I sat!Finally, with the tears tangling icily in my lashes, I got up and wentinto the house and lighted the fat pine under the logs in the hall. Theyhad lain all ready for the torch for a whole year, just as I had lainfor a lifetime until a few weeks ago. Then suddenly they blazed--as Ihad done.My condition was pitiable. I felt that all nature had deserted me, theclimate, Indian summer, the harvest moon and my own charm, but my headwas up and I was going to crackle pluckily along to my blaze, so Iturned towards the door to go across the road and put my fate to thetest, even if I took pneumonia standing begging at his front door. Ihoped I would find him in the lodge and--"Evelina," he exclaimed as he burst open my door, flung himself into thefirelight and seized my arm like a robber baron of the Twelfth Century,making a grab for his lady-love in the midst of her hostile kindred, "Ithought I would never get here! I ran all the way up from the office.Here's a telegram from Mr. Hall that says that the two roads have mergedand will take the bluff route past Glendale, and give us the shops,--andwants to appoint me the General Attorney for the Southern Section. Theywant me to come on to New York by the first train. Can you marry me inthe morning so we can take the noon express from Bolivar? I won't gowithout you. Please, dear, please," and as he stood and looked at me inthe firelight, all the relief and excitement over his news died out ofhis lovely eyes and just the want of me filled them from their verydepths.For several interminable centuries of time I stood perfectly still andlooked into them daringly, drinking my fill for the first time andoffering him a like cup in my own."Eve," he said so softly that I doubt if he really spoke the word."Adam!" I let myself go, and at last pressed my answer against his lipsas he folded me tight and safe.It must have been some time after, I am sure I don't know how long, butI was most beautifully adjusted against his shoulder and he had my handpressed to his cheek, when the awfulness of what had happened brought mestraight up on my own feet and almost out of his arms."Oh, how could you have done it!" I fairly wailed, as I thought of whatthis awful complication was going to lose for the Five to whom I feltmore tender in that second than I had ever felt before."Done what?" he demanded in alarm, pressing both my hands against hisbreast and drawing me towards him again."Asked me to marry you when I--""I have been fighting desperately to see some way to offer myself andall my impedimenta to you all this time, and this has made it all right,don't you see, dear?" he interrupted me to say, as he took possession ofme again and held me with a tender fierceness, which had more ofsuffering in it than passion. "I have always wanted you, Eve, sincebefore you went away, but it didn't seem right to ask you to come into alife so encumbered as mine was. Poverty made it seem impossible, butnow, if you will be just a little patient with them all, I canarrange--""I was going to arrange all that my own self, and now just see what youhave done to me and a whole lot of other women, besides making memiserable all summer," and crowded so close under his chin that hecouldn't see my face, I told him all about the tinder-box Jane hadloaded and then set me on the lid to see that it exploded.I had just worked myself up to the point of how my incendiary missionwas about to touch off all the other love affairs in town, when he beganto shake so with disrespectful laughter that I felt that my dignity wasabout to demand that I withdraw coldly from his arms, where I had justgot so warm and comfortable and at home; but with the first slightintimation of my intention, which was conveyed by a very feeble indeedloosening of my arms from around his Henry Clay collar, he held mefirmly against him and controlled his unseemly mirth, only I could stillfeel it convulsing his left lung,--though as I had no business beingnear enough to notice it, I felt it only fair not to."Please don't worry about those other Five dear women," he begged, inthe nicest and most considerate voice possible so that I tightened myarms again as I listened. "If Miss Mathers doesn't feel justified ingiving up the dowries by your--your failure to prove the proposition, wecan just invite them all down here and in Glendale and Bolivar andHillsboro and Providence, to say nothing of the countryside, we canplant them all cozily. I can delicately explain to their choices exactlyhow to let them manage circumstances like--" he illustrated his schemejust here until it took time for me to get breath to listen to the restof his apology--"this and there is no telling, with such a start as thecult has got in the Harpeth Valley already, how far ft will spread.Please forgive me, dear!""Yes," I answered doubtfully. Then I raised my head and looked him fullin the face as I made my declaration calmly but with the perfectconviction that I still have and always will have, world without end."Yes, but don't you think for one minute I don't _know_ that what Janeand I and all the most advanced women in the world are trying for is theright and just and the only way for men and women to come logically intothe kind of heritage you and I have stumbled into. Absolute freedom andequality between all human beings is going to be the price of KingdomCome. I shall always be humiliated that I got scared out in thegraveyard and didn't do it to you. It is going to be the regret of mylife.""Truly, I'm sorry, sweetheart," he answered most contritely. "If I wereto take my hat and go back to the gate and come in again properly andlet you do it, would that make you feel any better?""No, it wouldn't," I answered quickly because why should I be separatedfrom him all the two and a half minutes it would take to play out thatfarce, when I have been separated from him all the twenty-five yearsthat stretch from now back until the day of my birth? "I am going tobear it bravely and hold up my head and tell Jane--""I wouldn't bother to hold up my head to tell her, Evelina," came fromthe doorway in Polk's delighted drawl as he and Jane stepped into theroom. "Pretty comfortably placed, that head, I should say.""Oh, Jane!" I positively wailed as I extracted myself from the Crag'sgray arms and buried myself in Jane's white serge ones that opened toreceive me. And the seconds that I rested silently there Polk spent inshaking both of the Crag's hands and pounding him on the back so that Igrew alarmed."I didn't do it, Jane, I didn't do it," I almost sobbed with fear ofwhat her disappointment was going to be. "He beat me to it!""Truly. I'm sorry," Cousin James added to my apology as he stood withhis arm on Polk's shoulder."I dare you, _dare_, you to tell 'em, Jane," Polk suddenly said, comingover and putting a hand on one of my shoulders and one on Jane's."Evelina and Mr. Hardin," Jane answered gallantly with her head assumingits lovely independent pose, but with the most wonderful blush spreadingthe beauty that always ought to have been hers all over her one-timeplain face, "the wager stands as won by Evelina Shelby. She had properlyprepared the ground and sowed the seed of justice and right thinkingthat I--I harvested to-night. I had the honor of offering marriage toMr. Hayes just about fifteen minutes ago. I consider that mode ofprocedure proved as feasible and as soon as I have received my answer,whatever it is, I shall immediately proceed with making the endowmentand choosing the five young women according to the agreement.""Polk!" I exclaimed, turning to him in a perfect panic of alarm. Couldhe be trifling with Jane?"Evelina," answered Polk, giving me a shake and a shove over in thedirection of the Crag, "you ought to know me better than to think Iwould answer such a question as Jane put to me, while driving a crankycar in waning moonlight. If you and James will just mercifully betakeyourselves out there on the porch in the cold for a few minutes I willtry and add my data to this equality experiment with due dignity. Go!"We went!"Love-woman," whispered the Crag, after I had broken it to him that wewere going to be a Governor of Tennessee, and not a railroad attorney,and he had crooned his "Swing Low" over me and rocked me against hisbreast for a century of seconds, down on my old front gate, "you areright about the whole question. I see that, and I want to help--but ifI'm stupid about life, will you hold my hand in the dark?""Yes," I answered with both generosity and courage.And truly if the world is in the dusk of the dawn of a new day, what canmen and women do but cling tight and feel their way--together?End of Project Gutenberg's The Tinder-Box, by Maria Thompson Daviess*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE TINDER-BOX ******** This file should be named 14863.txt or 14863.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/4/8/6/14863/Produced by Kentuckiana Digital Library, David Garcia, Chuck Greif, LeonardJohnson and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of Making the House a Home, by Edgar A. GuestThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: Making the House a HomeAuthor: Edgar A. GuestRelease Date: December 7, 2003 [EBook #10393]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MAKING THE HOUSE A HOME ***Produced by Ted Garvin, Dave Morgan and PG Distributed ProofreadersMAKING THE HOUSE A HOMEByEdgar A. Guest1922 _Here's our story, page by page,  Happy youth and middle-age,  Smile and tear-drop, weal and woe  Such as all who live must know--  Here it is all written down,  Not for glory or renown,  But the hope when we are gone  Those who bravely follow on  Meeting care and pain and grief  Will not falter in belief._Making the House a HomeWe have been building a home for the last fifteen years, but it beginsto look now as though it will not be finished for many years to come.This is not because the contractors are slow, or the materials scarce,or because we keep changing our minds. Rather it is because it takesyears to build a home, whereas a house can be builded in a few months.Mother and I started this home-building job on June 28th, 1906. I wastwenty-five years of age; and she--well, it is sufficient for thepurposes of this record to say that she was a few years younger. I wasjust closing my career as police reporter for the Detroit "Free Press,"when we were married. Up to a few months before our wedding, my hourshad been from three o'clock, in the afternoon, until three o'clock inthe morning, every day of the week except Friday. Those are not fithours for a married man--especially a young married man. So it wasfortunate for me that my managing editor thought I might havepossibilities as a special writer, and relieved me from night duty.It was then we began to plan the home we should build. It was to be ahall of contentment and the abiding place of joy and beauty. And it wasall going to be done on the splendid salary of twenty-eight dollars aweek. That sum doesn't sound like much now, but to us, in January, 1906,it was independence. The foundation of our first home was something lessthan five hundred dollars, out of which was also to come theextravagance of a two-weeks' honeymoon trip.Fortunately for all of us, life does not break its sad news in advance.Dreams are free, and in their flights of fancy young folks may be asextravagant as they wish. There may be breakers ahead, and trials, daysof discouragement and despair, but life tells us nothing of them tospoil our dreaming.We knew the sort of home we wanted, but we were willing to beginhumbly. This was not because we were averse to starting at the top.Both Mother and I had then, and have now, a fondness for the best thingsof life. We should have liked a grand piano, and a self-making ice box,and a servant, and an automobile right off! But less than five hundreddollars capital and twenty-eight dollars a week salary do not providethose things.What we _could_ have would be a comfortable flat, and some nicefurniture. We'd pay cash for all we could, and buy the remainder of thenecessary things on time. We had found a wonderful, brand-new flat whichwe could rent for twenty-five dollars a month. It had hardwood floors,steam heat, two big bedrooms, a fine living room with a gas grate, ahot-water heater for the bath, and everything modern and convenient.To-day the landlord would ask ninety dollars a month for that place andtell you he was losing money at that.With the rent paid, we should have eighty-seven dollars a month left tolive on. The grocery bill, at that time, would not run more than twentydollars a month; telephone, gas, and electric light would not exceed tendollars a month; the milkman and the paper boy would take but little,and in winter time a ton of coal per month would be sufficient. Oh, weshould have plenty of money, and could easily afford to pledge twentydollars a month to pay for necessary furniture.It will be noticed that into our dreaming came no physician, nodentist, no expenses bobbing up from unexpected sources. Not a singlebill collector called at the front door of our dream castle to ask formoney which we did not have.If older and wiser heads suggested the possibility of danger, weproduced our plans on paper, and asked them from whence could troublecome? To-day we understand the depth of the kindly smile which ourprotests always evoked. They were letting the dreamers dream.At last the furniture was bought on the installment plan and the newflat was being put in order. It called for a few more pieces offurniture than we had figured on, and the debt, in consequence, wasgreater; but that meant merely a few months more to make payments.It was fine furniture, too! Of course it has long since ceased to serveus; but never in this world shall that dining set be duplicated! Forperfection of finish and loveliness of design, that first oak diningtable will linger in our memories for life. The one we now have costmore than all the money we spent for all the furniture with which webegan housekeeping; and yet, figuring according to the joy it hasbrought to us, it is poor in comparison.And so it was, too, with the mahogany settee, upholstered in greenplush, and the beveled glass dresser, and the living-room chairs. Weused to make evening trips over to that flat merely for the joy ofadmiring these things--our things; the first we had ever possessed.Then came the night of June 27th. We had both looked forward to thatwonderful honeymoon trip up the lakes to Mackinac Island, and tomorrowwe were to start. But right then I am sure that both Mother and I wishedwe might call it off. It seemed so foolish to go away from such abeautiful flat and such lovely furniture.The honeymoon trip lasted two weeks; and one day, at Mackinac Island, Ifound Mother in tears."What the matter?" I asked."I want to go home!" she said. "I know I am silly and foolish, but Iwant to get back to our own house and our own furniture, and arrangeour wedding presents, and hang the curtains, and put that set ofHaviland china in the cabinet!"So back we came to begin our home-building in earnest.The rent and the furniture installments came due regularly, just as wehad expected. So did the gas and electric light and telephone bills.But, somehow or other, our dream figures and the actual realities didnot balance. There never was a month when there was as much left of oureighty-seven dollars as we had figured there should have been.For one thing, I was taken ill. That brought the doctor into the house;and since then we have always had him to reckon with and to settlewith. Then there was an insurance policy to keep up. In our dream days,the possibility of my dying sometime had never entered our heads; butnow it was an awful reality. And that quarterly premium developed adistressing habit of falling due at the most inopportune times. Justwhen we thought we should have at least twenty dollars for ourselves, inwould come the little yellow slip informing us that the thirty days'grace expired on the fifth.But the home-of-our-own was still in our dreams. We were happy, but wewere going to be still happier. If ever we could get rid of thosefurniture installments we could start saving for the kind of home wewanted.Then, one evening, Mother whispered the happiest message a wife evertells a husband. We were no longer to live merely for ourselves; therewas to be another soon, who should bind us closer together and fill ourlives with gladness.But--and many a night we sat for hours and planned and talked andwondered--_how_ were we to meet the expense? There was nothing in thesavings bank, and much was needed there. Mother had cherished for yearsher ideas for her baby's outfit. They would cost money; and I would beno miserly father, either! My child should have the best of everything,somehow. It was up to me to get it, somehow, to.... If only thatfurniture were paid for!Then a curious event occurred. I owed little bills amounting to abouttwenty-one dollars. This sum included the gas, electric light, andtelephone bills, on which an added sum was charged if unpaid before thetenth of the month. I had no money to meet them. I was worried anddiscouraged. To borrow that sum would have been easy, but to pay it backwould have been difficult.That very morning, into the office came the press agent of a localtheatre, accompanied by Mr. Henry Dixey, the well-known actor. Mr. Dixeywanted two lyrics for songs. He had the ideas which he wished expressedin rhyme, and wondered whether or not I would attempt them. I promisedhim that I would, and on the spot he handed me twenty-five dollars incash to bind the bargain. If those songs proved successful I should havemore.The way out had been provided! From Mr. Dixey's point of view, thosesongs were not a success; but from mine they were, for they bridged meover a chasm I had thought I could not leap. I never heard from thatpair of songs afterward; but neither Mother nor I will ever forget theday they were written.It meant more than the mere paying of bills, too. It taught us to havefaith--faith in ourselves and faith in the future. There is always a wayout of the difficulties. Even though we cannot see or guess what thatway is to be, it will be provided. Since then we have gone togetherthrough many dark days and cruel hurts and bitter disappointments, butalways to come out stronger for the test.The next few months were devoted to preparations for the baby, and ourfinancial reckonings had to be readjusted. I had to find ways of makinga little more money. I was not after much money, but I must have more.All I had to sell was what I could write. Where was a quick market for apoor newspaper man's wares?My experience with Mr. Dixey turned me to the vaudeville stage. I couldwrite playlets, I thought. So while Mother was busy sewing at nights Idevoted myself to writing. And at last the first sketch was finished. Atthe Temple Theatre that week was the popular character actor, William H.Thompson. To him I showed the manuscript of the sketch, which was called"The Matchmaker." Mr. Thompson took it on Tuesday; and on Friday he sentword that he wished to see me. Into his dressing-room I went, almostafraid to face him."It's a bully little sketch," said he, as I sat on his trunk, "and I'dlike to buy it from you. I can't pay as much as I should like; but ifyou care to let me have it I'll give you two hundred and fiftydollars--one hundred and fifty dollars now, and the remaining hundrednext week."I tried to appear indifferent, but the heart of me was almost burstingwith excitement. It meant that the furniture bill was as good as paid!And there would be money in the bank for the first time since we weremarried! The deal was made, and I left the theatre with the largest sumof money I had ever made all at once. Later someone said to me that Iwas foolish to sell that sketch outright for so little money."Foolish!" said I. "That two hundred and fifty dollars looked bigger tome than the promise of a thousand some day in the future!"Once more the way out had been provided.And then came the baby--a glorious little girl--and the home had begunto be worth-while. There was a new charm to the walls and halls. The oaktable and the green plush settee took on a new glory.I was the usual proud father, with added variations of my own. One of mypet illusions was that none, save Mother and me, was to be trusted tohold our little one. When others _would_ take her, I stood guard tocatch her if in some careless moment they should let her fall.As she grew older, my collars became finger-marked where her littlehands had touched them. We had pictures on our walls, of course, andtrinkets on the mantelpiece, and a large glass mirror which had been oneof our wedding gifts. These things had become commonplace to us--untilthe baby began to notice them! Night after night, I would take her in myarms and show her the sheep in one of the pictures, and talk to herabout them, and she would coo delightedly. The trinkets on themantelpiece became dearer to us because she loved to handle them. Thehome was being sanctified by her presence. We had come into a new realmof happiness.But a home cannot be builded always on happiness. We were to learn thatthrough bitter experience. We had seen white crepe on other doors,without ever thinking that some day it might flutter on our own. We hadwitnessed sorrow, but had never suffered it. Our home had welcomed manya gay and smiling visitor; but there was a grim and sinister one tocome, against whom no door can be barred.After thirteen months of perfect happiness, its planning and dreaming,the baby was taken from us.The blow fell without warning. I left home that morning, with Mother andthe baby waving their usual farewells to me from the window. Early thatafternoon, contrary to my usual custom, I decided to go home in advanceof my regular time. I had no reason for doing this, aside from a strangeunwillingness to continue at work. I recalled later that I cleaned up mydesk and put away a number of things, as though I were going away forsome time. I never before had done that, and nothing had occurred whichmight make me think I should not be back at my desk as usual.When I reached home the baby was suffering from a slight fever, andMother already had called the doctor in. He diagnosed it as only aslight disturbance. During dinner, I thought baby's breathing was not asregular as it should be, and I summoned the doctor immediately. Hercondition grew rapidly worse, and a second physician was called; but itwas not in human skill to save her. At eleven o'clock that night she wastaken from us.It is needless to dwell here upon the agony of that first dark timethrough which we passed. That such a blow could leave loveliness in itspath, and add a touch of beauty to our dwelling place, seemedunbelievable at the time. Yet to-day our first baby still lives with us,as wonderful as she was in those glad thirteen months. She has not grownolder, as have we, but smiles that same sweet baby smile of hers upon usas of old. We can talk of her now bravely and proudly; and we have cometo understand that it was a privilege to have had her, even for thosebrief thirteen months.To have joys in common is the dream of man and wife. We had supposedthat love was based on mutual _happiness_. And Mother and I had beenhappy together; we had been walking arm in arm under blue skies, and weknew how much we meant to each other. But just how much we _needed_ eachother neither of us really knew--until we had to share a common sorrow.To be partners in a sacred memory is a divine bond. To be partners in alittle mound, in one of God's silent gardens, is the closestrelationship which man and woman can know on this earth. Our lives hadbeen happy before; now they had been made beautiful.So it was with the home. It began to mean more to us, as we began eachto mean more to the other. The bedroom in which our baby fell asleepseemed glorified. Of course there were the lonely days and weeks andmonths when everything we touched or saw brought back the memory of her.I came home many an evening to find on Mother's face the mark of tears;and I knew she had been living over by herself the sorrow of it all.I learned how much braver the woman has to be than the man. I could gointo town, where there was the contagion of good cheer; and where mywork absorbed my thoughts and helped to shut out grief. But not so withMother! She must live day by day and hour by hour amid the scenes of heranguish. No matter where she turned, something reminded her of the joywe had known and lost. Even the striking clock called back to her mindthe hour when something should have been done for the baby."I _must_ have another little girl," she sobbed night after night. "I_must_ have another little girl!"And once more the way out was provided. We heard of a little girl whowas to be put out for adoption; she was of good but unfortunate parents.We proposed to adopt her.I have heard many arguments against adopting children, but I have neverheard a good one. Even the infant doomed to die could enrich, if onlyfor a few weeks, the lives of a childless couple, and they would behappier for the rest of their days in the knowledge that they had triedto do something worthy in this world and had made comfortable the brieflife of a little one."What if the child should turn out wrong?" I hear often from the lips ofmen and women."What of that?" I reply. "You can at least be happy in the thought thatyou have tried to do something for another."To childless couples everywhere I would say with all the force I canemploy, _adopt a baby_! If you would make glorious the home you arebuilding; if you would fill its rooms with laughter and contentment; ifyou would make your house more than a place in which to eat and sleep;if you would fill it with happy memories and come yourselves into acloser and more perfect union, adopt a baby! Then, in a year or two,adopt another. He who spends money on a little child is investing it toreal purpose; and the dividends it pays in pride and happiness andcontentment are beyond computation.Marjorie came to us when she was three years old. She bubbled over withmirth and laughter and soothed the ache in our hearts. She filled thelittle niches and comers of our lives with her sweetness, and became notonly ours in name, but ours also in love and its actualities.There were those who suggested that we were too young to adopt a child.They told us that the other children would undoubtedly be sent to us astime went on. I have neither the space here nor the inclination to listthe imaginary difficulties outlined to us as the possibilities ofadoption.But Mother and I talked it all over one evening. And we decided that weneeded Marjorie, and Marjorie needed us. As to the financial side of thequestion, I smiled."I never heard of anyone going to the poorhouse, or into bankruptcy," Isaid, "because of the money spent on a child. I fancy I can pay thebills."That settled it. The next evening when I came home, down the stairwayleading to our flat came the cry, "Hello, Daddy!" from one of thesweetest little faces I have ever seen. And from that day, until Godneeded her more and called her home, that "Hello, Daddy" greeted me andmade every care worth while.The little home had begun to grow in beauty once more. That firstshopping tour for Marjorie stands out as an epoch in our lives. I am notof the right sex to describe it. Marjorie came to us with only suchclothing as a poor mother could provide. She must be outfitted anew fromhead to toe, and she was. The next evening, when she greeted me, she wasthe proud possessor of more lovely things than she had ever knownbefore. But, beautiful as the little face appeared to me then, morebeautiful was the look in Mother's face. There had come into her eyes alook of happiness which had been absent for many months. I learned then,and I state it now as a positive fact, that a woman's greatesthappiness comes from dressing a little girl. Mothers may like prettyclothes for themselves; but to put pretty things on a little girl is aninfinitely greater pleasure. More than once Mother went down-town forsomething for herself--only to return without it, but with something forMarjorie!We pledged to ourselves at the very beginning that we would makeMarjorie ours; not only to ourselves but to others. Our friends wereasked never to refer in her presence to the fact that she was adopted.As far as we were concerned it was dismissed from our minds. She wasthree years old when she was born to us, and from then on we were herfather and her mother. To many who knew her and loved her, this articlewill be the first intimation they ever have received that Marjorie wasnot our own flesh and blood. It was her pride and boast that she waslike her mother, but had her father's eyes. Both her mother and I havesmiled hundreds of times, as people meeting her for the first time wouldsay, "Anyone would know she belonged to you. She looks exactly likeyou!"Marjorie made a difference in our way of living. A second-story flat,comfortable though it was, was not a good place to bring up a littlegirl. More than ever, we needed a home of our own. But to need and toprovide are two different propositions. We needed a back yard; but backyards are expensive; and though newspapermen may make good husbands theyseldom make "good money."One evening Mother announced to me that she had seen the house we oughtto have. It had just been completed, had everything in it her heart hadwished for, and could be bought for forty-two hundred dollars. The pricewas just forty-two hundred dollars more than I had!All I did have was the wish to own a home of my own. But four years ofour married life had gone, and I was no nearer the first payment on ahouse than when we began as man and wife. However, I investigated andfound that I could get this particular house by paying five hundreddollars down and agreeing to pay thirty-five a month on the balance. Icould swing thirty-five a month, but the five hundred was a highbarrier.Then I made my first wise business move. I went to Julius Haass,president of the Wayne County and Home Savings Bank, who always had beenmy friend, and explained to him my difficulties. He loaned me that fivehundred dollars for the first payment--I to pay it back twenty-fivedollars monthly--and the house was ours.We had become land owners overnight. My income had increased, of course;but so had my liabilities. The first few years of that new house taxedour ingenuity more than once. We spent now and then, not money which wehad, but money which we were _going to get_; but it was buyinghappiness. If ever a couple have found real happiness in this world wefound it under the roof of that Leicester Court home.There nearly all that has brought joy and peace and contentment into ourlives was born to us. It was from there I began to progress; it wasthere my publishers found me; and it was there little Bud was born tous. We are out of it now. We left it for a big reason; but we drive byit often just to see it; for it is still ours in the precious memory ofthe years we spent within its walls.Still, in the beginning, it was just a house! It had no associations andno history. It had been built to sell. The people who paid for itsconstruction saw in its growing walls and rooftree only the few hundreddollars they hoped to gain. It was left to us to change that _house_into a _home. It sounds preachy, I know, to say that all buildingsdepend for their real beauty upon the spirit of the people who inhabitthem. But it is true.As the weeks and months slipped by, the new house began to soften andmellow under Mother's gentle touches. The living-room assumed an air ofcomfort; my books now had a real corner of their own; theguest-chamber--or, rather, the little spare-room--already hadentertained its transient tenants; and as our friends came and went thewalls caught something from them all, to remind us of their presence.I took to gardening. The grounds were small, but they were large enoughto teach me the joy of an intimate friendship with growing things.To-day, in my somewhat larger garden, I have more than one hundred andfifty rosebushes, and twenty or thirty peony clumps, and I know theirnames and their habits. The garden has become a part of the home. It isnot yet the garden I dream of, nor even the garden which I think it willbe next year; but it is the place where play divides the ground withbeauty. What Bud doesn't require for a baseball diamond the rosespossess.Early one morning in July, Bud came to us. Immediately, the characterof that front bedroom was changed. It was no longer just "our bedroom;"it was "the room where Bud was born." Of all the rooms in all the housesof all the world, there is none so gloriously treasured in the memoriesof man and woman as those wherein their children have come to birth.I have had many fine things happen to me: Friends have borne me high onkindly shoulders; out of the depths of their generous hearts they havegiven me honors which I have not deserved; I have more than once comehome proud in the possession of some new joy, or of some taskaccomplished; but I have never known, and never shall know, a thrill ofhappiness to equal that which followed good old Doctor Gordon's briefannouncement: "It's a Boy!""It's a Boy!" All that day and the next I fairly shouted it to friendsand strangers. To Marjorie's sweetness, and to the radiant loveliness ofthe little baby which was ours for so brief a time, had been added thestrength and roguishness of a boy.The next five years saw the walls of our home change in character.Finger marks and hammer marks began to appear. When Bud had reached thestage where he could walk, calamity began to follow in his trail. Oncehe tugged at a table cover and the open bottle of ink fell upon the rug.There was a great splotch of ink forever to be visible to all whoentered that living-room! Yet even that black stain became in time apart of us. We grew even to boast of it. We pointed it out to newacquaintances as the place where Bud spilled the ink. It was an evidenceof his health and his natural tendencies. It proved to all the worldthat in Bud we had a real boy; an honest-to-goodness boy who could spillink--and _would_, if you didn't keep a close watch on him.Then came the toy period of our development. The once tidy house becamea place where angels would have feared to tread in the dark. Buildingblocks and trains of cars and fire engines and a rocking horse wereeverywhere, to trip the feet of the unwary. Mother scolded about it, attimes; and I fear I myself have muttered harsh things when, late atnight, I have entered the house only to stumble against the tin sides ofan express wagon.But I have come to see that toys in a house are its real adornments.There is no pleasanter sight within the front door of any man's castlethan the strewn and disordered evidences that children there abide. Thehouse seems unfurnished without them.This chaos still exists in our house to-day. Mother says I encourage it.Perhaps I do. I know that I dread the coming day when the home shallbecome neat and orderly and silent and precise. What is more, I live inhorror of the day when I shall have to sit down to a meal and not send acertain little fellow away from the table to wash his hands. That hasbecome a part of the ceremonial of my life. When the evening comes thathe will appear for dinner, clean and immaculate, his shirt buttonedproperly and his hair nicely brushed, perhaps Mother will be proud ofhim; but as for me, there will be a lump in my throat--for I shall knowthat he has grown up.Financially, we were progressing. We had a little more "to do with," asMother expressed it; but sorrow and grief and anxiety were not throughwith us.We were not to be one hundred per cent happy. No one ever is. Marjoriewas stricken with typhoid fever, and for fourteen weeks we fought thatbattle; saw her sink almost into the very arms of death; and watched herpale and wasted body day by day, until at last the fever broke and shewas spared to us.Another bedroom assumed a new meaning to us both. We knew it as it wasin the dark hours of night; we saw the morning sun break through itswindows. It was the first room I visited in the morning and the last Iwent to every night. Coming home, I never stopped in hall orliving-room, but hurried straight to her. All there was in that homethen was Marjorie's room! We lived our lives within it. And gradually,her strength returned and we were happy again.But only for a brief time.... Early the following summer I was calledhome by Doctor Johnson. When I reached there, he met me at the frontdoor, smiling as though to reassure me."You and Bud are going to get out," said he. "Marjorie has scarletfever."Bud had already been sent to his aunt Florence's. I was to gather whatclothing I should need for six weeks, and depart.If I had been fond of that home before, I grew fonder of it as the dayswent by. I think I never knew how much I valued it until I was shut outfrom it. I could see Mother and Marjorie through the window, but I wasnot to enter. And I grew hungry for a sight of the walls with theirfinger marks, and of the ink spot on the rug. We had been six years inthe building of that home. Somehow, a part of us had been woven intoevery nook and corner of it.But Marjorie was not thriving. Her cheeks were pale and slightlyflushed. The removal of tonsils didn't help. Followed a visit to mydentist. Perhaps a tooth was spreading poison through her system. Helooked at her, and after a few minutes took me alone into his privateoffice."I'm sorry, Eddie," he said. "I am afraid it isn't teeth. You have along, hard fight to make--if it is what I think it is."Tuberculosis had entered our home. It had come by way of typhoid andscarlet fevers. The specialist confirmed Doctor Oakman's suspicions, andour battle began. The little home could serve us no longer. It was notthe place for such a fight for life as we were to make. Marjorie musthave a wide-open sleeping porch; and the house lacked that, nor couldone be built upon it.And so we found our present home. It was for sale at a price I thoughtthen I should never be able to pay. We could have it by making a downpayment of seventy-five hundred dollars, the balance to be covered by amortgage. But I neither had that much, nor owned securities for even asmall fraction of it.But I did have a friend: a rich, but generous friend! I told him what Iwanted; and he seemed more grieved at my burden than concerned with myrequest. He talked only of Marjorie and her chances; he put his armabout my shoulders, and I knew he was with me."What do you need?" he asked."Seventy-five hundred dollars in cash."He smiled."Have a lawyer examine the abstract to the property, and if it is allright come back to me."In two days I was back. The title to the house was clear. He smiledagain, and handed me his check for the amount, with not a scratch ofthe paper between us.I suggested something of that sort to him."The important thing is to get the house," he said. "When that is doneand you have the deed to it and the papers all fixed up, you come backand we'll fix up our little matter." And that is how it was done.So into our present home we moved. We had a bigger and a better and acostlier dwelling place. We were climbing upward. But we were alsobeginning once more with just a house. Just a house--but founded on amighty purpose! It was to become home to us, even more dearly loved thanthe one we were leaving.For four years it has grown in our affections. Hope has been ours. Wehave lived and laughed and sung and progressed.... But we have also weptand grieved.Twice the doctor had said we were to conquer. Then came last spring andthe end of hope. Week after week, Marjorie saw the sunbeams filterthrough the windows of her open porch; near by, a pair of robins builttheir nest; she watched them and knew them and named them. We plannedgreat things together and great journeys we should make. That they werenot to be she never knew.... And then she fell asleep....Her little life had fulfilled its mission. She had brought joy andbeauty and faith into our hearts; she had comforted us in our hours ofloneliness and despair; she had been the little cheerful builder of ourhome--and perhaps God needed her.She continued to sleep for three days, only for those three days her sunporch was a bower of roses. On Memorial Day, Mother and I stood oncemore together beside a little mound where God had led us. Late thatafternoon we returned to the home to which Marjorie had taken us. It hadgrown more lovely with the beauty which has been ours, because of her.       *       *       *       *       *The home is not yet completed. We still cherish our dreams of what it isto be. We would change this and that. But, after all, what the home isto be is not within our power to say. We hope to go forward together,building and changing and improving it. To-morrow shall see somethingthat was not there yesterday. But through sun and shade, through trialand through days of ease and of peace, it is our hope that something ofour best shall still remain. Whatever happens, it is our hope that whatmay be "just a house" to many shall be to us the home we have beenbuilding for the last fifteen years.HOMEBy Edgar A. Guest  It takes a heap o' livin' in a house t' make it home,  A heap o' sun an' shadder, an' ye sometimes have t' roam  Afore ye really 'preciate the things ye lef' behind,  An' hunger fer 'em somehow, with 'em allus on yer mind.  It don't make any differunce how rich ye get t' be,  How much yer chairs an' tables cost, how great yer luxury;  It ain't home t' ye, though it be the palace of a king,  Until somehow yer soul is sort o' wrapped round everything.  Home ain't a place that gold can buy or get up in a minute;  Afore it's home there's got t' be a heap o' livin' in it;  Within the walls there's got t' be some babies born, and then  Right there ye've got t' bring 'em up t' women good, an' men;  And gradjerly, as time goes on, ye find ye wouldn't part  With anything they ever used--they've grown into yer heart:  The old high chairs, the playthings, too, the little shoes they wore  Ye hoard; an' if ye could ye'd keep the thumbmarks on the door.  Ye've got t' weep t' make it home, ye've got t' sit an' sigh  An' watch beside a loved one's bed, an' know that Death is nigh;  An' in the stillness o' the night t' see Death's angel come,  An' close the eyes o' her that smiled, an' leave her sweet voice dumb.  Fer these are scenes that grip the heart, an' when yer tears are dried,  Ye find the home is dearer than it was, an' sanctified;  An' tuggin' at ye always are the pleasant memories  O' her that was an' is no more--ye can't escape from these.  Ye've got t' sing an' dance fer years, ye've got t' romp an' play,  An' learn t' love the things ye have by usin' 'em each day;  Even the roses 'round the porch must blossom year by year  Afore they 'come a part o' ye, suggestin' someone dear  Who used t' love 'em long ago, an' trained 'em jes' t' run  The way they do, so's they would get the early mornin' sun;  Ye've got t' love each brick an' stone from cellar up t' dome:  It takes a heap o' livin' in a house t' make it home.[_From "A Heap o' Livin'"_]End of Project Gutenberg's Making the House a Home, by Edgar A. Guest*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MAKING THE HOUSE A HOME ******** This file should be named 10393.txt or 10393.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/3/9/10393/Produced by Ted Garvin, Dave Morgan and PG Distributed ProofreadersUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS," WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.     http://www.ibiblio.org/gutenberg/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALLThe Project Gutenberg EBook of Phebe, Her Profession, by Anna Chapin RayThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: Phebe, Her Profession       A Sequel to Teddy: Her BookAuthor: Anna Chapin RayRelease Date: June 11, 2004 [EBook #12584]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PHEBE, HER PROFESSION ***Produced by Afra Ullah, Mary Meehan and the Online DistributedProofreading Team.                         Phebe, Her Profession                      A Sequel to Teddy: Her Book                          BY ANNA CHAPIN RAY                                 1902CHAPTER ONE"How do you do?"The remark was addressed to a young man who roused himself from a brownstudy and looked up. Then he looked down to see whence the voiceproceeded. Directly in his pathway stood a wee boy, a veritable cherubin modern raiment, whose rosy lips smiled up at him blandly, quiteregardless of the sugary smears that surrounded them. One hand claspeda crumpled paper bag; the other held a rusty iron hoop and a cudgelentirely out of proportion to the size of the hoop."And how is everybody at your house?" the babe demanded. "Are veypretty well?""Very well, thank you." The young man was endeavoring to remember where,during the two weeks he had spent in Helena, he had seen this child."So is my people," the boy explained politely. "It is a great whilesince I have seen you."Amicably enough, the stranger accepted his suggestion of a pastacquaintance."It is a good while. Where have you been keeping yourself?"The atom tried to drop into step at his side, tangled himself in the longtails of his little coat, gave up the attempt and broke into a jog trot."My mamma wouldn't let me go to walk alone for 'most a monf.""Why?""'Cause I used to stay a good while, and spend all my pennies atJake's shop.""Where is that?""Vat's where vey sells candy. I've got some now. Want some?" He restedthe hoop against a convenient lamp-post and opened the bag invitingly."Thanks, no. You don't appear to have much to spare."With a sigh of manifest relief, the child gathered up the crumpled top ofthe bag once more."I did have some," he explained; "but I gave half of it to a boy. Vat'swhat my Sunday-school teacher said I must do. And ven, by and by, I tookhis hoop," he added, as he resumed his march."Did your Sunday-school teacher tell you to do that?""No; but I just fought I would. He couldn't give me half of it, you see,for it wouldn't be good for anyfing if it was busted.""No?" The stranger felt that the child's logic was better than hismoral tone."I'm going to be good now, all ve time," the boy went on, looking up withan angelic smile. "When my mamma says 'No, Mac,' I shall say 'All right,'and when my papa smites me, I shall turn ve uvver also. Vat's ve way.""Does he smite you?"The smile vanished, as the child slowly nodded three times."Yes, awful.""What did you do to make him smite you?"Silence."What was it?"The stranger's voice was not so stern as it might have been, and thesmile came back and dimpled the child's cheeks, as he answered,--"Pepperin ve dining-room fireplace.""What made you do that, you sinner?""A boy told me. You ought to have heard vem sneeze, and ven papafumped me.""Much?"The child eyed him distrustfully,"What for do you want to know?""Oh, because--you see, I used to get thumped, myself, sometimes.""Yes, he fumped awful, and ven he stopped and sneezed, and I sneezed,too, and we all sneezed and had to stop.""And then did you turn the other also?""No; I hadn't begun yet. I only sneezed a great deal, and papa saidsomefing about rooty ceilings."In vain the stranger pondered over the last remark. He was unable todiscover its application, and accordingly he passed to a moreobvious question."What is your name?" he asked."What's yours?""Gifford Barrett.""Mine is McAlister Holden.""Um-m. I think I haven't met you before.""You could if you'd wanted to, I live in ve brown house, and I've seenyou lots of times. Once you 'most stepped on me.""Did I? How did that happen?""You were finking of fings and got in my way.""Was that it?""Vat's what my papa says, when I do it. He says I ought to look where Iam going." The boy's tone was severe.There was a pause, while Mac swung his hoop against a post. On therebound, it struck the stranger a sharp blow just under and back of theknees. He turned and glared at the child."I feel just as if I should like to say confound it," Mac drawled,twisting his pink lips with relish of the forbidden word."So should I. Suppose we do. But how old are you?""'Most four.""But little boys like you shouldn't say such words.""My papa does; I heard him. My mamma puts soap in my mouf, when I do it,"he added, with an artless frankness which appeared to be characteristicof him. Then abruptly he changed the subject. "Ve cook has gone, andmamma made such a funny pudding, last night," he announced. "It stuck andbroke ve dish to get it out. Good-bye. Vis is where I live." And heclattered up the steps and vanished, hoop and all, through the frontdoorway, leaving the stranger to marvel at the precocity of westernchildren and at the complexity of their vocabularies.A week later, they met again, this time however not by accident. Theyoung man had tried meanwhile to find out something about the child; buthis sister whose guest he was, had moved to Helena only a month before,and she could furnish no clue to the mystery. His visit was proving adull one; Mac had been vastly entertaining, so, for some days, thestranger had been watching in vain for another glimpse of the boy. Atlength, his efforts were rewarded. Strolling past the brown house, onemorning, he became aware of a tiny figure sitting on the steps in thebright sunshine and wrapped from head to foot in a plaid horse-blanket."Good-morning, Mac!" he called blithely."How do you do?" The voice was a shade more subdued, to-day."Well. What are you doing?""Nofing much." The minor key was still evident."Are you sick?""No; 'course not.""Playing Indian?"Mac shook his head."What is the blanket for, then? It isn't cold, to-day."The lips drooped, and the blue eyes peered out suspiciously from undertheir long lashes."I wants to wear it," he said, with crushing dignity."All right. Come and walk to the corner fruit stand with me."The invitation was too tempting to be refused, and Mac scrambled to hisfeet. As he did so, the blanket slipped to one side. Swiftly Mac huddledit around him again; but the momentary glimpse had sufficed to show thestranger a dark blue gown and a white apron above it."Why, I thought you were a boy!" he gasped, too astonished at this suddentransformation to pay any heed to Mac's probable feelings in the matter."So I are a boy.""But you are wearing a dress."Mac hung his head."I ran away," he faltered. "Vat's why."The stranger tried to look grave. Instead, he burst into a shoutof laughter."I think I understand," he said, as soon as he could speak. "You have towear these clothes, because you ran away, and the blanket is to coverthem up. What made you run away?""Aunt Teddy.""Who?""My Aunt Teddy.""Is it--a woman?" The stranger began to wonder if it were hereditary inMac's family to confound the genders in such ways as this."Yes, she is my aunt; she's a woman, not an uncle.""Oh. It's a curious name.""Ve rest of her name is Farrington," Mac explained, pulling the blanketcloser about his chubby legs, as he saw some people coming up the streettoward him."And she made you run away?"Mac nodded till his cheeks shook like a mould of currant jelly."What did she do?""Talk, and talk some more, all ve time. I want to talk some, and Ican't. She eats her eggs oh natural.""What? What does that mean?""'Vout any salt. Vat's what she calls it, oh natural. I like salt.""Don't you like grapes?""Yes.""Let's get some."Wrapped like an Indian brave, Mac started off down the street, his yellowand blue toga trailing behind him and getting under his feet at everystep. His dignity, nevertheless, was perfect and able to triumph overeven such untoward circumstances as these, and he accepted the stranger'sconversational attempts with a lofty courtesy which suggested a reversalof their relative ages. Just as the corner was reached, however, and thefruit stand was but a biscuit-toss away, he suddenly collapsed."Vere vey are!" he exclaimed."Who?""My mamma, and Aunt Teddy." And, turning, he scurried away as fast as hisblanket would let him.As he passed them, the young man gave a glance at the two women, swift,yet long enough to take in every detail of their appearance and stampit upon his memory. The shorter one with the golden hair was evidentlyMac's mother, not only because she was the older, but became the child'smischievous face was like a comic mask made in the semblance of her owngentle features. Her companion was more striking. Taller and more richlydressed, she carried the impression of distinctiveness, of achievement,as if she were a person who had proved her right to exist. GiffordBarrett's eyes lingered on her longer, at a loss to account for acertain familiarity in her appearance. Where had he seen her before?Both face and figure seemed known to him, other than in the relation ofMac's Aunt Teddy."I saw the small boy again, to-day," he told his sister, that night."Who? Your little Mac?"He shrugged his shoulders."I decline to assume any responsibility for him, Kate. He passes mycomprehension entirely. He looks like a cherub on a Della Robbia friezeand converses like the king of the brownies. I expect to hear him quoteArnold at any instant."His sister laughed."I can't imagine who he can be," she said. "I wish you weren't going Eastso soon, Giff, and we would go on a tour of investigation. Such a childisn't likely to remain hid under a bushel; and, if I find him, I will letyou know all about him. What is it, Jack?" she added, as her husbandlooked up from his paper with an exclamation of surprise."I've have been entertaining angels unawares,--in the next block, thatis," he answered. "Listen to this: 'Mrs. Theodora McAlister Farrington,the novelist, who has been spending the winter with her sister, Mrs.Holden of Murray Street, left for her home in New England, to-night.'""Ah--h!" There was a sigh of content from across the table. "Now I havemy bearings. My imp is Mac Holden and Mrs. Farrington is Aunt Teddy, ofcourse. I met her in New York, last winter, at a dinner or two; but sheevidently had forgotten me. Such is fame!""Which?" his sister inquired, as she rose to leave the table.CHAPTER TWOThe Savins, glistening in its snowy blanket, wore an air of expectancy,the house on the corner below was being swept and garnished, while thecold twilight air was burdened with savory odors suggestive of feastingsto come. Mrs. McAlister came back from a final survey of the cornerhouse, made her eleventh tour of the parlor, dining-room and kitchen atThe Savins, and then took her stand at the front window where she tappedrestlessly on the glass and swayed the curtain to and fro impatiently.She was not a nervous woman; but to-night her mood demanded constantaction. Moreover, it was only an hour and a quarter before the train wasdue. If she were not watchful, the carriage might come without herknowing it, and the occupants miss half their welcome home.Framed in the soft, white draperies, her face made an attractive picturefor the passer-by. Mrs. McAlister's girlhood had passed; a certaingirlishness, however, would never pass, and her clear blue eyes had allthe life and fire they had shown when, as Bess Holden she had been theleader in most of the pranks of her class at Vassar. The brown hair wasstill unmarked by grey threads and the complexion was still fresh androsy, while in expression the face in the window below was far youngerthan the one peering out from the upper room, just above it.Allyn McAlister was a graft on the family stock, in temperament, atleast. Born into a genial, jovial, healthy family, his was the only moodynature there. His brother and sisters might be mischievous or evenfractious; but they were never prone to have black half-hours. It wasreserved for the youngest one of them all, Allyn McAlister, aged fifteen,to spell his moods with a capital M. His father was wont to say thatAllyn was a mixture of two people, of two nameless, far-off ancestors.For days at a time, he was a merry, happy-go-lucky boy. Then, for someslight cause or for no cause at all, he retired within himself for aspace when he remained dumb and glowered at the rest of the worldmorosely. Then he roused himself and emerged from his self-absorptioninto a frank crossness which wore away but slowly. A motherless childhoodwhen he was alternately teased and spoiled by his older sisters andbrother had helped on the trouble, and not even the wisdom of his fatherand the devotion of his stepmother could cure the complaint. At his best,Allyn was the brightest and most winning of his family; at his worst, itwas advisable to let him severely alone. In the whole wide world, onlytwo persons could manage him in his refractory moods. One was his father;the other was his sister Theodora, and Theodora had been in Helena, allwinter long. However, she was coming home that night, and Allyn's nosegrew quite white at the tip, as he pressed it against the windowpane, ina futile effort to see still farther up the street.Theodora, meanwhile, sat watching the familiar landscape sweepingbackward past the windows of the express train. She knew it all by heart,the low hillocks crowned with clusters of shaggy oaks still thick withunshed leaves, the strips of salt marsh with the haycocks like giganticbeehives, the peeps of blue sea, sail-dotted or crossed by a thin line ofsmoke, and the neat little towns so characteristic of southern NewEngland. Impulsively she turned to her husband."Oh, don't you pity Hope, Billy?""What for?""To live out there. I suppose Archie's business makes it a necessity; butI do wish he would come back and settle down near us.""He would be like a bull in a china shop, Teddy. Fancy Archie Holden,after having all the Rocky Mountains for his workshop, coming back andsettling down into one of these bandboxy little towns! He is better off,out there.""Perhaps. But isn't it good to get back again?"He looked at her in some perplexity."I thought you were having such a good time, Ted.""I was, a beautiful one; but I am so glad to see blue, deep water again.I was perfectly happy, while I was there; but now I feel as if I couldn'twait to be in our own home again, Billy, and gossip with you after dinnerin the library. People are so in the way. It will be like a secondhoneymoon, with nobody to interrupt us."He laughed at her enthusiasm."Old married people like us! But you will mourn for Mac, Ted; you knowyou will."Forgetting the familiar landscape, she turned to face him with a laughwhich chased all the dreaminess from her eyes."Billy Farrington! But did you ever know such a mockery of fate?""As Mac?""Yes, as Hope's having such a child?""It is a little incongruous.""It is preposterous. Hope was always the meek angel of the household, andArchie is not especially obstreperous. But Mac--" Theodora's pause wasexpressive.Billy laughed."He combines the face of an angel and the wisdom of a serpent," heremarked. "I don't know whether his morals or his vocabulary are morestartling. Hope has her hands full; but she will find a way to managehim, even if she can't learn from her own childhood, as you could.""Thank you, dear. Your compliments are always charming. Perhaps Iwasn't an angel-child; but you generally aided and abetted me in mymisdeeds. I do hope, though, that Mac will grow in grace before theycome East, next summer."Her husband glanced up, started slightly, then leaned back in his chairwhile a sudden look of amusement came into his blue eyes. The nextmoment, Theodora sprang up with a glad exclamation."Hu!"The train had stopped, and a young man had come into the car, given aquick look at the passengers and then marched straight to Mrs.Farrington's chair. Resting his hands on her shoulders, he bent down andlaid his cheek against hers, and Theodora, regardless of the peopleabout her, turned and cast herself into his arms. Tall and lithe andsingularly alike in face, it scarcely needed a second glance to showthat they were not only brother and sister, but twins as well. Moreover,in spite of Hubert's successful business life and Theodora's devotion toher husband, the twins were as necessary to each other as the blades ofa pair of scissors."How well you are looking! Have you missed me? Aren't you glad to see usback? How are they all at home?" she demanded breathlessly.Her brother laughed, as he shook hands with Billy."Steady, Ted! One at a time. You haven't lost your old trick of askingquestions. We are all well, and I left the mother alternately peering outof the front window of our house and punching up the pillows on the couchin your library.""And papa?""Splendid, and covered with glory for his last operation on the Gaylordchild. It is the talk of the town."Theodora's eyes flashed proudly."Isn't he wonderful? If he had never had a patient but Billy, he mighthave been content. I wish you could be half the man he is, Hu.""I do my endeavors, Ted.""Yes, and you are a boy to be proud of, even if you aren't a doctor," sheanswered. "You look as if the last five months had agreed with you.""They have, for I didn't have anybody around to torment me, and I grewfat and sleek from day to day. How is Hope?""As well as is compatible with being Mac's mother.""What is the matter with him? You didn't write much.""No; for I knew you wouldn't believe the half of my tales. Hu, the boyis an imp.""He combines the least lovely traits of Teddy and Babe," Mr. Farringtonremarked gravely."I was never half so original and daring as he is," Theodora saidregretfully. "My iniquities were trite; his are fresh from the recessesof his own brain. He is a cunning child, Hu, and a pretty one; but hisways are past finding out, and--""And, as I said, he favors his Aunt Teddy," her husband interposed.Theodora decided to change the subject."How is Allyn?" she asked.Hubert's face sobered."He is well.""Is anything the matter with the boy?" Theodora demanded, for Allyn hadalways been her own especial charge, and her marriage had made no breakin their relations. Allyn's home was as much at the corner house as atThe Savins."No; only the world goes hard with him. He has needed you, Teddy. Therest of us rub him the wrong way. He has a queer streak in him. I wish Icould get hold of him; but I can't.""It is the cross-grained age," Theodora said thoughtfully. "He will comeout all right.""Perhaps; but meanwhile he is having a bad time of it, for he can't geton with any of the boys. He lords it over them, and then resents it andsulks, if they rebel. Where does he get it, Ted? We weren't like that.""It is too bad," she said slowly; "but I'll see what I can do with him.""He has needed you, Teddy; that is a fact. Even the mother can't get onwith him as you do. You're going to stay at home now for a while;aren't you?""Yes; we are going to have a perfect honeymoon of quiet. We have wanderedenough, and we don't mean to budge again for the next ten years. I amgoing to write, all day long; and, when twilight falls, Billy and I willdraw our elbow chairs to the fire, and sit and gossip and nod over theandirons till bedtime. We haven't had an hour to ourselves for fivemonths, and now we must make up for lost time."Hubert laughed."You are as bad as ever. When do I come in?""On Sundays. I expect a McAlister dinner party, every Sunday night.Otherwise, four times a day. We have three elbow chairs, you know, andthe hearth is a broad one.""You haven't asked after Phebe," Hubert said, after a pause."What was the use? Billy had a letter from his mother, the day we leftHelena, and I knew you would have had nothing later.""But we have.""What?""She sailed for home, to-day, on the _Kaiserina_.""Hubert!""Theodora?""What do you mean?""Just that and no more.""How did you hear?""A cable, to-day.""But Mrs. Farrington said she was going to Italy.""Perhaps she is.""Not if she is coming home.""She isn't."Theodora looked mystified, as much at the ambiguity of the pronouns as atthe fact itself."Babe is coming home alone," Hubert added."Is she ill?""Quite well, she says.""Then what in the world is she coming for?" Theodora's tone expressedboth indignation and incredulity."It passes my comprehension. What do you think, Billy?"Mr. Farrington took off his hat and pushed back his red-gold hair. It wasa trick he had, when he was worried or annoyed."I can't imagine," he said anxiously. "Mother has enjoyed Babe and shehas written often of Babe's being happy over there. It seemed a pleasantthing for them both; and I am sorry to have the arrangement broken up.What has Babe written to you?""Constant ecstasies. She has been perfectly happy, and has chanted thepraise of your mother for paragraphs at a time. I think there can't havebeen any trouble, or Babe would have told us. She isn't the one todisguise her feelings and spoil a story for relationship's sake."Theodora sighed. Then she laughed."It is only another one of Babe's freaks," she said, with a blithenesswhich was meant for her husband's ear. "We must bide our time tillshe comes to explain herself. Did you ever know her to do what youexpected of her?"It was nearly dark when the train rolled in at the familiar station. TheFarrington carriage was waiting, and beside it waited a grey-haired manin plain green livery. The travelers hailed him as Patrick, and hegreeted them with a delight that was out of all keeping with the severedecorum of his manner of a moment before. Then, merry as a trio ofchildren, they drove up the snowy streets, Theodora and Billy in wildrapture at the thought of being at home once more, Hubert more quiet,but none the less happy in the prospect of having his sister withinreach again.They were to dine at The Savins, that night, and they drove directlythere. The low red house rested unchanged on its hilltop where thetwilight was casting greyish shadows across the snow. Lights gleamed inall the windows; but no welcoming face was silhouetted against them.Upstairs, Allyn was restlessly pacing his room at the back of the house;below, a sudden fragrance of burning meats had sent Mrs. McAlister flyingto the kitchen, and for an instant the travelers stood alone in thebroad front hall, with no one to welcome them.It was only for an instant, however. Dr. McAlister rushed out from hisoffice, and Mrs. McAlister came running to meet them, to exclaim overthem and lead them forward to the blazing fire. Then there was a thud anda bump, and Theodora was gripped tight in two strong boyish arms and felta clumsy boyish kiss on her cheek, while she heard, not noisily, butquite low,--"Oh, Teddy, you've come at last!"CHAPTER THREEPhebe McAlister sat on the floor beside an open trunk. Around her wasscattered a pile of feminine mysteries, twice as bulky as the trunk fromwhich they had come, and the bed was littered with gowns as varied in hueas in material. Pink chiffon met green broadcloth, and white silk andblue gingham nestled side by side with a friendly disregard of the factthat their paths in life would not often bring them together. The wholeroom was in a wild state of disarray. The only orderly object in it wasPhebe herself.A girl of the early twenties, perfect in health and in trim neatness,never lacks a certain attractiveness; but Phebe went beyond that. At afirst glance, her features might be condemned as irregular, her eyes astoo piercing, her lips and chin as too firm. The next moment, all thatwas forgotten. Phebe was rarely silent for more than one moment at atime. As soon as she spoke, her face lighted and became whimsical,piquant, merry, or fiery as suited her mood; and Phebe's friends werenever agreed as to which of her moods was most becoming. Pretty she wasnot, beautiful she was not; but she was undeniably interesting, and attimes brilliantly handsome.She looked up, as Theodora came into the room."How do? Sit down," she said briefly."I came over to see if I couldn't help you with your unpacking," Theodorasaid, as she paused beside the trunk."Thank you, no. I can do it.""But it is such a trial. I love to pack; but unpacking is always ratheran anti-climax.""I don't mind it," Phebe said calmly, while she sorted stockingsindustriously."Let me do that," Theodora urged."No; it might be a trial to you, and I really don't mind. Sit down andlook at my photographs. They are in the third box from the top of thepile in the corner.""Methodical as ever, Phebe?""I have to be. It takes too much time to sort out things. Your bureaudrawers would give me a fit." Phebe rolled up her stockings with anemphatic jerk."It is no credit to you to be orderly, Babe; you were born so. I wasn't,"Theodora said tranquilly, as she took up the photographs. "Billy's bumpof order is large enough for both of us, though.""I should think you would be terribly trying to him," Pheberemarked frankly."Poor old William! Perhaps I am; but he is considerate enough not tomention it."Phebe rose to bestow an armful of clothing in a bureau drawer."He looks so well." she said. "I do wish his mother could see him. Sheworries about him even now, and gets anxious if the letters are delayed.If she could see him, she would leave that off. He is ever so muchstronger than when we went away.""Married life agrees with him. What is this, Babe? It isn't marked.""It's the hotel at the foot of the Rigi, not a good picture, but I hadn'ttime to get any other.""Was that where you left Mrs. Farrington?""Yes.""What made you do it, Babe?""The Ellertons were there on their way home, and I could travel withthem. I didn't care to cross half the continent alone, even if I am anAmerican girl.""No; I don't mean that. What made you come home now?""A declaration of independence," Phebe responded enigmatically.Theodora looked anxious."But I hope you didn't hurt Mrs. Farrington's feelings, leaving her sosuddenly after all she had done for you.""I am not a child, Teddy, and I think you might trust me," Phebeanswered, with an access of dignity."I do, dear; only I couldn't understand your coming home so abruptly, andI was afraid there might have been some trouble between you and Mrs.Farrington."Phebe shook her head."No; Mrs. Farrington is an angel. You can't imagine how good to me shehas been. She has always managed to make me feel that it was only for herown pleasure that she asked me to go with her. If I had been her owndaughter, she couldn't have been more kind to me, and I know she wassorry to have me come away.""Then why didn't you stay? Were you homesick, Babe?""Not for an hour; I'm not that kind. I missed you all; but I was veryhappy, and I knew you didn't need me here.""What made you come home, then?"Phebe pushed the gowns aside and sat down on the edge of the bed."Has it ever occurred to you, Teddy," she asked slowly; "that two yearsis a great while?""Yes; but what then? You were happy.""I know; but it was a child's happiness, and I am a woman, twenty-twoyears old. It was lovely to wander over Europe, to wear pretty gowns andto meet charming people, and let Mrs. Farrington pay all the bills.""But if she loved to do it, Babe? She did.""Yes, she was fond of me," Phebe admitted; "and she wanted me to stay forone more year.""I wish you had."Phebe shook her head."I couldn't. At first, I thought it would be delightful, and all ourplans were made. Then, one night, I couldn't sleep at all, for thinkingabout it. By morning, my mind was made up; and then,--""And then?" Theodora asked.Phebe rose and bent over the trunk once more."And then I came home," she said quietly.There was a long pause. Theodora was aimlessly turning over thephotographs in her lap, while Phebe methodically packed away the contentsof her trunk. The room was quite orderly again before either of thesisters spoke. Then Theodora asked,--"What are you going to do now, Babe?""Study.""Study what?""Medicine.""Phebe McAlister!"A sudden flash of merriment came into the shrewd eyes."That is my name," she observed. "Do you remember how you worked atHuntington's to get money for college? It is my turn now.""I remember how you scolded me for it," Theodora responded tartly. "Whathas turned you to this whim, Babe?""It is no whim. It is a good profession, and other women no smarter thanI, have succeeded in it.""You are smart enough, Babe; it's not that. But why do you want to doanything of the kind?""What should I do? I sha'n't marry. Billy is the only man I ever liked.You took him, and you appear to be in rude health, so there is no chancefor me. I must do something, Teddy, something definite. I can't potterround the house, all my days. The mother is housekeeper; I must havesomething more absorbing than dusting and salads and amateur photographyto fill up my time."Theodora laughed at the outburst. Then, as she sat looking up at her tallyoung sister, a sudden gentleness crossed her face. In their childhood,she and Phebe had always clashed. To-day, for the first time, she felt afull comprehension of the girl's point of view."Things are out of joint, Teddy," Phebe was saying. "It is all right fora boy to be restless and eager to find his place; but we girls must trotup and down one narrow path, all our days. Sometimes I don't mind it; butthere come times when I want to knock down the fences and break away intoa new track of my own, a track that goes somewhere, not a promenade. Iwant to have a goal and keep moving toward it, not swing this way andthat like a pendulum. Europe was lovely, and Mrs. Farrington; but--I'mqueer, Ted. There is no getting around the fact." Phebe brushed away atear that hung heavy on her brown lashes.Theodora held out her hand to her invitingly; but Phebe shook her head."No; I don't want to be cuddled, Ted; I'm not a baby. I want to beunderstood; that is all. You never can understand, though. You have Billyand your writing, more than your fair share, and you grew up into themboth. You were foreordained. Other people are. I wish I were; but I'mnot, and yet I want to work, to do something definite." She paused with alittle laugh. "I said something about it once to some nice English girlsI met at Lucerne. They seemed very all-round and energetic, and I thoughtthey would understand. They just put their dear, rosy heads on one sideand said, 'Oh, dear me, how very unusual!' Then I gave it up and keptstill till I told Mrs. Farrington. She understood.""Did she?""She always understands things. We talked it all over, and she agreedthat it was best for me to come home.""But how did you happen to choose medicine?""What else was there? Besides, I ought to inherit it, and papa ought tohave some child follow him. Hubert didn't, and I must.""What about Allyn?""He is too young yet to tell whether he will amount to anything or not. Idon't believe he is the right kind, either. I am.""How do you mean?" In spite of herself, Theodora laughed at the assurancein Phebe's tone."Oh, I have studied myself a good deal," she said with calm complacency."I am not nervous, nor very sympathetic, and I think I could operate onpeople very nicely.""Phebe!" This time, there was no concealment in Theodora's laugh."You needn't make fun of me," she said indignantly. "That helps along;papa says it does. I had a long talk with him, last night, after you andBilly went home.""What did he say?""A good many things that there is no use in repeating," Pheberesponded loftily."Wasn't he surprised?""Yes, as much as he ever is, at anything I do." For the moment, Phebe'ssense of humor asserted itself. Then she grew grave again. "It is settledthat I am to work with him till summer. Then, next fall, if I really wantto go on with it, I am to go to Philadelphia to study there. Hope will beshocked, and Hu will make all manner of fun of me, I know. I do hope youand Billy will stand by me, Ted, and believe it is not a schoolgirl whim,but a real wish to find some work and do it."Theodora rose and stood beside her sister."I do believe it, dear," she said. "I know how I feel about my own workand how I want to succeed in it, for all your sakes. Only, Phebe, thetime may come when you will be ready to put your profession, not in thefirst place, but in the second."But Phebe shook her head."No; I am not that kind, Ted. I'm queer, they all say, and I think mywork will always come first. Mrs. Farrington tried to make a societywoman of me; but it was no use.""William Farrington!" Theodora said, that night."Yes, madame.""Once upon a time, there was a girl who came down out of a tree, andtook a boy to bring up. That's us, Billy, and I always have supposedthat my hands were full with training you. Now I have discovered thatthey are not.""Is it a new story?" her husband asked, dropping his book and looking ather expectantly."Alas, no! No such luck. I came home with a dozen plans for worksimmering in my brain; but I must put them back and let them parboilthemselves for a while longer. My family are demanding my wholeattention.""What now?""Sisterly confidences. It is funny, Billy; but it is rather distractingto my work. Allyn took me to walk, this morning, and told me the tragictale of his first love affair. It was Lois Hawes, and it ended mostunromantically. He helped her to get ready for the prize speaking, lastmonth, and then she took the prize away from him and neglected to mentionthat he had coached her. Now he rages at the whole race of girls andsays he won't finish his term of dancing school.""That is unwise of him," Mr. Farrington commented, "Did you bring him toa better way of thinking?""I wrestled with him; but he was still proclaiming that 'girls aren't anygood,' so I beat a retreat.""He needs a girl to bring him up, as you brought me," Billy remarked."There aren't many who would dare attack Allyn," Theodora said, laughing."I had you at my mercy; you couldn't escape. Allyn can fight and runaway; that makes him doubly dangerous. He does fight, too. He is a dearboy, Billy; but I honestly think that, if he goes on, he won't have afriend left in town. He is a veritable porcupine, and his quills arealways rising.""He has the worst of it. But I do wish you needn't worry about him, Ted""I don't really worry; only I wish more people knew the other side of theboy. But now prepare yourself for a shock. It is Babe, this time. She isgoing to study medicine.""What!""Yes. She came home for that.""Phebe a doctor! She is about as well fitted for it as for a--plumber.""So I think; but to hear her talk about it, one would think her whole aimin life was wholesale surgery. She appears to revel in grim details ofarteries and ligaments. The fact is, she is restless and wants someoccupation, and this seems to appeal to her.""I believe I know how she feels. I went through something the sameexperience, my last year in college," Billy said thoughtfully. "It is aspecies of mental growing pains; one wants to do something, withoutknowing just what. I don't believe Babe will ever write M.D. after hername, and I devoutly hope she won't kill too many people in trying forit; but the study will be good for her. She has played long enough, and alittle steady grind will help her to work off some of her extra energy.Let her go on."Theodora rose and stood leaning on the back of his chair."You are such a comfort, Billy," she said gratefully. "I was afraid youwould be horrified at the idea, and feel that Phebe didn't appreciate allyour mother has done for her. It was a great deal for her to take a younggirl like Babe for two years, and give her the best of Europe. Babeknows it, and she almost reveres your mother." She was silent for amoment. Then she said impetuously, "Billy, are my family too near?""Of course not. Why?""Are they too much in evidence? We belong to each other, you and I; Iwant you all to myself, and it seems as if my people were always comingin to interrupt us,--not they themselves, but worries about them. I lovethem dearly, and I want them; but I could be content on a desert islandalone with you. I never have half enough of you, and sha'n't, as long asI have to bring up Allyn and Phebe and Hubert. Your family arewell-behaved; they stay in the background.""They may crop up unexpectedly," Mr. Farrington answered, in a burst ofprophecy of whose truth he was unconscious. "But what about the book,Teddy? It is time you were at work."Theodora clasped her hands at the back of her head and began to pace thefloor. Her step was as free and lithe as that of an active boy; and herpale gown brightened the color in her cheeks and in the glossy coils ofher hair. Her husband looked up at her proudly. They had been comradesbefore they had been lovers; and, from the day of their first meeting tothe present hour, his admiration and his loyalty had been boundless andunswerving. Suddenly she paused before him."William," she said; "I am lazy, utterly lazy. It is so good to be athome again and keeping house all by our two selves that I want to enjoymyself for a space. For a month, a whole month longer, I am going to playand have the good of life. Then I shall shut myself up and say farewellto the world while I create a masterpiece that will rend your heart andyour tear glands. Only," she dropped down on a footstool beside him;"only I do hope that Allyn and Babe will return to their wonted habits,and that this new cook will learn that one doesn't usually mash macaronibefore bringing it to the table. If it were not for the souls and thedigestions of our families, Billy, we could all produce great works."CHAPTER FOURTheodora Farrington's saving grace lay in her sense of humor. It hadsaved her from many dangers, from none more insidious than that lurkingin five years' experience as a successful author. It had rescued her fromthe slough of despond when unappreciative publishers rejected her mostambitious attempts; it had come to her aid also when a southern admirerwhose intentions were better than his rhetoric, sent her a manuscript odeconstructed in her honor. She had won success in her profession; but shehad won it at the expense of some hard knocks. But, however much theworld might be awry, two people had never lost faith in her talent. Toher father and her husband, to their encouragement and their belief inher future, Theodora owed her best inspiration.For the past year, she had forsaken her inky way and given herself up toa well-earned rest, wandering from Mexico to Alaska and back again toHelena. Now that she was settled in her home once more, the spirit ofwork was lacking. Theodora was domestic, and she found it good to take upher household cares again, so for a month after her return she turned adeaf ear to her publisher while she and her husband revelled in theircoming back to humdrum ways much as a pair of children play athousekeeping. Then Theodora's conscience asserted itself, with thediscouraging result that she became undeniably cross and, over his paperof an evening, Billy watched her in respectful silence. Past experiencehad taught him what this portended.Two days later, Theodora came to luncheon with unruffled brow. Across thetable, her husband looked at her inquiringly."Under way, Teddy?""Yes, at last.""I'm glad. I do hope nothing will interrupt you.""Something will; it always does. Fortunately it is Lent and not much isstirring. Anyway, I mean to have my mornings free, whatever comes.""I'll mount guard on the threshold, if you want," he responded.Only a week afterward, Theodora was in her writing-room, hard at work.Her desk, surmounted by a shabby photograph of her husband in hisboyhood, was orderly and deserted; but the broad couch across the westernwindow was strewn with sheets of manuscript which overflowed to thefloor, while in the midst of them Theodora sat enthroned, a book on herknee and her ink insecurely poised on one of the cushions beside her.Across the lawn she could see The Savins among the tall, bare trees, andshe paused now and then to watch the yellow sunshine as it sifted downthrough the branches. All at once she stopped, with a frown."But I must see her," Allyn was saying sharply."She is busy.""Never mind; she will see me."There was a word or two more; then a silence, and Theodora returned toher interrupted sentence. The next minute, she started abruptly, as sheheard a boyish fist descend on the panels of her door."Go away! Oh, my ink!" she exclaimed. "Please let me alone. It's alltipped over.""I'm sorry, Ted; but I must come." And Allyn stalked into the room."Oh, what do you want?" she asked despairingly, as she took up thedripping pillow by the corners and looked about for a suitable place todeposit it."Throw it out of the window," he suggested briefly. "I didn't mean to,Teddy; but there's a row, and I must tell you."She shut down the window sharply. Then she turned to look at him, and ofa sudden the annoyance vanished from her face and in its place there camea new expression gentler and of a great protecting love. Years before, inhis invalid boyhood, her husband had known that look. Of late, no one butAllyn had called it forth. To-day there was need for it, for Allyn was inevident want of sympathy. His cheeks were flushed; but there was a whiteline around his lips, and his hands, like his voice, were unsteady. Hewas short and slight, with a mass of smooth brown hair and brown eyesthat for the moment had lost all their merriment and were sternly sombreunder their straight brows. His chin was firm; but his lips were not sofull of decision.Swiftly Mrs. Farrington gathered up her papers and shut them into herDesk. Then she turned abruptly, laid her hands on the boy's shouldersand looked straight down into his eyes."What is it, Allyn?" she asked gravely.For an instant his lips quivered. Then he said briefly,--"I'm expelled, Teddy.""Allyn!""Yes, I know.""Not really?"She read confirmation in his eyes."What for?" she demanded."For insulting Mr. Mitchell.""What did you say?""I told him what I thought of him, and he didn't like it."Theodora frowned at the tone of boyish bravado."Allyn," she said steadily; "tell me, what you have done.""I told him he was a great deacon," the boy said hotly; "and I'm glad Idid it, too. He ought to know what we think of him. He goes to churchevery Sunday, with a long face on him; and, all the rest of the week, hebullies the fellows.""At least, you think he does," Theodora amended."He does," Allyn returned fiercely. "He is a coward, too, and never goesfor our crowd; but takes boys like Jamie Lyman, stupid, shabby littlemilksops that don't dare stand up to him. It isn't their fault that theyare dunces, and he ought to know it. I told him so."Theodora looked perplexed."Sit down, Allyn," she said. "I want to talk this over quietly. Doespapa know?""No; it's only just now, and I came straight to you. I thought perhapsyou would help me tell him. I'm sorry, Ted, honestly sorry; but therewasn't anything else to do."Up to this moment, Theodora had been trying to hold on to the threads ofher interrupted chapter. Now she dropped them entirely, as she rested herarm on Allyn's shoulder."I am glad to have you tell me things," she said. "Now make a cleanbreast of it, Allyn."And Allyn did make a clean breast of it, sparing nothing of the detail ofweeks of petty tyranny. It was a story which fortunately is rare in theselatter days, a story of a nervous, toadying teacher who vented his badtemper in those directions where there was least chance of its rousing ajust resentment."I couldn't help it, Ted," he said at length. "I've no sort of use forJamie Lyman; he lisps and he has warts, and he hasn't the pluck of awhite rat. He looks like one, anyhow, with his tow head and his littlepinky eyes. I told Mr. Mitchell it was a shame. He talked a good deal,and I suppose I did. We both were pretty mad, and then he told me I musttake it back, or else get out. I couldn't take it back, so I walked off."In the boy's excitement, the words came tumbling over each other and hisbrown eyes lighted. Then they grew dull again, as his sister spoke."I am sorry about it, Allyn," she said slowly; "sorry for you, becauseyou must go back and apologize.""I won't.""I think you'll have to. There isn't any other way.""But it was all true.""Perhaps so. I am not sure. I know you meant to stand up for the rightside; still, you must apologize to Mr. Mitchell, all the same."The boy stared at her reproachfully."But I thought you would understand, Ted.""I do, dear. If I didn't understand quite so well, I shouldn't be sosure what you ought to do. When I was your age, I was always getting intojust such scrapes as this, simply because I used to burn up all my powderwithout taking aim. All the good it did, was to show up the weak spots ofmy position. Go slow, Allyn, and don't be so ready to fight. It neverdoes any good.""But I wasn't going to sit still and let him bully that little baby,"Allyn argued."No; but you needn't have tried to bully him in your turn," his sisteranswered promptly, though in her heart of hearts she was in perfectsympathy with her young brother. She gloried in his fearlessness, evenwhile she told herself that he must submit to discipline. "It wasn't yourplace to tell Mr. Mitchell what he ought to do. He is an older man, andhe may have reasons that you don't know. He is not accountable to you,Allyn, and his judgment may be better than yours. Moreover, you owe himobedience, and the McAlisters always pay their debts.""Have I got to eat humble pie and go back, Teddy?""You've got to eat humble pie," she said, as a laughing note crept intoher voice when she thought of Jamie Lyman, insignificant and warty causeof such a storm. "About your going back, that is for papa to say, dear. Ithink you ought to do it.""I hate that school!" he muttered restively."Why?""Don't like the fellows.""What is the matter with them?""Foolish.""Try the girls, then.""They're worse.""Hm." Theodora mused aloud. "Given ten boys: if nine of them all likeeach other, and the tenth doesn't like any of them, where does thetrouble lie? Allyn you are getting cranky.""Maybe so; but I can't help it.""Yes, you can, too. Do you know, you need a chum."A sudden flash of fun came into Allyn's eyes."What's the matter with you, Ted?""Me? I'm too old. Besides, I am producing literature.""And I interrupted," he said penitently, for he took much satisfaction inhis sister's work."No; at least, not much. I want you to tell me things, Allyn. We havealways been chums, and I should be a good deal jealous of any one else.""But I don't want any one else. What's the use?""Yes, you want somebody to antic with, while I am busy, just as I haveBilly, somebody of your own age, only you must always like me best. Nowcome over to see if papa is in his office and talk things over with him.He can advise you a good deal better than I can, Allyn; but, this time, Ithink I know about what he will say." And she did.It took more than an hour for Dr. McAlister to explain to his young sonthe difference between independence and anarchy. There was a fearlessnessin the boy's point of view that roused his father's admiration, and morethan once he was forced to turn away to hide his amusement at Allyn'sdisclaimers of anything like personal affection for Jamie."Jamie!" he said, in one final outburst. "Jamie! Fifteen years old, andcalls himself Jamie! If he'd only brace up and be Jim, there'd be somesort of hope for him."The result of the discussion was the doctor's sending Allyn back toapologize and take his old place in the school once more, while he sathimself down to write a plain note to the master. Theodora, meanwhile,went in search of Mrs. McAlister. She found her in her own room, hummingcontentedly to herself over the family mending. Forgetful of her yearsand her inches, Theodora cast herself down on the floor at herstepmother's feet."Whatever made you do it?" she asked without preface."Do what?""Marry papa.""Because--well, because he asked me.""You never would have done it, if you had seen us first," Theodoraresponded half whimsically, half discontentedly. "Hope and Hubert are allright; but the rest of us are enough to turn your hair white. I was badenough; and now Phebe is forsaking the world and taking to skeletons, andAllyn is at war with the whole human race, including Mr. Mitchell. Well,Phebe, what now?""I heard my name and thought I'd come and take a hand in the discussion,"Phebe announced, as she strolled into the room. "Have I done anything youdon't like? If I have, just mention it.""Nothing more than usual," Theodora said, laughing. "Goodness me, Babe!What's that?""What's what?" Phebe cast an apprehensive glance behind her."In your hand?""That? Oh, that's my tibia. I was studying where it articulates into thefibula. It's ever so nice. Just see the cunning little grooves.""Booh!" Theodora laughed, even in her disgust. "I am not weak-minded,Babe, but those things do not appeal to me.""Every one to his taste," Phebe said loftily. "I like bones better thanBrowning, myself. Isabel St. John thinks she will be a nurse.""Then you can hunt in pairs," Theodora commented irreverently. "I pitythe patient. Do you really like this sort of thing, Babe?"Phebe rested her cheek meditatively against the upper end of her tibia."Yes, of course; or else I shouldn't be doing it. Bones, that is, deadones, are nice and neat; and I don't think I should mind setting liveones. Of course it isn't going to be all bones; but I suppose evenliterature has its disagreeable sides.""Yes," Theodora assented, with a passing memory of the pillow reposingon the lawn outside her window. "After all, Babe, I think you lack thereal artist's devotion to your work. Even mumps ought to be beautiful inyour eyes and meningitis a delight to your soul. The day will come thatyou will give up medicine and take a course in plain cooking, now markmy words.""Thanks; but I prefer tibias to tomatoes," Phebe responded. "When I amthe great Dr. McAlister, you will change your tune.""There will never be but one great Dr. McAlister," Theodora answeredloyally. "No, mother, I must not stay to lunch, not even if Babe wouldgrill her tibia for me. Billy gets very grumpy, if I leave him alone athis meals. Good-bye, Babe. Don't let anything happen to your grooves."She went away with a laugh on her lips; but the laugh vanished, as shewent up to her writing-room once more and paused for a moment before herclosed desk. Then her face cleared, as she hurriedly put herself intoBilly's favorite gown and ran down the stairs to meet him in the hall.The woes of book-making and the worries of her family never cloudedTheodora's welcome to her husband.CHAPTER FIVE"Teddy, did you ever hear me say anything about Gertrude Keith?""Why--yes. Wasn't she the cousin who married Harry Everard?""Your memory does you credit." Mr. Farrington's eyes belied hisbantering tone."What about her?""Nothing about her. She died, the year before we were married, and leftHarry with this one daughter. He has had a housekeeper since then; butthe housekeeper took unto herself a husband, a third one, a month ago.Now Harry has been having pneumonia and is ordered to southern France fora while, and he wants to know if the child can come to us.""What?" Theodora's tone was charged with consternation."Isn't it awful? And yet I am sorry for him. We're the nearest relativesthe child has except Joe Everard, and naturally she can't be left to themercies of a bachelor uncle. What shall we do, Ted?"For one short instant, Theodora stared into the fire. Then she looked upinto her husband's blue eyes."Take her, of course," she said briskly.Mr. Farrington had never outgrown certain of his lover-like habits. Nowhe stretched his hand out to hers for a minute."You're a comfort, Ted," he said. "I hated to refuse Harry, for hisletter was a blue one. Will she be horribly in the way?""No; I sha'n't let her," Theodora answered bluntly. "Don't worry, Billy;we shall get on, I know. Have you ever seen her?""Once, when she was in the knitted-sock stage of development. She wasn'tat all pretty then.""How old is she now?""Hear what her father saith." And Mr. Farrington took a letter from hisbreast pocket. Its creases showed signs of the frequent readings it hadreceived that day. As he said, he had disliked to refuse the request ofhis old friend; but he disliked still more to burden his wife with thisnew care which would be such an interruption to her work. Moreover, thegirl would be in his own way."Cicely is just sixteen now," he read, "a bright, sunny-tempered child,and, I hope, not too badly spoiled. You will find her perfectlyindependent and able to shift for herself; all I want is to have herunder proper chaperonage. I should take her with me; but the doctor hasforbidden my having the care, and I hate to put the child into aboarding-school."Theodora laughed, as her husband paused for breath."The paternal view of the case, Billy. Cicely is a nice, demure littlename; but I suspect that the young woman doesn't quite live up to it.Still, I believe I would rather have an independent damsel than ashrinking one. She will be more in my line.""But do you think you ought to try it, Teddy?" her husband remonstrated."Won't it be too hard for you? I can just as well tell Harry to put herinto a school."For one more instant, Mrs. Farrington wavered. Then she saw the frownbetween her husband's brows, a frown of anxiety, not of discontent."No; it will be good for us, Billy. We are getting too staid, and we needsome child-life in the house. We can try the experiment, anyway; and itwill be easy enough to pack her off to school, after we have grown tiredof her. Will you write, to-night?""If you are sure you think best.""I do; and perhaps I'd better put a note into your letter. It may makeHarry feel easier about leaving the child with strangers. He will find ithard enough, anyway."She crossed the room to her desk, to write the letter which was to bringnew courage to the anxious, exiled invalid. Suddenly she turned around,with her pen in mid air."Billy, the hand of fate is in this. The girl may be just whatAllyn needs.""Ye--es; only it is within the limits of possibility that they mayfight.""Then they will have to make up again, living in such close quarters asthis. Besides, that kind of fighting isn't altogether unhealthful. Ibelieve the whole matter is foreordained for Allyn's good.""It is an optimistic view of the case that wouldn't have occurred to me,Ted. Still, we'll hope for the best."Valiantly she took his advice and hoped for the best, while she busiedherself about the details of receiving her new charge. March was alreadysome days old, and it had been decided that Cicely should arrive on thetwentieth, so the time was short. In the midst of her domestic duties,Theodora found time for some hours of writing, each day, for she had awell-founded fear lest the new arrival might be of little help to thecause of light literature. In the intervals, she and Billy discussed theinvasion of their hearthstone from every possible point of view; but as arule the ridiculous side of the situation prevailed and they had momentsof wild hilarity over the coming demands on their dignity."Uncle William!" Theodora observed, one day. "It suggests a scarletbandanna and an ivory-headed cane. She will probably embroider you somepurple slippers next Christmas too.""No matter, so long as she doesn't undertake to choose my neckties. Nevermind, Ted; the uncertainty will soon be over. She comes, to-morrow.""I wonder what she really is like," Theodora said slowly. "Paternaltestimony doesn't count for much, and I am beginning to be a littlealarmed at what I may have undertaken. _Independent_ and _not too badlyspoiled_ are not reassuring phrases, Billy.""Her mother was as staid as a church, and Harry is sobriety itself, sothe girl can't have inherited much original sin from either of them.Independent from Harry's point of view doesn't mean the same thing thatit would from yours. She probably is a mild-mannered little product ofthe times.""I don't know just what I do want," Theodora sighed. "One minute, I hopeshe will be a modest violet; the next, I am in terror lest she be tooinsipid. What are girls of that age like, Billy? It is years since I haveknown any of them. Just now, I am in doubt whether I may not shock hereven more than she will shock me. The modern girl is a staid and decorouscreature, I suspect; not such a tomboy as I was."Late the next afternoon they both drove to the station to meet their newrelative. In spite of herself, as the time came nearer, Theodora wasinclined to treat the whole affair as an immense joke; but her husbandhad misgivings. Theodora was fitted to cope with any girl he had everknown; but he feared she might find the process more wearing than sheanticipated."I beg your pardon, but is this Mr. Farrington?"Both Theodora and Billy started and whirled around. In the rush ofincoming passengers, they had been looking for some one smaller, morechildish than this tall girl who stood before them. She was not at allpretty. Her brown hair was too straight and lank and light, and her greyeyes had a trick of narrowing themselves to a line; but her expressionwas frank and open, and she wore her simple grey suit with an air whichspoke volumes for her past training. Across her arm hung a bright golfcape with a tag end of grey fur sticking out from the topmost folds."Are you Cicely?" Mr. Farrington inquired."Yes, and I suppose you are Cousin William. Papa said I'd know you byyour hair." She caught herself, with a sudden blush. "Oh, I don't meanthat," she added hastily; "I think red hair is just lovely, only it israther uncommon you know."Mr. Farrington laughed."Yes, fortunately," he remarked.Cicely eyed him askance for a moment; then she too burst out laughing,while two deep dimples appeared in her cheeks and a queer little puckercame at the outer corners of her eyes. There was something so fresh, soheartily frank about her that Theodora felt a sudden liking for the girl,a sudden homesick twinge for her own healthy girlhood."There, I have made another of my speeches!" Cicely was saying, with acontrition that was only half mockery. "I'm always doing it, and you willhave to put up with it. But truly I don't mind red hair, as long as itdoesn't curl; and I hadn't any idea of being rude.""Mine is tolerably straight, and I'm not very sensitive about it now forI have had it for some time," Billy observed gravely. "Cicely, this isyour Cousin Theodora."The girl turned around and stretched out her hand eagerly."Oh, I am so glad to be with you!" she said. "It seems to me I've lovedyou always, just from your books. You are so good to let me come to you.Am I going to be very much in the way? I'll try to be very good, just asgood as I know how.""And not be homesick?" Theodora asked laughingly, as she took Cicely'shand in both of hers.Instantly the grey eyes clouded."I'll try not," Cicely answered. "I know I shall be happy, only--I wishpapa needn't go so far away. We are all there are, you know, only UncleJoe." Her lips quivered a little, as Theodora bent down to kiss them."Never mind, dear," she said. "It won't be for so very long, and I hopeyou can be happy with us, even if we are strangers to you. Can't CousinWill take some of your things?""Oh, no; I've only this cape, and there's no need of disturbing Billy,"Cicely replied, too absorbed in rubbing away a stray tear or two to heedthe glance of astonishment exchanged between her new relatives at theunexpected freedom of her use of Mr. Farrington's name.Seated in the carriage, all three were conscious of an awkward pause.Cicely broke it."Cousin Will, don't you feel as if you had a white elephant on yourhands?" she asked so unexpectedly that Theodora blushed and wondered ifthe girl had been reading her thoughts."No; only a grey one. I confess you are larger than I expected tosee you. When I met you before, you could have been packed into apeck basket.""They say I was a good baby," Cicely said reflectively; "they alwaysemphasize the word _baby_, though, and that hurts my feelings.""You cried a great deal, and you spent half your energy in trying to eatyour own toes. You wore worsted slippers then," Billy answered, amused ata certain off-hand ease that marked her manner. "Perhaps you haveimproved since then.""I hope so; but there may be room for it, even now," she returned,laughing."Are you going to miss your old friends too much, Cicely?" Theodoraasked. "I have a young brother about your age.""Really? I didn't know that. Is he near you?""Next door.""I'm so glad, for I like boys. I have always been used to them, notflirty; papa wouldn't allow that, but just good friends." Cicely's mannershowed her constant association with older people. She and her father hadbeen always together, and their companionship had left its mark upon her.There was no trace of shyness in her manner, no hesitation in taking hershare in the conversation. She was perfectly frank, perfectly at ease,yet perfectly remote from any suggestion of pertness. She only assumed itquite as a matter of course that it was worth while to listen to her. "Isyour brother like you?""No; not really. But you can see for yourself, for he promised to callon you, this evening." Theodora prudently forbore to mention that shehad obtained Allyn's promise only at the expense of much coaxing andsome bribery."That will be good," Cicely remarked with satisfaction. "Papa always saysthat boys are good for girls; they keep you from getting priggish andconceited. They take all that out of you. What is your brother's name?""Allyn.""I'm glad it is something out of the usual run. Have you some sisters?""One, at home."Cicely clasped her hands contentedly."I didn't know I was coming into a whole family. I supposed I should justhave to get along with you and Billy--not but what you'd have beenenough," she added hastily, as this time she caught the glance exchangedbetween Theodora and her husband; "only it is rather good to have someyoung people within reach. Still, it isn't going to be all play for me.Papa wants me to keep up my practice, and that takes five hours a day.""What kind of practice?" Theodora asked, as the carriage stopped atthe steps."Piano. I play a good deal. Oh, what a dear place this is! Am I going tolive here?" And she ran lightly up the steps, too eager to hear Billy'sdespairing,--"Ted! Five hours of strumming, every day! What will you do?"Or Theodora's laughing reply,--"I can forgive that, Billy; but it is still rankling within me that weare no longer young. Alas for our vanished youth!""Alas for the frankness of childhood, you'd better say," Billy responded.Inside the broad hall, Cicely walked up to the blazing fire and restedone slim foot on the fender for a moment. Then she bent down andcarefully unrolled the cape. The tag end of grey fur stirred itself;there was a little growl, a little bark, and a little grey dog squirmedout of his nest and went waddling away across the rug."Mercy on us! What's that?" Theodora gasped, as the little creatureshook himself with a vehemence which fairly hoisted him off his hindlegs, then flew at the nearest claw of the tiger skin and fell toworrying it."That?" Cicely's tone was tinged with a pride almost maternal. "That'sBilly. He is a thoroughbred Yorkshire. Isn't he a dear?"CHAPTER SIX"Do you know where Billy is?" Theodora asked, coming into the library,one evening.Cicely glanced up from her book."He was here, just a few minutes ago.""Patrick wants him.""Who?""Patrick."Cicely looked surprised and closed her book."What does Patrick want of him, Cousin Theodora?""Why, really, Cicely, he didn't tell me. Did you say he was herejust now?""Yes, the last I saw of him, he was asleep under the piano.""Cicely! Oh, you mean the dog.""Yes. Don't you?""No; I meant my husband.""Oh, I haven't seen him since dinner." And Cicely tranquilly returned toher book, while Theodora departed in search of Mr. Farrington."Cicely," she said, when she came back again; "I am sorry; but I amafraid Billy's name will have to be changed.""Which?" Cicely inquired, as her dimples showed themselves."Yours. Mine is the older and has first right to the name. Do you mind,dear? It is horribly confusing and it startles me a little to hear thatmy husband is asleep under the piano."The girl laughed, while she tossed her book on the table."As startling as it was to me, this noon, when you said my dog wasputting on his overcoat in the front hall. It doesn't seem to work well,this duplicating names. What shall we call him,--the puppy, I mean?""Melchisedek, without beginning and without end, because his tail andears are docked," came from the corner."Oh, are you there, Babe?""Yes, I had some studying to do, and they were too noisy at home, so Icame over here. I'm through now, so I am going home. Cicely, I wish youwould let me see how many vertebra there are left in Billy's tail. Ithink he hasn't but one. That is butchery, not surgery, for it doesn'tleave him enough to waggle." And Phebe gathered up an armful of books andtook her departure.Silence followed her going. Theodora had dropped down on the couch beforethe fire and lay staring at the coals. For the moment, she was forgetfulof the girl sitting near her, forgetful even of her story which waspressing upon her insistently, yet eluding her just as insistently. Incertain moods, she loved the old willow couch. It had played a large partin her girlhood; and now at times it was good to turn her back upon thepresent and think of the days when, after the memorable Massawan Bridgedisaster, Billy Farrington's boyhood had been largely spent upon thatlounge and in that library, while she had brought the fresh zest of herwork and her play and all her gay girlish interests into his narrow life.Her father's skilful treatment had laid the foundations for the curewhich the years had completed, until to-day her husband was as strong aman as she could hope to see. Year after year, her life had grown betterand brighter; yet she loved to linger now and then over the good olddays. She pressed her cheek into the cushion, and her lids drooped tokeep the modern actual scene from destroying the old-time imaginary one."Tired, Cousin Ted?" Cicely had dropped down on the couch beside her."Not a bit.""Worried?""No, indeed.""I was afraid something was wrong, you were so quiet." The girl bent overand fell to touching Theodora's hair with light fingers. Suddenly shestooped and snuggled her face against Theodora's cheek. "Oh, I do love tocuddle you," she said impulsively. "I hope you don't mind. Papa used tolet me; I wonder if he doesn't miss it sometimes."Putting out her arm, Theodora drew the girl down at her side."Are you homesick, Cicely?""For papa, not for anything else. If he were here, or even well, I shouldbe perfectly happy here. Only, Cousin Theodora--""Well?""Are we very much in the way, Billy and I? We don't belong here, I know;and it isn't our doing that we came. Are you sorry that we are here?""No. I am glad to have you with us, Cicely."Theodora spoke the truth. In some strange fashion she had grownunaccountably fond of Cicely during the past four weeks. The girl was nosaint; she was only a clean-minded, healthy young thing, born of goodstock, trained by a wise father who believed that, even at sixteen, histall daughter was still a child, not a premature society girl. Heinsisted upon plain gowns and a pigtail, upon hearty exercise andwholesome friendships with boys as well as with girls. So far as lay inhis power, he had taught Cicely "to ride, to row, to swim, to tell thetruth and to fight the devil," and the result was quite to the liking ofBilly and Theodora. They enjoyed Cicely's irresponsible fun and her frankexpressions of opinion; they enjoyed the atmosphere of ozone that neverfailed to surround her; they even confessed, when they were quite bythemselves, to a sneaking sense of enjoyment in her rare flashes oftemper. True, it was not always helpful to Theodora to be roused from herwork by the monotonous _er-er, er-er_ of scales and five fingerexercises, and there were moments when she wondered if pianos were neverbuilt with only a soft pedal and that lashed into a position which wouldentail chronic operation. There were moments when the house jarred withthe slamming of doors and echoed to the shouts of a high, clear youngvoice; and there were hours and hours when Melchisedek, as he was now tobe called, whimpered without ceasing outside her door, with anexasperating determination to come in and sit supreme in the midst of hermanuscript.And then there was Allyn to be considered.In her most optimistic moments, Theodora had pictured Cicely as a dainty,clinging little maiden who would cajole and coddle Allyn out of hisunfriendly moods. Cicely certainly did rouse Allyn from those moods; butit was by no process of feminine cajolery. She went at him, as the phraseis, hammer and tongs. Good-tempered herself, she demanded good temperfrom him. Failing that, she lectured him roundly. Failing again, sheturned her back upon him and left him severely alone, with the resultthat, in an inconceivably short time, Allyn generally came to terms andexerted himself to be agreeable once more. Allyn still kept up thepretence of indifference to her, of superiority over her; Cicely had nopretences. She showed her liking for him frankly; just as frankly sheshowed her disgust at his hours of gloom.Upon one point, however, Allyn maintained a firm stand. He would put upwith no endearments. Theodora was the only person who dared layaffectionate hands upon him, who dared address him in affectionateterms. Just once, in the early days of her being in the Farringtons'household, Cicely, moved with pity at the sight of a bruised forefinger,had ventured upon a caressing pat on Allyn's cheek. It was much thecaress she would have bestowed upon Melchisedek, if she had chanced tostep on his paw; but she never forgot the look of disgusted scorn withwhich Allyn had marched out of the room. Accustomed from her babyhood topetting her father and being petted by him, the girl was at first at aloss to interpret the situation. When the truth dawned upon her thatAllyn was really in earnest, she refused to be suppressed, andpersecuted the boy with every species of endearment which her naughtybrain could invent."Oh, but you are the dearest boy in the world!" she announced, one day,walking into the library at The Savins where Allyn sat reading."What do you want now?" he asked gruffly."You, of course. I'm lonesome, and I want your society.""Let my hair alone," he commanded, ducking his head, as she approachedhis chair."I'm not touching it.""No; but you do sometimes, and I won't have it.""Yes, it seems so like Melchisedek's that I love to straighten theparting," she said demurely, as she came around to the fire. "Whereis Phebe?""Playing with her everlasting old skeleton.""What are you doing?""Trying to read, if you'd let me be," growled Allyn, with a despairinglook at the book in his hand. "What do you want?""You.""What do you want of me?""I'm so fond of you. Besides, I am tired of being alone. Don't youwant me to play for you?" Cicely's eyes shone mischievously, as shemade the offer."Not for a farm. I don't like your diddle-diddles; they haven't aparticle of tune to them.""Come and take me to ride, then.""Why don't you go alone? I'm busy."Cicely took forcible possession of his book."Allyn, you must come. I've a bad attack of the blues.""Get rid of them, then.""That comes well from you.""What's the matter, Cis?""Papa isn't coming home till fall, and I've got to stay here."Allyn looked up sharply. Then he whistled."You don't mean it!"She nodded, without raising her eyes, and Allyn suddenly discovered thather lids were unusually pink."Do you mind it so much?" he added. "Or is he worse?""No; only the doctor wants him to stay over there till the lung is all inorder again.""And you are homesick?""No,--yes,--a little," she said despondently. "But it's not all that.""What is it, then?""It's the being left here till called for, like a sack of potatoes.Cousin Theodora is too polite to say so; but I know she must wish I werein--Dawson City. It's dreadful, Allyn, not having any real home.""If that's the way you feel over there, you'd better come here to TheSavins and stay," he suggested.The dimples came back into Cicely's cheeks."We should fight, Allyn.""Who cares? It's only skin deep," he returned, with a sudden gravitywhich surprised her.She looked at him steadily for a moment. Then she held out herhand to him."Let's not any more, then."He touched her fingers gingerly, gave them a sudden squeeze and thenplunged his fists into his pockets."Come on and ride, if you must," he said ungraciously.She had never seen him in a brighter mood. He chattered ceaselessly,quaint stories of his schoolboy friends, quainter jokes and whimsies andbits of advice for her edification. In such moods, Allyn was well-nighirresistible, and it was with genuine regret that Cicely turned her facetowards home. Her regret, however, was as nothing in comparison with theconsternation that seized her, as she entered the house. Before thefireplace in the hall, there always lay the skin of a superb tiger.To-night, before the tiger lay Melchisedek, and before Melchisedek lay atriangular scrap of brownish fur. As Cicely entered, the dog looked upwith a bland smile; but the smile changed to a snarl, as she came nearand stooped to view the ruin he had wrought. Then he rose, gripped hisbooty in his sinful little teeth, and trotted before her to the librarydoor. On the threshold, he appeared to come to a sudden realization thatjustice was in store for him. His mien changed. The pointed, silky littleears drooped, and walking on three legs, stiffly and as if with infinitedifficulty, he preceded his mistress to the fireside and laid the severedear of the tiger on the floor at Theodora's feet, while Cicely exclaimedpenitently,--"Cousin Theodora, what will you do with us? It's bad enough to have mestranded on your threshold, without having Melchisedek hunting big gamein your front hall."The words were flippant; but the tears were near the surface. Billyinterposed, for he saw Theodora's color come, and he knew that the rug,his own contribution to her college room, was one of her dearestpossessions. He shook his head at the six-pound culprit who stood beforehim, waggling his stumpy tail in smug satisfaction over the success ofhis undertaking."Change his name to Nimrod, Cis," he said gravely; "and send for Babe tomend her first emergency case."CHAPTER SEVEN"Where is Babe?" Dr. McAlister asked, one noon in late May."Here." Phebe's voice came from the piazza outside."Can you ride over to Bannook Bars, this afternoon?""Yes, I suppose so. What for?""As substitute for me. Mrs. Richardson has consumed all her pills, andshe wants some more.""Why doesn't she get them, then? You're not an apothecary.""She refuses to take them, unless I inspect them personally. These arethe patients who try one's soul, Babe. I would rather deal with Asiaticcholera than with one fussy old woman with a digestion. They eat hotbread and fried steak, and then they eat pepsin.""Start a cooking crusade," Phebe suggested lazily. "Well, I'll go.""Thank you. You need the ride anyway; it will do you good, for you havebeen working too hard lately. I don't want my apprentice to wear herselfout." The doctor patted her shoulder with a fatherly caress; then heturned to go into the house."Give me leave to prescribe for Mrs. Richardson?" she called after him."Yes, I make her over to you, and you can date your first case from thisafternoon," he answered."No; I'd rather have something a little younger and more interesting. Iwill be ready to start, right after lunch."The office door closed behind her father, and Phebe let her bookslide from her knee, as she rested her tired eyes on the fresh greenlawn before her. For the past three months, she had worked hard,eager to prove that her home-coming had been inspired by no suddenwhim, still more eager to win her father's professional approval. Herwork was interesting; and yet at times bones and arteries and nerveshad a tendency to pall upon her. She had never dreamed that so muchdrudgery would attend the early stages of her professional studies.She was heartily sick of the theoretical, and she longed for thepractical. She had even teased her father to let her go with him onhis rounds. Instead, he had laughed at her and prescribed a furthercourse of drudgery."Never mind." she said to herself sturdily. "I'll get there, some day. Iwon't always carry pills to old women; and when I do get a real case ofmy own won't I astonish them all!" And events justified her assertion.She was still sitting there, dreaming of future deeds, when Allyn cameout to the veranda."Oh, Allyn?""Hullo, sawbones!""What are you going to do this afternoon?""Nothing.""Don't you want to ride with me?""Maybe. Where?""To Bannock Bars.""What for?""To take some pills to Mrs. Richardson.""Not much. Mrs. Richardson is frabjous and a gossip.""What if she is? You needn't talk to her."But Allyn shook his head."Not if I know myself. I'll oil your wheel for you, Babe, and pack yourpills; but I won't go within range of Mrs. Richardson, for she gives methe creeps.""She won't hurt you.""No; but she makes me feel clammy in the spine of my back, and then shegives me good advice. I'll tell you, Babe, I'll go and get Cis, and wewill ride part way with you. If two people escort you half way, that isas good as having one of them go all the way. Besides, I never feel quiteeasy when I am all alone with you. If anything happened, you might bemoved to experiment on me, and that would be fatal."On the veranda, after luncheon Allyn and Phebe stood waiting for Cicely.She came running across the lawn at last, trim and dainty in her shortgrey suit."I am sorry to be late," she panted; "but I had to stop to chastiseMelchisedek. I found him asleep in Cousin Theodora's fernery. It was sosoft and cool that I suppose it tempted him, this hot day, poor littleman! But aren't you forcing the season, Babe?"Phebe looked down at her immaculate duck suit."No; it is almost the first of June, and so warm. Besides, I am onlygoing out to the wilderness. I am clean and comfortable, and that is themain thing.""Unless we get a shower," Allyn suggested.Phebe looked up at the sky."There isn't a cloud in sight, Allyn. It's not going to rain, I know.""It's sultry. You can't ever tell about a day like this. Still, if youwant to risk it,--""I do." And Phebe mounted her bicycle.The Savins lay at the western edge of the town. Beyond it, the road toBannock Bars led away straight toward the sunset, over hill and hollow,through stretches of sand and along narrow footpaths. It was a road toterrify an amateur; but Phebe's riding was strong and steady, and she wasglad to be in the saddle once more, forgetful of her work and onlyconscious of the sweet spring life about her. It was only an hour laterthat The Savins was ten miles behind her, and she was setting up herwheel against Mrs. Richardson's stone horse-block.Mrs. Richardson met her accusingly."I hope you've got them pills," she demanded, without any formalpreliminaries."Yes, my father has sent them.""I wrote for them, day before yesterday. I thought sure they'd comeyesterday.""He was busy," Phebe said curtly, as she took off her sailor hat andfanned herself."Jim Sykes said he see him drivin' off over Wisdom way.""Yes, he had a case there, an important case." Phebe's head was tilted atan aggressive angle."I guess I was some important, or he'd have said so, if he'd see me, lastnight. I had a bad spell, and like to fainted.""What had you been eating?" Phebe inquired, with a sudden access ofprofessional severity."Be you his youngest girl?" Mrs. Richardson asked rather irrelevantly."Yes.""The one that was in Paris?""Yes.""I wonder at your father's lettin' you go. They say it's an awful wickedcity, and I hear it's nip and tuck whether a person comes home as good asshe went.""I didn't find it so.""Maybe not. Still, it's risky and I don't think much of folks that don'tfind America good enough for 'em. You look hot. Come in and get a drinkof water."Inside the house and with a glass of water in her hand, Phebe felt thatit devolved upon her to make some efforts at conversation."You said you were worse, last night; didn't you? What were thesymptoms?" she asked, between her sips."What's generally the symptoms? I felt sick and wanted to keel over.""Had you been--?""No; I hadn't. You tell your father that I'll tell him about it, when hecomes. I ain't goin' to be doctored by hearsay. Did you see Sol Bassitt'sbarn, as you come over the hill?""I came by the lower road.""What did you do that for? It's a good mile further.""Yes; but it's better riding, that way.""You'd better go back over the hill. The barn's worth seein', the bestone this side of town." Mrs. Richardson rocked to and fro in exultationat having some one to listen to her month's accumulation of gossip.Bannock Bars was an isolated hamlet, and visitors were few. "Sol's girl,Fannie, has gone to Oswego for a week. She's had scarlet fever, and itleft her ailin'. It's too bad, for she is a likely girl.""Very likely," Phebe assented, half under her breath."What?""I said it was extremely probable.""What was?" Mrs. Richardson glared at her guest who was tranquilly wavinga palm-leaf fan."That Fannie is a good girl.""Well, she is," Mrs. Richardson returned shortly.There was a silence, while Phebe inspected the black cambric binding ofher fan, and tried to gather energy to go out into the hot sun once more.Mrs. Richardson had rocked herself into more placid humor."They've got a boarder over to Sykes's," she resumed."Have they?" Phebe spoke indifferently. Bannock Bars was too near townfor her to realize how countrified it was, how the coming of a singlestranger could stir the placid current of its existence."He's from New York, Bartlett is his name, or some such thing. They sayhe's a music feller.""A what?" Phebe wondered whether Mrs. Richardson had reference to amember of a German band. The words suggested something of the kind."A feller that writes music. I don't know anything about it only whatthey say. Anyhow, he's brought a pianner with him, and they say he bangsaway on it like all possessed, and then stops short and scolds. I wentpast there, one day, when the windows was open, and I heard him thumpin'and tiddlin' away for dear life. It didn't seem to me there was much tuneto it, nor time neither; you couldn't so much as tell where one line leftoff and the next begun."Phebe's fan slid out of her lap, and, as she stooped to pick it up, shedropped her handkerchief."Have you seen him?" she asked, when she was upright once more."How?""Have you ever seen this Mr. Bartlett?""Yes. He goes round in one of these short-pant suits and great coarsestockin's and shoes, and he never acts as if he knew what he was about.Half-baked, I call him. He holds his head like this, and he struts alongas if Bannock Bars wa'n't half good enough for him. Mis' Sykes says heain't a mite fussy, though, takes what she gives him and don't complain.Land! If he can stand Eulaly Sykes's cookin', he must be tough.""Perhaps he will keel over, some day," Phebe suggested."I should think he would. But then, they say folks like him eat all sortsof things at night suppers, so I suppose he is used to it." She rocked insilence, for a moment; then she went on, "What do you find to do withyourself, now you're home again? You was with Mis' Farrington's folks;wasn't you, she that was Theodora McAlister?""Yes.""She does a good deal of writin', I hear. Does she get much out of it?"Phebe hesitated, assailed by doubts as to how large a story Mrs.Richardson would swallow, and her hostess swept on,--"She's spreadin' herself a good deal, and it can't all be her earnin's.Do you take after her?""No; I am studying medicine.""I want to know! What for?""To be a doctor, I suppose." Phebe rose and put on her hat.Mrs. Richardson took a step towards her."You don't want a skeleton; do you?" she asked. "I've got one I'dsell cheap."For one instant, Phebe hesitated. Unexpected as was the offer, itappealed to her. There was a certain dignity in having one's ownskeleton; it was the first step toward professional life. That oneinstant's hesitation settled the matter, for Mrs. Richardson saw it andwas swift to take advantage of it."It belonged to His sister's husband," she said, with a jerk of her headtoward the portrait of her late husband. "He was a doctor and, when hedied, all his trumpery was brought here and stowed away in our garret.It's as good as new, and you can have it for five dollars.""I--don't--know," Phebe said slowly.Mrs. Richardson interposed."I don't want to be hard on you. 'Tain't a very big one, and it ain'tstrung up," she said persuasively. "You can have it for three. It's asplendid chance for you."Phebe yielded."Well, I'll take it, if it is all there.""I'll get it, and you can let your father count it up. I'm willing toleave it to him." And Mrs. Richardson went hurrying out of the room.She was gone for some time. When she came back again she bore in herarms a bundle, large, knobby and misshapen. It was wrapped innewspapers which had cracked away here and there over the end of a rib;but it was enclosed in a network of strings that crossed andcrisscrossed like a hammock."I thought you might just as well take it right along with you," shesaid. "You can send me the money in a letter, if it's all right, butland knows when you will be here again, and I hain't got anybody tosend it by."Phebe looked appalled. In a long experience of bicycling, she had scorneda carrier, and she stood firmly opposed to the idea of converting herwheel into a luggage van."I can't carry that," she said."Yes, you can. Just string it over your forepiece and it will go allright. It ain't heavy for anything so bulky. I'll help you tie it on."And she prepared to execute her offer."Oh, don't! At least, I'm much obliged; but--Oh, dear, if I must takeit, I suppose I must; but I think I'd better tie it on, myself.""Just as you like. You'd better hurry up a little, though, for Ishouldn't wonder if it rained before sundown.""Rain? Then I can't take this thing." Phebe paused, with the stringhalf tied."Oh, I'll risk it. Besides if you don't take it, there's a man inGreenway that will."Phebe looked at her hostess, shut her teeth, jerked the knot tight, andwas silent; but there was a dangerous gleam in her eyes, as she mountedand rode away, with her three-dollar skeleton clattering on thehandle-bars before her.CHAPTER EIGHTThere is a certain inconvenience coupled with being called upon to poseas a genius at the comparatively early age of twenty-six. Popular theoryto the contrary, notwithstanding, it is easier to plod slowly along onthe path to fame. Greatness does not repeat itself, every day in theweek. But fate had overtaken Gifford Barrett, and had hung a wreath oftender young laurels about his boyish brow. He deserved the wreath, ifever a boy did. Two years before, fresh from the inspiration of his yearsin Germany and of his German master, he had composed his _Alan BreckOverture_. It would have been well done, even for a man many years hissenior, and it quickly won a place on the programmes of the leadingorchestra's of the country. He had known what it was to be called outfrom his box at the Auditorium or Carnegie Hall to bow to the audience,while the orchestra thumped their approval on their music racks. He hadbeen hailed even as the American Saint Saens, and it was small wonderthat he began to feel the wreath too tight a fit for his brows.His family was well known and, from the first, society had claimed himfor her own. He had the gift of talking well, of dancing better; and hehad found it easy to drift along from day to day, neglecting his musicfor the sake of the invitations that poured in upon him. In his moreconscientious moments, he told himself that he would do all the betterwork as the result of seeing the life of his native city; but so far itsinfluence had been only potent to move him to write a triplet of lightsongs and to dedicate them to three of the prettiest girls in his set, noone of whom was able to sing a note in tune.At the end of the second season, a reaction set in. The public wasclamorous for a new work from him; he was tired of being lionized bypeople who called his beloved overture pretty. The madness of the springwas upon him, the spirit of work had seized him, and the middle of Mayfound him and his long-suffering piano installed in the "north chamber"of the Sykes homestead at Bannock Bars.He had chosen the place with some degree of care, in order to besufficiently remote from society to work undisturbed, sufficiently nearcivilization to be able to buy more music paper in case of need. Tenmiles of even a bad road is not an impassible barrier to an enthusiasticbicyclist; yet the place was as rustic and countrified as if it had been,not ten, but ten hundred miles from an electric light. His digestion wasgood enough to cope even with Eulaly Sykes's perennial doughnuts, and itwas in a mood of supreme content that he settled into his quarters in thewilderness. It was years since he had watched the on-coming of the NewEngland summer; he watched it now with the trained sense, the inherentquickness of perception of the true artist who realizes that the simplestfacts of the day's routine by his touch can be transmuted into glowing,vivid material for his work.It must be confessed that Eulaly Sykes occasionally mourned to herfriends over the irregularities of her boarder. His hours of workpassed her comprehension, his work itself filled her soul with wonderand disgust. In his moments of inspiration when he was evoking thestormy chords of the introduction to his symphonic poem, _Bisesa_ henever dreamed that his landlady was craning her head up from herpillows in a vain effort to discover the tune, or to reduce it to theknown terms of short metre rhythm. His broken, irregular measurestroubled her, as did also his broken, irregular hours of work. Therewere days when he rode far afield, or was seen lying on his back underthe pines by the brookside, listening to the splash of the water, thehissing of the air through the boughs above him. After such days, hispiano was wont to sound far into the night, and Eulaly, as she sleptand waked and still heard her boarder's fingers crashing over the keys,reproached herself bitterly."Them last doughnuts was too rich," she used to say to her old-fashionedbolster, set up like a grim idol by the bedside; "and the poor fellercan't sleep. I mustn't put so much shortenin' in the next ones. My, butthat was an awful scrooch! I wish he'd shut his windows a little mitetighter, and not pester the whole neighborhood."This state of things had endured for two weeks, and the symphonic poemwas progressing as well as its composer had any reason to expect. Alreadyit was bidding fair to rival the _Alan Overture_ and Mr. Barrett beganto carry his nose tilted at an angle higher than ever, as if inimagination he already scented the fresh laurels in store for him. Pridegoeth before destruction. A long day under the pines resulted not ininspiration, but in an uninspiring cold in his head; his temper sufferedtogether with his nose, and Eulaly Sykes, below stairs, chafed her handstogether at the sounds of musical and moral discord which floated downupon her ears. All the morning long, he smote his brows and his piano byturns. The new _motif_ he was seeking, refused to be found.Later, fortified by Eulaly's fried chicken and rhubarb pie, he tried itagain, invitingly playing over the preceding _motif_ in every possiblekey and tempo. It was of no use. He slammed down the top of his piano,tore across a half-finished page, caught up his cap, mounted his bicycleand rushed away up the road, quite regardless of the clouds lying low inthe western sky.Fifteen miles of scorching over country roads sufficed to bring him to acalmer mood, and he turned his wheel towards the Sykes homestead oncemore. The _motif_ was still as far beyond his grasp as ever; but therewere other things in life besides elusive _motifs_. The increasingblackness above his head was one of them; his hunger was another, and hequickened his pace. His piano might be awaiting him in mute reproach; butthen, so did Eulaly's doughnuts await him, and there was no reproach inthose, at least, not until some time later. He fell to whistling a strainof his overture, as he rode swiftly along, quite unconscious of the factthat disaster, in the person of Miss Phebe McAlister, was riding quite asswiftly to meet him.Three miles from his boarding-place, the storm overtook him with a rushwhich straight-way reduced the roads to the consistency of cream. Helooked about for shelter; but no shelter was at hand, and the roadmeandered along before him uphill and down again with an easy nonchalancewhich appeared to take no account of the pelting rain. It was hard ridingand dangerous, but he pushed on manfully, while the streams of watertrickled down his neck and along the bridge of his nose. As he reachedthe crest of the hill, he saw before him, just crawling over the crest ofthe opposite hill, a figure on a bicycle coming swiftly towards him.Even at that distance, he could make out a bedraggled white suit, a limpsailor hat and a vast pulpy bundle lashed to the handle-bars."Some country maiden, coming home from market," he said to himself. "IHope she is enjoying the shower."Then of a sudden, he braced himself for a shock, for a bell was clangingwildly, and a cry rang out upon his ears,--"Oh, go away! Be careful! Get out of the way! Quick!"He turned aside, out of the path of the flying wheel. It sounds acowardly thing to have done, and doubtless the knights of old would havecontrived a way of rescue. To the latter-day knight, however, there wassomething inevitable in the on-coming of the wheel, with its rider's feetkicking in a futile search for the pedals. It reminded him of his ownfutile search for his _motif_. Both searchers seemed equally helpless toattain their objects. Moreover, when a tall and muscular maiden sweepsdown upon one, leaving behind her a train of shrieks and scatteredphalanges, there is absolutely nothing for one to do but to get out ofher way as expeditiously as possible. No use in breaking two necks,and--the critics were waiting for the symphonic poem.He turned, then, to the right-hand edge of the road. Phebe was bouncingalong over the stones dangerously near the other gutter, and he alreadywas congratulating himself upon his escape. Then in a moment thesituation was changed. The runaway wheel flashed into a mud puddle,veered and before his astonished eyes shed a rib or two and a claviclefrom the swaying bundle, veered again and collided with his own wheel. Inanother instant, the right-hand gutter held two muddy bicycles, thegreater portion of a human skeleton, Phebe McAlister and the composer ofthe _Alan Breck Overture_.An experienced bicycle teacher once said that no woman ever pickedherself up from a fall, without saying that she was not at all hurt. Trueto tradition, Phebe staggered to her feet, exclaiming,--"Thank you; but I'm not hurt in the least. I'm so sorry--"Then she paused abruptly and stared at the stranger in the gutter. He layas he had fallen, his face half buried in the mud and his right armtwisted under him. More frightened than she had been in all her headlongdescent of the hill, she bent over him and tried to turn him as he lay.Gifford Barrett was an athlete as well as a musician, however, and ittook all of Phebe's strength to stir him ever so slightly. As she did so,she disclosed a gash where his temple had struck upon a stone, and hisright arm swung loosely out from his side. Phebe McAlister had suddenlyfound herself in the presence of her first case, and the presence wasrather an appalling one.In any crisis, the mind attacks a side issue. Phebe rose from her knees,took off the sodden thing which had been her hat, and carefully coveredit over her saddle. Her face, underneath the streaks of mud, was verywhite, and her lips were unsteady. Then she pressed her hands over hereyes, bit her lips and gave her shoulders a little shake. That done, sheknelt down in the mud once more and set herself to the task in hand,wondering meanwhile who and what her victim might be.Obviously he was a gentleman. His firm, clean-cut lips alone would havesettled that point to her satisfaction. Beyond that, she had no possibleclue to his identity. The situation was a trying one. The nearest housewas a mile away; the rain was still pelting heavily down upon them, andshe, Phebe McAlister, was alone in the storm with a perfect stranger whomshe had knocked from his bicycle, stunned and perhaps injured for life.To whom did he belong? What should she do with him? If he died, who wouldbe responsible, not for the injury, but for making the funeralarrangements? For a moment, the unaccustomed tears rushed to her eyes,and, seen through their mist, her victim seemed to be expanding until hefilled the whole landscape and surrounded her by dozens, all plasteredwith mud and begirt with whitened bones. Then she pulled herself togetheragain. The stranger's arm was broken, his forehead bloody. She must seewhat she could do for him, then go for help.There was a long interval when the noise of the rain was interrupted bylittle groans and exclamations from Phebe, while she tugged and shovedand pried at the man in the road. He was so very big, so veryunconscious, so very determined to lie with his face buried in the mudand meet his end by suffocation. At last, she drew a long breath,mustered all her strength and gave him one pull which turned himcompletely over on his back. As she did so, his eyes opened dully and bydegrees gathered expression. He looked up into her mud-stained face, downat his mud-stained clothes, around at the mud-stained skull which layclose to his side and grinned back at him encouragingly."What the deuce--" he faltered. Then once more he fainted away.Twenty minutes later, Phebe was rushing away to the nearest house insearch of help. There was but one house within reach, however, and fatewilled that she should find that deserted. She hesitated whether sheshould ride on for two miles farther, or go back to her victim, and shedecided upon the latter course. It seemed hours to her before she reachedthe top of the hill again. Then she stopped short, dismounted and stareddown the slope in astonishment. Her victim had vanished from the scene.Only the skull remained to mark the spot where he had lain, two deeptracks in the soft mud to show the way by which he had gone."Well, Babe?" Allyn's voice hailed her, as she rode wearily up the drive,the water squelching in her shoes and her soaked skirt flapping dismallyabout her pedals. "Were you out in all that shower?""Yes.""Why didn't you go under cover?""There wasn't any cover to go under." Phebe's tone was notaltogether amicable."But the mud? It's all over your face, and your wheel, and your hair.""I fell off.""Where?""Coming down Bannock Hill. I lost my pedals, and my wheel slippedin the mud.""Bannock Hill? That's a bad place to fall. Break anything?""You can look and see."But Allyn was not to be suppressed."Where's your hat?"She started slightly and raised her hand to her head. It was bare."Oh, yes," she said unguardedly. "I remember now. I must have left itwhere I sat.""Sat!" Allyn stared at his sister in amazement. "What did you do? Sitdown to study the landscape?"But Phebe stalked up the steps and into the house, and Allyn saw her nomore until dinner-time.Two days later, Allyn burst into the office where Phebe was bending overa book. In his hand was an unfolded newspaper which he flapped excitedly,as she looked up."There are others, Babe.""What do you mean?""This. Listen! Oh, where is the thing? Here it is, in the Bannockcorrespondence of the _Times_. Listen! 'Mr. G. Bartlett, the musician whois sojourning at Mr. Jas. Sykes's farm, sustained a bad fall from hisbicycle on Bannock Hill, last Tuesday. His injuries are serious,including a cut on his temple and a compound fracture of the right arm.Dr. Starr reduced the fracture and reports the patient as doing as wellas--' you see somebody else slipped up on that hill, Babe. You ought tofeel you came out of it pretty well."Phebe looked up with a frown."Go away, Allyn; I'm busy," she said sharply.Three weeks later, Phebe had occasion to make another trip to see Mrs.Richardson. This time, she chose the hill road, the one which led pastthe Sykes farm. Gifford Barrett was sauntering along by the roadside,smoking. His arm was in a sling, his hat drawn forward, half concealingthe patch of plaster on his temple. As she passed, Phebe looked him fullin the face, and instinctively his hand went to his cap, though withoutany sign of recognition."Some girl that's heard the overture," he said to himself. "I don't seemto remember her, though. She has a good figure and she rides well; butwhat a color! She will have apoplexy, some day, if she's not careful."The next day, Eulaly Sykes's boarder had started for the Maine coastwhere three unmusical, but sympathetic maidens were waiting to help himpass the dreary days of his convalescence.CHAPTER NINETwo willow chairs were swaying to and fro in the gathering dusk, and twovoices were blended in a low murmur. Theodora and Billy were exchangingthe confidences born of a long week of separation while business hadcalled Mr. Farrington to New York."How comes on the book, Ted?"She shook her head."It doesn't come.""Does Cicely's being here disturb you?""No, not really; not nearly so much as Melchisedek. In an unguardedmoment, I asked him, one day, to come and help auntie write books. Sincethen he rushes from his breakfast straight to my room and capers madly onthe threshold till I appear.""And then?""Then he insists on lying in my lap and resting his head on my arm,and he snarls, every time I joggle him. It isn't helpful orinspiring, Billy.""No; I should say not. What is the story, Ted?""I'm not going to tell even you, Billy," she returned quickly. "Italways demoralizes me to talk over my stories while they are evolving. Imust work them out alone. It seems conceited and selfish; but there's nohelp for it. You believe it; don't you?""I'll trust you, Ted. But is this hero very hectic?"It was an old joke, but they were still laughing over it when Cicelyappeared in the doorway, with Melchisedek under her arm."Cousin Theodora?" she said interrogatively, for the piazza was dark."Yes.""I want to talk.""You generally do, Cis," Billy observed unkindly."Yes; but I mean I have something to talk about. I don't always.""Shall I go away?" he asked politely."No; I want a man's view of it, too. But perhaps you were busy and I'llbe in the way."For her reply, Theodora drew another chair into the group. Cicely satdown, balanced Melchisedek on her knee and fell to poking his grey hairthis way and that, as if at a loss how to begin the conversation."How far is it safe for a girl to follow up a boy?" she asked abruptly,yet with a little catch in her breath."Meaning yourself?" Billy queried."Yes, of course.""I should say it depended a good deal on the boy.""I mean Allyn.""What's the matter? Have you had a falling out?""Yes, we are always doing it. I can't seem to help it, either. It'shorrid. He is outspoken and tells me what he thinks of me; I'm peppery,and I don't like it.""I know, dear," Theodora said gently, for she read the girl's irritationin her voice. "Allyn isn't always as polite as he might be; but we musttry not to be too sensitive.""I'm not sensitive," Cicely said forlornly. "I like him, though, and Iwant him to like me, and it hurts my feelings when he doesn't.""How long has the present feud lasted?" Billy inquired."Almost ten days. It's the worst one yet, and it started from nothing. Iknow he is your brother, Cousin Theodora; but--I really don't think it'sall my fault.""No." Theodora's voice suggested no mental reservation. "I know how itis, Cicely. Allyn has been my baby and my boy; but, much as I love him, Ican't help seeing that he is cantankerous and cross-grained at times. Butit is only at times, Cis; it isn't chronic.""I wish it were. Then I shouldn't mind it so much. But when he isn'tcross, he is one of the jolliest boys I have ever known. That's theworst of it, for I miss him so, when we squabble. When we are on terms,I don't care about anybody else; and so, when we are off, it leaves meall alone.""When I squabbled with your Cousin Theodora," Billy said oracularly; "Igenerally felt I had done my share, and I left her to do the making up.""So I observed," his wife answered; but Cicely was too much absorbed inher subject to heed the parenthesis."I'm willing to make up," she said, as she twisted Melchisedek's earswith an absent-minded fervor which caused the sufferer to whimper; "buthow can I? He just goes off his way, and leaves me to go mine. I hate totag him; besides, I don't know but he really wants to get rid of me.Hush, Melchisedek! Don't whine. I didn't intend to hurt you. That's whatI meant, Cousin Ted, when I asked you about following him up. How far isit safe to go?""Till you get there," Mr. Farrington replied."Billy!" his wife remonstrated."All right, Ted; but I'm not altogether joking. I know boys better thanyou do. It's not easy for them to come down off their dignity; and, ninetimes out of ten, when they scowl the most darkly, they are reallywishing that they knew how to come to terms. I must go down town now,Cis; but my parting advice to you is to corner Allyn and bully him intoshaking hands. The boy is an ungracious cub; but he is sound at the core,and I honestly think he is fond of you in his dumb way."After he had left them alone, Cicely dropped down on the floor atTheodora's feet."Life isn't a straight line; it's horribly squirmy," she said, and hervoice vas unusually grave.Theodora drew the brown head against her knee."What is it, dear?" she asked."It's only Allyn. I don't know what the reason is that we can't get on.I've known lots of boys, and I never squabbled with any of them before.And I don't know why I care so much. Sometimes I really think I am goodfor Allyn and can help him out, and I am disappointed because he won'tlet me; but I more than half think it is only my vanity, after all.""Was it a bad fight?""Awful." In spite of herself, Cicely laughed at the recollection."He wound up by telling me that I was no lady, and he didn't care tohave anything more to do with me. Since then I have hardly had aglimpse of him.""I hadn't noticed that anything was wrong between you," Theodora saidthoughtfully."No; we both of us are old enough not to quarrel in public. But I can'tsee any end to this. I care for Allyn a great deal, and I miss him; butif he does not want me for a friend, I can't force him to take me. I'mnot a pill, to be swallowed whether or no.""Perhaps I could help a little."Cicely shook her head."No; we were the ones to fight, and now we must be the ones to make up,without any go-betweens. Papa has always told me that dignity doesn'tcount in a case like this; and I'm willing to do anything reasonable. Theonly trouble is that I don't know what Allyn really wants. If he trulydoes wish I would let him alone, I don't see any use in my hanging on tohim. Just once, more than a month ago, he said something that made methink he cared, and was glad to have me here; but it was only once, andmaybe I was mistaken. It isn't forever since you were a girl, CousinTheodora. What did you do in such cases?"Theodora rapidly reviewed her past."I think I never had just such a case, Cicely," she said honestly. "Huand Billy were my two best friends; and I don't think either one ofthem ever had a cross-grained day in his life. I was generally theaggressor, myself."Cicely rubbed her head against Theodora's knee in mute contradiction."But what should you do in my case?" she persisted."I don't know. Sometimes I can't tell what to do in my own. Allyn israther a puzzle.""He's worse than an original proposition in geometry. I want to solvehim and I can't. Papa has always taught me that we girls have a good dealof responsibility, and that we can help our boy friends a good deal, orelse hinder them. Perhaps I am conceited; but it seems to me as if Icould help Allyn, if I could get at him. Besides--" she hesitated."Well?" Theodora said encouragingly."Oh, it's silly to tell; but sometimes I wonder whether it wouldn't helpyou a little, at the same time. I'd love to feel it did; you have been sogood to me. I know you worry about Allyn. You watch him as a cat watchesa mouse, and you always seem to understand his queer ways and know justhow to manage him. I wish I could do it as you do."Theodora was silent for a moment. Then she bent down and laid her cheekagainst the brown chair."Cicely," she said; "those eyes of yours have a trick of seeing deeperinto things than you suspect. We have gone so far that we may as well goa little farther. Allyn is very dear to me; but I do worry about him morethan I like to tell. He is headstrong and obstinate; worse than that; heis moody, and there is his great danger. Under it all, he is a splendidfellow; but I am afraid he will turn sour and hard. It grew on him fast,last year, while I was away, and the next two or three years will settlethe matter, one way or the other. Ever so much is going to depend onkeeping him happy and jolly. He hasn't many friends left, and he needsall those he has, needs to trust them and feel they trust him and care agreat deal for him, whatever he says or does. If you want to, you canhelp me in this."There was a short silence. Then Theodora went on,--"Every girl has the making of at least one boy, if she manages him in theright way. I agree with your father in that, Cis, agree with him with allmy heart. She must forget, though, that they are boy and girl, and onlyremember that they are comrades. Flirting never helps things. But a girlhas more patience than a boy, as a rule, and more tact. Where a boyfights, she waits till the time comes for her to put in a word thattells. Moreover, she is willing to stand by her friends through thick andthin, if she has any conscience at all, and most boys go through an agewhen every such loyal friend counts in holding them steady. A girl thatneither preaches nor flirts, can sometimes carry a boy through hours whenhis own mother would be helpless to manage him. It's a great gift in thehands of you girls, Cis; and it shouldn't make you careless or conceited,but very conscientious in the way you use it.""I think I understand why Cousin Will looks at you just as he doessometimes," the girl said slowly. "But about Allyn?""You can do whatever you choose with him," Theodora answered quickly."Allyn is very fond of you, Cis. I know him better than you do, and Iknow that he cares a good deal more for you than you suspect, even if hedoes take queer ways of showing it. You have it in your hands to help himover one of the worst spots in his life.""How?""By making up with him and, if he fights again, making up again. Keepfriends with him, keep him bright and interested and healthy. I don'tmind his being cross half so much as I do his going off by himself andlooking glum. If you are willing, Cicely, you can do more to break thatup than I can."The girl shook her head."I can help; but you stand first, Cousin Ted.""Not in this. I'm related to him, and I am a great deal older than he is.Those are two serious handicaps, sometimes. He will come to me alwaysprobably in emergencies; at least, I hope he will, but it is the steadycompanionship that counts for more than this, the chance to lessen thefriction in all manner of little things. There I am helpless. Allyn knowsthat I have my house and my writing and my husband to look out for, andhe would be on his guard directly, if he saw me turn my back on them andgive my time to him. But, Cicely, this is asking a great deal of you.""Not so much as it sounds," the girl said earnestly. "I'm not all achild, Cousin Ted; and I have watched Allyn a good deal. It hasn't seemedto me that things went right with him; but there was nothing I could putmy finger on, nothing at all. I like him, and I like to do things withhim, even if he is younger; but I don't want you to think I am horridand forward with him, when he doesn't want me."She was silent for a moment, while Melchisedek licked her face,unrebuked. Then she rose, pushing the dog gently away."Is this what you mean, Cousin Theodora: that it will be a good idea, forme to do things with Allyn, to care for the things he likes, and, if hegets cross and goes off not to care, but just go after him and bring himback again?""If you feel as if you could, Cicely.""I do; I'd be glad to. Sometimes I wonder if any one else were ever halfso good fun; sometimes I wonder how such a grumpy thing can be aMcAlister," she said, with thoughtful frankness. "It's the grumpy sidethat must be kept under, I suppose; but he isn't real sweet to handleunder such circumstances.""I know that," Theodora answered, as she rose and stooped to pick upMelchisedek who was pulling at her skirts appealingly. "But it's only thechance of helping him forget to be grumpy, till he outgrows the habit. Itisn't that I want to spoil him, Cicely. It wouldn't do any good to coddlehim or give in to him. Just keep out of all the skirmishes you can; andwhen he forces you into one, do what you can to establish a truce. Mostboys go through this thorny age; it's as inevitable as mumps, but Allynis taking it very hard, and we want to break it up before it becomeschronic. Do you see what I am driving at, dear?""Enough so that I am going to wave the olive branch, to-morrow," sheanswered, laughing. "If he ignores it, I'll try it again in some otherform. I only wanted to make sure that you approved of my meddling." Sheput her hand through Theodora's arm and together they paced up and downthe broad piazza. Above them, the stars were dotting the still, dark air,and the ragged outline of The Savins showed itself faintly through thegreat trees. "His eyes have looked so heavy, the last day or two," sheadded, as she looked across to the light shining out from Allyn's window.And again, after a long interval, "It's not so easy, after all, CousinTed, this being a girl."CHAPTER TEN"Teddy, I am worried about Allyn.""What is the matter? Isn't he well?""Yes, only rather listless. It isn't his health I am worrying about; itis his character.""He will come out all right," Theodora said cheerily, for it was rare tosee her father in a despondent mood, and the sight distressed her."Perhaps; but it seems to me that something is wrong with the boy. Heisn't like the rest of you.""Mercifully not; and yet we were all queer sticks," Theodora observedtranquilly. "We appear to be working out our own salvation, though,whether it's writing or bones, and Allyn will probably follow our examplewhen he is old enough.""I wish he might. He is giving me more trouble than all the rest of youput together, and the worst of it is that I don't know whether he needs atonic or a thrashing." The good doctor knitted his brows and endeavoredto look stern. "I suspect it is the latter," he added.Theodora shook her head gayly."It wouldn't be of any use, papa. We must bide our time. Allyn is queer,most mortal queer; but these may be the mutterings of genius, a volcanicgenius that is getting ready to erupt.""I never regarded bad temper as a sign of genius.""Perhaps not. But, even if it isn't, thrashings only leave callous spots.You'd better try the tonic."They had been walking up and down the front lawn. Now they turned, asby common consent, and strolled away towards a more distant part ofthe grounds."Is anything new the trouble?" Theodora asked, after an interval."No; only that his school reports get worse and worse, and that heappears to have a perfect genius for losing friends.""Even the warty James?"The doctor laughed."I can't blame him for half his antipathies," he said; "and that makes ithard for me to corner him in an argument. The boy was born with a hatredof dirt and of lying and of toadying, and he is utterly intolerant ofanybody who shows anything of the three. His theories are all right, onlyhis way of carrying them out makes him rather unpopular. But what isworrying me now is his school work. He isn't stupid; but his marks areaway below par.""You might try the tonic," Theodora said. "But what about Babe?""Don't ask me, Ted. That girl defies prediction. She always did. One day,I think she will bring glory to us all; the next, I want to turn her outof my office. She is as smart as a steel trap; but she is as lawless asAllyn. It's in a different way. I blame them both; but I am sorry forhim, while I want to shake Phebe. She could do anything she chose, butshe never really chooses. Sometimes I think she is only playing with herstudy. The next day, she astonishes me by some brilliant stroke thatmakes me forgive all her past laziness. She's splendid stuff, Ted, onlyshe needs a balance-wheel. The fact is, the girl is selfish. She isn'tworking for love of her profession and the good it can do to others; allshe cares for is the pleasure she takes in it, the pride that it bringsher. That may do in some lines; but a doctor must think beyond that andoutside of himself and his own interests.""That's true of most of us," Theodora said; "at least, that is what weare aiming at.""Some of us; not all. Teddy, you are a comfort to your old father.""Even if I did help to turn his hair grey?"He shook his head."You used to rush headlong into things, Ted; but you never went very farastray, and now--"Theodora seized his arm."Hush!" she said, pointing to the shady spot under the trees where Allynlay on the grass with Cicely by his side. The girl was bareheaded, andone shaft of sunlight, slanting down between the oak leaves above her,struck across her brown hair and across her hand as it lay on Allyn'soutstretched palm."Come, papa, let's leave them there," she added. "Cicely is a betterdoctor for Allyn than either you or I."It was the third day after her talk with Theodora, and Cicely had not somuch as caught a glimpse of Allyn, though she had dropped in at TheSavins repeatedly, on the chance of finding him at home. Whether the boyhad turned his back upon the world, or was merely trying to keep out ofher way, she was at a loss to determine. However, she saw no use intaking the whole family into her confidence, and she apparently gave herentire attention to Mrs. McAlister and Phebe, while in reality her greyeyes were keeping a sharp lookout for the missing boy.At last she made up her mind that indirect methods were useless. Siegefailing, she determined to carry the place by assault."Where is Allyn?" she demanded, as she came up the steps of The Savinswith Melchisedek at her heels."I don't know. Get away! Shoo! Cicely, do call your horrid dog away." AndPhebe brandished a scalpel threateningly."Here, Melchisedek, come here!"But Melchisedek, his paws planted on the hem of Phebe's skirt, wasbarking madly and making little lunges at something in her lap."Get out! Ugh! Do go away! Cicely, call him!"Cicely stooped and caught up the wriggling little creature who protestedloudly, as she tucked him under her arm."Might I inquire what that choice morsel is, Phebe?" she askeddisdainfully."It's a chicken's gizzard," Phebe answered shortly."Oh, and you were having a private lunch out here. Beg pardon fordisturbing you." Cicely's eyes were dancing, and the dimples in hercheeks were at their deepest; but Phebe never looked up. "Poor littleMelchisedek!" the girl went on. "Wouldn't his old Aunt Babe give him onelittle bittie piece? Well, it was too bad. Do you lunch out here fromchoice, Babe; or were you sent away from the table?""Don't be silly, Cicely. Can't you see I am studying it?""What for?""To see how it's made.""Oh, then it's science, not hunger. It's all right, Melchisedek; she islearning things, not eating them. But what was it you said about Allyn?""Nothing.""Please do say something, then. I want him.""Ask mother," Phebe said absently. "Oh-h, there now!""What's the matter?""Nothing, only it's tough. Do go on.""Gizzards generally are. If I can do you any little good turn in the wayof table scraps, Babe, don't hesitate to mention it." And Cicely departedin search of Mrs. McAlister."No," she said; "I mustn't stay. I only want Allyn.""I saw him go across the hill, just after lunch. He had a book with him,and you may find him reading, somewhere over there. Don't hurry.""Thank you; I must go." And she went away across the lawn.She found Allyn quite at the farther side of the grounds, lying in thetall June grass with his arms folded under his head. Face down beside himwas a book; but his thoughts were elsewhere and quite apart from thegreat tree above him into which he was staring so fixedly. Instinctivelyhe had chosen the most beautiful spot in the grounds where the landsloped away to the west, across a salt marsh all bright with greeny browngrasses, and onward into the open country beyond. At the north, a faintline of white smoke marked the path of a passing train; at the southcould be seen a small blue patch of ocean.In the thick grass, Cicely's steps were noiseless, and Melchisedekconsiderately neglected to bark, so Allyn was unconscious of herapproach. He started suddenly, as she dropped down at his side."What do you want?" he asked gruffly."You.""I'm busy.""You look it," she said merrily, as she pointed to the book against whichMelchisedek had promptly braced his back while he searched for a missingburr that he had accumulated in the course of his rambles."I wish you'd go away," he grumbled."I'm not doing any harm," she said composedly. "You don't own thisplace, anyway.""My father does, then.""He won't turn me out.""Wish he would and done with it." Allyn rolled over on his side with hisback inhospitably turned to his caller.Her dimples came ever so little. Then she said quietly,"What a dear, courteous soul you are, Allyn! Please do listen to me, forI've come to tell you something.""Tell away, if you want to." He pushed aside Melchisedek who had stolenup behind him and pounced down upon his ear."I want to make peace.""Make it.""But if it takes two to make a quarrel, it probably takes two to make apeace. Allyn, I am tired of fighting. Let's make up.""What's the use? We should only fight again.""Perhaps; but sufficient unto the day--We might try it and see."He made no answer. Instead, he dislodged Melchisedek from a seat on hisneck, and reached out for the neglected book. Cicely anticipated him andgrasped it first. Quickly she dropped her coaxing tone and became curtand matter-of-fact."What's that?" she asked."Dutch.""Not reading it for fun?""Not if I know myself. It's grammar.""Isn't it hard, though?""Beastly. I can't get it into my head. Don't believe anybody can." AndAllyn sat up and vented his spite against the language by hurling a stoneagainst a distant birch tree."What are you studying it for now?" Cicely demanded, as Melchisedekscurried, yelping rapturously, in search of the flying stone."Got to, or else be conditioned.""I don't believe it is as bad as that.""Yes, 'tis. I barely scraped through, last Christmas, and papa told methen that, if I failed now, I couldn't go to Quantuck, but must stay herealone with him and work all summer.""And so you are trying to be on the safe side?""Not any safe side about it. I was warned, a week ago.""How horrid!" Cicely said sympathetically. "It won't be any fun atQuantuck without you. I was counting on having you to explore thingswith, you know. I've never been there.""You'll have to take it out in counting, then.""I don't see why. You're only warned, and it's two weeks beforeexamination.""Yes; but I can't get the blamed stuff into me.""Perhaps I could help you," she suggested."You!" Allyn's tone was not altogether complimentary, and Cicely wasuncertain whether she wanted to laugh or to box his ears. "Do you knowany German?""Papa and I used to talk it a good deal," she said demurely; "and I knowsomething about the grammar.""Why, I didn't know it. I didn't suppose you knew anything but music." Inhis honest boyish wonder, Allyn's voice regained something of its oldfriendliness."Yes, I was almost ready for college; but, when I came up here, papa saidI'd better take a vacation and only keep up my music," she answered, inan off-hand way which gave Allyn no hint that he was talking to the showpupil of Professor Almeron's school. "It was great fun at first; but nowI am honestly sick of having so much vacation and I'd love to take upmy German again if I only had somebody to do it with.""Do you like to study?""N--no; but I don't mind it. I like to practise better.""I hate it all. I wish I weren't going to college.""What do you for, then?""Oh, I'm expected to. They all take it for granted. Ted did, and Hubertand Billy. I hate languages, though. I'd like to cut the whole thing.""What do you like?""Drawing."Cicely clasped her hands in sudden envy."Oh, I do love pictures! Can you draw? I never saw any.""I never drew a picture in my life." Allyn's tone was disdainful."What do you draw then?""Machinery, of course. Wheels and pulleys and things. It's such fun tofit them together, Cis, and see how you can get the power across from oneto the other."Her eyes flashed at the use of her nickname once more. She felt that thefeud was forgotten, as she asked, with an interest which was not allfeigned,--"Have you any of them?""Not here; but lots of them in my room. I do them, evenings and all sortsof off times, and some of them aren't so simple as they look, either.""Has anybody seen them?"He shook his head."What's the use? Phebe's bones are bad enough. The house wouldn't holdtwo cranks. Nobody else knows.""I want to see them," she asserted."They aren't anything to see. Besides, you couldn't understand them.""I'm not so sure of that. At least, you might try me.""Anyhow, I like them lots better than I do this stuff." He thumped theGerman grammar viciously."Why don't you do them then?""No good.""I mean instead of college.""Papa wouldn't let me.""Have you ever asked him?""What's the use? He wants me to be a doctor.""Do you want to?""No. Babe is enough to make me sick of doctors," he answered withbrotherly frankness."I like doctors, myself; but I'd rather be a good machinist than abad doctor.""So would I, a plaguy sight," he muttered; "but the others wouldn'tstand it.""I can't see why," Cicely said thoughtfully. "It is smutty work, andit doesn't sound exactly aristocratic; but soap is cheap, and youaren't obliged to eat out of a tin pail. Allyn, I'd do it if I were inyour place."He turned to face her, and his brown eyes were lighted with hisenthusiasm."I wish I could," he said excitedly, his words tumbling over and overeach other. "Ever since I was a little bit of a fellow, I've liked suchthings, machinery and all that. I've felt at home with it and wanted tohandle it. I hate school and the things the fellows care for, girls anddancing school and that stuff--I don't mean you, Cis; you're more likea boy,--and I hate worst of all the everlasting Greek and Latin. It isout of my line; I can't see anything in it. There's some sense inmachinery. You can handle it, and mend it, and make it go, and maybeimprove it. That's enough better than things you get out of books. Doyou suppose there would be any chance of their letting me cut schooland go into a shop?"With a boy's eager haste, now that his secret was out, he was fordropping everything else and rushing headlong into his hobby. Cicelycounselled patience."Wait," she said, as she rested her hand on his for an instant. "You'reonly fifteen, and there is plenty of time to decide. It is worth tryingfor, and I think perhaps you may get your way; but, first of all, you'llhave to prove that it isn't just because you are too lazy to study Greekand German that you want to give it up. If you pass good examinations,this June, your chance will be all the better. Then you can go off, thissummer, and take time to think it over. By fall, you can tell what youreally do want; and, if your father is the man I think he is, and if youbehave yourself in the meantime, I believe you will get it." She pausedand, for the second time in her acquaintance with him, she felt Allyn'sfingers close warmly on her own; but he only said,--"You're not half bad for a girl, Cis.""And when shall we begin our Dutch?" she asked, determined to clinch thefact of their treaty of peace."When can you?""To-night. Come over at eight, and I'll be ready. We'll take an hour,every evening and I'll do fudge afterward."The dinner bell was sounding at The Savins, as Cicely and Allyn camestrolling homeward. It was evident that they had been for a long walk.Melchisedek's tail drooped dejectedly, and Allyn carried a sheaf ofnodding yellow lilies, while Cicely had the despised grammar tucked underone arm and a bunch of greenish white clovers in the other hand. Theycame on, shoulder to shoulder, talking busily, and Theodora as shewatched them, was well content.At the table, Cicely ignored the events of the afternoon"Allyn is having a bad time with his German and I am going to see if Ican help him," was all she said. "Are you going to use the library,this evening?"CHAPTER ELEVEN"'Lit-tle ones to him be-long,Vey are weak, but he is strong.'"Mam-ma-a-a!" Mac's burst of psalmody ended in a roar."Yes, Mac. Here I am.""Where?""Upstairs, packing."Mac toiled up the stairs and into his mother's room."I fought maybe you wanted to see me," he observed. "What for you puttingall vose fings into ve box?""Because we are going to see grandpapa and Aunt Teddy, and then we areall going to the seashore.""What is ve seashore?""The ocean, the great, broad blue water without any edge to it, where thewaves keep tumbling over and over on the beach.""What's beach?" he demanded. Always used to the mountains, thephraseology of the sea was a new tongue to him."It's the edge of the water," his mother said absently, while she triedto fold an organdie gown to the best advantage."But you said vere wouldn't be any edge," he protested, for he wasnothing if not logical, and he insisted upon logic from others."Well, never mind now. Run away, dear, and I'll tell you about it, someother time."But Mac festooned himself across the open box couch."No; sometime isn't ever, and I wants to hear it now. I do 'clare, mamma,you've put in my best coat." And before she could stop him, he hadpounced upon it and pulled it out, upsetting a superstratum of gowns inthe process."Mac, let that be.""But I want it, mamma. I want to wear it. I look just too sweet in it.""Mac!""Well, vat's what Lizabuf said. Will Lizabuf go too?""No.""Who will take care of me, and put me into my coatsleeves ven?""I shall.""I'd ravver have Lizabuf. Oh, mamma, is vat your swishy dress? It's sobeautiful!" This time, Mac lost his balance and plunged headlong into thetrunk. For one moment, his chubby legs waved in the air; then his motherseized him and set him down in a chair at the farther side of the room."Now, Mac, I want you to stay there," she said with decision.There was a brief silence. Then Mac remarked,--"You act and look awful bangy, to-day, mamma, just as if you were goingto sweep rooms right away."Five days later, Mrs. Holden acknowledged to herself that she felt"bangy." It was her first long journey without her husband and, lessindependent than her sisters, she would have dreaded it in any case.Without Mr. Holden, the trip was an undertaking; with Mac, it was almostinsupportable. She embarked with a lunch basket, with picture books andwith theories. She landed, a chastened woman. Within twelve hours, thebasket was empty, the picture books were in shreds, and Mac, bareheaded,coated with cinders and wreathed in smiles, was prancing up and down thecar, heedless of her admonitions. By day, the other passengers pettedhim and encouraged him to all manner of pertnesses. At night, theymurmured, not always among themselves, when he waked up and in stentoriantones demanded a drink. No child of three is altogether a desirablecompanion on a long journey, least of all McAlister Holden. Small wonderthat it was a pale and haggard Hope who drove up to The Savins, one nightin late June, while Mac was as vivacious as at the start!He went through the introductions with the nonchalance of his years,though he resisted Theodora's efforts to kiss him, and sniffeddisdainfully at Phebe who was trying for her sister's sake to conceal herdislike of children. By Mrs. McAlister's side, he paused and lookedstraight up into her face. Then he tucked his hand into hers confidingly."Are you my grandma?""Yes, dear.""Why, you look too new," he said frankly, and then put up his rosy lipsfor a kiss. For the moment, the cherub side was uppermost, and hismother, as she reflected upon the permanence of first impressions,rejoiced that it was so, and she hurried the child off to bed, for fearhe might do something to destroy the illusion."Mamma," he said sleepily, as she left him, to go down for her owndinner; "will you please tell me just vis much?""Well?""Were you a mamma when you lived here before?""No, Mac.""And now you've grown out into a beautifully mamma. Good-night!" And hewent to sleep with the saintly side of his character still uppermost.The Farringtons and Cicely dined at The Savins; but, directly afterdinner, Cicely excused herself and went home to do some practising."No; I suppose it could wait," she said to Allyn who followed her to thedoor; "but it must be done some time. It is ages since you were all heretogether, and you ought to be just by yourselves to-night.""But you are one of the family," Allyn protested."That's nice of you, Allyn; but it isn't quite the same thing. Besides,if I practise now, I shall have more time for fun, to-morrow. Go back toyour sister. Isn't she a dear?""Yes, Hope is a good one," Allyn said, though without much enthusiasm;"but Ted is worth ten of her, according to my notions." And Cicely noddedup at him in token of agreement.By the time dinner was over, the evening had grown chilly, and theMcAlisters drew up their chairs around the open fire."All here once more, thank God!" the doctor said contentedly, as hesettled himself between Theodora and Mrs. Holden."This seems just like the good old times," Theodora added. "It's fiveyears since we were all here together, like this. Doesn't it make youfeel as if you had never been away, Hope?""Yes, almost. If Allyn weren't quite so grown up and Billy so lively, Ishould believe we were children again. Ted, do you remember the firstnight that Archie came here?""The night I went slumming and stole the child? I should say Idid. Archie didn't take it kindly at all, when he found the infantin his bed.""That reminds me, papa," Phebe said abruptly; "Isabel and I want to takesome fresh-air children, next week.""Why, Babe, I don't see how you can," Theodora remonstrated."I didn't ask you, Teddy. I have thought it all over, and I can't see anyobjections. I should take all the care of it, and I want to do it.""But the house is so full, Babe," Mrs. McAlister said. "There isn't anyroom for one.""It could sleep on the lounge in my room. I wouldn't let it trouble youany. It is a fine charity, and this is such a good place for a child toplay. Isabel will take one for a week, if I will, and I said I would.There is just time, before I go away," Phebe said with an air offinality which would have ended the subject, had it not been for Allyn'slast shot,--"They'd better get its life insured, then, for there's no telling howlong it will be before Babe takes it as a subject for her scalpel.""Don't be foolish, Allyn," Phebe returned; but Hubert interposed,--"Isn't Archie going to come on at all, this summer, Hope?""I'm afraid not. Summer is his busy time, and he will be out in camp tillsnow flies.""I don't see the use of having that kind of a husband," Phebeobserved severely."You like the kind like me better; don't you, Babe?""No; I should get sick of having you everlastingly around the house,Billy. I want a man to have hours and stick to them, not keep running inand out. I sha'n't marry. If I did, I would insist on a ten-hour law;then I could be sure of getting some time to myself.""Archie lives on a ten-month law," his wife said regretfully. "Of course,I can go out to camp to be with him; but it's not good for Mac. He picksup all the talk of the miners and retails it at inopportune times, andruns wild generally. Archie usually comes home for a day, every two orthree weeks; but, this year, he is too far out for that, so I thought itwas best for me to come East now.""You had an easy journey; didn't you?" Hubert asked."Yes; at least, as easy as it could be with Mac.""I think you have slandered Mac," Mrs. McAlister observed. "He seems asgentle as a cooing dove."Hope and Theodora exchanged glances, as Hubert said laughingly,--"That's because he paid you a compliment. Your judgment isn't afair one."But Hope only added,--"Wait and see what the morrow may bring forth."The morrow brought forth Mac, rested, refreshed, ready for mischief.Before breakfast was on the table, he had had an unfriendly interviewwith Patrick, had come into collision with Melchisedek, and Mrs.McAlister met him hurriedly retiring from the kitchen with both handsfull of fried potatoes. The next that was seen of him, he was playinghorse on the front lawn, and Allyn was the horse. Even in his briefsurvey of the family, the night before, Mac had come to a decision upontwo points. He did not like his Aunt Phebe; he did like his Uncle Allyn.And Allyn, unaccustomed to children though he was, promptly became theslave of his imperious young nephew."Oh, Hope, it is good to have you here," Theodora said, with atempestuous embrace, when Mrs. Holden appeared at the door of thewriting-room, that morning."Then I am not in the way?""Not a bit. I'm not writing, to-day; I can't settle myself, when I knowyou are within reach.""Perhaps I'd better go back to Helena," Hope suggested."No; I shall calm down in time; but I never get used to having you so faraway. It never seems quite right, when the rest of us are all heretogether.""I am a little terrified at the prospect of the coming week," Hopesaid, as she sat down on the couch and looked across the lawn to whereMac was playing."What now?""Babe is to have her fresh-air child.""Hope! You don't mean it?""Yes, she has coaxed papa into giving his consent. Is it a newidea to you?"Theodora dropped her duster, and sat down beside her sister."It's new to us all," she said despairingly. "We never heard of it tilllast night. What will that girl do next? She detests children, and shehas about as much idea of discipline as she has about--raising poultry.It is Isabel St. John's doing, I know. She is Babe's best-belovedfriend; and where one leads, the other will follow.""Babe seems to be in earnest about it," Hope said charitably."She's in earnest about everything--by fits and starts. It only doesn'tlast. She seems to be losing something of her medical fervor, andprobably this is taking its place. I suppose she has met somebody whoslums for a living, and the idea enchants her. I used to have aspirationsthat way, myself; but I am coming to the conclusion that for me charitybegins at home, and that it counts for more to make Billy comfortablethan to make his life a burden with my hobbies.""Blunt as ever, Teddy?" Hope's laugh had no sting."Yes. I haven't reformed yet. Things 'rile' me, just as they used to,things and people. I'm a good hater, Hope." There was a suspiciousglitter in her eyes; but it vanished, as Hope's hand touched her own."And a good lover, too, dear. I wasn't criticising, for I think you arein the right of it. But Babe really seems rather practical. She onlywants the child for a week, and she agrees to take all the care of itand give it its meals away from the table.""Yes; but what will she do with it?" Theodora's tone showed herperplexity. "There's no telling what may happen in the course of a week.She will test all the theories of all the cranks on the one poor baby,one theory a day, and by the end of the week, there won't be any babyleft to send home again.""My chief worry is for Mac," Hope said resignedly."Oh, I don't think the child will hurt him," Theodora reassured her."They won't dare send a very bad one.""No; but it may work the other way about. I am a good deal more worriedin regard to Mac's effect on the child, and--""Mam-ma!""No, Mac. I told you that you mustn't come here. This is Aunt Teddy'shouse, and people don't come here, unless she invites them."The door swung open a little way, and a chubby face appeared inthe crack."Ven please 'vite me now, Aunt Teddy.""You may come in, Mac."Mac came in, wriggled his fat little body into the narrow space betweenhis mother and his aunt, and gave a sigh of relief."Vere," he said gravely; "we're all fixed nice, Aunt Teddy, just ve waymy mamma does when she's going to give me somefing good to eat."CHAPTER TWELVE"I really can't see why they should call this cottage Valhalla," Dr.McAlister said thoughtfully."Probably because there isn't any hall, and the dining-room is a tightfit for five of us," Phebe answered, as she took a cup from the chinacloset without troubling herself to leave her seat at the table."Teddy's establishment boasts the poetic name of Dandelion Lodge," Mrs.McAlister added. "There isn't a dandelion in sight, and, architecturallyspeaking, it is more like a hen-house than a lodge. Still, I suppose itis well to have a name, even if there isn't anything in it.""No matter," Hope said contentedly; "it's good to be free from theeverlasting Belviews and Wavecrests. Valhalla isn't trite; Babe and Iwill be the Valkyries, and we have caught one hero already." She smiledat her father, as she spoke."I intend to have another before I leave here," Phebe proclaimed, as shepassed her plate for more fish. "One hero isn't enough for us; we needone apiece.""Where will you get him, sister Valkyrie?""I don't know; out of the briny deep perhaps, but time will show.""'Or old Valhalla's roaring hail,Her ever-circling mead and ale,'"the doctor sang, and Phebe joined his song,--"'Where for eternity uniteThe joys of wassail ad the fight,'"for the stirring ballad was a favorite with them both.Mac levelled his fork at them accusingly."You mustn't sing at ve table. It's horrid to sing at ve table.""I beg your pardon, Mac," said his grandfather meekly.Outside their windows, the sun was glowing over the steel blue sea. Not asail broke the distance; only the ceaseless tossing of white foam abovethe rips, and close at hand a dory or two, rocking and rolling justoutside the line of surf. In the foreground was a broad strip of sand andsilvery beach grass then a narrower strip of sand without any grass atall, and then the huge breakers which came crashing in, wave on wave,mounting up, curling over, falling, breaking and racing up the sharpslope of sand, with never a halt for rest. Beyond that, the sea; beyondthat again, three thousand miles beyond, Spain.Qantuck lies crescent-wise along its low sandy cliff. The arms of thecrescent are made up of new houses of more normal shape and size; butbetween them, the primeval village huddles itself together around the oldtown pump. No seaside villas are there, but the tiny low cottages of theold fishing hamlet, which seem to have grown like an amoeba, by thesimple process of putting out arms in any direction that chance maydictate. Between them, the rutted, grass-grown roads are so narrow thattraffic is seriously congested by the meeting of a box cart and a certainstout old dachshund that frequents the streets, and the cottages presenttheir fronts or sides or rears to the roads, according to the whim of theowner. Crowded under the cliff are the bits of fishhouses, built, likethe cottages above, all of shingles all gray with the passing years, forQuantuck history stretches back far into the long-ago, when, Town sevenmiles away, was a prosperous whaling port. But though the summervisitors come in schools like the bluefish, the little gray village onthe cliff is unchanging and unchanged.In the very heart of the old settlement, poised on the verge of thecliff, Valhalla and Dandelion Lodge were side by side, and the middle ofJuly found Dr. McAlister in one, in the other the Farringtons with Hubertand Allyn as their guests."Valhalla can't hold you all," Billy had said, when they were makingtheir plans for the summer. "If we take the Lodge, there will be anextra room, and Allyn and Hubert may as well use it. It really won'tmake any difference how we divide up. At Quantuck the houses only counton foggy days."In fact, it had been Billy's idea, their choosing Quantuck, that summer.Years before, in his young boyhood, the Farringtons had been there,season after season, and he had always wanted to get back to the oldplace. Again and again he had been prevented, and it was not until thissummer that he had succeeded in carrying out his plans. Now, for thefirst time in years, Dr. McAlister had consented to take a long vacation;Theodora's novel was locked up in the safe at home, waiting forrevision; Hubert was to be with them for three weeks of the time, andHope had come on from Helena to make the family circle complete.To no one of the family had the week before the flitting been absolutelyenjoyable. On one scorching July morning, Phebe and Phebe's own familiarfriend, Isabel St. John, had roused their respective households at fouro'clock in order that they might catch the six-thirty train for New York.Once there, they betook themselves to Hester Street in order to study theconditions of life in the East Side. It chanced, however, to be Friday,market day, and the place was a veritable Babel with the cries of thehucksters and the shrill clamor of the women elbowing each other aboutthe push-carts. No one paid any heed to the girls; and on their side,after a brief inspection they paid heed to but one question, how to getout of the region as speedily as possible. Accordingly, they went up townto lunch, strolled about Twenty-third Street for an hour or two beforegoing to the office of the fresh-air charity, and, late that evening,reappeared at their own front doors, each with a wan and weary child ather heels. Isabel's was a boy; Phebe, in deference to the conditions of afamily treaty, had a girl.For about three weeks, Phebe's table had been heaped with books onchild-study, on pedagogy, on domestic hygiene; her room had been litteredwith syllabi on child impressions in every conceivable relation. Phebewas resolved to be scientific, or die in the attempt. She came nearerachieving the latter alternative. The struggle began on the first morningof her new charge. She was up early and ran down to the kitchen to putthe oatmeal over the fire. Then full of courage and sociological zeal,she approached the tub, a thermometer in one hand, the child in theother. The fray which followed, was a short one. It began with Phebe'sdropping the thermometer on the floor and plumping the child bodily intothe bath. It ended with the child's breaking away and diving into bedagain, dripping with bath-water and tears, while Phebe picked up thescattered fragments of the thermometer and fished the towels from the tubwhere they floated limply.During the next half hour, Phebe parted with most of her theories and allof her temper. In the first place, she had never before tried to dress achild, and this first experience was not a pleasing one. The child's toespersisted in catching in the tops of the stockings, the little waistseemed to her unaccustomed eyes to be constructed upside down, and thescant little skirt went on hind side before. In spite of shrillprotestations, she braided up the lanky hair and scoured a patch of skinin the very middle of the child's face, and at last the toilet wascomplete. Breakfast brought with it a new chapter in her experiences. Noarguments could induce the child to touch the oatmeal, unless it werecombined with equal parts of sugar, and Phebe meekly yielded to theinevitable, while she hung up the dripping sheets to dry. Then she lockedthe child into her room, and went wearily down to join the others at thebreakfast-table.Later, when she appeared on the lawn, leading her charge by the hand, Maccame forward to meet them. With his pudgy hands clasped behind him andhis small legs wide apart, he halted in front of the girl and, bendingforward, peered up under her sunbonnet."Shake hands, baby," he said encouragingly.The child obediently put out one small fist; but unluckily Phebe hadspent all her energies on the face and neglected the hands entirely. Maclooked at the grimy fingers, recalled the talk at the breakfast-table andput his own hands behind him once more."Nahsty little girl!" he said severely, and, turning on his heel,departed in search of Allyn.For the next seven days, Phebe passed through every variety of toil andwoe and anxiety, also, it must be confessed, of teasing from her family.According to its lights, the child was good. It was not bright enough tobe mischievous; it was pitifully apathetic on most points. In fourdirections, however, it held pronounced opinions, and, moreover, it hadthe courage of its convictions. It refused to be left alone for more thanfive minutes at a time; it refused to be washed; it refused to eat plainfood, and it persisted, in spite of all opposition, in calling Phebe_grandma_. The title suggested affectionate devotion; but Phebe wouldhave given up the devotion with perfect readiness.It had been decreed that, if Phebe took the child, she should assume thewhole responsibility in the matter, and she was resolute in carrying outher share of the compact. Theodora washed her hands of the affairentirely and only viewed it as an immense joke; but Hope, motherly andtender-hearted woman that she was, tried her best to come to the aid ofher young sister. It was in vain. The little girl, homesick and forlornfor her wonted ways and plays, appeared to regard Phebe as the soleconnecting link between the present gilded captivity and her old-timefreedom. She wailed loudly at the approach of any one else, and was onlycontent when her temporary guardian was within sight and touch. For sevenweary days, the child was Phebe's inseparable companion and adjunct. Onthe evening of the eighth day, Phebe came home from New York, burned hersyllabi and carried seven bulky tomes back to the public library."Retail reform isn't of the least use," she said vehemently to Isabel,that night. "Next time, I'll either import a colony, or let the wholething alone. Either I will go and live with them, or nothing. It doesn'tdo any good to drag them here to pine for their ashbins. Just wait tillnext year, Isabel, and we'll try one of the settlements. This year, I'vegot to go to Quantuck and enjoy myself."With whatever misgivings she started for Quantuck, she certainly achievedher end of enjoying herself. The summer colony, that year, was a largeand lively one, and Phebe threw herself into it with the same fervorwhich had marked her entrance into slumming, and, before that, intomedicine. Skeletons and syllabi appeared to be alike forgotten; golf andswimming lessons took their place, and Phebe revelled in her out-of-doorlife as simply and as sincerely as Mac himself. Out on the cliff at dawn,down on the beach for the bathing hour, out to the links for theafternoon, back on the beach to watch the moon rise, she was perpetuallyactive, perpetually in earnest, perpetually in a hurry. To the others,her energy was amusing and, at times, a little wearing. They liked betterto spend long hours on the beach, where their awning soon became a focalpoint for the fun of the bathing hour; they loved to roam over the moors,to sit down now and then on their own broad piazzas and glance from bookto sea and from sea to book again with the curious indifference to timeand literature which is characteristic of the place."Do stay down here, this afternoon," Theodora urged her, one day. "TheBensons are coming over here soon, and it is much more fun to be here, aday like this, than to be prancing around those links."But Phebe shook her head."I didn't come down here to frivol, Ted; I leave that to you. Nobodyknows when I may have another chance to get myself in good form at golf,and I must make the most of this.""But there are more days coming, and the Bensons are such pleasantpeople to know.""I know more people now than I can get any good of," Phebe said, as shebalanced her driver, and then swept it around in a circle with a forcewhich nearly overturned her. "What's the use of any more? There comesHarold; he's going to caddy for me, to-day. I must go.""What do you suppose can be the attraction out at the links?" Theodorasaid, after she had gone."Sheer delight in the sport," Hubert answered lazily, for he wassprawling on the sand by his sister's side, and it seemed almost toogreat an effort to speak."Isn't there any attendant knight?" Hope asked. "Phebe is impenetrable;but I have sometimes wondered whether there might not be a social side toit, rather than athletic.""Don't waste any romance on Babe, Hope," Hubert advised her. "I wonderedabout it, myself, for there is rather a gay crowd out there, and I didn'tknow what might be going on. I went out, one day. I found the others allin a bunch, and Babe tearing around the links all by herself, with herpoor caddie trotting hard to keep up with her.""Who's that? Babe?" Allyn had suddenly plunged into the midst of thegroup. "I hear that the caddies are talking of a boycott, charging herdouble fees unless she goes slow. She plays a smashing game; but there'sno sort of sense in the way she goes about it."Theodora yawned."Babe is upsetting all my ideas," she said languidly. "I had alwaysregarded golf as a suitable amusement for stout elderly persons whowaddled, a good deal like the caucus race in _Alice_. Babe's vigor fairlytakes my breath away.""Same with her swimming," Allyn remarked, with a certain pride. "She'sgone into it all over.""Into the surf?" Cicely inquired, as she scooped little mounds of sandover his feet."Yes, just that. She swims under water like a fish. There isn't anothergirl here to beat her. You are nothing but a porpoise beside her, Cis,and you swim fairly well. Hope, I do wish you'd take lessons. I'm tiredof seeing you chug up and down beside that lifeline.""Do you know," Theodora said meditatively; "I'd rather face thefootlights at the Metropolitan than come down this beach at the bathinghour. It makes me feel pigeon-toed in the extreme."Cicely eyed her with a calm lack of comprehension born of healthygirlhood."I don't see why," she said."Because you stay in the water, and can't hear the gossip along shore,"Theodora answered. "Just you stay out here, some morning, and sit in theDragons' Row, as Billy calls it, and you will find out what I mean.Charity covers a multitude of sins; but it never drapes an awkward womanin an unbecoming bathing suit.""That is where Babe has the advantage," Hubert remarked. "She isn'texactly graceful; but she is no more awkward than an unbroken colt.""And she acts a good deal like one," Hope added, laughing. "Still, shemay get broken soon, so let's let her go her ways in peace. She hasworked hard, the past six months, and she deserves to be allowed to takeher vacation in any form she chooses."CHAPTER THIRTEENDown on the shore, Dragons' Row was holding high carnival. It was thebathing hour, when those who had much energy plunged through and throughthe breakers, those who had little floundered in the edge of the foam,and those who had none sat upright under the awnings, lorgnette in hand,and passed judgment upon their fellows. The tall, sinewy bathing mastersat on the shore, his yellow collie beside him, enjoying an interval ofwell-earned leisure, for at this season he was the most conspicuous andthe most popular figure on Quantuck beach. Just now, he was looking on inmanifest pride at the skill of his latest pupil, Phebe McAlister. EvenDragons' Row fell silent, when Phebe took to the water for her noon bath.It was good to see her free, firm step as she came down the board walk,dressed in the plain black suit which set off her fresh, clear skin andher bright hair. Phebe scorned caps entirely, and no sunburn couldroughen her cheeks. Her suit fitted her, and she was as trim and comelyin it as in her more conventional raiment. Once on the beach, she had atrick of standing for a moment, looking out at the distant water with anunconsciousness which was not feigned, then rapidly measuring theincoming wave, she chose the exact moment of its rising to curl over andbreak, plunged through it and, after an interval when the onlookerswaited breathlessly, she reappeared on the farther side and swamtranquilly away up the shore. Hope might cling to the lifeline and beboiled to her heart's content, and Theodora was welcome to paddle aboutin the thick of the crowd, with Hubert and Billy beside her. To Phebe,there was something fairly intoxicating in the knowledge of her strength,in feeling the free, firm play of her muscles and in conquering the powerof the sea.The wind had been blowing strongly, all the morning, and the waves wererolling in heavily. Their green tops were crested with white foam whichrose high and higher, curved over as softly as a rose petal, balanced fora brief second, then fell with a crash and went flowing up the bank ofthe beach, circling and twisting in countless eddies that now and thencrept to the very awnings and caused a stampede among their inhabitants.A dozen portly matrons sat in the sand, rocking to and fro as the wavecame up about them and receded; and children innumerable pranced aroundthem, playing tag with the tricky surf that often caught them unawares."Grandma," Mac said, trudging up to the McAlister awning with a pail ofsand under his arm; "isn't vat sky just lovely? I'd like to fly up vere,and maybe God would let me work ve sun.""Do you think you could work it, Mac?""Yes, it goes just like ve clock. He winds it up wiv a key, and ven itgoes all right. Grandma!""Well?"Mac dropped his sand into her lap, and then plumped himself downby her side."Did you see vat funny man in ve pinky suit? Well, he's Mrs.Benson's boy.""Hush, dear!" Mrs. McAlister said hastily, for Mrs. Benson's awning wasnext her own."What for should I hush? He is funny; just you look at him and see.""Mac is earning his right to a place in Dragons' Row," Hubert observedfrom the spot, ten feet away, where he was taking a sunbath betweenplunges. "Why don't you come in, mother?""I dare not face the critics," she answered laughingly, while sheemptied Mac's sand from her lap. "I shouldn't come out of it as well asBabe does."Hubert raised himself on his elbow and looked after his sister withevident satisfaction."She's the best swimmer on the beach, except Mr. Drayton," he said, as hedropped back again and burrowed his brown arms into the sand. "If hegives her many more lessons, she'll beat him at his own trade, and that'ssaying a good deal."Phebe, meanwhile, had been swimming with the tide and was now far up theshore. There she landed herself through the breakers as craftily as afisherman lands his dory, and came tramping back toward the awning ontomore. Not even the deep sand could hamper her light step, as she camestriding along with a perfect disregard of the buzz which passed alongthe line of awnings parallel with her coming."Miss Phebe McAlister, Dr. McAlister's daughter, splendid looking girl,but rather eccentric, they say." "A perfect snob; but I don't know as Iblame her. Sister to Mrs. Farrington, that tall woman with the handsomehusband." "Sister to Mrs. Theodora McAlister Farrington, the novelist.Isn't she superb? But I hear she doesn't care a fig for society."So the buzz ran on, and Phebe passed by, heedless of it, heedless, too,of the gaze of a young man who stood alone, a little back of the line ofawnings. It was evident that he was a stranger, for he spoke to no one,although it is not easy to be unsocial at Quantuck. For the rest, he wastall, strongly built, with a fresh, boyish face; he wore a little pointedbeard, and he carried himself with an indescribable air of being somebodyat whom it was worth while to look twice."Did you see the new man on the beach, this morning?" Allyn asked, atdinner, that noon."The new man, when there are new men here, every day in the week!"Theodora's tone was one of amusement."Evidently you didn't see him, or you'd speak with more respect. He was aduke in disguise, at the very least.""Do you mean the man with the Frenchy beard, and his nose in the air?"Cicely asked, with scant respect for the stranger's ducal appearance."Yes. Who was he?""I don't know. He acted as if he did the beach a favor in evenlooking at it.""He didn't look that way at Babe," Allyn remarked, with a chuckle. "Ithought sure he was going to applaud her, when she came stalking downthe beach.""Babe does take the beach a good deal after the manner of Lady Macbeth,"Lilly observed. "Where was your man, Allyn? I didn't see any titledstrangers of my acquaintance.""He was just back of the Whitmans' awning for a long time. After that, hecame down to Mr. Drayton and talked to him. I didn't see him speak toanybody else, though.""Oh," Hubert said suddenly; "I know the man you mean, Allyn. There is agood deal of him, too. Sam Asquith told me he had just come to the hotel.He is a composer and hails from New York.""What is his name?" Theodora asked rather indifferently."Gifford Barrett.""Oh!" There was a clatter, as Cicely dropped her knife and fork andclasped her hands in ecstasy. "Really?""Is it so painful as all that, Cis?" Allyn inquired."Pain! It's utter rapture. I've always felt that, if I could just oncelook at Gifford Barrett, I could die happy. Do you know who he is, youignorant ones?"The others owned up to their mental darkness; but Theodora saidvaguely,--"Seems to me I met him once. The name is half-way familiar."Cicely groaned."Half-way familiar! I should rather say it was.""Who is he, anyway?" Allyn demanded."Who? Why, he wrote the _Alan Breck Overture_.""What's that?""Allyn! When I have played it on an average of twice a day, ever since Icame here! Haven't you any ears?""Not for your kind of music," Allyn returned bluntly. "I want a littletune in mine.""Who is the man?" Billy asked. "Is he really of any account, Cis?""I should think he was. Mr. Paulson, my teacher in New York, said he isthe greatest American composer," she returned triumphantly."A genuine lion, not a duke," Hubert observed. "But I thought composersalways wore their hair in flowing ringlets, Cicely. This man is too wellgroomed to be really inspired."Theodora laughed suddenly."Hu, you remind me of Mrs. Benson. The day after I came, she asked mewhether Miss Greenway didn't write books; she thought all people whowrote books were generally a little untidy.""Did you enlighten her?""I couldn't, for I had just ripped my jacket sleeve open for more thantwo inches. 'Twas made with one of those insidious one-thread machines,and I tried to pull out a loose stitch. Since then, she has avoided thesubject of Miss Greenway, and I have spent a good share of my energy inmending the more visible portions of my attire. I didn't know before thatthe eyes of the world were upon us, as upon a peculiar people."But Cicely had returned to the charge."Cousin Hubert, how long is he going to be here?""I'm sure I don't know.""Who is he here to see?""Nobody, apparently, unless his own fair face," Billy answeredirreverently."Cousin Ted, did you say you knew him?""I'm not sure; but it seems to me I met him once.""Oh, I do hope so. I want just once to meet him and hear him talk.""Even if his voice has a falsetto crack in it?" Billy inquired."Even if he's--dumb!" Cicely's climax was lost in a burst of laughter, inthe midst of which she fled from the table."Never you mind!" she proclaimed from the doorway. "I'll find a way tomeet him yet. You needn't laugh at me, either, for you're every one ofyou hero-worshippers, if you'd only own it." Then she crossed over to thepiazza of Valhalla, where Phebe was drying her hair in the sunshine.Phebe received the great news disdainfully."Oh, that man!" she said, with something that came dangerously near tobeing a sniff. "I saw him. After most of the people were gone, he camedown and went into the water.""Really?" Cicely's tone was rapt. "I wish I'd seen him. How did he look?""Atrocious. He is bow-legged, and he wore a rose-colored suit. Againstthe green of the waves, he looked like a huge pink wishbone.""Did he swim beautifully?"Phebe shook her hair back from her shoulders."Like a merman," she said; "a forsaken merman with the gout.""Babe!""Well, if you must know the truth, the abject, literal truth, he hung hisclothes on a hickory limb, as far as going near the water was concerned.He waded in up to his ankles and stood there, shivering, shivering a daylike this! Then he trotted back and forth a few times and went back tothe bathhouse again without letting a wave touch him. Booby! If he playedgolf, he would probably get his caddie to take him around the links in awheelbarrow. I do hope I shall have the pleasure of seeing the creatureget boiled." And, with a final flirt of her hair, she marched away intothe house.CHAPTER FOURTEENFor the next week, Cicely stalked her lion patiently, warily and in vain.Gifford Barrett had come down to Quantuck, firmly resolved that on noconditions would he consent to be lionized. His six weeks in Maine hadbeen all that he could endure. He had at last come to the wise conclusionthat his talent, if he had any, belonged to himself and his work, and wasnot to be spread out thin on biscuits and served up at afternoon teas. Hehad fled from Maine and from his admiring friends in a mood dangerouslynear to disgust. His nostrils were tired of incense. He wished ozone,unflavored with anything whatsoever. The symptom was a healthy one andportended good things for the future. Meanwhile, it led him to choose aresort where he knew no one, where he himself was unknown, and where hecould be as independent as he liked.During the first week of his stay, he accomplished his ends. He went hisown way at his own times; he ignored the many inviting glances cast inhis direction; he talked only to the bathing master, the nativefishermen and the waiter at his table. With observant eyes, he took inthe least details of his surroundings; but he did it in an unseeingfashion that completely misled the members of the summer colony whodiscussed him largely under their awnings and wrangled solemnly over theimportant question as to whether he was surly, or only shy.On his side, Gifford Barrett was gaining considerable amusement from themorning conventions on the beach. As a general thing, he only watched thepeople in groups, and entertained himself with making shrewd guesses asto the probable relationships existing in those groups. Only twoindividuals made distinct impressions upon him. One of these was thetall, lithe girl in the black suit, who walked as well as she swam; theother was also a girl, but younger and less good-looking, and GiffordBarrett found himself wondering how she could possibly be in so manyplaces at once. He appeared to be always falling over her, always comingupon her path, on the cliff, on the moors, at the tiny post office whereit seemed to him that he spent half of his time waiting for the leisurelydistribution of the mails to be completed. She usually wore a greybicycle suit, and she was invariably attended by a small grey dog whotook unwarrantable liberties, in the post office, with people's trouserlegs and even had been known to whet his teeth on the softer portions ofumbrellas. To tell the truth, he paid more attention to the dog than hedid to the girl; and he was utterly unconscious of the expression of gleethat crossed Cicely's face, one day, when he exclaimed,--"Get out, you small brute!" and accompanied the words with a pettishlittle kick which reduced the dog to a yelping frenzy.On one other occasion Cicely had been conscious of penetrating to thenerve centres of her hero; although, fortunately for her peace of mind,she did not know the exact way in which she had accomplished the feat.Early one morning, Mr. Barrett had been strolling along the road nearestthe edge of the cliff when as if by chance, there had floated down uponhis astonished ears, a high girlish voice singing the second theme of his_Alan Breck Overture_. For a moment, his lips had curled into acomplacent little smile; the next minute, he had sucked in his breathsharply between his clenched teeth. In her excitement, Cicely hadmistaken her distance; she had flatted by a full half-tone the finalupper note, reducing the tonal climax of the overture to the level of acomic song.A few days later, however, Cicely was destined to make an impressionupon something besides the nerve centres of her hero. As a rule, Mr.Barrett took his baths at odd hours, either going to the beach in theearly morning, or else delaying until the rest of the world was at thenoon dinner which it sought ravenously, the moment it left the beach.On this particular day, however, his watch apparently had played himfalse, and he came down upon the sand just as the throng of bathers wasat its height. In the eyes of Dragons' Row, he immediately became anobject of derision, for it was as Phebe had said, there was certainlyno doubt whatever of his being extremely bow-legged, and, strong andpowerful as he looked, he kept himself well away from the shock of thebreaking waves.After his wonted fashion, he paddled about in the edge of the water for afew moments, then turned to walk back to the shore. The next momentproved to be his undoing. Unconscious for the once of his appearing,Cicely had been swimming back and forth just outside the line of surf;then borne on the crest of a wave higher by far than any of its fellowshad been, she came floating towards the beach. She landed on her feet asusual; but the wave, heavier than she expected, swept her off her balanceand sent her sliding up the sand, straight against the retreating heelsof her hero. There were two hurried exclamations, there was a splash;then the backward flow caught them, pulled them down and they reached theline of breakers again just in time to be boiled sociably together in thenext in coming wave.Gifford Barrett shook the water from his eyes and rubbed his right arm alittle anxiously, as he staggered to his feet again. Cicely had fled toAllyn's side, and the young man nodded curtly to her as he stalked backto the shore. At the water's edge, he was greeted with a voice whichsounded strangely familiar to his ears."How do you do? Vat was ve time you got boiled; wasn't it?"No childish voice ever fell unheeded on Gifford Barrett's ears. Thestoutest spot in his mental armor yielded to the touch of small fingers,and some of his best comradeships had been with tiny boys and girls. Now,in an instant, all his sense of injured dignity fell away from him, andthe watchers under the awnings wondered at the sudden kindliness in hisface, as he grasped Mac's pudgy fist."Why, Mac, who ever dreamed of seeing you here, old man!""I live here now," Mac said gravely; "me and my mamma and everybody,only papa.""I thought you lived in Helena.""Not now. We like it better here; it's so funny to sit in ve sand andbuild pies. Can you build pies?""Yes, and forts."Mac fell to prancing delightedly, quite regardless of the havoc his smallshoes were creating among the bare toes of his companion."Oh, can you? Truly, no joking? Make me one now.""Mac!" The call came from the nearest awning."Vat's mamma," Mac said. "She wants us. Come." And he tugged at GiffordBarrett's hand."Not just now, old man.""Come. Aunt Teddy's vere, and all ve rest. Come.""Mac!" This time, the voice was more decided."Yes, mamma; but he won't come.""Mac, come here at once."There was a brief skirmish; then as usual, Mac conquered, and GiffordBarrett was led, an unwilling victim, to the awning where sat Mac'smother, beyond her a serried rank of Mac's relatives and, beyond themall, a tall girl in a black suit who watched him with dancing eyes.The situation was not an easy one. It was Theodora who relieved it."Isn't this Mr. Gifford Barrett?" she asked, rising to meet him with theeasy dignity which she assumed at times and which made her husband feelso proud of her. "You may not remember me, Mrs. Farrington; but I think Imet you in New York, two years ago, at a dinner that Mrs. Goodyear gave."And, as she spoke, Theodora was distinctly grateful for the accidentwhich had left a dozen old letters in the tray of her trunk.With a grave courtesy all his own, Gifford Barrett went through thetrying ordeal of an introduction in his bathing suit. Even Phebe wasforced to admit that he was well-bred, while, in the distance, Cicelycapered about madly, half in rapture that the desired meeting had takenplace, half in rage that she could not with dignity annex herself to thegroup. For one short, ecstatic moment, she held her breath; then shevented her feelings by plunging headlong into the next wave and swimmingoff as fast as she could. Instead of making his bow and then beating thedecorous retreat of an eccentric recluse, Mr. Gifford Barrett, thecomposer of the _Alan Breck Overture_, had deposited his tall form in hisrose-colored bathing suit on the sand at Theodora's feet."No; I thought I wouldn't go in to-day," she said. "I don't care verymuch about it, when the surf is running so high.""Your sister doesn't seem to mind any amount of surf," Mr. Barrett said,glancing at Phebe.Coming nearer him, one saw that his brown eyes were frank and kindly,that his face was attractive when he smiled. Theodora liked himunreservedly; she even began to remember him a little, in a vague sortof way, and she hoped that Phebe would be in one of her more lenientmoods. In vain."Yes, I like to swim," Phebe said briefly."Evidently, for no one could swim as you do, without enjoying it," Mr.Barrett observed, with an enthusiasm which was almost boyish."Mr. Drayton swims magnificently, and he hates it.""Is this your first season here at Quantuck?""Yes."Under cover of her gown Theodora gave Phebe a furtive poke. Phebe turnedabruptly and stared at her."Well?" she asked."Well what?" Theodora said, with a smile."What did you want? You poked me; didn't you?""I beg your pardon. Did I hit you? I get stiff with so long sittingstill. Is Quantuck an old ground of yours, Mr. Barrett?""No; I am a stranger here. Your little nephew is the first friendly faceI have seen.""I hope you will be neighborly at the Lodge, then. It is just on the edgeof the bluff, and the latch-string is always out. So are we, for thatmatter. We spend most of our time down here, all of us but Phebe. Sheinfests the golf links.""You are a golf enthusiast, then Miss McAlister?""Yes. Aren't you?""No; not just now, at least. Have they good links here?""Very." Phebe rose as she spoke."Where are you going, Babe?" Hope asked."Down to take one more plunge, then back to the house. I'm going outearly this afternoon, and I must be ready."Theodora's next remark fell upon empty ears. Gifford Barrett was watchingPhebe as she went away, admiring her tall, lithe figure, her well-sethead, and wondering why in the name of all that was musical this girlshould snub him so roundly. He searched his mind in vain for some justcause of personal offence; he could not realize that, in Phebe's presentstate of mind, there was no interest at all for her in a man who couldneither swim nor play golf, and that it was characteristic of PhebeMcAlister never to hide her feelings. Meanwhile, it was the first time inhis life that he had been snubbed by any girl, and he found theexperience novel, interesting and by no means satisfactory. As he leftthe awning and strolled away up the beach, he was resolving that incenseand solitude should give way to snubbing. He would see more, much more ofthis taciturn young woman, force her to talk and, if possible, undermineher antipathy to himself.Unhappily for Gifford Barrett, however, his conceit was playing himfalse. Phebe felt no antipathy to him, none whatever; she was onlycompletely indifferent to the very fact of his existence, and she wentround the links, that afternoon with a healthy forgetfulness of thefact that she had ever set eyes upon the tall person of the greatestAmerican composer.CHAPTER FIFTEEN"Papa," Allyn said bravely; "I'd like to have a talk with you, before theday is over."Dr. McAlister looked up in surprise, for the boy's tone was weighted withmeaning. During the two or three weeks that they had spent at the shore,Dr. McAlister had been congratulating himself upon the change in hisyoung son. Allyn had seemed brighter, happier, more like the normal boyof his age, and his father had been hoping that some mental crisis waspast, that the old moodiness had vanished. For the last day or two,however, Allyn's face had been overcast, and the doctor's anxiety hadreturned to him once more. Nevertheless, there was no trace of this inhis voice, as he answered,--"I wanted to go for a drive on the moors, this afternoon, and I hadwondered whether I could get somebody to go with me. Will you be ready,right after dinner?"Down on the beach, that morning, there was a general question about Allynand Cicely; but neither of them put in an appearance. Cicely, indeed,had been ready to start for the awning; but she saw Allyn going towardsthe road, and she ran after him to ask whither he was bound."Just for a walk, out to Kidd's Treasure or somewhere.""Who with?" she demanded, regardless of grammar."Alone."She looked into his face inquiringly."Anything wrong, Allyn?"He shook his head."Why don't you come down to the beach?""Don't want to. Cis, I'm going to have it out with my father, thisafternoon."She nodded slowly."Yes, you may as well. It's about time."He turned away and started down the narrow road through the town. Shestood looking after him for a moment; then she called,--"Mayn't I go, too, Allyn?""If you want to. I sha'n't be back in time for the bathing hour, though,"he answered; but his eyes belied the scant cordiality of his words.For more than an hour, they sat on the high bluff that juts seaward atthe south of the town. On the one hand, the sea stretched away, its deepsapphire blue only broken by the diagonal white line that marked therips; on the other were the treeless moors looking in the changing lightslike a vast expanse of pinkish brown plush. Directly at their feet, thelittle bowl of Kidd's Pond lay among its rushes like a turquoise ringedabout with malachite; beyond it was the grey village, and beyond again,the lighthouse whose tall white tower by day and whose flashing light atnight are the beacons which seem to welcome the wanderers of the summercolony, whenever their steps are turned back to Quantuck.At length, Cicely rose to her feet."We must go, Allyn. Here is the noon train now, and we shall be lateto dinner."But the boy did not stir. He sat with his elbows on his knees, his chinresting on the back of his clasped fingers, while his eyes followed theslow approach of the primitive little Quantuck train. Cicely waited for amoment. Then she came back to his side once more and dropped down on thecoarse moorland grass."Allyn," she said gravely; "it isn't always easy to know what to do; atleast, I don't think it is. The future seems so far off, when we try toplan about it. But papa used to tell me that, as long as I did the nextthing in order and did it hard and carefully, without trying to savemyself any work or to sneak, the rest of things would take care ofthemselves. It sounds pretty prosy; but I rather think after all it maybe true. It is a good deal more romantic to plan what great things we'lldo when we are grown up; but I never noticed that planning helped onmuch. When I began on my music, I used to dream lots of dreams about theconcerts I'd give; but all the good it did was to make me lose count inmy exercises, so I gave up dreaming and took to scales instead, and thenI began to get on a little better." She paused for a minute; then shewent on gayly, "And the moral of that is, stop worrying and come home todinner, for I am as hungry as a bluefish.""Mr. Barrett spent half the morning with us, Cicely," Hubert said,as she came to the table. "Where were you, to miss your chances?""Gallivanting with another young man," she said. "But was he really andtruly there? What did he talk about?""Soft-shell crabs.""How unromantic! What else?""Welsh rarebit, if you must know.""Was that all? Didn't he talk any music?""No; only the music of his own speech. It's not manners to talkshop, Cis.""Oh, but I do wish I could meet him!" she sighed. "Is he ever coming hereto the Lodge?""Perhaps, if we hang Babe out for bait. He appears to have her on thebrain. He asked, to-day, apropos of nothing in particular, whether MissMcAlister were not very intellectual.""I hope you assured him that she was," Billy remarked."I did. Trust me for upholding the family reputation. I told him that shehad a receptive mind and would be an ornament to any profession.""Hubert!" his sister remonstrated."Well, why not? Babe is able to hold her own, whether she turns herattention to the ministry or to coaching athletic teams, and it is onlyfair to give her the honest meed of praise.""Cousin Ted," Cicely said earnestly, after a pause; "I wish you would askMr. Barrett here to supper, some night. I want so much to meet him.""Why, Cicely, I never supposed you were such a lion-hunter." Theodora'stone, though gentle, conveyed a distinct rebuke."It isn't just silly wanting to meet him," she said, as her color came."I do want to know him, to hear him play and talk, because there isn'tanybody else whose work I love as I do his. I used to feel that way aboutyours, Cousin Ted, and want to know you on account of your books; but nowI forget all about them. It's different with Mr. Barrett. He doesn't seemespecially interesting. He looks conceited and he toes in; but his workis wonderful. Besides, I want to have him hear me play. He looks as if hewouldn't mind telling disagreeable truths, and I want somebody to tell mewhether I am wasting all my time, trying to do something that isimpossible. I don't care whether he eats crabs or clams; he may eat withhis knife, if he wants to. All I'm after is his music."Theodora laughed at her outburst."I will do what I can for you, Cis; but I am afraid it is a forlornhope. I don't believe he is a man who can be coaxed into talking shop,and I fear he hasn't the least idea of accepting any invitations, whilehe is down here. I will try to get him; but you may be driven intotaking a piano down on the beach and discoursing sweet music to him,while he bathes.""Bathes!" Cicely's tone was a faint echo of Phebe's. "He doesn't bathe;he paddles. No matter! Some day, I'll get what I want." But happily shehad no foreknowledge of the circumstances under which she would talk ofmusic with Gifford Barrett.An hour later, Allyn and his father were driving away across the moors.It takes good seamanship to bear the motion of a Quantuck box cart; itrequires still better seamanship to navigate one of them along the ruttedroads. For some time, it took all of Dr. McAlister's energy to keep fromlanding himself and Allyn head foremost in the thickets of sweet fern andbeach plum. By degrees, however, he became more expert in avoidingpitfalls and in keeping both wheels in the ruts, and he turned to Allynexpectantly."Well, Allyn, what was it?"For two days, Allyn had been preparing himself on various circuitousroutes by which he might approach his subject and slowly prepare hisfather's mind for the plea he wished to make. Now, however, his fatherhad taken him by surprise, and accordingly he blurted out the wholeplain truth."Papa, I don't want to go to college. I want to be an engineer."Back in the depths of Dr. McAlister's eyes, there came an expressionwhich, under other conditions, might have developed into a smile. Theboy's tone was anxious and pleading, out of all proportion to the gravityof his subject; but Dr. McAlister wisely forbore to smile. All his life,he had made it his rule never to laugh at the earnestness of hischildren, but to treat it with the fullest respect."A civil engineer?" he asked, thinking that Allyn was attracted by theprofession of his brother-in-law."No; just a plain, everyday engineer that runs machinery. I wish you'dlet me. There's no use in my going through college; I'm too stupid aboutlots of things, and I never could make a decent doctor.""What makes you think you could make a decent engineer?" the doctorquestioned keenly."Because I love it. I like wheels and beams and valves so much betterthan I like syntax and subjunctives," he urged. "I'd be willing to workfor it, papa; it's interesting and it really counts for something, whenyou get it done.""Perhaps. Is it a new idea, Allyn?"The boy shook his head."It's nearly as old as I am, I believe. Ever since I remember, I haveliked such things. I've watched them, whenever I had a chance, and when Icouldn't do that, I've looked at pictures of them. I don't suppose Iought to have said anything about it, for I know you want to have me gothrough college; but I hate my school, and I don't seem to get on any.""But your marks were higher, last month, than they had been for a year.""That was Cicely.""Cicely?""Yes, she helped me. I was warned, and would have been conditioned; butshe found it out and went at me till she pulled me through. That was howshe found out about it.""About what?""This.""Then Cicely knows?""Yes; but nobody else. I let it out to her, one day, and she made me showher my drawings. Then she told me that, if I wanted you to listen to me,I'd have to do a good deal better work in school than I had been doing."The doctor nodded approvingly."Cicely has a level head of her own," he said; "but how do I know youaren't trying to shirk school, Allyn?"Allyn faced him proudly."I never lie, and I promise you I'll do my best.""Well, that's all right." The doctor was coming down to the practicalside of the question, and all of a sudden he found that it was not goingto be an easy thing for him to relinquish the hope of having one of hissons follow him in his profession. "Do you know what it means, though,Allyn, to be an engineer?""I think so." The boy spoke with a quiet dignity which was new to him."What?""To work eight or ten hours a day in a factory; to begin at the bottomand work up; maybe, at last, to invent a machine of my own.""Yes." In spite of himself, the doctor's voice was encouraging, for hecould not help realizing that the boy had weighed the situationcarefully. "But do you know that your work would be in heat and dirt andnoise, among men who are not your equals in family and training?""Is Jamie Lyman my equal in family?" Allyn demanded. "Or FrankGavigan, or Peter Hubbard? You don't seem to mind putting me intoschool with them.""That is only for a short time. The other would be for life.""Not if I work up.""Perhaps not; but there is no upper class in a shop. But you saidsomething about some drawings. Have you made some?""Yes.""What are they?""These." And Allyn offered a half-dozen sheets of paper to his father.Dr. McAlister glanced at them; then he put the reins into Allyn's hand."Here," he said; "you can drive. I want to look at these."For some moments, there was a silence, while the doctor turned over thepapers and Allyn's heart thumped until it seemed to him as if it could beheard distinctly. Then deliberately the doctor took off his glasses, shutthem into their case and put the case into his pocket."Allyn," he said slowly; "I don't know much about such things; but Irather think that you have found your work. Some of these drawings arewell done. Where did you get your machines?""I made them up.""Oh." The doctor's tone was more dry than he realized; but he wasunwilling, for the boy's own good, to show the pride he felt in his son."Suppose we talk this over, then, and see what plans we would bettermake. I did want you to be a doctor, Allyn; it would have made me veryhappy, but I think it isn't best for you. It doesn't seem to be just inyour line, and I don't believe in forcing you into the wrong profession.Even if an engineer's life meant hard work and disagreeable people andthings around you, would you like to try it?""Yes.""You would be happy in it?""Yes.""You think you would stick to it through thick and thin?""Yes."There was no gush, no enthusiasm; yet something in the quiet affirmativecarried conviction to the father's mind."My boy," he said, as he rested his hand on Allyn's knee for a moment;"you are my youngest child, and very dear to me, dearer because for yearsyour life has had to make up for the one that ended as yours began. Ithas been my constant hope to make you into a broad and happy man, and agood one. The rest doesn't count for much in the long run. If you reallyare sure that you care for machines, then let it be machines; only makeup your mind to put your very best self into them, whether you oil up oldones or invent new ones. It doesn't make much difference what the workis; it makes a great deal of difference how you do it. Now listen to me,for I am going to make a bargain with you."He paused and looked down into the brown eyes, and they looked back athim unfalteringly."If I give up my pet dream for you--you will never know how often I havedreamed it, Allyn--and let you throw over the idea of being a doctor, Ishall expect you to keep on for two more years in your school and to takea good stand there. A mechanic should be as well-balanced mentally as adoctor. I want you to know some classics, some history. Then, after that,if you still feel the same way about this, you may fit for any of thegood technological schools you may choose, and I will do all I can tohelp you carry out your plans for your work. Is it a bargain?"Allyn's hand met his father's for a moment, and he nodded briefly. Thatwas all; but his father, as he watched him, was content without furtherdemonstration."Then we'll call it all settled," he said briskly, as he took the reinsonce more. "I'll speak to the others about it, if you want. Sometimesdiscussions of such things are a trial. Next time, though,--Has this beenworrying you, Allyn?""A little. I was afraid you wouldn't like it.""I'm sorry. Next time, come to me in the first of it, and we'll talk itover together. That's what we fathers are for; and all we want for oursons is to see them strong and honest and content, determined to get thevery best out of life as they go along. The only question is, where thebest lies, and that we must each one of us decide for himself. That'senough moral for one afternoon," he added, laughing."N--no," Allyn answered meditatively; "I hate morals, as a general thing;but I don't seem to mind this. It's too sensible."CHAPTER SIXTEENMac was at his evening devotions."And not squeal at Aunt Phebe, A-ah-nen!" he concluded in a gusty_sforzando._ Then he reached up and took his mother's face between histwo pink palms. "I hit Aunt Phebe, to-day, mamma. Vat was very naughty;but I 'scused her, so it don't make any matter."The fact was that Mac and his Aunt Phebe were not on intimate terms.Never fond of children and none too fond of being disturbed in thepursuit of her varying hobbies, Phebe had scant patience with thevagaries of her small nephew. His ingratiating ways annoyed her; hisshrill babble distracted her; her sense of order revolted at theomnipresent pails of sand which marked his pathway. Mac was revelling,that summer, in the possession of unlimited supplies of sand, and, notcontent with having it on the beach, he surreptitiously lugged it up toValhalla and constructed little amateur beaches wherever he could escapefrom Phebe's searching eyes.Phebe protested loudly over the beaches. They were in the way; theyrendered it unsafe to cross the floors, since they had a trick ofappearing in new and unsuspected localities. Moreover, they afforded asource of constant interest to Melchisedek, who appeared to be secretingan anatomical collection beneath them, and spent long hours on guardabove his latest addition to his hoard. It offended Phebe to be growledat, just at the moment when her foot struck a heap of sand and boneswhich should have had no place in a well-ordered home; it offended herstill more to listen to Mac's shrill unbraidings, when he found herruthlessly sweeping the whole deposit out of doors. Hence Mac's blow.Hence his forgiveness."I wish you were my brother, and I would see if this couldn't bestopped," Phebe had said, in the fulness of her wrath.Mac surveyed her blandly."But I don't want you for a brovver. You're nofing but a girl, and if Ihad a little brovver, I'd ravver have a he-brovver," he returneddispassionately."All the same, I'd make you mind me," she said vengefully, as she gavethe broom a final flirt."But you doesn't own me, Aunt Babe; every one else doesn't own me,just myse'f."What remote memory of past Sunday stories had asserted itself, the nextday, it would be impossible to tell; but Mac suddenly projected himselfinto the long-ago, and out from the long-ago he addressed Phebe."You are Pharaoh, you know, and you kills babies.""Don't be silly, Mac." Phebe was writing a letter and was in no mood forhistorical conversation.Sitting on the floor at her feet, Mac clasped his shabby brownie tohis breast."Yes, you are Pharaoh, you know; naughty old Pharaoh! But you wouldn'tkill vis little baby; would you, Pharaoh?""I'd like to, if it would clean him up a little," Phebe returned, forshe had an antipathy to the brownie which usually took its meals incompany with Mac."Do peoples be clean, all ve time, in heaven?""Of course.""Ven I don't want to go vere, Pharaoh.""Mac, you must stop calling me Pharaoh. Aunt Phebe is my name."The next instant, the baby came flying straight into Pharaoh's face, andMac fled, weeping, to his mother."Mam-ma!""Yes, Mac.""I'd be glad if I was dead.""Why, dear?" Hope looked startled."'Cause peoples are happy when vey are up in ve sky.""But you can be happy here, Mac, if you are good," Hope said gently."Yes; but I aren't happy; I are cross."Hope sighed and laid away the letter she was writing to her husband.There were days when she regretted that she had brought this restless,tempestuous child into so large a family circle, days when Mac's cherubicqualities appeared to be entirely in abeyance. Gentle as she was, her owninfluence over him was of the strongest; but here she felt that she hadless chance to exert this influence. In spite of her efforts, Mac wasrunning wild, this summer. The smallest child on the beach, he was pettedand spoiled by every one, and Hope disliked the inevitable pertness whichfollowed so much attention. Most of all, she disliked the constantfriction with his Aunt Phebe, and she felt that the blame was by nomeans entirely upon the one side. Mac was no heavenly child, and it wasonly by dint of much tact that he could be managed at all; but tact indealing with children was not Phebe's strong point.The summer, then, was not proving altogether restful to Hope. To oneperson, however, she felt an overwhelming gratitude. Of all the people onQuantuck beach, Gifford Barrett had been the only one who appeared tohave either conscience or common sense in dealing with Mac'sidiosyncrasies. The child never seemed to bore him, or to come intocollision with him, yet there was never any question who was the master.Again and again, Hope had wondered at the dexterity with which the youngmusician had led Mac away from his small iniquities, had coaxed him intogiggling forgetfulness of his bad temper. She wondered yet more at theobedience which Mac readily accorded to his new friend, an obediencewhich she was accustomed to win only after long and persistent siege."My papa couldn't come here, vis summer," he had said gravely to Mr.Barrett, one day. "Will you please be my papa while we stay here?"And Gifford Barrett's smile was not altogether of amusement, as heaccepted the adoption. Hope saw it and understood; and hereafter sheranged herself on Cicely's side when Mr. Barrett was being discussed inthe family circle.That same afternoon Gifford Barrett strolled down to the beach. The windhad been on shore for the past two days, and the breakers, too heavy nowto allow any bathing, crashed on the sand with a dull booming thatsounded far inland, while close at the water-side was heard the crash ofthe grinding pebbles. Under the McAlister awning, Mrs. McAlister, Hopeand the Farringtons sat in a cozy group, and Mac, close by, was devotinghis small energies to burying his grandfather. The young man stopped tospeak to them for a minute; then he moved away towards the spot wherePhebe sat alone under her umbrella."Isn't the surf superb, Miss McAlister?"She looked up from her book rather ungraciously."Yes, it's very fine.""How does it happen you are not at the golf links?""There's a tournament, to-day.""And you didn't enter?""No; they didn't play well enough to make it worth my while."Deliberately he settled himself at her side."Am I interrupting?" he asked. "That book looked rather indigestible foran August day.""I prefer it. I can't spend my time over novels," Phebe said.The strong wind had ruffled her bright hair and deepened the pink in hercheeks. The young man looked at her admiringly. Up to this time, he hadonly seen her in her short blue suit, and he told himself that thisfluffy pink muslin gown was vastly more becoming to her."Don't you ever do frivolous things?" he asked in some amusement."No. What's the use?""There's going to be a dance, next week.""Is there?" Phebe's tone betrayed no interest in the tidings."Yes. I came down to see if I could induce you to go with me.""I hate dancing in August," she said flatly."I'm sorry. Besides, one must do something down here.""One can, if one wants to. I don't. There's no sense in coming to thiskind of a place, just to put on one's best clothes and dance all night ina stuffy room.""You might take Lear's method," he suggested;"'And hand in hand, on the edge of the sand,They danced by the light of the moon.'"For one instant, Phebe relaxed her severity."Do you like Lear, too?" she asked."Of course. What sensible person doesn't?" He stretched himself out atfull length, resting his head on his hand, and, for the moment, Phebe, asshe looked at him, felt that he was almost handsome enough to atone forhis lack of energy. "But you haven't accepted my invitation," he addedpersuasively."I know it.""Please do.""What for? I told you I don't like hops in August.""But I can't hop alone.""Ask somebody else, then.""Don't want to. Well, I'll consider it an engagement.""Why don't you play golf?" Phebe demanded."Too energetic for me. I want something more restful."His languid tone annoyed Phebe, and she dropped her indifferent manner."Mr. Barrett, did it ever occur to you that you were lazy?"He flushed."No; it hadn't occurred to me in that light before. Am I?""Very."He sat up."I am sorry. Miss McAlister, had it ever occurred to you that you areoutspoken?""I don't care if I am."For an instant, he looked at her angrily. It was a new experience tohim to have any one take that tone in addressing him. Then he roseto his feet."I am afraid I have been intruding upon your time, Miss McAlister," hesaid stiffly."You needn't get mad," Phebe observed. "People don't all think alike, youknow; and I only told you my opinion."He bowed in silence; then he walked away his hands in his pocketsand his cap tilted backwards aggressively. Half-way to the row ofawnings, he spoke."Little vixen!" he said forcibly. Then he dropped down on the sand atHope's feet, with his back turned flatly towards the figure under theblue umbrella."Then you are coming to supper with us, to-morrow night," Theodora said,as at length he rose to his feet. "I suppose music is a forbiddensubject, Mr. Barrett; you probably get very tired of the things peoplesay to you. Still, I have a little cousin staying with me, who is anxiousto meet you, and--"Her sentence was never finished, and Cicely's anxiety was left hanging inmid air, for there came a cry from Phebe,--"Oh, Hope! Mac! Help!"Mr. Barrett whirled about to face the surf just in time to see Macswept off his feet by an incoming wave, drawn back under the nextone and hidden from sight beneath the awful weight of water. With aquick exclamation, he ran forward into the edge of the water. Then hedrew back."Save him," Phebe commanded. "Go in! I can't do anything in this horridgown." As she spoke, she tugged fiercely at her fluffy skirt which, wetto her knees, clung closely about her feet. "Go in and get him!" shecommanded again.Then for the hour, Gifford Barrett wished that the sand wouldclose over him."I can't," he said through his shut teeth. "It would be of no use.""Coward!" she said fiercely. "And you would let the boy drown!"The words had been low and hurried, and no one was near to hear them, orto check Phebe. For a moment, Mr. Barrett turned white. He started toreply; then he controlled himself and was silent. This was not the timeto seek to justify himself. The little scene was ended before BillyFarrington, stripped to his waist, rushed past them and plunged into thepounding surf.To the watchers on the shore, it seemed hours since he had disappeared,days since chubby little Mac had been swept out of sight. The beachchanced to be deserted, that afternoon; Dr. McAlister could not swim astroke, Phebe was powerless to do anything in such clothing as she wore,and Billy was not an expert swimmer. Hope's anguish was almostunbearable; yet, for the moment, Theodora's suffering was greater thanthat of her sister. She spoke no word; she only stood, tall and statelyand dry-eyed, staring into the great green, curving waves that hadswallowed up her husband and, with him, all the best that had made lifefor her since her girlhood. There was small chance for an inexperiencedswimmer in such a sea as that, least of all for one burdened with theweight of a four-year-old child.One. Two. Three. Four. Slowly the pitiless waves came crashing down onthe sand. They were so mighty, so unrelenting in their grim beauty. Ifone must be drowned, it would have been better to die in a sunless sea,not in the gorgeousness of a day like this. Five. Six. Then Theodorasprang forward with a little, low, choking moan. The seventh wave washedup at her very feet the form of her husband, still breathing and withMac's body dangling from his unconscious grasp.Under such circumstances, some men would have thanked Providence. Dr.McAlister was of other stuff."Phebe, come here!" he commanded. "You know what to do. You go to workon Mac, while I try to see if anything can be done for Billy. Work foryour life, for there's a life hanging on yours now."CHAPTER SEVENTEEN"Yes dear, Uncle Billy was almost drowned, in trying to get you out ofthe water.""Drowned dead, mamma?""Yes, Mac."For a minute, Mac silently contemplated the possibility of his uncle'sdying. Then his face dimpled into a smile once more, as he said,--"If he was dead, mamma, I should get a little warm 'pirit and put in hisstomach, and ven he would be all well again."It seemed strange to Hope to be laughing once more. All the nightthrough, a heavy cloud of anxiety had rested upon Valhalla where onehero at least was lying. It had been no easy feat which Billy Farringtonhad attempted, and no one was more keenly aware of the fact than he,himself. Well and strong enough for all practical purposes, his physiquein reality was no match for men whose boyhood had been sound, and nomatch at all for the fury of Quantuck surf in a gale. He had realizedall that, yet he had not hesitated for an instant as to what was theone thing for him to do. Billy's code of honor was a simple one and astraight-forward. It even included the possibility of laying down one'slife for a little child.All that night, the doctor worked over him. For a long time, it seemed tohim a losing fight; but he prolonged it to the end, and in the end he wasvictorious. Phebe had succeeded in bringing Mac to consciousness, and shewas superintending Hope's putting him to bed; the doctor had ordered theothers out of the room, and he and Theodora were alone with Billy when atlast the blue eyes opened."Billy! My dear old William!"That was all the doctor heard. Then he brushed his hand across his eyesand stole away out of the room. Alone in the kitchen, he wiped his eyesagain and blew his nose violently."That tells the story," he muttered to himself. "I wish there were moresuch marriages. But I thought for one while that there wasn't much chancefor him." Then he shrugged his shoulders and put on his most professionalmanner, as he went back to his patient."Stop your lovering, Ted, and give him another drink of this. Lie whereyou are, for half an hour, Billy; then let Teddy tuck you up warm in bedand sleep it off. You did a fine thing, a mighty fine thing, and Hopewill have something to say to you in the morning.""All right, thank you, only rather stiff in the joints, so the doctoradvised me to keep still, to-day," Billy said to Gifford Barrett, thenext night.The young man had met Hubert on the beach, that morning; but apparentlyhe could be satisfied by no second-hand report from the Lodge. In thelate twilight, he came strolling up to the seaward porch where he foundBilly stretched out at his ease on a bamboo couch, and the others groupedaround him, in full tide of family gossip."Then you are really none the worse for your ducking?" Mr. Barrett asked,as he took the chair that Theodora offered him."Rather stiff, and a bruise or two, nothing to count at all.""And the boy?""Lively as a sand flea.""How did he happen to get into the water, in the first place?" Mr.Barrett inquired."Chiefly because his Aunt Phebe advised him to be careful, or he wouldget his feet wet," Hope answered. "There is no use in my trying toexcuse my naughty boy, Mr. Barrett. Mac was so eager to assure my sisterthat she didn't own him that, in his defiance, he backed straight intothe water.""Oh, Hope, what is the use of telling, now it is all over?" Phebe'sremonstrant tones came from inside the house.Gifford Barrett rose and went towards the door."Are you there, Miss McAlister? I hoped I should see you.""I'll be out in a minute."The minute was a long one. Then Phebe stepped through the open doorwayinto the stronger light outside. Her face flushed a little, as shereluctantly touched the young man's outstretched hand; but that was allthere was to show that she recalled the last words they had exchanged,the day before."I wanted to see you," he went on, as he seated himself once more. "I amgoing away, to-morrow night, and before I went, I had something I wishedto tell--to explain, that is, to you all."A sudden tension seemed to make itself felt throughout the group. No oneof them had the remotest idea of what he was about to say, yet even Dr.McAlister drew his chair a few inches nearer, while Cicely, in hercorner, fairly bounced in her excitement."Well, let her go," Billy remarked, after a moment when the guest seemedto find it hard to open the subject."Why, you see, I may seem very silly and egotistic to speak of it;but--The fact is, didn't any of you think it was strange that I didn'ttry to go into the surf for Mac, yesterday?"Three of the women before him made a polite murmur of dissent. The fourthwas silent; but Dr. McAlister said frankly,--"Yes. It wasn't at all like my idea of you, Mr. Barrett."The young man looked pleased."Thank you, doctor," he said heartily. "I value that sort of compliment.But I didn't want to go away from here and leave you to think me anarrant coward. The truth is, I shouldn't have been of much use to Mac orto myself. I'm not swimming, this summer, for I was unlucky enough tobreak my arm, last June, and it's not at all strong yet."Quickly Billy put out his hand."I'm glad to know this, Barrett," he said. "I haven't been quitefair to you.""I wish you had told us before," Theodora added laughingly. "Wehaven't had time to compare notes yet; but there is no telling whatsome of us may have thought about it. But isn't it very bad for yourmusic, Mr. Barrett?""It came at an inconvenient time," he admitted; "for I was in the middleof some work, and I have had to let it all go.""How did it happen?" Hope asked sympathetically. "I hope it wasn't abad break.""A compound fracture of the right arm," he replied. "It wasn't a pleasingbreak; but it was a good deal more pleasing than the way it happened.""How was that?" Billy looked up expectantly, for the young man's tone wassuggestive of a story yet untold.Gifford Barrett laughed."It was very absurd, very ignominious; but the fact is, I was run intoby a woman, one day in a pelting shower, and knocked heels over head offmy bicycle."Sitting in the doorway, Phebe had been holding a book in her hands. Nowit fell to the floor with a crash."Drop something, Babe?" Hubert asked amicably."Yes, my book," she answered shortly."I shall never forget my emotions at the time," Gifford Barrett wassaying to Billy. "I had been off for a long ride, one day, and wascaught, on the way home, in this heavy shower. The road was all up anddown hill, and just as I came down one hill, the damsel came down theother. She had lost both her pedals, and you've no idea how she looked,bouncing and bumping along, with her soaked skirt flopping in the wind.She hadn't even the grace to be pretty, so there wasn't an atom ofromance in the affair from first to last. She was a great, overgrowncountry girl, and tied on the front of her wheel she had a bundle that Itook for some sort of marketing stuff; but, just as she met me, it poppedopen and out tumbled a whole assortment of bones, human bones, legs andarms and a skull. What do you suppose she could have been doing withthem? She was too young and fair to have been an undertaker.""They might have belonged to her ancestors, and she have been takingthem home for burial," Hubert suggested.Mr. Barrett chuckled in a manner which suggested the composer in him hadnot entirely ousted the boy."Anyway, she is short a skull. I sent out, the next day, and had itbrought to me. I have it yet.""Did she hit you?" Theodora asked."Hit me! I should think she did. She was large, and she came at me with agood deal of force. The last I remember, I felt the crash, and I knew Ihad had the worst of it." He rubbed his arm sympathetically at therecollection."What became of you?" Mrs. McAlister inquired. "Did she pick you up andcarry you home?""Not she. She was an Amazon, not a Valkyrie within hailing distance ofValhalla.""Who was she?" Theodora asked. "The story ought to have a sequel.""It hasn't. It ended in mystery. The girl vanished into thin air, and aman, driving by, found me lying in the mud, with a skull on one side ofme and a white sailor hat on the other, neither of them my property.""Just rode away and left you with a compound fracture?" The doctor'stone was incredulous."Apparently, for she was never heard of again; at least, I never foundout who she was. It was very funny and very unromantic; but it laid me upfor a few weeks, and my arm doesn't grow strong as fast as it should, soI have to be careful of it. No swimming or golf for me, this year.Meanwhile, I am waiting to hear of a buxom damsel who lacks one skulland one white straw Knox hat, size six and one-eighth. Then, when I meether, I shall take my vengeance.""I hope you will find her," the doctor said vindictively. "If one of mydaughters had done such a thing, I would disown her. Babe, it is growingchilly. I wish you'd bring out some rugs."But Phebe had vanished from her seat in the doorway.The full moon was laying a silvery path across the restless waves, whenGifford Barrett finally rose to go. There was a cordial exchange offarewells, of good wishes for the coming winter, of hopes of anothermeeting, yet Mr. Barrett was not quite content, as he slowly walked awayto his hotel Mrs. Farrington's cordiality and Cicely's evident woe at hisdeparture could not quite atone for the lack of a word and a glance offriendly good-bye from Phebe. One's liking is not altogether a matter offree will. In spite of himself, Gifford Barrett liked the blunt,outspoken, pugnacious Phebe far better than the girls whose honeyed wordsand ways he had found so cloying.Farewell parties are all the fashion at Qantuck station and few peopleare allowed to depart, unattended. However, Mr. Barrett's fame, and hismanifest wish to hold himself aloof from the people about him had hadtheir effect, and he went trudging down to the station the next afternoonquite by himself. On the platform, to his surprise, he found Mrs. Holdenand Mac waiting for him."Mac insisted upon saying good-bye," Hope said half apologetically; "andI really hadn't the heart to refuse him. Besides, I wanted to thank youagain for your many kindnesses to my small boy. Mothers appreciate suchthings, I assure you, Mr. Barrett."The young man's face lighted. He liked Hope, and, from the first, he haddropped his professional manner and met her with the simplicity of anovergrown boy."We've had great times together; haven't we, Mac?" he inquired."Yes, lots; but now I'm going to see my truly papa," Mac observed."Are you going soon?" Mr. Barrett asked Hope."Next week, I think. Mr. Holden has written so appealingly that I darenot keep him waiting any longer. The others will stay down for September;but Hubert will go off island with me, next week, and start Mac and me onour way to Helena.""And may I ask my sister to call on you?""Please do. Mac's mother doesn't have time to make many calls; but Ishould like to know your sister, and then I shall be sure to hear whenyou are in Helena again.""Perhaps you'll let me write to you, now and then," he suggested, with ashyness that was new to him. In his past life, he had never met a womanquite like Mrs. Holden and he was anxious to win her liking and to holdit, once won."I wish you would," she said cordially. "But your train is waiting.Ought you to get on board?"He took a hurried leave of her. Then he turned to Mac."Good-bye, Mac.""Good-bye," Mac answered cheerily. "Aren't you glad you ever knew me?""Yes, Mac," he replied sincerely, for he felt that his meeting with Machad been foreordained, that, child as he was, Mac had served his turn inknotting together some of the broken strands of his life.As the train slowly jogged away across the moorland he felt a sharpregret while he watched the disappearing of the little grey village andthe tall white lighthouse beyond. He had enjoyed his solitary monththere; he had enjoyed Hope, and the sweet, womanly frankness with whichshe had taken him quite on his own personal merits. Incense was good; itwas far better to be liked as Gifford Barrett than as the composer of the_Alan Breck Overture_, however, and he had a vague consciousness that hehad never been more of a man than when he was walking and talking withquiet Hope Holden.The train rounded the curve at Kidd's Treasure, and Mr. Barrett lookedbackward to catch one last glimpse of the sea. As he did so, he forgotHope, and went back to the memory of his last hour on the beach.Strolling along the sand, that noon, with his eyes fixed on the ground,he had caught sight of an approaching shadow and he looked up to seePhebe standing before him."Mr. Barrett," she said abruptly; "I'm sorry I called you a coward."He rallied from his surprise and raised his cap."Oh, that's all right," he said lightly."No; it wasn't right. I don't want to abuse people to their faces andbehind their backs, when they don't deserve it. That isn't my way.""But you couldn't be expected to know.""I ought to have known.""How?"Phebe's cheeks grew scarlet. In her contrition, she had walked straightinto the trap which she had meant to avoid. She was silent."How could you know?" he urged. "I don't think I look in the least likean invalid."There was another silence, a long one, while he stood looking down ather curiously. Then she raised her eyes with an effort."I was the girl that ran into you," she said bluntly.The young man's face suddenly became somewhat less expressive than theskull which he had kept as a souvenir of the experience they werediscussing. That at least expressed a cheery unconcern; his faceexpressed nothing."Oh, I-I-I'm sorry," he remarked blankly."So am I. I didn't mean to.""Have you known it, all the time? Was that what made you so down on me?""I wasn't down on you. I didn't think much about you, either way," Phebesaid, with unflattering directness."But did you know it?""Not till last night, when you told the story. Your beard changes you agood deal." She paused. Then she went on, "I didn't mean to let you knowit; but I think it is better that I have, for now I can set you right onone point. I didn't go off to leave you. I did what I could, and thenwent for help. When I came back, you were gone.""How came you there, anyway?""I live there.""Oh! And the skull?""I don't want it.""No; but where did you get it?""I bought it.""Miss McAlister! Might I ask what for?""To study. I'm going to be a doctor.""Oh, I wouldn't," he urged dispassionately. "You'll find it very messy.""But I like it. I worked with my father, all the spring, and now I amgoing to Philadelphia to study there. Didn't you know I set your arm?""No." He looked at her, with frank admiration shining in his eyes. "Didyou, honestly? Dr. Starr said it was a wonder that it hadn't slipped outof place any more.""I'm glad if I did any good," she said with sudden humility. "I must gonow, for it is past dinner time." She turned to go away. Then she cameback again and held out her strong, ringless hand. "I'm so sorry," shesaid hurriedly; "sorry for all I have made you ache, and sorry for allthe hateful things I have said to you.""Don't think about that any more," he said heartily, as he took herhand. "Have you told your father, Miss McAlister?""Not yet.""Please don't. There's no use in saying anything more about it, And nowpromise me that you will forget it,--as a favor to me, please." As hespoke, he looked steadily into Phebe's eyes, and her eyes drooped. Forthe first time in her life, Phebe McAlister had become self-consciousin the presence of a young man. He dropped her hand and raised his caponce more."Good-by, doctor," he said; and, turning, he walked away and lefther alone.CHAPTER EIGHTEEN"Mel-chisedek!"As who should say "What, ma'am?" Melchisedek lifted his snubby littlenose and gazed inquiringly at Theodora. Then he went back to his assaultson the corner of the rug. Melchisedek's mother had been a thrifty soul;in her young son's puppyhood, she had impressed upon him the fact thatwell-trained dogs should bury superfluous food supplies, to be held inreserve for the hour of need. Cicely had been too lavish, that morning,in her allowance. Melchisedek had eaten until his small legs stuck outstiffly from his distended little body, and now he was endeavoring tobury the remainder of his meal in the folds of the rug. The room was alarge one, and it took a perceptible time for Theodora to reach the sceneof action. Melchisedek's efforts increased in vigor as she came nearer,and, just as she stooped to catch him, he succeeded in folding the endof her ancient Persian rug above an overturned Chelsea saucer and awidening pool of oatmeal and cream. Then he retired under the table andsmiled suavely up at her, while she removed the debris.It was now two weeks since they had returned from Quantuck, and the yearwas at the fall of the leaf. The Savins was covered with a thick carpetof golden brown, and the birches and hickories were blazing with gold,while the corner house was set in a nest of crimson and yellow andscarlet maples. For the hour, earth was almost as radiant as the sun; butthe quiet drop, drop, drop of the yellow leaves through the golden, hazyair told that the end was not far distant, that too soon the gold wouldgive place to the grey and the brown.This autumn season had brought a new break into the McAlister familycircle. Phebe had gone away to Philadelphia, almost immediately aftertheir return from the seashore. If her interest in medical science wereon the wane, at least she was too proud to confess the fact, and thedoctor, with some misgivings, had consented to her departure."There's no especial reason Babe shouldn't make a good doctor," he saidto his wife, the night after the matter was finally decided; "thetrouble is, there seems to be no especial reason that she should. I can'tdiscover that she's any more in love with that profession than with adozen others. She simply took it up because it was the most obvious one,and because she was restless for some sort of an occupation.""Wait and see," his wife counselled him. "For the present, she iscontented with this choice, and she may as well try it for a year. Bythat time, she will be able to decide whether she wants to go on. Oneyear of it, at her age, can't do any harm, and it may do her some good,if only to steady her down a little.""Then you don't think she will carry it through?""No," she said honestly; "I don't. Babe hasn't the make-up for aprofessional woman in any line. She is too self-centred, too impetuous.She needs something to humanize her womanhood, not make an abstract thingof her. I'd rather see Babe a gentle, loving woman than the greatestlight of her profession.""What a little bigot it is!" the doctor said teasingly."No, not a bigot," she returned quickly. "I believe in a girl's taking aprofession, when it is the one absorbing interest of her life. Itwouldn't be so with Babe. She would take it from restlessness, not love,from sheer unused vitality that must have an outlet. It was differentwith Ted; it will be different with Allyn. They are ready to give upother things for their work. Phebe isn't.""After all, Babe is developing," the doctor said thoughtfully. "She issteadier than she used to be, and a good deal more true and sincere. Ifshe would only grow a little more affectionate, I should be content.""Wait," his wife repeated. "She develops slowly, and she hasn't found outyet just which way it is worth her while to grow. When she does, you willfind that she grows fast enough. Look at Allyn. He seems like a newcreature in this new plan of his."The doctor smiled a little sadly."Perhaps I am impatient, Bess; but I am getting to be an old man, and Iwant to see all my children on their own straight roads, before I die."But if Phebe's choice of career filled her family with doubtfulquestionings, their doubts were at an end in respect to Allyn. The boyhad not only come back from the seashore to settle down into the harnessof school life again; he was even tugging hard at the traces. Mindful ofhis bargain with his father, anxious to prove that his wish was bothfixed and earnest, he had gone to work with a dogged determination toshow his father that, once interested, he was capable of doing honest,solid work. He did work with a will and with a healthy appetite that lefthim scant time and energy for outside things; and between his books andhis drawings he was far too busy to heed the ways and the warts of JamieLyman and his kin. Directly after their return to The Savins, the doctorhad sent a package of Allyn's drawings to one of his old-time classmates,now the head of a famous school of technology. The answer which came backto him was prompt and full of enthusiasm, and Dr. McAlister, as he readit, felt his last regret leaving him that his son was to abandon his ownprofession.Cicely, meanwhile, was mounting guard over Allyn's languages, advising,admonishing and often helping him along the devious paths of syntax andsubjunctives. She had a good deal of time at her disposal. She gave it tohim freely, and unconsciously she gained as much as she gave, in her workwith the boy. Their comradeship was as perfect as was their unlikeness.Each complemented the other, each modified the other, and both were farthe better and the happier for the intimacy. To be sure, their paths werenot all of pleasantness and peace. Both Cicely and Allyn were outspokenand hot-tempered; but their feuds now were measured by moments, not bydays, and the overtures of peace were mutual.Although Gifford Barrett had never been known to speak more than a dozenwords to Cicely, and those were chiefly concerning the weather, the girlappeared to have gained great inspiration from her meeting with the youngcomposer, and she plodded away more diligently than ever at her longhours of practice. Day after day, she ended with her beloved overture,playing it over, not so much to perfect herself in it, as to remindherself that music was a living, vital means of expression quite withinthe reach of one not so much older than herself. It was not that Cicelyever hoped to compose. That was as far beyond her ambition as it wasbeyond her powers. She only gained courage from the thought that successin one's chosen line was not always deferred until the end of life.Moreover, she felt a certain human and girlish satisfaction in being ableto state that, once at least, she had swept the gifted composer of the_Alan Breck Overture_ completely off his feet. The fact was enough; noneed to enter into details.Theodora and Billy never stopped to analyze how large a hold upon theirhearts this healthy, happy girl had taken. If she dined at The Savins,they devoured their own meal in silence. If she spent an evening awayfrom home Billy read his paper with one eye on the clock, and Theodorareduced Melchisedek to whimpering frenzy by asking once in ten minuteswhere his missy was. They wanted her chatter, wanted her more gentlemoments, wanted above all else her pranks which served as a sort ofvicarious outlet for their own animal spirits. For nine days out of ten,Cicely and Melchisedek frisked through life together. On the tenth,Cicely passed into a thoughtful mood; Melchisedek never."What's the matter, Cousin Ted?" Cicely asked, one day, as she metTheodora stalking up the stairs after dismissing a caller."Another reporter. I wish they would let law-abiding citizens alone,and use up their energy on tramps," Theodora said viciously. "Such amorning as I have had! My marketing took twice as long as usual; mytypewriter has broken a spring, and now this man has wasted a goodhalf-hour of my time. Cis, the next man that comes to interview me, Ishall hand over to you.""All right. What shall I tell him?""Anything you choose, as long as you keep him away from me. It's no useto refuse to see them. I tried that, and they straight-way went off andpublished three columns of my utterances on South African politics, whenI don't know a Boer from a Pathan. Farewell, I am going to work." And,the next moment, Cicely heard the click of her typewriter.It was more than three weeks later that Cicely sat alone, one afternoon,reading lazily before the fire, when the maid brought her a card."It's for Mrs. Farrington," she said."Let me see." Cicely took it and glanced at the name, Mr. William Smith.Down in the corner was the legend "Boston _Intermountain_." "It is allright, Mary," she added. "I will see the man."There was a short delay while she sped upstairs, ransacked Theodora'scloset for a long skirt, and swiftly coiled her hair on the top of herhead. Then demurely enough she presented herself to the waiting guest."Mrs. Farrington?" he said interrogatively, as he rose."Good-afternoon," she answered, extending her hand graciously. "Won't yoube seated?"He looked surprised. As a rule, the reception accorded to him was notso cordial."I came here on behalf of the Boston _Intermountain_," he said a littleuneasily. "They are making up a Thanksgiving number, and are anxious fora special feature or two. Among other things, they want a little sketchof your work and your ways of doing it.""Certainly." Cicely seated herself on the sofa and smiled encouragementat the young man, while she vaguely wondered whether he had discoveredthat her cousin's waist measure was three inches smaller than her own."Might I ask," he inquired, as he pulled out a notebook; "whether youare busy just now on a new book?""Yes, I am writing four at present," she answered unexpectedly."Four, all at once?""Yes.""But--pardon me--but is there not danger of confusing them?""Oh, no; I keep them in different pigeon-holes," Cicely replied blandly."Ah, yes. Do you? Very good!" He laughed a little vaguely. "Are they tocome out soon?""This winter, all but one. That will not appear for seven years.""Indeed. And are you willing, Mrs. Farrington to tell me when you doyour writing?""Certainly. I do it all at night.""But isn't that very wearing?""Of course. I am often a total wreck for months after finishing a book.""Where do you do your writing?"For a moment, Cicely hesitated between the rival charms of the frontsteps and the attic. Then she replied,--"In the kitchen.""The--kitchen!" For an instant, the man was thrown from hisprofessional calm."Yes. I put my little kettle of tea to draw on the hob--""The--what?""The hob," Cicely said severely; "and when I am tired of writing, Irefresh myself with a cup of Flowery Pekoe and a biscuit, and then Ireturn to my pen once more.""How much do you usually accomplish in a night?""Four thousand, five hundred words is my usual limit.""And do your never write during the day?""Never. My thoughts only arise by candle-light."At this poetic outburst, the interviewer glanced up and privatelyregistered the belief that Mrs. Farrington was slightly cracked."I always sleep till noon," Cicely reassured him. "Is there anything elseI can do for you?""No, thank you. I think not. This will make a very interesting andacceptable article, I am sure. But, before I go, would you mind tellingme what you think of Browning?""The greatest poet of the century," Cicely replied glibly, mindful oflocal prejudice."And your favorite poem?" he asked insinuatingly.Then at last Cicely floundered, for she was quite beyond her depth."I think the _Rubaiyat_ is by far the best," she said gravely, and herquerist received the announcement in perfect good faith.It was some weeks afterwards that Theodora, turning over her mail, cameupon a marked copy of the _Intermountain_."What in the world is this?" she said in astonishment. "I never heard ofthe paper."She opened it, and then she gasped. Upon the first page appeared awoodcut, evidently culled from the advertising department, and beneath itthese headlines:"Interview with Mrs. Theodora Farrington.Alone with Her Tea-Kettle.The Famous Young Author Works by Night.The Inspiration of Genius by the Hob."Theodora read it through, carefully, deliberately, down to the finalstatements in regard to Browning. She wondered at first. Then the lightdawned upon her, as she came upon a carefully-turned phrase descriptiveof "the little grey dog, the constant companion of his gifted mistress,"and she looked up."Cis, you wretch!" she said.But Cicely had been watching her face and, as she watched, her owndimples had grown deeper."Didn't you tell me I might?" she asked meekly."Yes," Theodora acknowledged; "yes, I did, and I don't know but it wasjustifiable. He must have been an innocent youth, Cis; but it's not somuch worse than some of the tales told by men who have really seen me;only--don't do it again, dear. It might make me serious trouble.""But, after all," she said to her husband, that night; "I am not so verysorry. They needn't make public property of us and our work. It is noneof their affair, anyway; and Cicely has only done what I have wanted todo, and didn't quite dare. If more people had a deputy to be interviewedfor them, it might put a stop to the literary columns in a good manyminor papers."And her husband agreed with her.CHAPTER NINETEENDown in Philadelphia, that fall, Phebe was having her first experience ofbitter homesickness. She had always supposed herself immune from thatdire disease, and, for some time, she had no idea what was the matterwith her. In vain she tried to trace the cause of her complaint tomalaria and to every known form of indigestion. She studied her symptomscarefully and tried to match them up, one by one, to the symptomsrecorded in her text-books. At last, she was forced to the ignobleconclusion that she was suffering from homesickness pure and simple,homesickness in one of its acutest forms. Her appetite for her workdeclined in proportion to her appetite for her food. She was listless,dull, and, it must be confessed, most deplorably cross. The fact of thematter was that the girl was pining for the broad lawns of The Savins,for the shabby red house, for her father and Hubert, even for Cicely andCicely's dog Melchisedek.Her work interested her. To her mind, there was a great charm in seeingthe neat economy with which her body was constructed. She enjoyed thelectures keenly; but the clinics had proved to be her undoing. At thefirst one she had attended, she had ignominiously fainted away. There wasa certain satisfaction in feeling that she had drawn upon herself atleast one-half as much attention as the more legitimate object of thegathering; however, she was sternly resolved never to repeat theexperience, and she accordingly became a walking arsenal of restoratives,whenever a clinic was on hand. In a nutshell, Phebe found theory far moreattractive than practice. Surgery was a grand and helpful profession;but, under some circumstances, it was not neat, and Phebe must haveneatness at any cost.With her fellow-students she was quite unable to fraternize. For the mostpart, they were older than herself, a body of enthusiastic, earnest womenwho were ready to lay down their lives for their profession. Grave-eyedand intent, they went through the day's routine with a cheery patienceunder drudgery which showed the noble stuff of which they were made. Theylooked askance at Phebe's grumblings, her fluctuating enthusiasm, herhours of girlish frivolity and of pettish complaint. Among themselves,they analyzed her; but they were unable to classify her. She was foreignto their ways of life and thought; in a word, they set her down asworldly and lacking in conviction.On her side, Phebe detested them heartily. Golf was a sealed book tothem; their skirts were prone to hang in dejected folds; their talk, evenin their hours of relaxation, was of the shop shoppy. Down in her heartof hearts, she respected them; but in her naughty little head, she railedat them, not loudly, but long and unceasingly.There were days when, utterly discouraged and out of conceit with herselfand the world, she meditated writing to her father, telling him the wholetruth and then taking the next train for home. Then she shut her teethand went back to her work in a grim silence that warned her neighborsthat she wished to be let alone. So far in her life, she had never givenup anything she had undertaken, and she hated the idea of doing it now.She would fight it out a little longer. Perhaps in time it would be alittle less intolerable. Perhaps people always found it hard at first toadapt themselves fully to their professions. It was even within thelimits of human possibility that, if she kept on long enough, she mightcome to the point of delighting in clinics, like Miss Caldwell who wasfat and wore spectacles with tin bows and a cameo breastpin. Then shehunted up a dry spot in her pillow, and dreamed of The Savins, and Mac,and Quantuck, and waked up, and went to sleep again, and dreamed ofhearing her father saying in the next room,--"Poor Babe! I don't think she was ever meant to be a good doctor; but Idon't see what on earth she really is good for, anyway."The next afternoon, there were neither lectures nor clinics, and Phebedetermined to go for a long walk. It was early November, and the hush andthe haze of Indian summer lay over the park, as she halted on the bridgeand stood looking down into the river beneath. Not a soul was in sight.The noises of the city were hushed in the distance, and before her thebroad reaches of the park stretched out and out under their mighty foresttrees. In a way, the rolling slopes, the broad lawns and the treesreminded her of The Savins. She could imagine just how it looked at home,the green lawn heaped here and there with brown oak leaves, the goldenglory of the hickories, the masses of late chrysanthemums, red and whiteand pink and yellow, filling every sheltered nook and corner, above itall, the soft November haze which is neither rosy nor purple nor gold,but blended from them all, yet quieter far than any one of them.All of a sudden Phebe's head went down upon her arms folded on therail of the bridge and, secure in her solitude, she gave herself upto her woe."Miss McAlister?"She started and pulled herself together abruptly."Are you in trouble?"The voice was unknown, yet familiar, and she spun around to find herselfface to face with Gifford Barrett."Where did you come from?" she asked, too much astonished at hisappearing, too glad to look into a friendly pair of eyes to resent thesympathy written on his face."I came over here, for a few days, and I took the liberty of calling onyou. The people at the house told me you had spoken of coming out here,so I came on the chance of finding you. But was something--?" Hehesitated.Phebe rubbed away her tears."Yes, something was," she answered, with an attempt at her usualbriskness. "You caught me off my guard, Mr. Barrett. The fact is, I amdesperately homesick.""Then why don't you go home?" he asked prosaically, for he had learned,even in his slight experience at Quantuck, that it was not wise to take asentimental tone in addressing Phebe."I can't. I came down here for a year, and I must stick it out.""What's the use?""Because I never do give in. It would be babyish. Besides, I am going tobe a doctor.""I don't see why. It isn't in your line.""I begin to think nothing is in my line," Phebe said forlornly."What else have you tried?""Nothing; but--I don't care about many things. I should like this, if itweren't for the clinics and the students and such things, and if I couldbe a little nearer home.""When do you go home?""Christmas, if I live till then," Phebe laughed; but her mirth soundedrather lugubrious. Then she added half-involuntarily, "I wonder whatyou must think of me, Mr. Barrett. I'm not generally given to thiskind of a scene.""No matter," he said soothingly, much as he might have spoken to a child;"I am an old acquaintance, you know; and I never tell tales."Suddenly Phebe laughed out blithely."What about the last night you were at Quantuck, Mr. Barrett?""Oh--well, that was different. How could I know that my muddy, murderousAmazon was Miss Phebe McAlister in disguise?"This time, they both laughed, and Phebe felt better."Let's walk on," she suggested. "This bridge is getting monotonous. Isyour arm quite strong again?""Perfectly. I think, if you'll let me, I can match your record in golf,before I go back to New York.""I didn't even know there were any links here," she said."There are, fine ones. One of my errands, to-day, was to make some kindof an engagement with you. I've my reputation for laziness to redeem,you know.""I wish you wouldn't remind me of all the horrid things I said to you,"she said contritely.He looked at her in surprise. It was not like the Phebe McAlister he hadknown, to speak like this. At Quantuck she had been cocksure, aggressive;now she was gentler, more womanly. He missed something of the piquancy;yet after all he rather liked the change."Really, aren't you enjoying it down here?" he asked."No; I am not. I'm all out of my element. I don't mind the work so muchas I do the people. They despise me as a worldling, and I don't likebeing despised." For the moment, it was the old Phebe who was speaking."Don't tell," she begged. "I'd rather die than have them know it at home.How long are you going to stay here?""About a week, I only came over last night.""I don't see why I am glad to see you," Phebe said, with characteristicfrankness. "I didn't know you much at Quantuck; it probably is because Iassociate you with the home people. You used to be around with Hope agood deal.""What's the use of analyzing it?" he answered. "I'm here, and you arehomesick and glad to see me. That's enough for any practical purposes.When are you going to play golf with me?""Can you really play?""I shouldn't dare ask you, if I couldn't. One thing that has brought meover here is a thirsting to beat you.""I haven't touched a club since I came.""Did it ever occur to you, Miss McAlister, that you were very lazy?""Did it ever occur to you, Mr. Barrett, that you were outspoken?"Like a pair of children, they laughed together, and Phebe suddenlydiscovered that his eyes were singularly clear and frank. She alsodiscovered that the day was much finer than she had supposed, thesunlight clearer, the air more bracing."We may as well cry quits," she said. "I fought you rather violently; youretaliated by telling my family the one sealed chapter of my life.""But if they don't know it--""They do know it; but not my share in it."For a little distance they strolled along in silence. Then Phebe askedabruptly,--"You said, that night at Quantuck, that you were in the middle of somework, when I ran into you. Did I break it up entirely; or have you everfinished it?""Then you haven't seen the papers?" he asked, with boyish egotism."Yes, I always read them. What then?""My symphonic poem is to come out soon.""Oh, I don't ever read the music notes. I don't know much aboutmusic, anyway.""And care less?" he asked a little shortly."Oh, I don't mind it much. I don't often go to concerts; but I like itbehind palms at receptions."For a moment, he looked at her, in doubt whether or not she was jesting.Then as her face suggested no humorous intent, his color came."What about it?" she inquired. "How is it coming out?""I didn't know as you would be interested.""Of course. I am interested in you, even if I don't care a fig for yourmusic," Phebe answered, with a bluntness that should have been death tosentiment."It is going to be given in New York, on the twelfth of December," hesaid, and Phebe wondered at the slight catch in his breath. "I'm toconduct the orchestra, you know. I have sent for Mrs. Farrington to comedown and bring Miss Cicely, and--I wondered--do you suppose--at least,could you make time to run over and join them in my box?"Phebe clasped her hands rapturously."Oh, Mr. Barrett! Could I? I should like nothing better. How good you areto ask me! I shall be so glad of the chance to see Teddy again."When the night of the twelfth came, Theodora and Phebe and Cicely were inthe box set apart for Mr. Barrett's use. Eager and happy as a child,dressed in rose-pink and with a great bunch of pink roses in her hand,Phebe was looking her very best. Unconscious of the envious eyes whichwatched her, she talked to the young composer with the same girlishfrankness she had shown, that day in the park. Theodora looked at her insurprise. This was a new Phebe to her, gentler, infinitely more lovable;yet she smiled now and then as she saw the utter unconcern with whichher young sister was receiving the attentions of the hero of the evening.The symphony over and the aria, Gifford Barrett left them and, a momentlater, came forward to the conductor's desk. Applause, a hush, then theorchestra gave out the low, ominous chords of the introduction before theviolins took up the opening theme which repeated itself, met anothertheme, paused to play with it for a space, then in slow, majestic growthpassed on and up to a climax which left the audience breathless, so muchmoved that it needed time to rally before bursting into the well-wonapplause. The _Alan Breck Overture_ was surpassed, and Gifford Barrett'sname was in every mouth; but Phebe, while she watched him, tried in vainto realize that the man now bowing before the footlights was the man shehad capsized upon Bannock Hill, that the right arm which had swayed theorchestra, now banging their approval on their racks, was the arm she hadbroken, once upon a time, and then tugged back into place.Gifford Barrett came back into the box, trailing after him a hugewreath. He laid it down at Phebe's side."What in the world is that for?" she demanded. "I didn't write yourmusic for you.""No" he answered, with a queer little smile; "but perhaps youhelped it on."CHAPTER TWENTY"Billy, I am low in my mind.""You look it, Ted; but cheer up. What's the matter?""Plus a publisher; minus a maid," she answered enigmatically."Explain yourself.""I shouldn't think I needed to. The bare fact is sufficient.""Yes; but I am dense.""Well, you knew Hannah had given warning, and now Delia is going, and Iexpect to take to the kitchen for a space.""Where's Patrick?""If that isn't man all over! Patrick is a treasure and good for almosteverything in the line of work; but I never discovered that he could cooksucculently. I should live through that crisis, William; but there is aworse one. Mr. Gilwyn is going to lecture here, next week, and he willexpect us to entertain him.""What of it? We can buy things.""Yes, William, and we must also cook things. He has never been here, andmuch depends upon the impression I create on his inner man. My book willbe ready to send in before long; and, if I give him dyspepsia in hisstomach, it will surely mount to his brain and lead him to reject my_magnum opus_.""Your which? Cicely, can you translate her remarks?""Ask Melchisedek. He devoured Allyn's Latin grammar, day beforeyesterday," Cicely responded from the farther side of the room where shewas feeding the dog chocolate peppermints, in a futile endeavor to teachhim that vertebrae were meant to assist him in sitting up."But it is no joke, really," Theodora went on. "I can cook, or I canentertain; but I can't do both.""Then go out into the highways and hedges and hire somebody," her husbandsuggested."I have. I started with a long list of people who had been recommended tome; but they all are engaged for that day. One would think the town wasgoing into wholesale banquetings. For some people, I wouldn't mind; butMr. Gilwyn is a pompous, gouty old soul, and moreover, he holds myfortunes in the hollow of his hand.""How do you know he is coming?""A note, this morning. He hopes to see me at his lecture, and so on.""Let's shut up the house and run down to New York, for a day or two,"Billy said hospitably."No use. I should feel guilty to the end of my days, and embody my guiltin my next book. No; I can't afford to have my 'healthy tone'demoralized. I shall face my duty, even if I have to ask him to sit bythe kitchen hob, as Cicely calls it, while I prepare his simple meal."Cicely gave the last of the peppermint to Melchisedek who bolted it withan ill-advised greed that brought the tears to his eyes, for thepeppermint was a hot one."Cousin Ted," she remarked, as she came forward and perched herself onthe arm of Theodora's chair; "I have a bright idea.""Not really?" This from Billy."Yes, really. Patrick is no use, and you can't get anybody. Borrow oldSusan from The Savins. She isn't good for much but staple commodities,roast beef and things; but I'll help her out. I know something aboutcooking, not much, but better than nothing; and then I'll serve it.""Cis, you sha'n't.""I'd like no better fun. Your man has never heard of me; you don't knowwhat a stunning maid I'd look in a cap and pinafore. I always did lovedressing up, and this will be such fun. May't I, please?"She took Theodora by the chin and turned her face upward; and Theodora asshe looked into the merry eyes above her, weakly gave her consent. It wasnot easy to face a domestic crisis; it was still less easy to face Cicelywhen her dimples were coming and going and her eyes as full of fun asthey were now."Allyn," Cicely said breathlessly, as she dashed into the library at TheSavins, half an hour later; "you are invited to a dinner party at ourhouse, this day week.""Thanks. I'll come, and please have lots of sticky jelly things.""But you aren't invited to eat. I want you in the kitchen to help me.""Not much! I'm going somewhere else, that night.""You can't beg off. I must have you to help me navigate things to thetable. I have agreed to act as assistant cook and head waitress, and Iwant you as second butler." And she unfolded the details of her plan.Late one afternoon, a week afterwards, a trim maid in cap and apron waspeering out from between the curtains of Mrs. Farrington's front window.Allyn was beside her, and both the young faces wore an air of merrymystery, while there was an evident good-fellowship between them that wasout of all harmony with their seeming difference in social rank."Oh, Allyn, say a prayer for the success of the salad!" the maid saidwearily, as she settled her cap and pulled out the great bows of herapron strings."'Twill be all right. I sampled the dressing, as I came in. Isn't it timethey were here?""Unless the train is late. Poor Cousin Ted! She has worked all themorning. I do hope things will be good.""Cis!""Yes, Cousin Will.""Do you happen to know where Ted keeps her keys? I want to getsomething out of that box of old trumpery of mine in the attic, andthe thing is locked.""I'll see if I can find them." And Cicely vanished, followed by a cryfrom Allyn,--"Here they are, Cis, and here he is! Great Caesar, what a pelican of thewilderness! Poor Ted! She can't live up to such a man."Seated at the dinner table, the publisher was very large, very ruddy,very imposing. He had a trick of imbibing his food solemnly, with ajudicial air which sent apprehensive chills coursing down Cicely's spine,as she watched him pursing up his lips over the salad and nibblingdaintily at the macaroni. The dinner was good, as far as it went. Of somuch she was certain, for Susan was an expert in plain cookery, and, inher own cooking class, Cicely had shown herself past master in the art ofentrees. It only remained to be seen whether or not she could succeed ingetting the supplies to and from the table without losing off her cap ordropping too many of the forks. Just outside the door, Allyn was toilinghandily in her behalf; and, strange to say, she was free from theobstacle she had most feared, that Melchisedek would get under her feetat some critical moment, and project her headlong, roast and all, uponthe smooth bald pate of Mr. Gilwyn. To her relief, the dog hadmysteriously vanished. She was too glad to be rid of him to care whenceor wherefore he had gone.Little by little, she entered into the spirit of her part. At first, shehad been a little frightened at what she had undertaken. She feared abreak, either of ceremony or china. Then, as she had time to watch theguest and accustom herself to his ways and his appetite, she devoted herenergy to plying him with goodies, bending beside him with grave anddeferential mien, then straightening up again to pass through a dumb showof mirth above his august head. Theodora was talking away valiantly,sternly resolved to do what credit she could to the family; but Billy, atthe foot of the table, was sorely taxed to keep up his dignity.Suddenly Theodora turned to the maid."Cicely dear," she said; "I wish you would give me another spoon."Above Mr. Gilwyn's head, Cicely shook her fist at Theodora."Yes, ma'am," she said respectfully.Mr. Gilwyn looked surprised. He had known eccentric authors in his day;moreover, he was aware that many housekeepers were women of theories inregard to the proper relation between mistress and maid. Still, he hadnever supposed that the spirit of domestic regeneration included a systemof public endearments. He pondered upon the matter while he was eatinghis pudding, and it rendered him inattentive to Theodora's views on theorigin of totem poles. Theodora saw his inattention, and, with the tactof the true hostess, she promptly changed the subject to one which shouldbe less ponderous and more interesting. Leaving the totem poles, shebegan to talk of Quantuck and the vagaries of Mac. Quantuck proved to bean old vacation ground for Mr. Gilwyn, and he and Billy vied with eachother in stories of the days when golf links were not, and the postoffice was still of the peripatetic variety, while Cicely kept closeguard on her lips, lest she should involuntarily be drawn into adding hershare to the conversation. Then all at once, Billy fell from grace, evenas Theodora had done."Oh, Cis, old girl," he said jovially; "wake up and bring me somemore coffee."This time, Mr. Gilwyn's lower jaw dropped in amazement. There was asudden awful silence, while, behind the guest's chair, Cicely's shoulderswere shaking. In her mind, Theodora rapidly summed up the situation andjudged it best to make a clean breast of the whole matter. Mr. Gilwynlooked as if his sense of humor were somewhat deficient; but he was amarried man, and it was barely possible that his wife had not alwaysescaped from similar experiences. Accordingly, she put on her mostbrilliant smile and leaned forward slightly in her chair."Mr. Gilwyn,"--she was beginning."Grrrrr! Grrrrr! Grrrrr! Woo--woo--woof!"There was a sudden patter of tiny feet, a scamper, a rush, a successionof ecstatic little growls followed by a still more ecstatic yelp ofrapture and glee. Melchisedek had emerged from his temporary retirementand come prancing upon the scene. He bore something in his mouth,something long and flexible and brown; and he danced up and down theroom, worrying it and growling, worrying it again and yelping. UnhappilyMr. Gilwyn disliked small dogs, especially small dogs of frisky habits,and he showed his dislike quite frankly."Cicely, can you catch him?" Theodora demanded.Dropping her tray into the nearest chair, Cicely made a snatch atMelchisedek as he shot past her. He eluded her, and, happy that at lasthe was to have a companion in his sport, he took refuge under Mr.Gilwyn's chair where he mounted guard over his plaything and snarledinvitingly whenever Cicely tried to seize him. The situation reacted uponthe nerves of the guest and caused him to spill a portion of his coffee.Ever curious, ever greedy, Melchisedek scampered out to sniff at thecoffee, and Cicely made a dash at his abandoned booty."What is it, Cicely?" Theodora asked."Something he oughtn't to have, ma'am," she answered quickly, her fingeron her lip.But Billy missed the signal."Let's see it," he demanded.For an instant, Cicely hesitated. Long before this, Allyn had told her ofthe girlish fit of temper which had led Theodora to cut off her own hair,and she had a shrewd suspicion of the history of Melchisedek's trophy."Let's see it," Billy repeated, while Melchisedek on appealing hindlegswalked around and around her, praying that his own might be restored tohim. Cicely hesitated for a minute longer. Then the spirit of mischieftriumphed, and she held out to Billy a long, soft braid of silky brownhair, tied at either end with a bow of scarlet ribbon."Here it is, sir," she said demurely."Billy!" Theodora's voice was sharp with exclamation points."I know it.""Where did it come from, at this day?""My box in the garret. I was up there, this afternoon, and I must haveleft it open.""And you've had it all this time?""Yes.""You silly old boy!"Her face had grown scarlet and her eyes were shining. Then she turned toher mystified guest."Excuse this family by-play, Mr. Gilwyn; but that was a lock of hair Icut off, in the early days of our acquaintance, and my husband has keptit ever since. You see a small dog in the family is rather destructive tosentiment."When the carriage was announced, Theodora was upstairs, putting on herhat. Mr. Gilwyn came down the stairs and marched straight to thedining-room where Cicely, divested of her cap and encased in a ginghamapron, was busy clearing the table. In his hand was a book, and his facehad suddenly lost all its pomposity and grown genial and merry."I found this on the table in my room," he said without preface; "and itisn't a very common name."As he spoke, he opened to the flyleaf and pointed to the two lineswritten there."Cicely Everard," it said; "with the love of Cousin Theodora.""I've a daughter of my own," he added; and Theodora, when she came insearch of her guest, found the guest and the maid laughing uproariously.CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE"Oh, Cis!""Well?""Come down here.""Can't. I'm busy.""What are you doing?""Washing Melchisedek. He hunted an hypothetical rat all over the coalcellar, and came out looking like a chimney sweep.""Well, hurry up. I have something to tell you, something exciting.""I can't. It is a work of time to get him bleached out again. Come up andtalk to me while I scrub."Allyn clattered up the stairs. He found Cicely kneeling before a pail inwhich Melchisedek stood upright, a picture of sooty dolefulness, withwater trickling from every sodden spike of his coat. The corners of hismouth drooped dejectedly, whether from Cicely's chidings or from thetaste of the soap it would be hard to say."Pretty little dear; isn't he, Allyn?" she asked, while she scoured awayat the tiny paws. "Just my ideal of a dainty lap dog. Melchisedek mustn'tgo into the coal. No, no!"Melchisedek make a futile attempt to waggle his dripping tail; it onlysplattered sadly against the top of the pail, and he gave up that effortin favor of one to climb into Cicely's lap."No; Melchisedek must stand on own footies. What is your news, Allyn?""Mr. Barrett is here. Called, last night.""On Babe?""On the whole family.""It was meant for Babe, though," Cicely said conclusively. "But itstrikes me he doesn't waste much time.""About what?""About putting in an appearance here. Babe has only been at home fortwo days.""You think it is Babe, then?""Who else? You didn't see them in New York, Allyn. I did." Cicelyemphasized her rhetoric by rubbing Melchisedek so violently that hehowled. "There! Poor little boy! Stand still!" she added."But Babe doesn't care two pins for him.""Perhaps. Perhaps not. Wait and see.""Of course she doesn't. Fancy Babe in love!" He giggled derisivelyat the idea."Fancy Melchisedek neat and dressed up in a pink bow!" she retorted. "Itseems impossible now; but it will occur in time. Allyn, what do yousuppose sent Babe into medicine?""Sheer Babe-ishness.""She won't stay there.""Maybe. But I think Babe really wants to do something," he added, withsudden gravity. "You know papa isn't very rich, to say the least, andBabe is an independent mortal that wouldn't want to be supported allher days.""I wonder if that did have anything to do with it," Cicely said musingly."It must be horrid to have to think about money things.""Don't you ever do it?""No. Papa attends to all that, and he has all he wants. Oh, but won't itbe good to see him!""Are you glad you're going, Cis?" Allyn's tone showed that he was hurt atthe thought."No," she said flatly. "I have missed papa terribly, more than you caneven imagine; but I have had a very happy year here, and I shall besorry to go away. You've all made it pleasant for me, Allyn; you andCousin Ted more than any of the rest.""I--I'm glad if we have. It doesn't seem so. But what am I going to dowithout you, Cis?""Take to Jamie Lyman," she said merrily. "He won't fight with you as Ido. Tell me about Mr. Barrett, Allyn. How long is he going to stay?""Till the day before Christmas.""I hope he will call here. I'd like to see him," she said, as she gaveMelchisedek a final polish and set him down on the floor. "Oh, Allyn, Iam so glad I am to have one jolly Christmas here. Papa and I have been byourselves lately, and it will be great fun to have a whole large familyto play with."That very day, she had started her Christmas gift on its way to herfather and, that same evening, she sat alone over the library fire, soabsorbed in planning her gifts for the McAlisters that she paid no heedwhen Theodora and Billy came into the next room. She felt verycomfortable as she sat there, very content with what fate offered her.Early in the new year, her father was to sail for home, and she was tojoin him in New York again. Meanwhile, she was to spend the holidayshere, and, as she glanced about the cozy, luxurious room, lighted onlywith the flickering fire, she realized how dear to her this adopted homehad become. Next to their own beautiful house in New York, this was thedearest spot in the world to her, and there would be some regret mingledwith her happiness in her return to the city once more. In the meantime,she did wish she knew what Allyn wanted for Christmas, good old Allynwhose squabbles with her were largely in the past.Suddenly she roused herself."Do you think it is necessary to tell her?" Theodora was asking."She will see it," Billy answered."No; she never half reads the papers. Burn this one, and she willnever miss it.""But she will have to know.""Yes; but wait and let her father tell her.""Poor Harry! It will be a blow to him. I wonder if he knew it wascoming."Cicely stepped out from the dusky library and stood before them. Hereyes, dazzled by the sudden glare of light, had a strained, frightenedexpression; but there was no suggestion of faltering in her bearing andin the poise of her head."What is it, Cousin Theodora?" she asked. "You were talking about papaand me; weren't you?"Surprised at her sudden appearing, both Billy and Theodora were silent.Then Theodora put her arm around Cicely's waist and drew the girl down onthe arm of her chair. The motion was womanly and gentle and protecting;but it was not enough to satisfy Cicely. She must have the truth."Please tell me," she said again with a ring of authority in her voice."I'm not a baby; and, whatever it is, I ought to know it.""To-night's paper reports the failure of Everard and Clark," Billy saidquietly. "It may be an error, Cis, and it may not be a bad failure. Iwouldn't worry till I knew the truth of it."She looked straight into his face, and her own face grew white; but sheneither exclaimed nor bewailed. There was a short hush. Then she saidsteadily,--"Let me see the paper, please."Silently Billy handed her the paper. Silently she read to the end thesensational account of the failure of the well-known banking firm."Is anybody to blame?" she demanded then.Billy read her secret fear, and was glad that he could answer it withperfect truth."No, Cis. The trouble all came from outside the firm. You needn't worryabout that.""I'm glad," she said slowly, as she rose. "No; don't come, Cousin Ted. Iwant to think it over."But Theodora did come. Up in the dark in Cicely's room, they talked itall over, crying a little now and then, then rousing themselves to makebrave plans for the future and for the meeting between Cicely and herfather. His home-coming now must mean a return to anxiety and businesscare, and to the sharp mortification of finding the firm whose reputationhad been made by his sagacity and skill, fallen into bankruptcy duringhis one short year of absence."Oh, it was cruel for him to be ill," Cicely said forlornly. "They say itwould never have come, if he had only been here to manage things. Hecouldn't help having pneumonia and going away; but I do wish they hadleft that out. It's like throwing the blame on him for something hecouldn't help. He isn't the man to shirk things, Cousin Theodora.""They didn't mean that, dear," Theodora said gently. "They were onlytrying to show how much he had done in past years. You've no reason to beashamed of your father, Cicely.""Ashamed of him!" Cicely's tone was hard and resonant, free from allsuspicion of tears. "You don't know my father, Cousin Ted. He couldn't doanything, anything in the world, that would make me ashamed of him. He'snot that kind of a man."Two days later, Gifford Barrett came to call. Cicely received him alone.She was pale; but a bright red spot burned in either cheek, as sheoffered him her hand."Cousin Theodora is out, Mr. Barrett. I knew she wouldn't be here, and Iasked you to come now on purpose, because I wanted to see you alone." Shepaused and restlessly pushed back her hair from her forehead. Then shewent on rapidly, "Have you heard of papa's failure?"The young man's face showed his distress."Yes, I have." His reply was almost inaudible. "I am very sorry.""Thank you," she said. "I knew you would be; but please don't say so,for it--I can't stand being pitied. You know what I mean." Brave as washer smile, it was appealing. "Now I want to talk business. Have youtime for it?""Of course. I wish I could be of some use," he said eagerly. He likedCicely, and he was surprised at the sudden womanliness that had come intoher manner. For the hour, they met, not as man and child, but onprecisely equal terms."It is going to take everything we have," she said hurriedly. "Papa willwant to pay all he can, and it will leave us poor. I don't mean to havehim do all the work; I must help what I can, and I've been wonderingwhether my music would be good for anything. I have taken lessons foryears and from good teachers. Are you willing to hear me play, and totell me honestly whether I could teach beginners?"He wondered at her steady bravery, at the gallant courage with which shewas starting into the battle, her colors flying. A moment later, hewondered again, for Cicely played well. He had braced himself for thegirlish, amateurish performance, had braced himself for the inevitablefibs he must tell, the specious promises he must make. Instead of that,as she ended a Dvorak dance, he contented himself with one shortexclamation which was more eloquent than many words."Good!" he said, and Cicely was satisfied; but she only said,--"Wait, and let me try once more."She turned back to the piano and, after a random chord or two, she playedthe _Alan Breck Overture_, played it so well that even its creator waspleased, as he listened. Then she rose, shut the piano and crossed theroom to the fireside."Mr. Barrett," she said, and her voice never betrayed the fact that thismoment was the hardest she had ever known; "when you go back to NewYork, will you try to find me some little girls to teach? I'll do thebest I can for them, and perhaps I can help along a little in makingboth ends meet."CHAPTER TWENTY-TWOThe snow drifts were piled high about The Savins. The fences were buried,great heaps of snow lay on the broad east terrace and the path to thefront door had become a species of tunnel. Christmas was close at handand the earth, as if to make ready for the sweetest festival of the year,had wrapped itself in a thick, soft blanket, dazzling and pure as thestars shining in the eastern sky above.Christmas was always a high day at The Savins. Ever since Theodora was alittle child, the family tradition had been unbroken, the family riteunchanged. Around the Christmas basket and before the Christmas fire, theyoung McAlisters had gathered for their childish revels. Now, grown tomanhood and womanhood, they still gathered there and, for one night inthe year at least, they were children still, and their revel had lostnone of its old charm."I am embarrassed in my mind," Cicely said, one day just beforeChristmas. "Half my presents were bought before I was a pauper, halfof them not till later. It makes it look as if I were partial; but I'mnot. It's poverty not partiality that ails me, and you mustn't any ofyou care.""Isn't Cicely wonderful?" Hubert said, when she had gone. "Her pluck isbeyond anything I have ever seen. I didn't suppose she had it in her.""I did," Allyn responded loyally. "There's more stuff to Cis than showson the surface, and you never catch her crying over spilt milk."Two hours later, however, he did find her in tears. She was alone inthe house, and he discovered her in the library, her face buried in thesofa pillows."Oh, please don't tell," she sobbed. "I didn't suppose you would find me.I don't mean to be a baby; but it is going to be so horrid to be poor andnot have things, and I did want to give you something lovely forChristmas."Allyn was a boy, and, boylike he was not prone to sentiment. Heonly said,--"Don't worry your head about that, Cis. You've given me a good deal morethan you know, this last year."Surprised, she sat up and stared at him."Me? I? I've not given you a thing, Allyn, only those cuff buttons, yourbirthday."He looked at her steadily for a moment, Then he said,--"Maybe not. I thought you had, though."Suddenly Cicely understood him."There is no sort of sense in your going away, Cis," Billy said to her,as soon as he heard of her talk with Gifford Barrett. "Your CousinTheodora and I both would be delighted to have you stay here for thepresent. The fact is, child, we shall miss you awfully, and can't standit to have you go. You will stay with us; won't you?""I wish I could; but it wouldn't be fair. Papa needs me.""You can't do any good, Cis. You're better off here.""To live on you, and leave papa alone to stand things, the best way hecan? That's not my way, Cousin Will.""But if you can't help him?""I can. If I couldn't do anything else, I could make a little corner ofhome for him, and he will need it. He needs me. We have been togetheralways, till just this last year when he had to go away, and now I'm notgoing to leave him to shift for himself.""Do you know what you are undertaking, Cicely?" he asked her gravely."I think I do," she answered quite as gravely. "We shall have to go intoa horrid little flat, somewhere in the wrong end of town, and pinch andscrimp to get along. I hate it, hate the very idea of it, and I wish Icould stay here; but it is all out of the question. If papa ever neededthe good of a daughter, it's now, and I must meet him when he lands. Imust go, Cousin Will, so please don't make it any harder for me than itis anyway."And Billy, as he watched her face and heard her words, forbore to urge,even though he dreaded for Cicely the future of which she spoke sobravely. The crash had been more disastrous and final than he had beenled to suppose from the earlier reports. Both he and Theodora wouldhave been only too glad to keep Cicely in their home; but they knew thegirl was right, her place was with her father. Accordingly, they ceasedto oppose; and only did their best to make the rest of her stay withthem as happy as possible and to help her in her plans for her futurehome. Together with the McAlisters, they chose their Christmas giftsfor her carefully, wisely, even merrily, for fun had a large share inChristmas at The Savins; but only Theodora knew that Billy had bought asmall annuity for Cicely, and that the papers were to be given to her,not in the basket on Christmas eve, but when she was quite alone, onChristmas morning."I've a good deal more than we are likely to use," Billy had said ratherapologetically, one night; "and even if it doesn't support her, it may aswell help along a little. Cicely is a good girl, and I wish there weremore like her."And Theodora's assent was a hearty one."Phebe, how long is Mr. Barrett going to stay up here?" Theodora asked, aday or two before Christmas."I don't know.""I thought he was going, to-morrow morning.""Well, is he?""Probably not, inasmuch as I heard him ask you to go to drive with him,in the afternoon""Well, what difference does it make? He's free to stay at the hotel aslong as he likes; isn't he?""Yes, if he doesn't starve in the meantime. But it seems to me itwould be well to ask him here to Christmas dinner, if he is going tobe in town.""I wouldn't.""Why not?" Theodora asked, in some surprise."Christmas is no day to ask strangers here.""But Mr. Barrett isn't a stranger. Besides, he has been so good to Cicelythat I think we owe him a little hospitality.""You must do as you like, then," Phebe said curtly, and she marched awayout of the room, leaving Theodora to knit her brows m anxious perplexity.However, the next afternoon, the snow was falling heavily, and Phebe'sdrive was out of the question. At the appointed hour, she glanced out ofthe window to see Gifford Barrett wading up the path to the front door,and she vanished to her own room."Come in," she said, in answer to her mother's knock."Mr. Barrett is here, Phebe.""Is he?""Yes, he has asked for you.""But I'm busy.""Never mind, Babe. Please hurry down, for I am too busy to stay with him,and I don't like to leave him alone.""Oh, I really don't think he would steal the spoons," Phebe saidlanguidly, as she rose. "Well, if I must, I suppose I must. I'll be downbefore long."She turned to her closet and took down a dark red gown which had justcome home from the dressmaker. It was the most becoming gown she had everowned, and Phebe was quite aware of the fact. She laid it on the bed andstood looking at it for a minute or two. Then she shut her lipsresolutely, hung it up again, picked a loose thread or two from the plainblue gown she wore, and marched down the stairs.Mr. Barrett rose to greet her, as she came stalking into the room. Hismanner was boyishly eager, his eyes brimming with mischief, as he tookher hand and then offered her a small round package wrapped in daintyblue papers."Merry Christmas, Miss McAlister! Wasn't it too bad of the snow to spoilour drive?""I like a white Christmas," Phebe said perversely. "What's this?""A little offering for the season's greeting," he said, laughing. "It isreally only a case of returning your own to you."She took the package in her hands, and, as her fingers closed over it,she began to laugh in her turn."Oh, it's my skull," she said. "I'm so glad to have it again. I shallwant it when I go back to Philadelphia."His face fell."I thought you weren't going back.""Of course I shall go back.""But if you are homesick?""I shall get over it.""And the clinics?""Nobody ever died of a clinic--except the patient," she said grimly.He stood looking at her steadily, and any one but Phebe would have knownthe meaning of his expression; but she was examining the skull intently."You are sure you don't want it any longer?" she asked."No; I think there are some other things I would rather have," hereturned.She shook her head."It is a good one, Mr. Barrett, small and quite perfect, and it is yoursby right of possession.""Phebe," he said, as he came a step nearer her; "my ancestors wereYankees and I inherit all their love of a trade. You take the skull andgive me--" and he took it as he spoke; "your hand, dear."She drew her hand away sharply and turned to face him. Then the colorfled from her cheeks, only to rush back again and mount to the rootsof her hair."Oh, Gifford," she said brokenly; "I'd like to ever so much, only--doyou really think we'd better?"An hour later, the two young people sat side by side on the sofa, talkingover and over the wonderful thing that had happened to them."I must go back to New York, the day after Christmas," Mr. Barrett said;"but you will write to me often; won't you, Phebe?""If I have anything to tell," she answered; "but I never could writeletters, you know.""You could once.""How do you know?"For his only answer, he opened his cardcase and took out a folded scrapof paper."How about this?" he asked, as he handed it to her.She took it curiously and unfolded it. Then she turned scarlet as sheread the four lines written there."Dehr Sir"THis mOney iis to pey to P ay for you r wheel anD yoour docors bill WEare sorrry y u fel loff a and We hooppe you will be butTER sooon ASINCERE FRind""I owe you some money," he added, when she had finished reading it. "Butwhat moved you to send it?""My conscience. I supposed you were a poor, struggling musician, and Iwas really afraid you would starve to death if I didn't help you out, soI borrowed Teddy's typewriter and went to work.""Give it back to me," he commanded; but she was too quick for him, and adozen scraps of paper fluttered into the fire."It's the end of that old story," she announced briefly."And the beginning of our new one," he added, as the door swung open andDr. McAlister came into the room.Christmas day dawned, clear and crisp and bracing, and The Savins was gaywith Christmas wreaths, with holly and mistletoe boughs. The rooms werein their annual state of disorder, for Christmas gifts and Christmasjokes were piled on all the tables and chairs. Gifford Barrett had beenincluded in the revel of the evening before, and now, at the Christmasdinner, he sat in the place of honor, next Mrs. McAlister. In all itshistory, The Savins had never held a merrier party, and Dr. McAlister'sface was quite content as he glanced down one side of the table wherePhebe, radiant but shamefaced, was trying to conceal something of herrapture under a show of severity, then down the other where Allyn's opencontent with life was matched by Cicely's brave courage in facingwhatever the coming year might have in store for her. Then, as he lookedpast and beyond them all to his wife, he threw back his handsome,iron-grey head proudly."It is a good Christmas," he said, in the sudden hush which fell upon thetable; "a good Christmas and a merry one. Bess, we'll change the dear oldtoast, and say, Here's to our good health, and our family's and may weall live long--and prosper!"Theodora was in her usual seat beside her father. Now she leaned forwardand laid her hand on his."Selah!" she said devoutly.THE ENDEnd of Project Gutenberg's Phebe, Her Profession, by Anna Chapin Ray*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PHEBE, HER PROFESSION ******** This file should be named 12584.txt or 12584.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/2/5/8/12584/Produced by Afra Ullah, Mary Meehan and the Online DistributedProofreading Team.Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALLThe Project Gutenberg eBook, The Story of Manhattan, by Charles HemstreetThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Story of ManhattanAuthor: Charles HemstreetRelease Date: October 24, 2004  [eBook #13842]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ISO-646-US (US-ASCII)***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STORY OF MANHATTAN***E-text prepared by Gregory Smith, David Garcia, and the Project GutenbergOnline Distributed Proofreading TeamNote: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this      file which includes the original illustrations.      See 13842-h.htm or 13842-h.zip:      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/3/8/4/13842/13842-h/13842-h.htm)      or      (http://www.gutenberg.net/dirs/1/3/8/4/13842/13842-h.zip)THE STORY OF MANHATTANbyCHARLES HEMSTREETNew York1901[Illustration]PREFACEHere the history of New York City is told as a story, in few words. Theeffort has been to make it accurate and interesting. The illustrationsare largely from old prints and wood engravings. Few dates are used.Instead, a Table of Events has been added which can readily be referredto. The Index to Chapters also gives the years in which the story ofeach chapter occurs.INDEX to CHAPTERSCHAPTER I. The Adventures of Henry Hudson.    From 1609 to 1612CHAPTER II. The First Traders on the Island.    From 1612 to 1625CHAPTER III. Peter Minuit, First of the Dutch Governors.    From 1626 to 1633CHAPTER IV. Walter Van Twiller, Second of the Dutch Governors.    From 1633 to 1637CHAPTER V. William Kieft and the War with the Indians.    From 1637 to 1647CHAPTER VI. Peter Stuyvesant, the Last of the Dutch Governors.    From 1647 to 1664CHAPTER VII. New York Under the English and the Dutch.    From 1664 to 1674CHAPTER VIII.  Something About the Bolting Act.    From 1674 to 1688CHAPTER IX. The Stirring Times of Jacob Leisler.    From 1688 to 1691CHAPTER X. The Sad End of Jacob Leisler.    The Year 1691CHAPTER XI. Governor Fletcher and the Privateers.    From 1692 to 1696CHAPTER XII. Containing the True Life of Captain Kidd.    From 1696 to 1702CHAPTER XIII. Lord Cornbury makes Himself very Unpopular.    From 1702 to 1708CHAPTER XIV.  Lord Lovelace and Robert Hunter.    From 1708 to 1720CHAPTER XV. Governor Burnet and the French Traders.    From 1720 to 1732CHAPTER XVI. The Trial of Zenger, the Printer.    From 1732 to 1736CHAPTER XVII. Concerning the Negro Plot.    From 1736 to 1743CHAPTER XVIII. The Tragic Death of Sir Danvers Osborne.    From 1743 to 1753CHAPTER XIX. The Beginning of Discontent.    From 1753 to 1763CHAPTER XX. The Story of the Stamp Act.    From 1763 to 1765CHAPTER XXI. The Beginning of Revolution.    From 1765 to 1770CHAPTER XXII. Fighting the Tax on Tea.    From 1770 to 1774CHAPTER XXIII. The Sons of Liberty at Turtle Bay.    From 1774 to 1775CHAPTER XXIV. The War of the Revolution.    In the Year 1775CHAPTER XXV. A Battle on Long Island.    The Year 1776CHAPTER XXVI. The British Occupy New York.    The Year 1776 (Continued)CHAPTER XXVII. The Battle of Harlem Heights.    The Year 1776 (Continued)CHAPTER XXVIII. The British Fail to Sweep Everything Before Them.    From 1776 to 1777CHAPTER XXIX. New York a Prison House.    From 1777 to 1783CHAPTER XXX. After the War.    From 1783 to 1788CHAPTER XXXI. The First President of the United States.    The Year 1788CHAPTER XXXII. The Welcome to George Washington.    The Year 1789CHAPTER XXXIII. Concerning the Tammany Society and Burr's Bank.    From 1789 to 1800CHAPTER XXXIV. More about Hamilton and Burr.    From 1801 to 1804CHAPTER XXXV. Robert Fulton Builds a Steam-Boat.    From 1805 to 1807CHAPTER XXXVI. The City Plan.    From 1807 to 1814CHAPTER XXXVII. The Story of the Erie Canal.    From 1814 to 1825CHAPTER XXXVIII. The Building of the Croton Aqueduct.    From 1825 to 1845CHAPTER XXXIX. Professor Morse and the Telegraph.    From 1845 to 1878CHAPTER XL. The Greater New York.    To the Present TimeTABLE OF EVENTSINDEXLIST of ILLUSTRATIONSNew Amsterdam, 1650--New York, East Side, 1746The Half Moon in the Highlands of the HudsonEarliest Picture of ManhattanIndians Trading for FursHall of the States-General of HollandSeal of New NetherlandThe Building of the PalisadesOld House in New York, Built 1668Van Twillier's DefianceLanding of Dutch Colony on Staten IslandGovernor's Island and the Battery in 1850Dutch CostumesThe Bowling Green in 1840Selling Arms to the IndiansSmoking the Pipe of PeaceThe Old Stadt Huys of New AmsterdamStuyvesant leaving Fort AmsterdamPetrus Stuyvesant's TombstoneDeparture of NicollsThe Dutch UltimatumSeal of New YorkNew York in 1700Sloughter Signing Leisler's Death-warrantBradford's TombstoneThe Reading of Fletcher's CommissionArrest of Captain KiddNew City Hall in Wall StreetFort George in 1740View in Broad Street about 1740The Slave-MarketFraunces's TavernDinner at Rip Van Dam'sThe Negroes SentencedTrinity Church, 1760Coffee-House opposite Bowling Green, Head-Quarters of the Sons of LibertyFerry-House on East River, 1746East River Shore, 1750Mrs. Murray's Dinner to British OfficersHowe's Head-Quarters, Beekman HouseMap of Manhattan Island in 1776View from the Bowling Green in the RevolutionOld Sugar-House in Liberty Street, the Prison-House of the RevolutionNorth Side of Wall Street East of William StreetCelebration of the Adoption of the ConstitutionView of Federal Hall and Part of Broad Street, 1796The John Street Theatre, 1781Reservoir of Manhattan Water-Works in Chambers StreetThe Collect PondThe Grange, Kingsbridge Road, the Residence of Alexander HamiltonThe Clermont, Fulton's First Steam-BoatCastle GardenLanding of Lafayette at Castle GardenView of Park Row, 1825High Bridge, Croton AqueductCrystal PalaceCHAPTER I.THE ADVENTURES of HENRY HUDSONThe long and narrow Island of Manhattan was a wild and beautiful spot inthe year 1609. In this year a little ship sailed up the bay below theisland, took the river to the west, and went on. In these days therewere no tall houses with white walls glistening in the sunlight, nochurch-spires, no noisy hum of running trains, no smoke to blot out theblue sky. None of these things. But in their place were beautiful treeswith spreading branches, stretches of sand-hills, and green patches ofgrass. In the branches of the trees there were birds of varied colors,and wandering through the tangled undergrowth were many wild animals.The people of the island were men and women whose skins were quite red;strong and healthy people who clothed themselves in the furs of animalsand made their houses of the trees and vines.In this year of 1609, these people gathered on the shore of their islandand looked with wonder at the boat, so different from any they had everseen, as it was swept before the wind up the river.The ship was called the Half Moon, and it had come all the way fromAmsterdam, in the Dutch Netherlands. The Netherlands was quite a smallcountry in the northern part of Europe, not nearly as large as the Stateof New York, and was usually called Holland, as Holland was the mostimportant of its several states. But the Dutch owned other lands thanthese. They had islands in the Indian Ocean that were rich in spices ofevery sort, and the other European countries needed these spices. Theseislands, being quite close to India, were called the East Indies, andthe company of Dutch merchants who did most of the business with themwas called the East India Company. They had many ships, and the HalfMoon was one of them.It was a long way to the East India Islands from Holland, for in thesedays there was no Suez Canal to separate Asia and Africa, and the shipshad to go around Africa by way of the Cape of Good Hope. Besides being along distance, it was a dangerous passage; for although from its nameone might take the Cape of Good Hope to be a very pleasant place, thewinds blew there with great force, and the waves rolled so high thatthey often dashed the fragile ships to pieces.So the merchants of Holland, and of other countries for that matter,were always thinking of a shorter course to the East Indies. They knewvery little of North or South America, and believed that these countrieswere simply islands and that it was quite possible that a passage laythrough them which would make a much nearer and a much safer way to theEast Indies than around the dread Cape of Good Hope. So the East IndiaCompany built the ship Half Moon and got an Englishman named HenryHudson to take charge of it, and started him off to find the short way.Hudson was chosen because he had already made two voyages for anEnglish company, trying to find that same short passage, and wassupposed to know ever so much more about it than anyone else.When the Half Moon sailed up the river, Hudson was sure that he hadfound the passage to the Indies, and he paid very little attention tothe red-skinned Indians on the island shore. But when the ship got asfar as where Albany is now, the water had become shallow, and theriver-banks were so near together that Hudson gave up in despair, andsaid that, after all, he had not found the eagerly sought-for passageto India, but only a river!Then he turned the ship, sailed back past the island, and returned toHolland to tell of his discovery. He told of the fur-bearing animals,and of what a vast fortune could be made if their skins could only begot to Holland, where furs were needed. He told of the Indians; and theriver which flowed past the island he spoke of as "The River of theMountains."[Illustration: The Half Moon in the Highlands of the Hudson.]The directors of the Dutch East India Company were not particularlypleased with Hudson's report. They were angry because the short cut toIndia had not been found, and they thought very little of the vaststorehouse of furs which he had discovered. Neither did the Company carea great deal about Hudson, for they soon fell out with him, and he wentback to the English company and made another voyage for them, still insearch of the short passage to India. But in this last voyage, he onlysucceeded in finding a great stretch of water far to the north, that canbe seen on any map as Hudson's Bay. His crew after a time grew angrywhen he wanted to continue his search. There was a mutiny on the ship,and Hudson and his son and seven of the sailors who were his friendswere put into a small boat, set adrift in the bay to which he had givenhis name, and no trace of them was ever seen again. Long, long yearsafter that time, another explorer found the passage that Hudson had losthis life searching for. It is The Northwest Passage, far up toward theNorth Pole, in the region of perpetual cold and night. So Hudson neverknew that the passage he had looked for was of no value, and we may besure he had never imagined that there would ever be a great city on theisland he had discovered.The Dutch came to think a great deal of Hudson after he was dead.The stream which he had called "The River of the Mountains" theynamed Hudson's River. They even made believe that Hudson was aDutchman--although you will remember he was an Englishman--and werein the habit of speaking of him as "Hendrick" Hudson.The Indians were scattered over America in great numbers. The tribe onthe island were called Manhattans, and from that tribe came the name ofthe Island of Manhattan. All the Indians, no matter which tribe theybelonged to, looked very much alike and acted very much the same. Theireyes were dark, and their hair long, straight, and black. When they werefighting, they daubed their skins with colored muds--war paint the whitemen called it--and started out on the "war-path". They loved to hunt andfish, as well as to fight, and they fought and murdered as cruelly andwith as little thought as they hunted the wild animals or hooked thefish. They held talks which were called "councils," and one Indian wouldspeak for hours, while the others listened in silence. And when theydetermined upon any action, they carried it out, without a thought ofhow many people were to be killed, or whether they were to be killedthemselves.[Illustration: Earliest Picture of Manhattan.]CHAPTER IITHE FIRST TRADERS on the ISLANDFor several years after the return of Hudson, Dutch merchants sent theirships to the Island of Manhattan, and each ship returned to Hollandladen with costly furs which the Indians had traded for glass beads andstrips of gay cloth. The Indians cared a great deal more for glitteringglass and highly colored rags than they did for furs.One trader above all others whose name should be remembered, was AdrianBlock. He came in a ship called the Tiger. This ship was anchored in thebay close by what is now called the Battery, and directly in the coursethat the ferry-boats take when they go to Staten Island.[Illustration: Indians Trading for Furs.]On a cold night in November it took fire and was burned to the water'sedge. Block and those who were with him would all have been burned todeath had they not been strong and hardy men who were able to swimashore in the ice-cold water. Even when they reached the shore they werenot safe, for there were no houses or places of shelter; the winter wascoming on, and the woods were filled with wild beasts. But Block and hismen very soon built houses for themselves; rude and clumsy buildings tolook at, but warm and comfortable within. They were the first houses ofwhite men on the Island of Manhattan. If you wish to see where theystood, take a walk down Broadway, and just before you reach the BowlingGreen, on a house which is numbered 41, you will find a tablet of brasswhich tells that Block's houses stood on that self-same spot.As soon as the hard winter was over, Block and his men began to build anew ship, and before another winter had come they had one larger thanthe Tiger. It was the first vessel to be built in the new world, and wascalled the Restless.That same year the Dutch merchants decided that they were giving toomany glass beads for the furs, and that if all the merchants combinedinto one company they might not have to give so many. So they didcombine, and called themselves the United New Netherland Company. Itwas in this way that the name New Netherland first appeared.When the first ships of the new company reached the island, a house wasbuilt for the use of the fur-traders, just south of where the BowlingGreen Park is. This structure was called Fort Manhattan. It was ofwood, and did not take long to build because the traders did not intendto live in it a great while. They felt quite sure that all the furswould be collected in a few years, and that then the island would beabandoned. No one thought at that time that the little wooden stockadewas the commencement of a great city.But after a few years it was found that the new country was a muchricher place than had been supposed. Shipload after shipload of otterand beaver skins were sent across the ocean and still there were ottersand beavers without number. The fur-traders were growing rich, and aftera few years there came a decided change, when a new company was formedin Holland; a great body of men this time, who had a vast amount ofmoney to build ships and fit them out. This organization was the WestIndia Company, and was to battle with Spain by land and by sea (for theNetherlands was at war with Spain) and was to carry on trade with theWest Indies, just as the East India Company carried on trade with theEast Indies. As the West Indies included every country that could bereached by sailing west from Holland, you will see that all the Dutchland in America, which land was called New Netherland, came under thecontrol of this new company.The territory called New Netherland was the country along the AtlanticOcean which now makes up the States of New Jersey, New York, andConnecticut. But its limits at this time were uncertain as it extendedinland as far as the Company might care to send their colonists.Within a few years, the seventy ships sailing under the flag of the WestIndia Company, fought great battles with the Spaniards, and won almostevery one of them. There were branches of the Company in seven cities ofHolland, and the branch in Amsterdam had charge of New Netherland. So itwill be only of the doings of this branch that we shall read. Colonistswere to be carried to New Netherland from Holland; farms were to be laidout and cultivated; cities were to be built, and the West India Companywas to have absolute control over all, and was to rule all the people.To do these things they had authority from the States-General ofHolland, which was the name given to the men who made the laws for thatcountry. The Company was to make regular reports to the States-General,and tell of the growth of the colony and the progress of the people init. But as the years went on the Company was not as particular as itshould have been about what it told the States-General.[Illustration: Hall of the States-General of Holland.]It was not until the West India Company took charge of New Netherlandthat it was decided to make the settlement on the Island of Manhattan acity. Up to this time it had been merely a trading station. In order tobuild up a city, the Company knew that it would be necessary to sendpeople in sufficient numbers so that no matter how many were killed bythe Indians the settlement would not be wiped out. Many inducements wereoffered, and men with their families soon began to flock to NewNetherland. With the ship that brought the first families was CorneliusJacobsen May, who was to live on the Island of Manhattan and look afteraffairs for the Company. Rude houses were set up about the fort, and thefirst street came into existence. This is now called Pearl Street.Cornelius Jacobsen May cared for the colony for less than a year, whenhis place was taken by William Verhulst. Before the year was out,Verhulst decided that the new country never would suit him, and hesailed away to Holland. Then came in his place, in the year 1626, PeterMinuit, under appointment as the first Dutch Governor of New Netherland.[Illustration: Seal of New Netherland.]CHAPTER IIIPETER MINUIT, FIRST of the DUTCH GOVERNORSPeter Minuit was a large man, of middle age, whose hair was turninggray, whose eyes were black and dull, and whose manners were quitecoarse.The West India Company gave to this Governor absolute power over all theDutch lands in America. His power was equal to that of a king; much morethan some kings have had. To be sure, in matters of extreme importancehe was supposed to refer to the Company in Holland. But Holland was faraway, farther away than it is in these days of fast steamers and thetelegraph, and the Company had too many other matters to look after togive much thought to New Netherland.One of the first acts of Governor Minuit was to buy the Island ofManhattan from the Indians, giving them in exchange some beads, somebrass ornaments, some bits of glass and some strips of colored cloth;all of which seemed a rich treasure to the Indians, but were in realityworth just twenty-four dollars.As soon as Minuit had bought the island, he organized a government. Inauthority next to the Governor was the koopman, who was secretary of theprovince, and bookkeeper at the Company's warehouse, and who worked veryhard. Then came the schout-fiscal, who worked still harder, being halfsheriff, half attorney-general, and all customs officer. There was alsoa council of five men who looked wise but had very little to say and didnot dare to disagree with the Governor.Although in buying their land Governor Minuit had made the Indians hisfriends, he took care to be prepared in case they should change theirminds and become warlike. He had Kryn Frederick, the Company's engineer,build a solid fort on the spot where the fur-traders' stockade hadstood. This he called Fort Amsterdam. It was surrounded by cedarpalisades, and was large enough to shelter all the people of the littlecolony in case of danger. Inside this fort there was a house for theGovernor, and outside the walls was a warehouse for furs, and a millwhich was run by horse-power, with a large room on the second floor tobe used as a church.[Illustration: The Building of the Palisades.]When Minuit had become fairly settled in his new colony, he divided thelower part of the island into farms, which in those days were called"bouweries." A road which led through these farms was named BouwerieLane, and the same road is to-day known as The Bowery.Minuit had been Governor four years, and there were 200 persons on theisland, when the Dutch West India Company, deciding that the colony wasnot increasing fast enough, made a plan for giving large tracts of landto any man who would go from Holland and take with him fifty persons tomake their homes in New Netherland. The grants of land, which werereally large farms, stretched away in all directions over the territoryof New Netherland. But no grant was made on the Island of Manhattan, asthe Company reserved that for itself. Each of these farms was called amanor. The man who brought colonists from Holland was called a patroon.He was the Lord of the Manor.He had supreme authority over his colonists, who cleared the land ofthe trees, planted seeds, gathered the ripened grain, and raised cattlewhich they gave to the Lord of the Manor as rent.The little town of New Amsterdam was to continue as the seat ofgovernment, and the Lords of the Manors were to act under the directionof the Governor. The farms established by these patroons were to belongto them and to their families after them.The one thing that the patroons were not permitted to do was to collectthe furs of animals, for these were very valuable and the Companyclaimed them all.Before many years had passed there was much trouble with these patroons,who did a great deal to make themselves rich, and very little for NewNetherland. They traded in furs, notwithstanding they were forbidden todo so, and did all manner of things they should not have done.Governor Minuit was himself accused of aiding the patroons to make moneyat the expense of the West India Company, and of taking his share ofthe profit; and finally, the Company ordered him to return to Holland.The ship in which he sailed was wrecked on the coast of England, andMinuit was detained and accused of unlawfully trading in the territoryof the King of England. This was not the first time that the English hadlaid claim to the Dutch lands in America. Charles I. was king then, andhe said that England owned New Netherland because an English king, morethan a hundred years before Hudson's time, had sent John Cabot and hisson Sebastian in search of new lands, and they had touched the Americanshore.But the Dutch called attention to the fact that it had been held, timeout of mind, that to own a country one must not only discover it, butmust visit it continually, and even buy it from any persons who shouldbe settled there. Even if the Cabots had discovered the land in America,the Dutch had occupied it ever since Hudson's time and had paid theIndians for it.Matters were patched up for the time, and Minuit was permitted toreturn to Holland. But he was no longer Governor of New Netherland,for his place had been given to another man whose name was WalterVan Twiller.[Illustration: Old House in New York, Built 1668.]CHAPTER IVWALTER VAN TWILLER, SECOND of the DUTCH GOVERNORSNow this Walter Van Twiller was a relative of Kiliaen Van Rensselaer,one of the patroons. You will see why the West India Company's choice ofhim for a Governor was not by any means a wise choice. For he was soondoing exactly what Minuit had done. The only difference was thatGovernor Van Twiller favored Van Rensselaer more than he did the otherpatroons.Van Twiller was a stout, round-bodied man, with a face much the shape ofa full moon. He was a sharp trader, having made two voyages to theHudson River in the interest of Van Rensselaer, but he knew nothing ofgoverning a colony.The ship that brought the new Governor to the Island of Manhattan, hadalso on board a hundred soldiers, and these were the first soldiersever sent to the island. There was also on the ship Everardus Bogardus,the first minister of the colony, as well as Adam Rolandsen, the firstschool-master. This school-master had a hard time of it in the newcountry, for not being able to make a living by his teaching, he wasforced to do all kinds of other work. He even took in washing for atime!By this time negro slaves were being brought to the colony from Africa.They did the household work, while the colonists cultivated the fieldsThese slaves did most of the work on a new wooden church which was setup just outside the fort, for the new minister.Governor Van Twiller began improving the colony by having threewindmills built, to take the place of the horse-mill. But he had themplaced in such a position that the building in the fort cut off the windfrom their sails, and the mills were almost useless.The Governor did not neglect his own comfort, for within Fort Amsterdamhe built for himself a fine house of brick--finer than any in the littlesettlement--and on one of the bouweries nearest the fort, he erected asummer-house. On another bouwerie he laid out a tobacco plantation, andhad slaves paid by the Company to look after it.[Illustration: Van Twiller's Defiance.]When Van Twiller had been Governor three years, he gave to one of thecolonists a farm on the western side of the city along the Hudson River.The colonist died the year after the farm was given him, leaving hiswidow, Annetje Jans, to care for the property.Years after, when Queen Anne ruled in England, and the English had comeinto possession of New Netherland, she gave the Annetje Jans farm toTrinity Church. That was almost two centuries ago. What was once a farmis now a great business section, crossed and recrossed by streets.Trinity Church has held it through all the years, and holds it still.Close upon the time when the Jans farm was given away by Governor VanTwiller, a sailor of note, who had visited almost every country in theworld, founded a colony on Staten Island. This sailor was Captain DavidPietersen De Vries. Staten Island attracted him because of its beauty.After the colony was well started, De Vries travelled between NewNetherland and Holland, and he will be met with again in this story.[Illustration: Landing of Dutch Colony on Staten Island.]Although Governor Van Twiller did not do much for the colonists, he wasvery careful to look after his own affairs. He bought from theIndians, for some goods of small value, the little spot now calledGovernor's Island; which was then known as Nut Island, because of themany nut-trees that grew there. There is little doubt but thatGovernor's Island was once a part of Long Island. It is separated fromit now by a deep arm of water called Buttermilk Channel. The channel wasso narrow and so shallow in Van Twiller's time that the cattle couldwade across it. It was given its name more than a hundred years ago,from boats which drew very little water, and were the only craft able toget through the channel, and which took buttermilk from Long Island tothe markets of New York.[Illustration: Governor's Island and the Battery in 1850.]Van Twiller bought the islands now known as Randall's and Ward'sIslands, and these, with some others, made him the richest landholder inthe colony. On his islands he raised cattle, and on his farm tobacco.Many of the colonists did not take kindly to Governor Van Twiller'smethods, and among them was Van Dincklagen, the schout-fiscal. He toldthe Governor that it was very evident that he was putting forth everyeffort to enrich himself at the expense of everybody else, just asMinuit had done. The Governor became very angry. He told theschout-fiscal not to expect any more salary, that it would be stoppedfrom that minute. This did not worry the schout-fiscal much, as he hadnot been paid his salary in three years! But Van Twiller did not stopthere. He sent the schout-fiscal as a prisoner to Holland, which was afoolish thing for him to do. For the prisoner pleaded his own cause tosuch good effect that before the end of the year 1637, Van Twiller wasrecalled to Holland, after he had governed New Netherland for fouryears, very much to his own interest, and very much against the interestof the West India Company and everybody else.[Illustration: Dutch Costumes.]CHAPTER VWILLIAM KIEFT and the WAR with the INDIANSA dreary winter came and went, and just as the first signs of springshowed in the fields that closed about the fort, a ship sailed up thebay, bringing a stranger to the province.This was William Kieft, the new Governor of New Netherland.He was a blustering man, who became very angry when anyone disagreedwith him, and who very soon was known as "William the Testy." He made noeffort to make the Indians his friends, and the result was that much ofhis rule of ten years was a term of bloody warfare.The affairs of the Company had been sadly neglected by Governor VanTwiller, and Governor Kieft, in a nervous, testy, energetic fashion setabout remedying them. The fort was almost in ruins from neglect. Thechurch was in little better condition. The mills were so out of repairthat even if the wind could have reached them they could not have beenmade to do their work properly. There were smugglers who carried awayfurs without even a thought of the koopman, who was waiting to recordthe duties which should have been paid on them. There were those whodefied all law and order, and sold guns and powder and liquor to theIndians, regardless of the fact that the penalty for doing so was death.For guns and liquor had been found to be dangerous things to put insavage hands.Governor Kieft rebuilt the houses, put down all smugglers, and setmatters in New Amsterdam in good working order generally. The patroonsystem of peopling the colony had proven a total failure. So, soon afterKieft came, the West India Company decided on another plan. Theyfurnished free passage to anyone who promised to cultivate land in thenew country. In this way there would be no patroons to act as masters.Each man would own his land, and could come and go as he saw fit. Thisbrought many colonists.[Illustration: The Bowling Green in 1840.]At this time there were really only two well-defined roads on the Islandof Manhattan. One stretched up through the island and led to theoutlying farms and afterward became The Bowery; the second led along thewater-side, and is to-day Pearl Street. Bowling Green, although it wasnot called Bowling Green then, was the open space in front of the fortwhere the people gathered on holidays. In the fourth year of GovernorKieft's rule, he conceived the idea of holding fairs in this open space,where fine cows and fat pigs could be exhibited. These fairs attractedso many visitors from distant parts of the colony, that the Governor hada large stone house built, with a roof running up steep to a peak, inregular, step-like form. This was called a tavern, and could accommodateall the visitors. In after years it became the first City Hall.If you wish to stand where this building was, you must go to the head ofCoenties Slip, in Pearl Street. On the building which is there now youwill see a bronze tablet which tells all about the old Stadt Huys.The church that Walter Van Twiller had built was little better than abarn. The minister wanted a new one. So did his congregation. GovernorKieft decided that there should be one of stone, and that it should bebuilt inside the fort. There was a question as how to secure the moneyto build it. Kieft gave a small amount, as did other colonists, butthere was not enough. Fortunately, just at this time, a daughter ofBogardus, the minister, was married. At the wedding, when the guestswere in good humor, a subscription-list was handed out. The guests triedto outdo one another in subscribing money for the new church. Next daysome of the subscribers were sorry they had agreed to give so much, butthe Governor accepted no excuses and insisted on the money. It wascollected, and the church was built. Close upon this time Kieft decidedthat he needed money for other work, and he told the Indians of theprovince that he expected something from them. Of course the Indians hadno such money as we have in these days. They used instead beads, veryhandsome and made from clam-shells. These beads were arranged onstrings. There were black ones and white ones, and the black were worthtwice as much as the white. The Indians did not see why they should givemoney to the Governor. Kieft explained that it was to pay for theprotection given to them by the Dutch. Then the Indians understood lessthan ever, for the Dutch had never done anything for them except togive them as little as they could for their valuable furs. The Indianshated Kieft, and this act of his made their hatred more bitter. Awar-cloud was gathering. The Indians were well prepared for war, forthey had been supplied with guns, with bullets, and with powder by thosegreedy Dutchmen, the smugglers, who thought more of their personalgains than of the safety of the colonists.[Illustration: Selling Arms to the Indians.]Over on Staten Island about this time, an Indian stole several hogsfrom a colonist. Kieft's soldiers found the tribe to which the Indianbelonged, and in revenge killed ten Indian warriors. After this thewar-cloud grew darker.Kieft was anxious that there should be war. But there were many of thecolonists who did all in their power to prevent it. The men who wantedpeace were headed by that able sailor, Captain David Pietersen De Vries,who had founded a colony on Staten Island. A council of twelve men wasformed to decide whether there should be peace or war. This councildeclared that there should be no war. They then began to look intopublic affairs, for they thought it all wrong that Kieft should havethe only voice in the management. The Governor regretted having calledtogether the twelve men. But he soon got rid of them, and to show thathe was still absolute ruler, he decided to make war upon the Indians.Then the war-cloud broke.Those Indians who lived nearest New Amsterdam were fighting with anothertribe called the Mohawks. The nearby Indians thought that since Kiefthad been paid to protect them, he should do so now. So they gathered,some on the Island of Manhattan, and some on the nearby shore of NewJersey. But instead of protecting them, Kieft sent his soldiers againstthese friendly Indians, and in the night killed them as they slept. Thesoldiers came so suddenly upon the Indians, sleeping peacefully on theJersey shore, and slew them so quickly in the darkness, that the Indiansbelieved they had been attacked by the unfriendly tribe. One Indian,with his squaw, made his way to the fort. He was met at the gate by DeVries. "Save us," he cried, "the Mohawks have fallen upon us, and havekilled all our people." But De Vries answered, sadly, "No Indian hasdone this. It is the Dutch who have killed your people." And he pointedtoward the deep woods close by. "Go there for safety, but do not comehere."This was not war. It was murder. A cruel, treacherous act, which thegreater number of colonists condemned and the record of which is a darkstain on the memory of William Kieft.After this, all the Indians within the border of New Netherlandcombined. Colonists were shot as they worked in the fields. Cattle weredriven away. Houses were robbed and burned. Women and children weredragged into captivity. The war raged fiercely for three years. By thistime Indians and colonists were worn out. Then the war ended. Butscarcely a hundred men were left on the Island of Manhattan. The countrywas a waste.A strong fence had been built across the island, to keep what cattleremained within bounds. This fence marked the extreme limit of thesettlement of New Amsterdam. The fence in time gave place to a wall, andwhen in still later years the wall was demolished and a street laid outwhere it had been, the thoroughfare was called Wall Street, and remainsso to this day.While the entire province was in a very bad way, and the peoplesuffering on every side, Governor Kieft sent to the West India Companyin Holland _his_ version of the war. He showed himself to be all in theright, and proved, to his own satisfaction, that the province was in afairly good condition; though during all the years he had been Governorhe had not once left the settlement on the Island of Manhattan to lookafter other parts.Certain of the colonists also sent a report to Holland. Theirs beingmuch nearer the truth, carried such weight with it, that the West IndiaCompany decided on the immediate recall of Governor Kieft, who had doneso much injury to the colony, and had shown himself to be utterlyincapable of governing.Kieft returned to Holland in a ship that was packed from stem to sternwith the finest of furs. The ship was wrecked at sea. Kieft was drowned,and the furs were lost.In the same ship was Everardus Bogardus (the minister who had marriedAnnetje Jans), who was on his way to Holland on a mission relating tohis church. The people of New Amsterdam mourned for their minister, butthere was little sorrow felt for the Governor who had plunged the colonyin war by his obstinate and cruel temper.[Illustration: Smoking the Pipe of Peace.]CHAPTER VIPETER STUYVESANT, the LAST of the DUTCH GOVERNORSIt was a gay day for the little colony of New Amsterdam, that Maymorning in the year 1647, when a one-legged man landed at the lower partof the island, and stumped his way up the path that led to the fort. Notonly everyone that lived in the town gathered there, but everyone on theisland, and many from more distant parts. There were Indians, too, whowalked sedately, their quiet serenity in strange contrast to thecolonists, who yelled and shouted for joy, and clapped their hands atevery salute from the guns. And when the fort was reached (it was onlya few steps from the river-bank) the man with the wooden leg turned tothose who followed him. The guns were silent, and the people stoodstill."I shall govern you," said he, "as a father does his children."Then there were more shouts, and more booming of cannon, and the name ofPeter Stuyvesant was on every tongue. For the man with a wooden leg wasPeter Stuyvesant, the new Governor appointed by the West India Company,and not one of those who shouted that day had an idea that he was to bethe last of the Dutch governors.Stuyvesant had long been in the employ of the West India Company, andhis leg had been shot off in a battle while he was in their service.He was a stern man, with a bad temper, and seemed to have made it apoint in life never to yield to anyone in anything. He ruled in the wayhe thought best, and he let it always be understood that he did not caremuch for the advice of others. He did what he could for the people tomake their life as happy as possible. Of course he had orders from theWest India Company that he was bound to obey, and these orders did notalways please the people. But his rule was just, and he was the mostsatisfactory of all the Dutch governors.Stuyvesant's first work was to put the city in better condition. He didthis by having the vacant lots about the fort either built upon orcleared. The hog-pens which had been in front of the houses were takenaway. All the fences were put in repair, and where weeds had grown rank,they were replaced by pretty gardens. These, and a great many otherthings he did, until the town took on quite a new air.Up to this time the people had been ruled by governors who did allthings just as they saw fit. They became tired of this, and complainedso much that the Company in Holland decided to make a change. So afterStuyvesant had been Governor for a while, some other officers wereappointed to help him. There was one officer called a schout, verymuch the same as a mayor is in these days. Two others were calledburgomasters, and five others were called schepens. The burgomastersand the schepens presided over the trials, in the stone tavern whichGovernor Kieft had built at Coenties Slip, and which had now becomethe Stadt Huys or City Hall.[Illustration: The Old Stadt Huys of New Amsterdam.]With the appointment of these officers, New Amsterdam became a city.But as Governor Stuyvesant named the officers and as he plainly toldthem that they must not interfere with his orders, and as he still hadhis own way, regardless of what the officers said and did, the colonywas little different as a city from what it had been before.In the fall of this year, 1652, war was declared between England andHolland. Stuyvesant, fearing that the English in New England, whichwas on the borders of New Netherland, would attack the city, set aboutfortifying it. The fence that Governor Kieft had built so that thecattle could not wander away was changed into a wall that extended fromriver to river. The fort was repaired, and a strong body of citizensmounted guard by day and by night. Everything was prepared for anattack. But the enemy did not come after all.Matters went along quietly enough for three years, until some Swedeson the Delaware River began to build houses on Dutch lands. ThenStuyvesant, with 160 men, in seven ships, sailed around to the DelawareRiver, and conquered the Swedes.It was quite ten years since the Indian war, and Stuyvesant, by hiskindness, had made friends of the savages, and had come to be calledtheir "great friend," But soon after he left to make war on the Swedes,one of the colonists killed an Indian. In a few days there was anuprising of Indian tribes. In New Jersey and on Staten Island theymurdered colonists, burned houses, and laid farms waste. Stuyvesanthurriedly returned. He made peace with the Indians, treating themkindly, as though there had never been any trouble. He gave thempresents, and used such gentle measures that the war which hadthreatened to be so serious ended abruptly.In the calmer days that followed, attention was given to improvementsin the city. By this time there were a thousand persons on the island.Streets were nicely laid out, and the city of New Amsterdam grew, dayby day. It was a tiny place still, however, for it all lay below thepresent Wall Street. Some distance beyond the city wall was a fenced-inpasture for cattle, which was later to become The Common, and stilllater City Hall Park. Farther on there was a wide lake, so deep thatit was thought to be bottomless. On its banks were a vast heap ofoyster-shells, where an Indian village had been. This place was calledKalch-hook, or Shell-point. Afterward it was shortened to The Kalch, andin time was called The Collect. The lake was called Collect Lake. Thereis no trace of it to-day, for it was filled in, and the Tombs Prison nowstands upon the spot.The entire province was in a flourishing condition, but danger was near.The English had long looked with covetous eye upon the possessions ofthe Dutch in America. The English, it must be remembered, claimed notonly New Netherland, but a great part of the American continent, on theplea that the Cabots had discovered it.After all this long time, when the Cabots had been forgotten by mostpersons, in the year 1664, Charles II. decided that the English claimwas just, and gave New Netherland to his brother James, Duke of York.The Duke of York at once sent four ships filled with soldiers to takepossession of his property.[Illustration: Stuyvesant Leaving Fort Amsterdam.]When the English war-ships sailed up the bay, the town wasill-protected, and the people had no desire to resist, for Stuyvesantand the West India Company had been most strict, and they hoped to bemore free under English rule. Stuyvesant, with scarcely a supporter,stood firm and unyielding. He had no thought of submitting to superiorforce. "I would rather be carried out dead," he exclaimed. But when atlength he realized that he was absolutely alone, and that there were nomeans of defence for the city, he surrendered.On this same morning of September 8, 1664, Stuyvesant, with his headbowed sadly, marched at the head of his soldiers out of Fort Amsterdam,with flags flying and drums beating. And the English soldiers, who hadlanded, and were waiting a little way off, entered the fort with _their_flags flying and _their_ drums beating.So the city of New Amsterdam became the city of New York, and theprovince of New Netherland became the province of New York, and FortAmsterdam became Fort James--all this in honor of James, Duke of York,who now came into possession.Stuyvesant went to Holland to explain why he had surrendered NewNetherland. But he came back again, and years after he died in thelittle Bouwerie Village which he had built. In St. Mark's Church to thisday may be seen a tablet which tells that the body of the last DutchGovernor lies buried there.[Illustration]CHAPTER VIINEW YORK under the ENGLISH and the DUTCHSo now the conquered province had come into the possession of the Dukeof York, and Colonel Richard Nicolls, who was in command of the Englishsoldiers, took charge. This first English Governor appeared anxious tomake all the people his friends. He made Thomas Willett Mayor, andWillett being very popular, all the citizens rejoiced, and said the newGovernor was a fine man. During three years Colonel Nicolls humored thepeople so much that they were well satisfied. At the end of that time hehad grown tired of the new country, and asked to be relieved. The peoplewere really sorry when he returned to England and Francis Lovelace tookhis place.Governor Lovelace did not get along so well. He was a man of harshmanner, who did not have the patience or the inclination to flatter withfine promises. Lovelace wanted everyone to understand that he wasmaster. Very soon, when the people said they thought they should havethe right to control their own affairs, the Governor told them that hedid not think it was best for them to have too much to do with thegoverning of the city. But he did some things that pleased the people.For one thing, he brought about the custom of having merchants meetonce a week at a bridge which crossed Broad Street at the presentExchange Place. There is no bridge there now, but in those days it wasnecessary, for Broad Street was a ditch which extended from the riveralmost to Wall Street. But though the ditch has been filled up, and thebridge is gone, the locality has ever since been one where merchantshave gathered.[Illustration: Departure of Nicolls.]The Governor also had a messenger make regular trips to Boston withletters, which was the first mail route from the city. Matters weregoing along nicely when trouble arose between England and Holland again.Then the Dutch decided that it would be a good time to get back theirlost province of New Netherland. The English in New York heard of this,and made all sorts of warlike preparations. But the Dutch were so longin coming that the preparations for war were given up. Finally the Dutchships did arrive unexpectedly, sailing up the bay one morning in themonth of July, in the year 1673. Governor Lovelace was in a distantpart of the colony, and the city had been left under the care of CaptainJohn Manning.Manning was in despair. He knew full well that there was no hope ofdefending the city successfully. He sent a messenger dashing off to theGovernor, and he sent another to the Dutch ships to ask what they weredoing in the bay, just as though he did not know. The Dutch sent wordback that the city must be surrendered to them that same day. And toshow they meant what was said, the Dutch admiral despatched one of hiscaptains, Anthony Colve by name, who landed with 600 men. The Dutchcaptain agreed that if the English left the fort without a show ofresistance, they could do so with the honors of war and withoutinterference. Then he and his soldiers tramped down the road that is nowBroadway. The English marched out of the fort, and the Dutch marched in;just as nine years before the Dutch had marched out and the English hadmarched in.When the King in England heard that New York had been so easilycaptured, all the blame was placed on Captain Manning, and after a timeyou will see what became of him.[Illustration: The Dutch Ultimatum.]Captain Colve took charge of the reconquered province. He beganindustriously to undo all that the English had done. The province wasagain named New Netherland. The city was called New Orange, in honor ofthe Prince of Orange--a prince of Holland, who in a few years was tomarry a daughter of the Duke of York, and who in a few more years wasto be King of England under the title of William III.Captain Colve put the fort in good condition, repaired the city wall,made a soldier of every man and drilled them every day. He had the citygates locked at night, and put a guard at them to see that no one camein or passed out.In less than a year, when the city was in shape to be defended, theEnglish and the Dutch made up their quarrel. The province of NewNetherland was returned to the English, and became again the province ofNew York, and the Dutch soldiers left the Island of Manhattan, neveragain to return to it in warlike array.CHAPTER VIIISOMETHING about the BOLTING ACTEdmund Andros was sent to govern New York for the Duke of York.The people complained a good deal because he acted as though he were aking with absolute power. They asked that they have some voice in thedirection of their affairs. They got up a petition and sent it to theDuke in England."What do the people want?" said the Duke. "If they are not satisfied,they can always appeal to me." He did not see that they had justappealed to him, and in vain.Captain Manning, who had been in charge of the province when the Dutchrecaptured it, came again to New York with Andros. Many who had losttheir property by the coming of the Dutch, complained bitterly toAndros. So the Governor, and his council, and the officers of thecity held many conferences, with the result that Captain Manning wasarrested. He was found guilty of cowardice, and his sword was brokenin front of the Stadt Huys in the presence of the citizens, and he wasdeclared, on the good authority of King Charles II., unfit ever againto hold public office.Although disgraced, Captain Manning did not seem to care much. He owneda beautiful wooded island in the East River, to which he now retired.He was wealthy, and there he lived and entertained royally during theremainder of his life.Andros did many things for the general good. When he had been Governorfour years, and when the most important product of trade was flour, alaw was made by which no one was permitted to make flour outside of thecity. This was called the Bolting Act. Flour cannot be made unless itis "bolted"--or has the bran taken from it--and so the act came by itsname. The right to grind all the grain into flour may not now seem veryimportant, but it really was, for it brought all the trade to the city.So you see the Bolting Act was a very good thing for the city, and verybad for the people who did not live in the city. The city folks becamevery prosperous indeed, but the others, because they could not make orsell flour, became poorer day by day.This went on for sixteen years, and then the law came to an end. But bythat time all the business of the entire province had centred in thecity so firmly that it could not be drawn away.[Illustration]So, after this, when you look at a picture of the Seal of New York,and see a windmill and two barrels of flour, you will remember that thewindmill sails worked the mill, and the barrels were filled with flourwhich laid the foundation of the city's fortunes; and were put on theseal so that this fact would always be remembered. The beavers on theseal suggest the early days when the trade in beaver skins made a citypossible. At one time there was a crown on the seal--a king's crown--butthat gave way to an eagle when the English King no longer had a claim onNew York.Now that the province was prosperous, one would think that the peoplewould have been quite happy. But they were not. They did not likeGovernor Andros because they thought that he taxed them too heavily, andthey sent so many petitions to the Duke of York that, in 1681, Androswas recalled, and Colonel Thomas Dongan was appointed the new Governor.A few years later, when the Duke of York became King James II., heremembered how carefully Andros had carried out his orders, andappointed him Governor of New England; where he conducted matters somuch to the satisfaction of his King that he earned the title of "TheTyrant of New England."When Governor Dongan reached the city and announced that the Duke hadinstructed him to let the people have something to say as to how theyshould be governed, he was joyfully received. It really seemed now thateverything was going to be satisfactory. But there came a sudden check.Two years after Dongan became Governor, the Duke of York was made Kingof England. He thereupon ordered Dongan to make all the laws himself,without regard to what the people did or did not want. The power to makethe laws was a great power, but Governor Dongan was a fair and just manand did not abuse it. The year after this he granted a charter to thecity, known ever since as the Dongan Charter, which was so just that itis still the base on which the rights of citizens rest.But while Dongan was popular with the King's subjects, he becameunpopular with the King. This was because he stood in the way of theplans of his royal master whenever those plans interfered with the goodof the people. He must have known what the result would be. Whether heknew it or not, it came in the year 1688. The King joined the colony ofNew England and the colony of New York, and called this united territoryNew England. Dongan then ceased to be Governor, having ruled theprovince well.CHAPTER IXTHE STIRRING TIMES of JACOB LEISLERSir Edmund Andros, who, you will remember, had been appointed Governorof New England, had been knighted for obeying the King's commands. Henow became Governor of the united provinces. He made his home in Boston,and left the care of New York to his deputy, Francis Nicholson. In thisyear a son was born to the English King, and the people rejoiced. Butthese were stormy times in England, for King James II. was a tyrant whoordered a great many of his subjects killed when they refused to believein what he believed. And the people, grown weary and heartsick,overthrew King James and put William III. on the throne. So the sightsand sounds of rejoicing over the birth of a prince were scarcely over,when the news came that James was no longer King, and New York was soonin a state of confusion.In what had been New England before the provinces were united, thepeople hated Andros. They arrested him. And as they had never been infavor of uniting New England and New York, they restored their oldofficers and disunited the two provinces, Andros was sent a prisoner toEngland to give an account of his doings to King William, and New Yorkwas left without a Governor. The men who had served under King Jamesinsisted that they remain in charge of the province until King Williamsent new officers to replace them. But most of them wanted to have allwho had had anything to do with King James put out of office at once. Sothose who wanted this change took charge of the city, and chose as theirleader a citizen named Jacob Leisler. More than twenty years before,this Jacob Leisler had come from Holland as a soldier of the West IndiaCompany. He had left the service and had become a wealthy merchant. Hehad a rude manner, and but little education. He looked upon as an enemy,and as an enemy of King William, every man who did not think as he did.The mass of the people now gathered around Leisler and became known asthe Leislerian party. They selected a number of citizens, calling themthe Committee of Safety, and the committee gave Leisler power to seethat peace was preserved. Those who were opposed to Leisler, but who,just as strongly as he, favored King William, were called theanti-Leislerian party. These last were headed by Francis Nicholson, whohad watched over the colony for Governor Andros. Nicholson finding thathe had few followers, sailed for England.Leisler had the fortifications repaired, and a battery of guns set upoutside the fort. This is the battery which gave to the present localityits name, though all signs of guns have disappeared.Leisler had an adviser in Jacob Milborne, his son-in-law, who wrote hisletters, and counselled him in every way.In December came a messenger from King William, with a commission forwhoever was in charge of the city, to act until further orders. Leislerobtained possession of the commission. He became bolder after this, andshowed such a disposition to do just as he pleased, that he made enemiesof a great many of his friends. Advised by Milborne, he made laws, andimprisoned all those who refused to obey them or to recognize hisauthority. Day by day those who were opposed to Leisler and Milbornegrew in numbers. Street riots occurred, and several persons wereinjured. Leisler's life was threatened, and he went about attended by aguard of soldiers. Finally Nicholas Bayard, who had been Mayor, and whowas looked upon as leader of the anti-Leislerian party, was put inprison with some others. Bayard would doubtless have been executed hadhe not written an humble letter to Leisler saying that he had been inthe wrong and Leisler in the right. But he wrote to save his life, notthat he really believed himself to be in the wrong. He did save hislife, but he was kept in jail.Leisler's enemies continued active. They had a powerful friend inFrancis Nicholson, who had reached England and had been received withfavor there. He hated Leisler, and denounced him as a traitor beforeKing William.Leisler, after he had taken charge of the province, wrote to the King,but his letter was written in imperfect English and was not understood.Matters were in a bad state, and were daily becoming worse, when theKing appointed Henry Sloughter Governor of New York.[Illustration: New York in 1700.]CHAPTER XTHE SAD END of JACOB LEISLERThis Henry Sloughter was not a good choice. He was a worthless man, whohad travelled a great deal, and had spent other people's money wheneverhe could get it. Now, when he could find no one in England to supply himwith money, he took the post of Governor of New York, and his onlythought was how much money he could wring from the people. The enemiesof Leisler rejoiced at his coming, for they knew that it meant thedownfall of Leisler.Sloughter sailed for New York with a body of soldiers, but his ship wastossed about by the sea, and carried far out of its course, so that theship of his assistant, Major Richard Ingoldsby, arrived first. ButLeisler refused to give up command until Sloughter came. This was threemonths later, and during that time Ingoldsby and his soldiers did allthey could to harass Leisler, who held possession of the little fort,and refused to give it up until he saw the King's order.When Sloughter arrived, members of the party opposed to Leisler hurriedon board the vessel, and escorted him to the City Hall, where atmidnight he took the oath of office.Within a few days Governor Sloughter and his friends met in the CityHall, where the council of the new Governor was sworn in--a councilevery member of which was an enemy of Leisler. Then Leisler wasarrested, with his son-in-law, Milborne, and both were condemned todeath as rebels. But the Governor was afraid of displeasing the King byputting Leisler to death, for, after all, Leisler was the man who hadbeen the first to recognize the authority of King William in New York.He refused to sign the death-warrant. But the enemies of Leisler werenot content. Nicholas Bayard, who had become more than ever bitterbecause he had been kept for thirteen months in prison, was anxious forrevenge. The council urged the Governor to carry out the sentence, andhe finally signed the death-warrant. Two days later Leisler and Milbornewere led to execution. The scaffold had been erected in Leisler's owngarden, close by where the post-office is now. The people thronged aboutit, standing in the cold, drizzling rain. They wept, for many of themhad been on the side of Leisler.[Illustration: Sloughter Signing Leisler's Death-warrant.]Leisler ascended the scaffold with firm step, and looked at the peoplehe had tried to serve."What I have done has been for the good of my country," he said, sadly."I forgive my enemies, as I hope to be forgiven."And so he died; believing that he had done his duty.Milborne was full of hate for those who caused his death. Close by thescaffold stood Robert Livingston, a citizen who had always been stronglyopposed to Leisler. To this man Milborne pointed, and fiercely cried:"You have caused my death. For this I will impeach you before the Bar ofGod." And so he died.The bodies of both men were interred close by the scaffold.Four years later the English Parliament declared that Leisler had actedunder the King's command, and had therefore been in the right, afterall. So tardy justice was done to Leisler's memory.After the death of Leisler, there was an end of open revolt, and affairswere reasonably quiet, although it was many a long year before therancor of the late struggle and the bitter hatred of the friends andenemies of Leisler died out.Order was restored, and attention was turned to public improvement.New streets were laid out, and markets were built. In front of theCity Hall, by the water-side of Coenties Slip, there were set up awhipping-post, a cage, a pillory, and a ducking-block; which were toserve as warnings to evil-doers, and to be used in case the warningwas not effective.But Sloughter did not live to see these improvements completed. A fewmonths after his arrival he died suddenly, so suddenly that there was asuggestion that he had been poisoned by some friend of Leisler. But itwas proven that his death was a natural one, and his body was placed ina vault next to that of Peter Stuyvesant, in the Bouwerie Villagechurch-yard.CHAPTER XIGOVERNOR FLETCHER and the PRIVATEERSWhen Benjamin Fletcher became the next Governor of New York, in themonth of August, 1692, the people gave a great public dinner in hishonor, and there were expressions of deep joy that so wise and goodand pious a man had been sent to rule over them.But Governor Fletcher soon came to be disliked. He tried by every meansto enrich himself at the public expense. More than that, he wished tomake the Church of England the only church of the province, and to havethe English language the only language spoken. All of which the peopledid not like, for the majority of them still spoke the Dutch languageand attended the Dutch church.Governor Fletcher had great trouble in getting the Assembly (the bodyof men who helped him to govern the province) to agree with him, but hefinally won them over in the matter of the Church of England. One of thechurches built at this time was Trinity Church. It was a quaint, squarebuilding, with a tall spire--not the Trinity Church of this day,although it stood on the same spot.[Illustration: Bradford's Tombstone.]In the year after Fletcher came, the first printing-press was set upin the city by William Bradford, who came from Philadelphia for thatpurpose. He became the public printer, and afterward issued the firstnewspaper. He did a great deal for the general good, and when he died hewas buried in Trinity Church-yard. Even now you can see the stone thatmarks his grave, close by the side-entrance of the present church.During much of the time that Fletcher governed, the French in Canadawere continually threatening to fight with the English in New York.There were fierce and bloody conflicts on the border, but no enemyreached the city. There was also another danger that grew stronger dayby day. It came about as the result of privateering.A privateer was a vessel which under commission from one country,carried on war with the ships of other countries. The captains werecalled privateers, as were the ships. These privateers were sosuccessful that they grew bold, and instead of attacking only the shipsof enemies of their country, they threw away their commissions andattacked ships of all countries for their private gain. Then they werecalled pirates. They became robbers and murderers, for they murdered aswell as robbed. These pirates bore down upon the ships of all nations,carried off their cargoes, then sunk the vessels without knowing orcaring how many were on board, that none might escape to tell the tale.Nowhere were the pirates more daring than near the American coast. Thevessels of New York merchants were burned within sight of shore, and thepirates were even bold enough to enter the harbor and seize the ships asthey lay at anchor.The officials of the province made no apparent effort to suppress thesepirates. It was thought then, and has since been believed, that theyassisted them, and were well paid for such help. Governor Fletcherhimself was suspected of sharing in the pirate booty. Merchants whofeared to carry on regular trade, as their ships were almost sure to beseized, came, after a time, to lend their aid also to the pirates, bybuying their cargoes.[Illustration: The Reading of Fletcher's Commission.]Finally, very few ships dared to cross the ocean. Then the EnglishGovernment became alarmed. A new Governor was searched for--a man strongenough to resist the bribery of pirate crews, and able to drive them offthe seas. And just such a man was found.CHAPTER XIICONTAINING the TRUE LIFE of CAPTAIN KIDDIn England there lived a man who had been a great friend of KingWilliam; who had been his friend even before he had become King. Thisman was Lord Bellomont. It was he who was chosen Governor in the year1696. But it was two years after this that he reached New York. Duringthese two years he worked hard in the interests of the province. He knewall about the pirates, and knew that it would take a strong force tosubdue them. He called upon the English Government to fit out men forthis purpose. But the Government had neither men, nor ships, nor gunsto spare.So Lord Bellomont decided to raise a private armed force. He gottogether a company, of which the King was a member, and they fitted outa strong and fast-sailing vessel called the Adventure Galley. LordBellomont looked about for a good captain. At last he thought he hadfound just the man in Captain William Kidd. Captain Kidd just at thistime happened to be in London, where he was well known, and well liked.His home was in New York, where his wife and daughter lived in a finehouse in Crown Street, and where he was a respected citizen. But best ofall for the Company, Captain Kidd had been in command of a privateer,and knew a good deal about pirates and their ways.And so it came about that Captain Kidd sailed away, commander of theAdventure Galley, with its crew of sixty sailors, and its thirty guns,to destroy the pirates.Then followed a space of time during which news of the bold Captain waseagerly awaited. It came soon enough--news that was startling. CaptainKidd had been tempted by the adventurous life and great gains, and hadhimself turned pirate! During the next two years he was heard of as themost daring and fierce of pirates, plundering and sinking ships, untilhis name became a terror on the sea. He collected great treasure, andthen decided to give up piracy. He returned to New York, and touchedfirst at Gardiner's Island, a bit of land at the eastern end of LongIsland. There he buried a portion of his treasure. The remainder hedivided with his crew. Then he went to Boston, took a new name, andintended to live in quiet and luxury during the remainder of his life.But, unfortunately, one day Lord Bellomont was in Boston, met him, andcaused his arrest. In a few months he was sent to England in chains.There he was executed.When it was known that Captain Kidd had made a stop at Gardiner'sIsland, search was made there and the hidden treasure was dug up. Therewere rumors from time to time that Kidd and his pirate crew had stoppedat points on the East River shore of the Island of Manhattan, and manymen hunted that shore and sought in many places for hidden treasure, butnone was ever found there.During the time that Captain Kidd was roaming the sea, Lord Bellomontwas governing New York.[Illustration: Arrest of Captain Kidd.]The new Governor was at first much admired. He was a fine man, withfaultless manners, and a commander in every inch of his tall figure.He had hands as soft as a woman's, a kindly eye, and a gentle voice.But he could be stern, and was stern and unyielding, too, when occasionrequired. He dressed in better taste than anyone who had ever lived inthe province, and his horses and carriage were finer than had everbefore been seen in the city.Friends of the dead Jacob Leisler had told Lord Bellomont tales of whata good man Leisler had been, and how he had been unjustly executed. SoLord Bellomont, to the end of his life, favored the friends of Leisler.He was firmly convinced that many of the city merchants had become richthrough dealings with the pirates. This belief made many enemies forhim. Then, too, there were laws which would not permit merchants totrade with any country except England; hard laws, that were constantlybroken, for the merchants could not see why they should not trade withanyone they saw fit. Bellomont was so strict in enforcing these laws andin collecting duties that he made more enemies, who sought his recall.Nevertheless many improvements were carried out while Bellomont wasGovernor. A first effort was made to light the streets, which had, upto this time, only had the light of the moon at night. This was done bya lantern with a candle in it hung on a pole from the window of everyseventh house. A night-watch was also established, consisting of fourmen.After Bellomont had been Governor for a few years, what remained of thecity wall was removed, and Wall Street had its beginning on the line ofthe old wall. The same year the old Stadt Huys was found to be in astate of decay. Then a new city hall was erected on the new Wall Street,close by where Nassau Street now touches it. There were dungeons in thenew building for criminals, cells in the attic for debtors, and acourt-room on the main floor.[Illustration: New City Hall in Wall Street.]The first library, under the name of the Corporation Library, wasopened in the City Hall. This is the library that afterward became theSociety Library. It is still in existence, and now has its home inUniversity Place.All in all, Lord Bellomont was a good Governor, who did much for thepeople, and much to make the city an agreeable place to live in; andthere was deep regret when he died suddenly in the year 1701. He wasburied in the chapel in the fort, and as an especial honor to hismemory his coat-of-arms was fixed on the wall of the new City Hall inWall Street. This was a great honor, even though the fickle people, afew years later, when a new Governor came, did tear down the arms andburn them in the street.John Nanfan, the Lieutenant-Governor, took command of the province untilnews reached the city that Lord Cornbury had been appointed Governor.Nicholas Bayard, who had made such a bitter fight against Leisler, andwho had been imprisoned so long, hated Governor Nanfan, because Nanfanwas a friend of the people who called themselves the Leislerian party.So Bayard sent an address to Lord Cornbury saying that Nanfan was anenemy. But Nanfan arrested Bayard, and had him tried under the self-sameact under which Leisler had been tried. This act pronounced traitorsanyone who should make an effort to disturb the peace of the province.Bayard was sentenced to death, but a reprieve was granted pending thepleasure of the King. Before word could be got to England, LordCornbury arrived. Bayard was promoted to a place of honor, and there wasa scattering of the Leislerians, who were now looked upon as enemies ofthe Government.[Illustration: Fort George in 1740.]CHAPTER XIIILORD CORNBURY makes HIMSELF very UNPOPULARIt was in the year that Princess Anne became Queen of England (1702)that Edward Hyde, Lord Cornbury, eldest son of the Earl of Clarendon,was sent to govern New York. He was a cousin of the Queen, and leftEngland to escape the demands of those to whom he owed money.When Lord Cornbury arrived in New York, the Mayor, with much ceremony,presented him with a box of gold, containing the freedom of the city,which gave to him every privilege. It was a great deal of trouble andexpense to go to, for the Governor would have taken all the privileges,even if the Mayor had not gone through the form of giving them.Governor Cornbury very soon let his new subjects see that he was eagerto acquire wealth, and that he intended to get it without the slightestregard for their interests or desires.The Queen had told him that he should do all in his power to make theChurch of England the established church of the land; that he shouldbuild new churches, punish drunkenness, swearing, and all such vices,and that he should keep the colony supplied with negro slaves.There was much sickness in the town--so much that it became epidemic.So the Governor and his council went to the little village of Jamaica,on Long Island, and carried on the business of the city in aPresbyterian church building. When the epidemic had passed, he gave thechurch to the Episcopalians, because he remembered that Queen Anne hadtold him to make the Church of England the established church. Therewere riotous times in Jamaica after that, but the Episcopal clergymanoccupied the house, and the Episcopalians worshipped in the churchregardless of all protests.Not many improvements were made during Lord Cornbury's administration.He cared little for the good of the city or for anything else excepthis own pleasures. The constant fear of war gave the people little timeto think of improvements. They did, however, pave Broadway from TrinityChurch to the Bowling Green. But do not imagine that this pavement wasanything like those of to-day. It was of cobble-stones, and the guttersran through the middle of the street.The Governor came to be detested more and more by the people, for as theyears went by he spent their money recklessly. He had a habit of walkingabout the fort in the dress of a woman, and another habit of givingdinners to his friends that lasted well on toward morning, when theguests sang and shouted so boisterously that the quiet citizens of thelittle town could not sleep.So when the people grew very, very tired of it, they sent word to QueenAnne that her kinsman was a very bad Governor. And she, after muchhesitation, when he had been Governor six years, removed him fromoffice. She no sooner did this, than those to whom he owed money, andthere were a great many of them, had him put in the debtors' prison, inthe upper story of the City Hall in Wall Street. And in jail he remainedfor several months, until his father, the Earl of Clarendon, died, andmoney was sent for the release of the debtor prisoner, who was now apeer of Great Britain.[Illustration: View in Broad Street about 1740.]CHAPTER XIVLORD LOVELACE and ROBERT HUNTERThe new Governor arrived in the last months of the year 1708. He wasJohn, Lord Lovelace. As there had been so much trouble caused by thegovernors appropriating money belonging to the citizens, he decided totake a very different course. He had the public accounts looked into,and said, "I wish it known to all the world that the public debt has notbeen contracted in my time." And having said this (which made a fineimpression) the Governor asked the Assembly to set aside enough moneyfor him to run the affairs of the province for a number of years. Thiswas to be called a permanent revenue. But the Assembly would do no suchthing. In the midst of the discussion, Governor Lovelace died, fivemonths after his arrival.It was quite a year after the death of Lovelace before his successorcame. This was Robert Hunter, a most exceptional man. His parents werepoor, and when a boy he had run away from home and had joined theBritish army. By working very hard at his books when the army was notfighting, by studying in the soldiers' quarters and on the battle-field,by making friends with officers of high rank, Hunter had grown tomanhood brave, well educated, and of graceful manner. On coming to NewYork he at once made friends with many influential persons. His mostimportant friendship was with Lewis Morris, whom he afterward appointedchief-justice. This Morris was a son of Richard Morris, an officer inCromwell's army, who had come to the province, purchased a manor tenmiles square near Harlem, and called it Morrisania--by which name it isstill known.The year after Hunter arrived, New York joined with New England in aplan to conquer Canada (which belonged to the French) and join it to theEnglish colonies. Money was raised, troops were gotten together, andships and soldiers were sent from England. But when the attack was tobe made, the English ships struck on the rocks in a fog off the coast ofCanada, and eight of them sank with more than 800 men. This great lossput an end to the intended invasion. The soldiers returned home, wherethere was great sorrow at the dismal failure of a project that had costso much money and so many lives.Governor Hunter had only been in the province a short time when he beganto urge the Assembly to grant him that permanent revenue that Lovelacehad asked for. Queen Anne had said that he was to have it. But theAssembly would only grant him money from year to year.About this time the first public market for the sale of negro slaveswas established at the foot of Wall Street. More and more slaves werebrought into the city, and the laws were made more and more strict tokeep them in the most abject bondage. It had come to be the law thatno more than four slaves could meet together at one time. They werenot permitted to pass the city gates, nor to carry weapons of any sort.Should one appear on the street after nightfall without a lightedlantern, he was put in jail and his master was fined. Sometimes a slavemurdered his owner. Then he was burned at the stake, after scarcely thepretence of a trial; or was suspended from the branches of a tall treeand left there to die.[Illustration: The Slave-Market. From an Old Print.]But although the slaves were restrained and beaten and killed, theirnumbers increased so fast that the citizens were always in fear thatthey might one day rise up and kill all their masters. A riot did occurthe year after the slave-market was set up. Several white men werekilled and a house was burned. Many negroes were then arrested andnineteen of them were executed under a charge of having engaged in aplot against the whites.Affairs moved along quietly for a time after the riot. The next mostinteresting happening was the putting up of the first public clock, onthe City Hall in Wall Street. It was the gift of Stephen De Lancey.De Lancey was a Huguenot nobleman, who had fled from France when theHuguenots were persecuted for their faith, and had found a home in thenew world. He lived in a mansion at the corner of what are now Pearl andBroad Streets. The house is there yet, still called Fraunces's Tavernfrom the owner who turned it into a tavern after De Lancey removed fromit.Governor Hunter was becoming very popular with the people, whenunfortunately his health failed. So he surrendered the government intothe hands of Peter Schuyler, who was the oldest member in the CityCouncil, and went to Europe, having served for nine years. For thirteenmonths Schuyler took charge, until William Burnet, the new Governor,replaced him.[Illustration: Fraunces's Tavern.]CHAPTER XVGOVERNOR BURNET and the FRENCH TRADERSGovernor William Burnet was the son of a celebrated bishop of England.His early days were passed at the Court of William III., where he metpeople of refinement and culture. Of an observing nature, and studyinga great deal, he came to be a man of deep learning, a good talker, withmanners that attracted attention wherever he went--so fine were they.The city was gayly decorated in honor of his coming. Women looked fromtheir windows and waved their handkerchiefs. Men crowded the streets andloudly shouted their welcome.Soon after, he married the daughter of a leading merchant, and soidentified himself at once with the city's interests. He became the fastfriend of Chief-Justice Lewis Morris. Another friendship was that heformed with Dr. Cadwallader Colden. We shall hear more of this manlater. Besides being a physician of note, he had a world-wide reputationas a writer on many scientific subjects.Along about this time the French were trying hard to get all the tradewith the Indians, not only in the province of New York, but in all thelands as far west as the Mississippi country that was then wild andunexplored. By this they could make a great deal of money, but, betterstill, would make friends of the powerful Indian tribes. Then the Frenchhoped that the Indians would join with them against the English and thatthey could conquer all the English lands in America.The New York merchants were quite content to let the French do thetrading with the Indians, for the French traders bought all their goodsin New York, and the merchants in selling to them did not run the greatrisk of being murdered, as they would in trading with the Indians in theforests. But although the merchants were satisfied, Governor Burnet wasnot. He realized the danger to the English provinces should the Indiansbecome enemies. So he decided to establish a line of English tradingstations that would enable the colonists to trade directly with theIndians in safety. He also made it unlawful to sell goods in New Yorkto the French traders.The merchants bitterly disapproved of these acts of Governor Burnet.They believed that he had dealt a death-blow to their French trade, andthey became his bitter enemies. He tried hard to establish the line oftrading stations, but the English Government refused to help him withmoney, and the project had to be abandoned, and the law against theFrench trade, which had caused the trouble, was repealed. The trade wasonce more carried on.By this time George II. had become King of England, which was in theyear 1728. Influence was brought to bear, and Governor Burnet wasremoved, and left the province a poorer man than he had entered it.Toward the end of this same year Colonel John Montgomery was madeGovernor.He had been groom of the bedchamber of George II. when the latter wasPrince of Wales. He was a weak and lazy man, although he had been bred asoldier. You may believe that he never did much in the soldiering line,for a soldier's life is a hard one, and not likely to encourage a manto be lazy. Montgomery was given a cordial welcome, however.The year after he came, the first Jewish cemetery was established, theremains of which may still be seen in the neighborhood of Chatham Squarein New Bowery Street. It has not been used as a graveyard in many ayear, and much of the ground is now occupied by buildings. But thereis still a portion, behind a stone wall, and crumbling tombstones havestood there ever so many years longer than the dingy tenements whichhem them in on three sides.In the days of Montgomery, New York was still a small village, for mostof the houses were below the present Fulton Street, and they were not atall thickly built, so there was room enough for pleasant gardens aroundthem.At this time the vacant space in front of the fort, which had been usedas a parade-ground and a market-place, was leased to three citizenswhose houses were nearby to be used as a Bowling Green. Its name camefrom this and it still keeps it.A fire department was organized and two engines were imported and roommade for them in the City Hall. Before this the department had consistedof a few leather buckets and a few fire-hooks.In 1731 Governor Montgomery died, and for thirteen months after, Rip VanDam, oldest member of the council, and a wealthy merchant, looked afterthe province until the coming of William Cosby.CHAPTER XVITHE TRIAL of ZENGER, the PRINTERCosby arrived; a testy, disagreeable man who loved money aboveeverything else. The colonists received him with favor, because they didnot know these things about him. The Assembly granted him a revenue forsix years, and gave him a present of L750 besides. The Governor thoughtthis a very small sum and said so. He presented an order from the Kingwhich said that he was to have half the salary that Rip Van Dam hadreceived for acting as Governor.[Illustration: Dinner at Rip Van Dam's.]But Van Dam would not part with his money, and the people sided withhim, for they had long been weary of governors who looked upon thecolony simply as a means to repair their fortunes. Cosby was determinedto get the money, so he sued Van Dam. This suit was conducted in a courtwhere there were three judges, and two of them were friends of Cosby.One of them was James De Lancey, a son of that Stephen De Lancey who hadgiven the clock to the city. The Chief-Justice was still Lewis Morris,who had been appointed by Governor Hunter. So with two judges, friendsof the Governor, he won his suit, and Van Dam was ordered to pay himhalf his salary.More than this, Chief-Justice Morris, who had disagreed with the othertwo judges, was removed from office, and James De Lancey becameChief-Justice.The mass of the people disapproved of these doings, and there weremurmurs of discontent. But the Governor had his money, and had made hisfriend Chief-Justice, and was running matters pretty much his own way,so he was satisfied.There was still only one paper, the _New York Gazette_, published byWilliam Bradford. As Bradford was the Government printer, it was quitenatural that he should side with Cosby. But just at this time anotherpaper came into existence, a rival to the _Gazette_, which took up thepeople's cause. This was the _New York Weekly Journal_, published byPeter Zenger, who had been one of Bradford's workmen. Each week it wasfilled with articles assailing Cosby, and all who were in sympathy withhim. Very soon Zenger was arrested, charged with publishing libelsagainst the city officials and the King. He was locked up in one of thecells in the City Hall.The friends of Zenger secretly secured the services of Andrew Hamilton,a distinguished lawyer of Philadelphia, who pleaded his cause to goodeffect, and showed that Zenger had only spoken as any man had a rightto speak, and had pointed out wrongs where wrongs existed. JusticeDe Lancey, remembering that his friend the Governor had made himChief-Justice, told the jury that they must find Zenger guilty. Butthe jury pronounced him not guilty. Thus the freedom of the press wasestablished, and the jury, by their verdict, had opposed the Governor,his council, the Assembly, and the judge before whom the accused hadbeen tried.About this time Lord Augustus Fitzroy, youngest son of the Duke ofGrafton, came from England to visit Governor Cosby. The Governor thankedhim for having honored New York with his presence, and told him that thecity was open and invited him to go where he pleased. Lord Augustus didnot go far. He fell in love with the Governor's daughter. He did morethan fall in love, for one day he induced a minister to climb over thefort wall and marry him to her, without leave or license. The friendsof the young nobleman were shocked, for the Governor's daughter wasconsidered beneath him in rank. Governor Cosby was accused of havingbrought about this unequal match, although Lord Augustus said that itwas the lady's winning ways and pretty face.Cosby, after the Zenger trial, did what he could to check the libertyof the citizens, but was soon stricken with a fatal illness. On hisdeath-bed he called together the members of his council, and suspendedhis old enemy, Rip Van Dam, who would have been his successor untilanother Governor was appointed. And having done this he died, on March10, 1736, leaving a quarrelsome state of affairs behind him.CHAPTER XVIICONCERNING the NEGRO PLOTThe citizens were so far from being pleased when they learned that RipVan Dam was not to act in the Governor's place, that, for a time, itlooked very much as though there would be a riot. There was a member ofthe Assembly named George Clarke, and when his fellow-members chose himfor the place that Rip Van Dam should have had, there was moregrumbling. But as no Governor came from England for seven years, Clarkelooked after the province all that time. He was an easy-going man, whotried by every possible means to make friends. There was one happeningin particular by which he is remembered. It was called the Negro Plot.Slaves had been brought to the city, until now there were 2,000 of them.The 8,000 citizens were in constant dread lest the negroes should someday rise up in revolt. Early in the spring of the year 1741 severalfires occurred in different parts of the city, and the citizens feltquite sure that the slaves had started them. As the hours passed, theidea of a plot grew until it seemed a fact. Then a reward was offered toanyone who would tell of a conspiracy or of anyone concerned in one.Just at this time a woman was arrested for a small theft, and when sheheard of the reward, she all at once remembered that there had beenmeetings of negroes at a small tavern where she had worked. She told ofa plan to kill every white person; to set all the negroes free, and tomake one of them King of the city. The woman who told this story wasMary Burton. The tavern-keeper, his wife, and several other negroes werehanged in short order. Still the fires kept on. There were dozens withinten days, and among others the Governor's house in the fort was burnedto the ground.[Illustration: The Negroes Sentenced.]Mary Burton now began a remarkable series of confessions which grewwilder with each passing day. Negro slaves accused by her were arrestedin numbers. Liberty was promised all who would speak the truth, andspeaking the truth was understood to mean giving information of aconspiracy. Very soon several negroes were burned at the stake in alittle valley beyond the Collect Pond. This awful death frightened many,who hastened to cry out that they knew all about the plot. There weresome who saved their lives by confessing things that were not true; manymore did not.During the whole long, hot summer the hanging and burning of negroslaves went on. Late in the year, when Mary Burton had seen every personshe had accused arrested, she grew more bold. She sought some new storyto tell, and found one in remembering for the first time that whitepeople had been connected with the plot. Twenty-four white citizens hadbeen arrested, when Mary Burton began to attack prominent townsmen; eventhose who had been foremost in the prosecution of the negroes. It wasonly then realized that the woman's words could not be relied upon. Shewas paid the hundred pounds that had been promised her, and shedisappeared, leaving no trace.Gradually the fury of feeling against the slaves died away. Whetherthere had ever been any real plot will always remain unanswered.Certain it is, however, that the witnesses on whose words arrests weremade were all of uncertain and unreliable character; that the evidencewas contradictory, and that most of it was extorted under pain of death.The excitement passed away after a time, and George Clarke went ontalking finely and managing his own affairs so well that he was growingvery rich indeed when his official life came to a sudden end.CHAPTER XVIIITHE TRAGIC DEATH of SIR DANVERS OSBORNEIn this year, 1743, Admiral George Clinton was sent by King George II.of England to take the place of George Clarke as Governor. Then Clarkepacked up his riches and went to England and enjoyed the rest of hislife far from the little colony that he had governed so much to his ownprofit.Admiral Clinton was the son of an English earl.When he had been Governor not yet a year, there came a man whoseinfluence was soon felt. He was Commodore Peter Warren, of the BritishNavy, who in later years became an admiral. Before he had been in NewYork long, he married Susannah De Lancey, a sister of the Chief-Justice.They went to live in a new house in the country, in the district whichwas then and is now known as Greenwich.England was again at war with France at this time. There were tribes ofIndians who sided with the French, and there were other tribes who sidedwith the English, and the result was a series of bloody border wars. Twoyears after the coming of Governor Clinton, New York, with the otherEnglish colonies, gathered troops to attack the French, and a greatforce was sent against a city called Louisburg. This city was on CapeBreton Island, which is close by the coast of Nova Scotia and was afortress of such great strength, that it was called the Gibraltar ofAmerica. Commodore Warren led the English fleet, and the combined forcesby sea and land captured the fortress.You will remember James De Lancey, who was still Chief-Justice.He was very rich, and as he showed at all times that he considered theinterests of the citizens above all things, they naturally thought agreat deal of him. For a time he acted as adviser to Governor Clinton,but the two had a falling out.For the ten years that Clinton remained Governor he had great troublewith the people, who sided with De Lancey. At the end of that timeGovernor Clinton, finding that his power grew less and less, and that DeLancey became more and more popular, resigned his office. A few monthswent by, and then came Sir Danvers Osborne to be Governor. On the thirdday after reaching the city he walked out of the fort at the head of theother officials, with Clinton by his side, to go to the City Hall, wherehe was to take the oath of office. The people, all gathered in thestreets, shouted when they saw the new Governor. But at the sight ofClinton, whom they hated, they hissed and shook their fists and yelled,until Clinton became alarmed and hurried back to the fort, leaving thenew Governor to go on without him. And Sir Danvers Osborne was muchsurprised and a little frightened."I expect," said he to Clinton that same day, "I expect the sametreatment before I leave the province,"For all the shaking fists and for all the angry shouts, the new Governorwas well entertained that day. The church-bells rang, cannon boomed, andat night the town was illuminated. But the citizens did not do this somuch for the new Governor as they did for De Lancey, who had now beenmade Lieutenant-Governor.Two days after Sir Danvers took the oath of office he called his councilbefore him and told them that the King had said he was to have thepermanent revenue about which there had been so much trouble with theother governors. And the council members told him, as they had toldothers, that this command would never be obeyed. On hearing this SirDanvers became sad and gloomy. He covered his face with his hands."Then what am I come here for?" he cried.The very next morning there was an uproar in the city. The Governorhad been found dead, hanging from the garden-wall of his house. Thenthe people learned that his mind had been unsettled for a long time,and that he had accepted the governorship hoping to be cured by a changeof scene. But the knowledge that his rule would be one of constantstruggling to gain his ends had doubtless proven too much for hiswrecked brain. So he killed himself, and the government of New York wasleft in the hands of James De Lancey, and you will see how he stillfurther won the hearts of those around him.CHAPTER XIXTHE BEGINNING of DISCONTENTTwo years James De Lancey acted as Governor, and the citizens werereally sorry when Admiral Sir Charles Hardy was sent to take his place.Sir Charles was not slow to see and to admit that while he was a goodsailor, he did not make a good Governor, so after a year he resigned,and the province was once more left to the care of De Lancey.At this time there was much being said about the need for schools, andfor many years plans had been under way for building a college in thecity.Money had been raised by means of lotteries--which were popular andlawful then--and finally the college was established. It was calledKing's College. It is still in existence, but is now ColumbiaUniversity. A tablet at West Broadway and Murray Street tells that thecollege once stood close by.It was near this time that William Walton, a very rich merchant, builtthe finest house that the city had yet known. This was in Queen Street,not a great way from the Stadt Huys, and the furniture and fittings werein keeping with the elegance of the exterior. It was so fine that thefame of it spread to England, where it was spoken of as a proof that thecolonists were very, very rich indeed. This house stood for 129 years.When it was torn down it had become a tenement that showed scarcely atrace of its early grandeur. Queen Street is now Pearl Street and thebuilding numbered 326 is on the site of the famous old house.There was another war with the French now, and four expeditions weresent out against them. On one of these a young officer with the troopsfrom Virginia distinguished himself. He was cool and daring in the midstof battle. The soldiers, who were themselves fearless fighters, stroveto be as brave as he. This officer was only twenty-three years old, andhis name was George Washington. He had a glorious career before him.There came from England in the year following this a burly, blusteringman, who had been appointed commander-in-chief of the British forces inAmerica. This Lord Loudoun very soon proved to everybody's satisfactionexcept his own that he was not fit to be a commander. The people of NewYork detested him heartily, and were glad when after three years he wasrecalled because he was not successful in the war against the French.The new commander-in-chief did better. He was General Jeffrey Amherst,and under him the English were gradually successful. Town after townheld by the French fell, until the capture of Montreal, in 1760, securedto the English the conquest of Canada, and so ended a conflict which hadfor many years drained the energies of the colonists.Soon after this Lieutenant-Governor James De Lancey was found dead inhis library-chair at his country home (now a closely built-up part ofthe city at Delancey Street, near the Bowery). In a few days his bodywas taken from there, followed by a great concourse of people, andburied under the centre aisle of Trinity Church. Up to the last day ofhis life De Lancey remained much beloved.[Illustration: Trinity Church, 1760.]The death of De Lancey left the care of the colony to CadwalladerColden, whom you will remember as the friend of Governor Hunter. He hadbeen so long concerned in public affairs that he knew how to please.Before the year was ended England's King, George II., died. When thenews reached New York, the city was draped with mourning. But in anotherweek all signs of sadness had disappeared in honor of the new King,George III.Then General Robert Monckton, who had been in command of the Englishforces on Staten Island, was made Governor. He was a young man, somewhatcareless, but, as was the case with all the new governors, he waswelcomed with glad shouts of approval.England at this time needed men in her navy, and the captains ofwar-ships were in the habit of boarding any vessel that sailed from thecolonies in America and taking sailors by force to serve on the Englishships. This increased a bitter feeling that the colonists were beginningto have against England. The city had now 14,000 inhabitants and was inquite a flourishing condition.After two years Monckton tired of the cares of government, and sailedaway to England, with never a thought of the wild scenes that were totake place in the land he left behind.CHAPTER XXTHE STORY of the STAMP ACTThe colonists were becoming more and more dissatisfied, not only in NewYork, but in all of the thirteen English colonies in America. For theystrongly objected to the way in which money was being taken from them inthe form of taxes. The English had spent much money in the wars whichled up to the conquest of Canada, and thought that it should be returnedto them. So they taxed the colonists in every possible way. Protest wasmade against these taxes, but in vain. Matters became worse and worse.After two years, when it had come to be the year 1765, the BritishParliament passed what was called the Stamp Act. This compelled thepeople to buy stamps and put them on every sort of legal paper. No onecould be married, no newspaper could be printed, nothing could bebought, nothing could be sold, no business of any sort could be carriedon without these stamps. No one could evade the use of them, and in thisway all would have to contribute directly to the King.More than any other form of tax, more than anything the BritishGovernment had done, the people opposed this Stamp Act. The colonistshad no one to represent them in the British Parliament, no one topresent their side, no one to plead for them and tell what a drain thistax was, so they declared that they would not use a single stamp, unlessthey were allowed to have someone to represent them; and they set up thecry, "No Taxation Without Representation."Very soon a company of men called the Sons of Liberty began to be heardof throughout all the thirteen colonies. They were foremost in opposingthe Stamp Act. In many towns they held meetings, and it was not longbefore the people were aroused from one end of the country to the other.Not many months had passed before men were sent from each of thecolonies and met in the City Hall at New York. This meeting was calleda Colonial Congress. For three weeks these men conferred, and duringthat time decided that in good truth the Stamp Act was unjust, and thateverything in their power should be done to prevent it.[Illustration: Coffee-House opposite Bowling Green, Head-Quarters ofthe Sons of Liberty.]In this same year the house which Stephen De Lancey had built close byTrinity Church, and which James De Lancey had lived in until his death,had become a hotel. It was called Burns's Coffee-House. It was a solidstructure, with high beams, great fireplaces, and wide halls. If yougo now to look for the spot where it stood, you will find a crowdedbusiness section; but in those days there were open spaces all about,and a handsome lawn swept away to the river. One October night themerchants of the city gathered in this coffee-house, and here, late atnight, they signed a paper which bound them one and all to buy no goodsfrom England so long as the English King should compel them to use thestamps. By this agreement people could, of course, only wear clothingthat was made in the colonies, and even the wealthy refused to buy silkand broadcloth that were sent from England. Tea and coffee, beingimports, were not drunk, and in their place were used preparations madefrom fragrant wild herbs of the American soil.The merchants who had assembled in the coffee-house were called theNon-Importation Association, branches of which spread throughout all thecolonies. The paper they signed was the non-importation agreement. Nextday, which was the first on which the stamps were to be distributed, thecity seemed to sleep. The shops were closed and the citizens remainedindoors. The flags were hung at half-mast and the bells tolled dismally.But at night the silence changed to noise. The citizens gathered innumbers. They broke into the stable of Lieutenant-Governor CadwalladerGolden and dragged out his coach of state. In it they put a figure madeof sticks and rags to represent the owner. They marched the streets,shouting as they went, and finally surrounded the fort. The soldierswere drawn up on the ramparts with cannon and gun directed toward theBowling Green. But no shots were fired. The rioters being deniedadmission to the fort, into which they were anxious to get because thestamps were stored there, tore down the wooden railing around theBowling Green, and, kindling a huge fire, burned the coach and thefigure in it.As the flames blazed high, the fury of the mob increased. They rushedaway toward Vauxhall on the outskirts of the town (where Greenwich andWarren Streets now cross). Vauxhall at this time was occupied by a majorof the British army named James. He had said that the stamps ought to becrammed down the throats of the people with the point of a sword. Inrevenge for this his house was broken into, his handsome furniture, hispictures and treasures of every sort dragged out, and kindled into abonfire around which the mob danced and howled.The people were quite determined to take the law into their own handsand destroy every trace of the hated stamps. You shall know presentlywhat prevented them.CHAPTER XXITHE BEGINNING of REVOLUTIONOn the morning after the night of rioting--dark and dreary day that wasquite in keeping with the gloomy feelings of the people--CadwalladerColden, the Lieutenant-Governor, decided that he would do away with thestamps that had caused so much trouble. So he had them delivered to theMayor, who was in accord with the citizens, and the Mayor put them inthe City Hall amid many cheers. A few days after this Sir Henry Moore(who had been appointed Governor of the province) arrived from England,and immediately won the hearts of the citizens by saying that he wouldhave nothing to do with the stamps. During the next few monthsexcitement in New York and in the other colonies increased, and effortsto keep the stamps in use caused riots everywhere.When the King saw that he could not enforce the Stamp Act, and thatserious trouble was likely to occur from every attempt to do so, herepealed the act, the year after it had become a law.The people were overjoyed at this.The King's birthday coming soon after, there was in his honor a greatcelebration, and a liberty pole was planted on the Common, which inafter years played an important part in the history of New York; anda marble statue of William Pitt, Earl of Chatham, was erected. ThisWilliam Pitt had done more than any other man in England to secure therepeal of the Stamp Act, and had time and time again spoken stronglyagainst it. His statue was set up in Wall Street, and at the same timea statue of King George III., seated upon a horse, was erected on theBowling Green. It fared ill with these statues later, as you will see.There was no longer a stamp act, but there was another act quite asdisagreeable. It was called the Mutiny Bill, and it required that foodand drink and sleeping-quarters be given to all the British soldiers.Now the Mutiny Bill fell hardest upon New York, for New York was thehead-quarters of the British army in America. The people refused tocomply with this law, because they feared that it was the first steptoward compelling them to support a great army in America.So the soldiers and citizens were again continually at odds.Four years after the Stamp Act was repealed, during which time affairswere in a most unsettled state and the bitter feeling between thecolonists and England was growing stronger with each passing day, theEnglish Parliament declared that no tax was to be put on anything excepttea. Tea was to be taxed, not so much for the money that would thus goto the King, but to show that he had the right to tax the colonists.This did not settle matters in the least. The colonists had sworn toresist all taxes, and to have a tax on one article was as bad, to theirminds, as having taxes on all. But the merchants were not prospering,for, not importing goods from England, they had none to sell. So acommittee of 100 men was appointed to see what could be done. Thiscommittee decided that it would be right for the merchants to importeverything they needed except tea. And the merchants welcomed thisdecision and agreed to it.But the fiery Sons of Liberty refused to listen to any such compromise.They insisted on keeping the non-importation agreement until the dutyon tea, as well as all other duties, should be done away with once andfor all. So they determined to maintain it until the end, and they didmaintain it well. Day by day the soldiers of King George III. and thecitizens became greater enemies. Although the soldiers tried many timesto drag down the liberty pole, it was well defended, and it stood untilone night in January, 1770, when they tore it down and chopped it intopieces. This act led to the battle of Golden Hill, which was the firstreal battle of the American Revolution.CHAPTER XXIIFIGHTING the TAX on TEAA bit of rising ground, not a great way from the Common, was calledGolden Hill. Here there was an inn. To this day the elevation of groundcan be seen (where John Street crosses William), and the inn stillstands. While the thought of the wrecked liberty pole was still freshin mind, some of the Sons of Liberty came suddenly upon a number ofsoldiers close by this inn. There was a running fight, the soldiersusing their guns and cutlasses and the others beating them back withstaves and sticks. More soldiers came and the fight grew in fury.Already one man had received his death-blow and a dozen had beeninjured, when several officers came galloping up the road and thesoldiers were ordered back to their barracks. This was the battle ofGolden Hill.Very often after this the soldiers and the citizens clashed andsometimes came to blows, and progress was at a standstill because of theturbulence of the times. Public improvements were neglected and verylittle business was carried on.In the third year after the battle of Golden Hill, the BritishGovernment decided to make the colonists buy tea whether they wanted toor not. So the price was put down until tea could be bought in New Yorkcheaper than it could be bought in England. This did no good, for thoughthe tea was cheap the tax was on it and it was the tax and not the priceof which the people complained. The Sons of Liberty, when they heardthat ships loaded with cheap tea were on the way from England, said theywould not even permit it to be landed. The first ship in port was underthe command of a captain named Lockyer, who, when he learned of thestrong efforts made to prevent the landing of the tea, determined toreturn to England with his cargo. He anchored his ship in the bay andcame in a small boat to the city. The people, joyful over his decision,decided to give him a public leave-taking.Within a few days another ship sailed into the bay, commanded by CaptainChambers, who insisted that he had no tea on board. When told that hisvessel would be searched, he admitted that he had a few chests. Thatsame night the citizens who had all day thronged the wharf, suddenlyswarmed aboard the vessel. The hatches were ripped up, and the eighteenchests of tea hauled on deck. There they were torn into pieces and thecontents scattered into the river. Having done this the crowds dispersedand all was quiet again.Next day came the public leave-taking of Captain Lockyer. He had spentthe night at the coffee-house in Wall Street, and here, early in themorning, there was a great assembly. The bells of the city chimedmerrily; flags floated from the houses, and the ships in the bay weredecorated with gay colors.From the balcony of the coffee-house the Captain bowed while the crowdscheered him. Finally a committee escorted him to the foot of WallStreet, where he embarked in a pilot-boat which took him to his ship.Another committee, with far less ceremony, escorted Captain Chambers tothe same boat, and the two captains sailed away.[Illustration: Ferry-House on East River, 1746, from an Old Print.]Even before this had happened in New York, the citizens of Boston haddumped a cargo of tea into their harbor, and the British Parliament hadclosed the port of Boston; which meant that no ships were permitted tosail in or out of it. By this it was hoped to stop all business inBoston, and really it did put an end to a great part of it. And GeneralThomas Gage, who now had charge of the British troops in America,undertook to see that the orders of the King were properly enforced.This closing of the port of Boston aroused the thirteen British coloniesin America. After a great deal of letter-writing it was decided to havemen from each of these colonies meet and talk matters over. In Septemberof this year (1774) they met in Philadelphia. At this meeting, which wascalled the First Continental Congress, it was decided that laws weremade in England that were unjust to America, that the colonists objectedto taxes that were fixed by Parliament and would buy no more goods fromEngland while a tax was upon them; and that they objected to the supportof a large British army in the colonies.And this First Continental Congress sent a petition to King George III.,saying that the unjust laws should be done away with.How the King received this petition is soon told.CHAPTER XXIIITHE SONS of LIBERTY at TURTLE BAYNow in New York almost everybody was anxious to carry out the decisionof this First Continental Congress.But the Assembly said that the Congress had not been a lawful gatheringand must not be obeyed. The colonists replied that they would do as theythought best, no matter what the King's Assembly ordered.You must know that some of the people supported the royal cause and werecalled Royalists or Tories. The others were called Patriots or Whigs.The English called the patriots rebels.It had now come to be the year 1775, and matters in Boston where theport had been closed were growing worse and worse. In the month of Aprilsome British soldiers passing through Lexington shot down a number ofpatriots. Messengers on horseback sped through the colonies carryingnews of this massacre. It was the first serious encounter of theRevolution and the colonists realized that they were now at war with theBritish. Men rushed to arms. Farmers left their homes. Professional menhurried from the towns. Within a few days an army surrounded Boston andpenned in the British troops there.When the messenger reached New York with the news of the Lexingtonmassacre, a Provisional Assembly was formed which was to look after thecity without regard to the Assembly which already existed. And this isthe way it came about that there was a king's government and a people'sgovernment. Shops were closed and armed citizens paraded the streets.Matters went on in this fashion for a month, when a Second ContinentalCongress met at Philadelphia.As it was now seen that there was to be a serious conflict with GreatBritain, the army gathered about Boston was adopted as the beginning ofthe forces to be assembled and was termed the Continental Army, andGeorge Washington was appointed commander-in-chief.[Illustration: East River Shore, 1750, from an Old Print.]Knowing that they would soon need guns and powder, the Sons of Libertyseized those held by the royal troops in New York. There was quite aquantity in a storehouse at Turtle Bay, a quiet little cove three milesabove the town, that curved into a wild and rocky part of the East Rivershore. Nowadays the city extends for miles and miles above it. If you goto Forty-ninth Street and the East River you will see all that remainsof it. Although the houses are built thick about it, there is still anair of seclusion. Everywhere else along the shore are piers andbath-houses and wharves and ships and shipping.So at this Turtle Bay, far from the town, the royal troops had astorehouse for their arms. A small band of the Sons of Liberty, one darknight, floated down the river, guided their vessel into the bay,overpowered the guards before they were fairly aroused, and loaded theirboat with the enemy's powder and guns. Then they made off, and beforethe morning dawned had placed the stores safe in the hands of thepatriots.Then the War of the Revolution broke in full fury.CHAPTER XXIVTHE WAR of the REVOLUTIONIn this month of June, in the year 1775, there were quite a number ofBritish soldiers in the city, and many of the patriots believed thatthey should be made prisoners. But the Provisional Assembly decreed thatthe orders of the Second Continental Congress must be obeyed. And theseorders were not to molest the soldiers as long as they did not try tobuild fortifications or remove powder and guns from the city.But early in this month of June it was learned that the soldiers wereabout to go to Boston. More than that, it was known that there was asecret order under which they were to take guns and powder with them.The Sons of Liberty were hastily called to a meeting. One of them,Marinus Willett, was hurrying through Broad Street toward theCoffee-House where the meeting was to be held, when he came upon thesoldiers moving silently along with five carts loaded with chests ofarms. Alone, and without an instant's hesitation, Willett clutched atthe bridle of the first horse. The company stopped. There was an angryparley, the officers claiming the right to leave the city with the arms,and making an effort to do so without raising a general alarm. Butfriends of Willett came to his assistance. The five carts were drivenaway by the patriots and the soldiers went on but without the arms. Longyears afterward a bronze tablet was placed on a house in Broad Streetclose by Beaver (and is there now), to mark the spot where the braveWillett stopped the ammunition wagons.In this same month a battle was fought between the British army inBoston and the Continental army which was encamped outside of Boston.It was fought on a bit of high ground near the city, and was calledthe Battle of Bunker Hill.Just at this time word came that General George Washington, the newlyappointed commander-in-chief, was on his way from Philadelphia to theContinental army, and would pass through New York City. Washington withhis aides and a company of soldiers were hurrying across New Jersey onhorseback, and when they reached the city they were met by a committeefrom the Provisional Assembly, with a number of patriot soldiers.The next morning Washington set out for Boston. He had not yet left thetown when a ship appeared in the bay having on board Governor WilliamTryon, who had been visiting in England for nearly a year. GovernorTryon did not remain long in the city though, as it was not acomfortable place for a royal Governor just then. He hurriedly left onenight and went aboard one of the British ships in the bay.At the close of this year Washington was still before Boston with theContinental army. Another section of the army was in the North, fightingagainst the British in Canada. This last branch was encamped about thewalls of Quebec in the last month of the year. It was under the commandof General Richard Montgomery, of New York, a brilliant soldier who hadfought in the French and Indian wars. Quebec was stormed, but was toostrong to be taken. Montgomery fell crying, "Men of New York, you willnot fear to follow where your general leads." He was buried withmilitary honors in Quebec, for the British honored him as a brave man.Forty-three years later his remains were removed to New York, and placedbeneath the portico of St. Paul's Chapel, where his tomb may now beseen.Fighting by the side of Montgomery when he fell was a youth who wassingled out for his bravery. His name was Aaron Burr. You are to hearmore of him, for many and many a time in after years the eyes of theentire country were turned upon him.CHAPTER XXVA BATTLE on LONG ISLANDAnd now, early in the next spring, George Washington came again toNew York, having at last forced the British troops from Boston. Thecity, which was under the control of the patriots, was in a state ofexcitement, as it seemed probable that this was to be the next pointof attack. Every person who favored the cause of the King, or who wassuspected of favoring it, was looked upon with distrust. One-third ofthe citizens had fled. The soldiers of the Continental army werearriving daily. Women and children were rarely seen upon the streets.Many of the royalists' houses, which had been closed when their ownersfled, were broken open to give sleeping quarters to the soldiers.At the outbreak of the war the people's grievance had been simplytaxation without representation, but by this time the desire forcomplete independence had taken fast hold of them. This feeling sweptthrough the colonies, and when the Continental Congress met in June ofthis year, it voted that the united colonies should be free andindependent States and have no further political connection with GreatBritain. A declaration of independence was adopted on July 4th, and theBritish colonies became the United States of America.A horseman brought the news to New York, and there was great rejoicing.The soldiers of the new Union then in the city were ordered to theCommon, and there, early in the evening, standing in a hollowsquare--close by where the City Hall is now--and surrounded by a greatconcourse of people, Washington read the address that proclaimed thebirth of a free and independent nation.Following the reading the great throng applauded and then, filled withenthusiasm, rushed away. At the City Hall in Wall Street they tore downthe painting of King George III. and trampled it under foot. On againthey went to the Bowling Green, and there they dragged down the statueof the same royal person which had been erected only a few years before.The scattered fragments of the leaden statue were afterward gathered upand moulded into bullets.This same month General William Howe, commander of the British army, hadlanded on Staten Island, with his brother, Admiral Howe of the Britishnavy, and with the soldiers and sailors of their commands, made up afine, well-drilled army of 35,000 men, who had come to fight a force of20,000 recruits; men not at all well-versed in war, and nearly half ofwhom were ill and not able to be on duty.But Washington calmly watched the British on Staten Island, and theBritish ships, more than 400 of them, in the bay, and was not at alldismayed. Once General Howe wrote to Washington suggesting measures thatwould lead to peace, but nothing came of it.Late in the month of August the fighting commenced. General Howe led hisforces to Long Island--led 21,000 men, for he thought that the best wayto capture New York was to first vanquish the army on Long Island by anoverwhelming force. Then the subduing of the city across the river wouldbe easy.Washington hurried what men he could across to Long Island to assistthose already there. But even then the Americans were outnumbered as twoto one. The patriots fought long and well, but they were defeated. Twohundred or more were killed, and three times as many, including threegenerals, were made prisoners. But more than 300 of the British werealso killed.The day after the battle, the American army was in Brooklyn, penned inon the land side by the British troops and on the other by the wide,swift-running river. It was raining in torrents. Washington was there.He planned a retreat that was to save his army. All the boats to befound along the shores of the Island of Manhattan were taken to Brooklynin the dead of night. Silently the soldiers were put aboard, so silentlythat, although the British were almost within speaking distance, nosound of the departing army reached them. The point where they embarkedwas close by where the East River Bridge now touches the Brooklyn shore.It was daylight before the last of the troops got aboard, but a heavyfog shielded them as well as had the darkness.When the sun swept the fog away, General Howe gazed in wonder at thespot where the American forces had been the night before. But theywere gone, with the swiftness and silence of magic! The magician wasWashington, who had not slept from the hour of defeat until his men weresafe again in New York. But they were not to remain there long, as moreexciting work was before them.CHAPTER XXVITHE BRITISH OCCUPY NEW YORKMiles and miles above the little city of New York, on a road which ledup through the Island of Manhattan, there was a stately house in astretch of country and forest land overlooking the Hudson River. Thiswas the house of Charles Ward Apthorpe and was known as the Apthorpemansion. Here General Washington went after the retreat from LongIsland, to devise a plan for the battles that were to come.The city was well fortified, but Washington understood full well thatit could not be held long against a British attack. For the Britishsoldiers were already on the islands of the East River, and the Britishships held possession of the harbor and of both rivers. So Washingtonsent the main body of his army to Harlem Heights at the northern end ofthe Island of Manhattan, and left only a force of 4,000 men, underGeneral Putnam, in New York.Washington desiring to learn the plans of the enemy, called for someonewho would be willing to go into the British lines. This was a dangerousundertaking, for capture meant certain death. But there was a youngofficer who was anxious to undertake the mission, and the arrangementswere made. This was Nathan Hale. In disguise he made his way, learnedthe number of the enemy, and learned, too, all about the plan of attack.With this information he was hurrying back to General Washington, whenhe was recognized as belonging to the American army, and was arrested.In a few days, when he was tried, he freely admitted that he had actedas Washington's spy. He died as he had lived--bravely. A moment beforehe was hanged he was asked if he wished to say any word. "Yes," heanswered; and looking firmly into the faces of those who stood abouthim, "I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my country,"No wonder that the memory of the Martyr Spy has lived through thepassing years!Sixteen days after Washington and his men retreated from Long Island,the British sailed up the East River and anchored opposite a littleinlet called Kip's Bay (at the foot of what is now Thirty-sixth Street).They fired upon those who defended the bay, and under cover of this firelanded; and the American soldiers scurried away up the island toward thenorth.General Howe led his men on for half a mile, until they reached a largecountry house. This was the home, and all about it was the farm, of afamily named Murray (who gave their name to Murray Hill). These Murrayswere friendly to the patriots, but they were also well acquainted withGovernor Tryon, who was with the British army. So the army rested closeby the house, and Howe, Tryon, and the other officers were given a finedinner by Mrs. Murray.[Illustration: Mrs. Murray's Dinner to British Officers.]Now although the Americans had retreated north up the island from Kip'sBay, and were safely on their way to the main army on Harlem Heights,you must remember there were 4,000 soldiers still in the city. So theBritish were in the centre of the island with a very large force; themain body of the Americans was to the north; while to the south was thislittle band of 4,000, far away from their army and in a position to betrapped by the British. Had the British officers at once decided tostretch their men across the island, the 4,000 would have been pennedup on the lower part and would have been made prisoners. It thereforeseemed to Putnam's men that there was but one way for them to escapecapture, and that was by slipping past the British who rested at Murrayhouse and joining the main army on Harlem Heights.The Murrays understood the condition of affairs, so they wereparticularly cordial to their British guests and detained them as longas they could at dinner. They were still feasting when General Putnamstarted his 4,000 men marching toward the north.[Illustration: Howe's Head-Quarters, Beekman House.]He galloped far in advance, for the country was rough and his soldierscould walk but slowly. He galloped north, and Washington, hanging to therear of the retreating troops from Kip's Bay, the generals met where tworoads crossed, close by where Broadway now crosses Forty-third Street.Washington instructed Putnam to hurry his 4,000 on before they wereirretrievably cut off from the main army. They did hurry on. They drewnear the Murray house; they formed a line two miles long that movedsilently over the road that led them to within half a mile of where theBritish soldiers were feasting. The line passed this point. Scarcely hadthe last man gone by when the British were on the move, half an hour toolate for the capture of 4,000 prisoners.Now the American forces were all together in a solid mass, moving towardthe upper end of the island; plodding through pouring rain, almostdropping from the exhaustion of their long march--but safe.This same night a division of the British soldiers occupied New York.The others, close on the heels of the American army, waited for themorning.CHAPTER XXVIITHE BATTLE of HARLEM HEIGHTSWhen the sun rose next morning (it was September 16th), the Americanarmy and the British army lay encamped each on a highland close besideone another separated by a valley.The ground occupied by the British soldiers was then Vandewater Heights.Much of this high ground still remains and is now called ColumbiaHeights, and Columbia University and Grant's Tomb are upon it. TheAmerican forces were scattered over what was then Harlem Heights, as faras Washington's head-quarters in the country mansion overlooking theHarlem River above Harlem Plains. It was the house of Roger Morris, aroyalist who had fled at the approach of the American soldiers, and itstill stands at 160th Street close by St. Nicholas Avenue. On theheights and in the valley a battle was fought, beginning with a lightengagement quite early in the day, with more and more men of both armiesgradually joining in until there were 5,000 Americans against 6,000British, with several thousand of each side held in reserve.[Illustration: Map of Manhattan Island in 1776, Showing the AmericanDefences &c.]The battle ended in the afternoon with the defeat of the British, wholost 200 of their number.This was a great victory for the Americans, who fought against superiornumbers--great because the men had lost heart after the defeat on LongIsland, and the forced retreat from the city. There was sorrow for thedead, for even victories have a sad side. Every one of the 100 Americansoldiers who were killed that day were brave men, and though all theirnames are not written in history, the manner of their death urged ontheir companions in the days that followed.CHAPTER XXVIIITHE BRITISH FAIL to SWEEP EVERYTHING BEFORE THEMOn the fourth day after the battle of Harlem Heights the soldiers ofEngland were making themselves comfortable in New York when a greatfire broke out. It swept over the city and 500 houses crumbled and fellin ashes before it was controlled. Almost the entire western part ofthe city was consumed, St. Paul's Chapel being the only building ofimportance that was saved. Almost all who favored the American cause hadfled. But a few remained, and there was a hint that these had startedthe fire. The British soldiers were angered when they saw the city theyhad just entered burning, and while the flames roared and the housesfell they rushed about and in their rage dashed out the brains of thecitizens who sought to beat back the flames from their homes. But itwas afterward learned that the fire had started in quite an accidentalmanner.A little while after this General Howe moved with the greater part ofthe British army up the East River, and sailing on past the Island ofManhattan, landed on the mainland beyond in Westchester. In this way theBritish were in the rear of the Americans, and within a few days the twoarmies coming together a battle was fought, in which the Americans weredefeated. Washington and his men then retreated into New Jersey.General Howe next attacked Fort Washington, a high and rocky point onthe banks of the Hudson River (on a line with the present 178th Street).There were 3,000 men here, all the American soldiers who were now on theisland, and they held such a high and well-fortified position that theythought themselves quite safe. They doubtless would have been had notone of their number, William Demont, turned traitor. He told the Britishjust how many men there were, and just how the fortress should beattacked. And the British stormed the fort as the traitor directed, andtook it, and every one of the soldiers who had not been killed was madeprisoner. This ended the actual fight for liberty in New York.[Illustration: View from the Bowling Green in the Revolution, from anOld Print]But outside of New York the war went bravely on. Washington in NewJersey kept up the fight, but the winter came on and his army sufferedexceedingly. It had come to be a very small army by this time, for theywere poorly fed and ill clothed and seldom had any sort of shelter.Nevertheless, Washington gained many victories in New Jersey andmanoeuvred his little army so well that the whole world, hearing of hisachievements, was forced to recognize him as a great general.New York was the head-quarters of the British army in America, and theresidence of its chief officers. The city was as thoroughly British asit had before been American, and it was as much as life was worth evento hint of an interest in the American cause.Early in the next year, 1777, those who had the making of the laws forthe new State of New York, met in secret, and chose George Clinton astheir first Governor. The other colonies had formed themselves intoStates, and the new nation grew stronger day by day.Commissioners were sent to the European courts to ask aid for the UnitedStates. Many young French noblemen, thrilled at the idea of fighting forliberty, came to America as volunteers, and by their knowledge of wargave valuable assistance to the American officers. The name of theMarquis de Lafayette stands out prominently as the chief of thesevolunteers. He was not yet twenty years old, but fitted out a vessel athis own expense and crossed the ocean to offer his services. He asked tobe enlisted as a volunteer and to serve without pay, but he was soonappointed a major-general.When it had come to be July of this year, there was some fighting inthe North, for the British General Burgoyne came down from Canada. Heintended to meet the army under Howe which was marching northward, andthe two armies were to sweep everything before them. Burgoyne defeatedthe Americans led by General Philip Schuyler, in several battles. Justat this time General Schuyler's command was given to General Gates. NowGates followed the plans that had been made by Schuyler, with the resultthat Burgoyne and his entire force of 6,000 men surrendered at Saratoga.This settled one branch of the British army. The other branch, underGeneral Howe, took possession of Philadelphia, but the defeat ofBurgoyne at Saratoga put an end to their hopes of sweeping everythingbefore them.In the last month of the year, Washington and his army took up winterquarters at Valley Forge so as to keep a close watch upon the Britishin Philadelphia.CHAPTER XXIXNEW YORK a PRISON-HOUSEThe winter passed, and when the spring came the British army movedfrom Philadelphia to New York City, but not without great trouble, forWashington's army fought them every step of the way across New Jersey.The city was now quite different from the flourishing town it had beenbefore the war. Held possession of by the British, it was a militarycamp. No improvements were made. Many of the citizens who were loyal tothe American cause had fled. Those who were too poor to leave pretendedto favor the British, but as little business could be done, they couldfind no work, and their condition became worse daily. Thousands ofAmerican prisoners were brought here, making it a British prison-house,and every building of any size was a guard-house, every cellar adungeon.[Illustration: Old Sugar-House in Liberty Street, the Prison-House ofthe Revolution.]One of the gloomiest of these prisons was an old sugar-house close bythe Middle Dutch Church. It was built in the days of Jacob Leisler,with thick stone walls five stories high, pierced with small windows.The ceilings were so low and the windows so small that the air couldscarcely find entrance. Underneath was a black and dismal cellar. Thepale and shrunken faces of prisoners filled the openings at the windowsby day and by night, seeking a breath of air. They were so jammedtogether that there was by no means room at the windows for all. Sothese wretched men divided themselves into groups, each group crowdingclose to the windows for ten minutes, then giving place to anothergroup. They slept on straw that was never changed, and the food giventhem was scarcely enough to keep them alive. Those who suffered thisliving death might have been free at any time had they been willing togo over to the British, but few of the patriots, even in this dreadhour, deserted their cause. To while away the hours of their captivity,they carved their names upon the walls with rusty nails. Fevers ragedconstantly and they died by scores, leaving their half-finished initialson the walls as their only relics. Their bodies were thrown out ofdoors, and every morning gathered up in carts and carried to theoutskirts of the city to be buried in a trench without ceremony.This was only one of a dozen such prison-houses. There was one otherthat, if anything, was worse. It was the New Jail, and it stillstands in City Hall Park and is now the Hall of Records. During thewar it was known as The Provost, because it was the head quarters of aprovost-marshal named Cunningham. It was his custom at the conclusionof his drunken revels to parade his weak, ill, half-fed prisonersbefore his guests, as fine specimens of the rebel army. It is saidof him, too, that he poisoned those who died too slowly of cold andstarvation, and then went right on drawing money to feed them. This gaverise to the saying that he starved the living and fed the dead. He tooka great delight in being as cruel and merciless as he could, and veryoften boasted that he had caused the death of more rebels than had beenkilled by all of the King's forces.Many American sailors were also captured (for the Revolution wasfought on the sea as well as on land) and all these were placed aboardprison-ships--useless hulks, worn-out freight-boats, and abandonedmen-of-war. For a time these hulks were anchored close by the Battery,but afterward they were taken to the Brooklyn shore. There was miseryand suffering on all of them, but the worst was called the "Jersey,"where captives were crowded into the hold, the sick and the well, poorlyfed and scarcely clothed, so many of them as hardly to permit space tolie down, watched over by a guard of merciless soldiers. Disease in adozen forms was always present, and every morning the living were forcedto carry out those who had died over night.During this year 1778, and for several years after, the war was carriedon for the most part in the South, in Georgia and South Carolina, whilethe British soldiers in the city made trips into the surrounding countryand laid it waste. Washington and his army in New Jersey could do littlemore than watch.In the year 1780 the American cause came very near receiving a seriouscheck, when an officer high in rank turned traitor. This man wasBenedict Arnold, and had been a vigorous fighter. But now he bargainedwith the British to turn over to them West Point, where he was chief incommand. Major John Andre, a brilliant young officer under the BritishGeneral Clinton, was sent to make the final arrangements. Andre wasreturning to New York when he was captured with the plans of West Pointconcealed in his boots. He was hanged as a spy, and Arnold, escaping tothe British in New York, fought with them, despised by the Americans andmistrusted by the English; for a traitor can never be truly liked orrespected even by those who benefit by his treachery.The War of the Revolution went on until the fall of the year 1781, whenGeneral Washington made a sudden move that drew his men away from thevicinity of New York before the British army could foresee it. Then hehurried to the South. There, at Yorktown, in Virginia, the combinedAmerican army hemmed in, and after a battle forced to surrender, LordCornwallis, the British commander in the South, and all his men.This victory was so great that it really ended the war. Great Britaingave up the struggle, and a treaty of peace was signed.And now you will see how the British army left the city of New York.CHAPTER XXXAFTER the WAROn a crisp, cold day, late in the fall, a tall, mild-faced man on aspirited horse passed down the Bowery Road, followed by a long trainof soldiers whose shabby clothes and worn faces told of days of trialand hardship. This was General George Washington with a portion of theContinental army. They were entering New York on this same day when theBritish troops were leaving it.But although the British were leaving under the terms of the treaty ofpeace, and had gone on board ships that were to take them to England,there were many who were filled with rage at this enforced departure.At the fort by the river-side they had knocked the cleats _off_ theflag-pole, and had greased the pole so that no one could climb itto put up the United States flag and thus flaunt it in the face of thedeparting troops. But the soldiers of Washington who reached the fortjust as the last British company was leaving, set to work with hammerand saw. They made new cleats for the pole. Then a young sailor--hisname was John Van Arsdale--filling his pockets with the cleats andnailing them above him as he climbed the pole step by step, was able toput the flag in position. And as it floated to the breeze a salute ofthirteen guns sounded while the British troops were still withinhearing.So now the city of New York, which for seven years the British hadoccupied, was again in possession of the citizens.General Washington only remained here a few days. He made hishead-quarters in Fraunces's Tavern, in Broad Street, and there at noonon December 4th, his officers assembled to hear his words of farewell.It was an affectionate parting of men who had suffered danger andprivations together. There were tears in Washington's eyes.[Illustration: North Side of Wall Street East of William Street, Takena Few Years after the Revolutionary War.]"With a heart full of love and gratitude," said he, "I now take my leaveof you, and most devoutly wish that your latter days may be asprosperous and happy as your former ones have been glorious andhonorable."It was not a time for much talking, and Washington was soon gone,leaving real sorrow behind him. Within a few weeks he had resigned hiscommission as commander-in-chief, and had retired as a private citizento his home at Mount Vernon.The city of New York was in quite a deplorable state. The wide tractswept by the fire of 1776 still lay in blackened ruins. No effort hadbeen made to rebuild except where temporary wooden huts had been setup by the soldiers. The churches, all of which had been used for onepurpose or another, were dismantled, blackened, and marred. There wasscarcely a house in all the little town that had not been ill-usedby the soldiers. Fences were down, and the streets were filled withrubbish. It was a city stricken with premature decay. Business lifewas dead, and would have to be begun all over again. The citizens weredivided against themselves. Feuds existed everywhere. Patriots who hadfled and had now come back felt a deep bitterness against those who hadadopted the royal cause for the purpose of keeping possession of theirproperty. These, however, complained just as bitterly because now theirhomes were taken from them in the adjustment.King's College, of which you have been told, had been closed all duringthe war, and had been used as a hospital. It was opened now, but wascalled Columbia College, as the King no longer had any claims on thecity or its institutions.During the next few years business slowly revived, and day by day thecity was rebuilt, growing into something like its old self.Some little distance above the Common was the City Hospital. There camerumors at this time that the bodies of the dead were being stolen fromthe graveyards and used by the students for dissecting purposes. Therewas no truth in these stories, yet many persons became alarmed. Theygathered, broke into the hospital and destroyed everything of value.The doctors fled to the jail on the Common for protection. The mobdetermined to seize them, and tore down the fences about the jail. Thenthe Mayor gathered a body of citizens to oppose the mob. As night cameon, the rioters, becoming more and more destructive, were fired upon andfive were killed. After this they scampered away, the trouble was over,and that was the last of the Doctors' Mob.CHAPTER XXXITHE FIRST PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATESRebuilding a city and forming a new nation is such a great task that youcan readily believe it was not accomplished without some difficulty. Thecolonies were free from the rule of the English King, but it wasnecessary for them to learn to govern themselves.Each of the new States now had its own government. It was thought bymany that there should be some powerful central government to controlall the States. So after a great deal of deliberation a convention washeld in Philadelphia over which George Washington presided. After fourmonths of hard work the present Constitution of the United States wasgiven to each State to be approved.There was strong need for this step to be taken, but there were agreat many who did not want it, because they thought it would give thePresident as much power as a king, and as they had gone to some cost torid themselves of a king, they did not wish another. Those who wanted acentral government were called Federalists. Those who did not want itwere called Anti-Federalists.In New York there was one man who did everything that man could doto convince others that the central government was the best thing forthe good of the new nation. His name was Alexander Hamilton. He wasa young man who had been, ever since he was a boy, a friend of GeorgeWashington; who had lived in Washington's family and had fought as anofficer side by side with Washington, and was a man of much power anddeep learning.This Constitution of the United States had been approved by nine of theStates, when, in June, 1788, a convention was held to determine whetherNew York was to approve it or not. At this convention Alexander Hamiltonspoke eloquently, in an effort to have the Constitution approved.The convention was still meeting in July, having come to no decision,when the followers of Hamilton, the Federalists, had a great paradethrough the streets of New York. It was the first big parade in thecity, and the grandest spectacle that had ever been seen in Americaup to this time.[Illustration: Celebration of the Adoption of the Constitution.]The most imposing part of it was a great wooden ship on wheels, made torepresent the Ship of State, and called the "Federal Ship Hamilton."The parade was a mile and a half long and there were five thousand menin it. It passed along the streets of the city, past the fort, and onup Broadway over the tree-covered hill above the Common, and on to theBayard Farm beyond the Collect Pond. There a halt was made and thethousands of people sat down on the grass to a dinner.Three days after this the convention approved of the Constitution forthe State of New York. And so the majority of the States having agreedto it, in the next year George Washington was chosen as the firstPresident of the United States, and the city of New York was selectedas the temporary seat of the general government.CHAPTER XXXIITHE WELCOME to GEORGE WASHINGTONNow that New York was the seat of the national government, the old CityHall in Wall Street was made larger and fitted up in grand style and wascalled Federal Hall.In April George Washington came to this city from his home at MountVernon. Every step of his way, by carriage and on horseback, was a marchof triumph. The people in towns and villages and countryside greeted himwith shouts and signs of affection. But it was in New York that thegreatest welcome was given him.The city had taken on a most picturesque appearance. Every house wasdecorated with colors, and when Washington landed from a barge at thefoot of Wall Street, he walked up a stairway strewn with flowers. Thestreets were so thronged that way could scarcely be made. Not only werethe streets filled, but every window and every house-top. The peoplewaited for hours, and when Washington arrived a wild hubbub commencedthat kept up all the day long.[Illustration: View of Federal Hall and Part of Broad Street, 1796.]Washington was escorted to the house that had been prepared for him, alittle way out of town at the top of a hill.If in the days that you read this you walk along Pearl Street until youcome to the East River bridge at Franklin Square, a part of the citycrowded with tenements and factories, you will stand close by where thehouse was. On the abutment of the bridge you will find a tablet that hasbeen riveted to the stone, so that all who pass may know that Washingtononce lived there. The house was built by Walter Franklin, a richmerchant, and was therefore called the Franklin House. The square,however, does not take its name from this man, but from the renownedBenjamin Franklin.Very soon, on a bright, sunshiny day, Washington stood on the balcony ofFederal Hall, surrounded by the members of the Senate and the House ofRepresentatives, with the citizens thronging every inch of the nearbystreets. And there he took the oath of office, and having taken it thecry was raised, "Long Live George Washington, First President of theUnited States," a cry that was echoed from street to street, and went onechoing out into the country beyond.[Illustration: The John Street Theatre, 1781.]The life of the First President was a simple and a busy one. He rose atfour o'clock each morning and went to bed at nine in the evening. Manyhours a day he worked at matters of state, receiving all who called, sothat there was quite a stream of people going to and from the FranklinHouse at all times. Sometimes during the day he took a long drive withMrs. Washington, which he called the "Fourteen Miles 'round," going upone side of the island above the city and coming down the other.Sometimes of an evening he attended a performance at the little JohnStreet Theatre. Always on Sunday he and all his family went to St.Paul's Chapel. And the pew in which they sat you can sit in if you goto that old chapel, for it has been preserved all these years.By this time the fort by the Bowling Green, which had stood since thedays of the Dutch, was torn down to make room for a mansion that wasto be called the Government House and be occupied by the President.The mansion was built, but you shall see presently why no President everoccupied it.CHAPTER XXXIIICONCERNING the TAMMANY SOCIETY and BURR'S BANKThere was formed just about this time, in fact the very month afterWashington's inauguration, an organization which was called the TammanySociety. And out of this society grew the great political body--TammanyHall. The Tammany Society took its name from a celebrated Indian chief,and at first had as its central purpose the effort to keep a love ofcountry strong in every heart. The best men in the city belonged to theTammany Society, which held meetings and transacted business under allsorts of odd and peculiar forms. It divided the seasons of the year intothe Season of Blossoms, the Season of Fruits, the Season of Moons, andthe Season of Snows, instead of Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter. Andthe head of the order was called the Grand Sachem or Chief.New York now became a very active and a very brilliant city indeed,and all manner of improvements were made. The first sidewalks were laidalong Broadway, just above St. Paul's Chapel. They were pavements ofbrick, so narrow that two persons could scarcely walk along side byside. Then the high hill crossed by Broadway just above the Common wascut away so that the street stretched away as broad and as straight asyou see it to-day. Numbers were put on the houses and streets were cutthrough the waste lands about the Collect Pond, and the barracks whichwere built for the British soldiers were torn away as unsightlystructures. These barracks were log huts a story high, enclosed by ahigh wall. The gate at one end, called Tryon's Gate, gave the name toTryon's Row as it now exists. Trinity Church, which had been in ruinssince the fire, was rebuilt, as well as many, many other houses.Now the fact that the city was the seat of the national government andwas the home of Washington had much to do with its improvement. But NewYork had only been fixed upon as the capital temporarily, and a dozenStates were anxious for that honor. Finally, in the second year thatWashington was President, it was decided to build a city which shouldbe the seat of the general government, on land given by the Statesof Maryland and Virginia for that purpose and called the District ofColumbia. While the city (which was given the name of Washington) wasbeing built, the seat of government was to be in Philadelphia, andWashington went there to live. A great many of the gay and brilliantcompany that had been attracted to the capital followed him there, andfor a time New York languished in neglect.It now began to look as though the United States would be drawn intoanother war with Great Britain. For the French Revolution was inprogress and the French people were at war with the English, and thoughtthat the Americans should help them as they had helped the Americans inRevolutionary times. But President Washington and some of the very wiseand good people about him thought it best to have nothing to do with it.So a treaty was made between England and the United States, and theFrench did not get the help they asked.Some of the citizens of New York, quite a large number of them, werevery angry when they heard of this treaty and burned a copy of it on theBowling Green, with all sorts of threats. But after a time those who hadshouted against it changed their minds. They had something more seriousto think of nearer home before many years, for the small-pox broke outin the city and thousands upon thousands hurried away to escape thedread disease. All business was at a standstill, and even the churcheswere closed. When the scourge had spent its force, it was found thatmore than 2,000 had died of it.There was one man who took advantage of the small-pox scare to his ownprofit. This was Aaron Burr. You will remember him as a boy fightingby the side of Montgomery in Canada. He was now a lawyer known for hisgreat skill the country over; a man of education and deep learning.He was the leader of a political party, a party which contended with,fought with, disagreed with at every turn the party of which AlexanderHamilton was one of the chief leaders.Now there were two banks in the city, both of which were under thecontrol of the party to which Alexander Hamilton belonged. Aaron Burrdetermined that his party should have a bank, too. The citizens wereprejudiced against banks, and did not want a new one. But Burrdetermined to establish one, and set about it in a most peculiar way.All at once the report got about that the small-pox had been caused bythe well-water. This was about all there was to drink in the city,except that which came from a few springs and was said to be very impureindeed. So Aaron Burr and his friends secured a charter for a companythat was to supply clear, pure water. This pleased the citizens verymuch. But there was a clause in the charter to the effect that as allthe money might not be needed for the bringing of water into the city,that which remained could be used for _any_ purpose the company saw fit.Only those in the secret understood that the money was to be used tostart a bank. So the company dug deep wells not far from the CollectPond, and pumped water from them into a reservoir which was built closeby the Common on Chambers Street, and then sent it through the city bymeans of curious wooden pipes. This water was really just as impure asthat which had before been taken from the wells, and it was not longbefore the new water-works were known to be a failure. Then the companygave all their attention to the bank, which had in the meanwhile beenstarted.[Illustration: Reservoir of Manhattan Water-Works in Chambers Street.]This company of Aaron Burr's was called the Manhattan Company, and theirManhattan Bank has been kept going ever since and is still in existencein a fine large building in Wall Street.So you see Aaron Burr this time got the better of Alexander Hamilton andhis friends.If you turn the page you will read more of Hamilton and Burr.CHAPTER XXXIVMORE about HAMILTON and BURRThe dawn of the nineteenth century saw 60,000 people in the city of NewYork and the town extending a mile up the island. Above the city werefarms and orchards and the country homes of the wealthy. Where Broadwayended there was a patch of country called Lispenard's Meadow, and aboutthis time a canal was cut through it from the Collect Pond to theHudson River. This was the canal which long years afterward was filledin and gave its name to Canal Street.[Illustration: The Collect Pond.]From time to time there were projects for setting out a handsome parkabout the shores of the Collect Pond, but the townspeople thought it wastoo far away from the city. But in a few years the city grew up to theCollect Pond, which was then filled in, and to-day a gloomy prison (TheTombs) is built upon the spot.One of the new undertakings was the building of a new City Hall, as theold one in Wall Street was no longer large enough. So the present CityHall was begun on what was then the Common, but it was not finished fora good ten years. The front and sides were of white marble, and the rearof cheaper red sandstone, as it was thought that it would be many yearsbefore anyone would live far enough uptown to notice the difference.How odd this seems in these days, when the City Hall is quite at thebeginning of the city.Aaron Burr had by this time been elected Vice-President of the UnitedStates. But he soon lost the confidence of the people, and when, in theyear 1803, he hoped to be made Governor of the State of New York, he wasdefeated.[Illustration: The Grange, Kingsbridge Road, the Residence of AlexanderHamilton.]Now at this time Alexander Hamilton was still a leader in the partyopposed to Aaron Burr, and did everything possible to defeat him. AndBurr, angered because of this, and believing that Hamilton had sought tobring dishonor upon him, challenged Hamilton to a duel--the popular wayof settling such serious grievances. So Hamilton accepted the challengeand on a morning in the middle of the summer of 1804, just aftersunrise, the duel took place on the heights of the shore of New Jersey,just above Weehawken. Hamilton fell at the first fire mortally wounded.The next day he died.There was great sorrow throughout the entire country, for he was a braveand good man, and had been a leader since the War of the Revolution. Allthe citizens followed him to his rest in Trinity Churchyard, and in thechurchyard to-day you can see his tomb carefully taken care of anddecorated, year by year.After the death of Hamilton the feeling against Burr in the city wasbitter indeed, and he soon went away.A few years later, when a project was formed for establishing a greatempire in the southwest and overthrowing the United States, this sameAaron Burr was thought to be concerned in the plot. When, after a trial,he was acquitted, he went to live in Europe. But he returned after atime, and the last years of his life were passed in New York.CHAPTER XXXVROBERT FULTON BUILDS a STEAM-BOATThere had come to be a great need for schools. There were privateschools and there were school-rooms attached to some of the churches,but it was in this year, 1805, that the first steps were taken to havefree schools for all.A kindly man named De Witt Clinton was Mayor of the city, and he, withsome other citizens, organized the Free School Society that was toprovide an education for every child. The following year the first freeschool was opened. The society continued in force for forty-eight years,each year the number of its schools increasing, until finally all itsproperty was turned over to the city.In the days when De Witt Clinton was Mayor the first steam-boat wasbuilt to be used on the Hudson River. For many a year there had beenmen who felt sure that steam could be applied to boats and made topropel them against the wind and the tide. They had tried very hard tobuild such a boat but none had succeeded. Sometimes the boilers burst.Sometimes the paddle-wheels refused to revolve. For one reason oranother the boats were failures.A man named John Fitch had built a little steam-boat and had tried iton the Collect Pond, where it had steamed around much to the surpriseof the good people of the city who went to look at it. But it wasconsidered more as a toy than anything else. Nothing came of theexperiment, and the boat itself was neglected after a time and draggedup on the bank beside the lake, where it lay until it rotted away.Then Robert Livingston, who was chancellor of the city, felt sure hecould build a steam-boat that would be of use. As he was a wealthy manhe spent a great deal of money trying to make such a boat; and as he wasa very learned man he gave much thought to it.Chancellor Livingston was in France when he met another American, namedRobert Fulton, who was an artist and a civil engineer, and who alsohoped to build a boat that could be moved by steam. Livingston andFulton decided that they would together build such a boat.[Illustration: The Clermont, Fulton's First Steam-Boat.]So Fulton came back to New York and with the money given him byLivingston began to build a steam-boat which he called the Clermont--thename of Chancellor Livingston's country home. The citizens laughed agood deal at the idea and called the boat "Fulton's Folly." In August,1807, the Clermont was finished, and a crowd gathered to see it launchedand to laugh at its failure. But the boat moved out into the stream andup the Hudson River, while the people gazed in wonder at the marvellousthing gliding through the water, moved apparently by some more thanhuman force. It went all the way to Albany, and from that day oncontinued to make trips up and down the river. This was the firstsuccessful steam-boat in the world. Soon steam ferry-boats took theplace of those which had been driven by horse-power. Quickly, too, afterthe success of the Clermont, steam navigation went rapidly forward onboth sides of the ocean. Fulton made other and much better boats. Othermen followed in his footsteps, and the great ocean liners of to-day areone of the results.CHAPTER XXXVITHE CITY PLANIt is interesting at this time to read how the streets came to be justwhere they are. The city was growing more rapidly than ever and thestreets and byways met one another at every sort of angle, forming atangled maze. To remedy this, a commission was formed of several of theprominent citizens to determine just what course the streets shouldtake. Now this commission decided not to interfere with those thatexisted, but to map out the island above the city and plan for thosethat were to be. They worked for four years and then submitted, in theyear 1811, what they called the City Plan. If you will look at a map,you will see at the lower part of the Island of Manhattan that thestreets cross and recross each other in the most bewildering manner. Andyou will also see that above this jumble the streets and avenues extendthrough the island in a regular and uniform way. This change was theresult of the City Plan.While the commission was making its plan, there came threatenings ofwar. Again England was at war with France, and those two countries infighting one another very often injured the American ships. Besides, theBritish war-ships had a disagreeable way of searching American ships andtaking charge of any Englishmen they found on them, even those who hadbecome American citizens. These same British war-ships often fired uponthose American vessels whose captains objected to their being searched.So it came about that American ships carrying merchandise to othercountries and bringing merchandise to American ports were interferedwith more and more, and American commerce was thus ruined, for noAmerican ship was safe. The end came early in the year 1812, when theUnited States declared war against Great Britain.[Illustration: Castle Garden.]As soon as war was declared, the citizens of New York united fordefence, and when news came that the city was to be attacked, a greatmeeting was held in City Hall Park, and everybody decided, then andthere, to support their country with their fortunes, their honor, andtheir lives. Then they went to work, stopping all other employment, andnight and day they built forts and defences. They built forts on theislands in the bay to defend the approach to the city from the ocean,and they built forts in the Hell Gate to defend the approach by way ofLong Island Sound, and they built batteries on the Island of Manhattanitself. One fort built at this time was on a little island close by theBattery, and was called Fort Clinton. This afterward became CastleGarden.But though the British had sent soldiers and ships to fight the forcesin America, they made no effort to capture the city of New York.The war went on for two years; there were battles, many of them, on theland and on the sea. Very often the British had the best of it, and thenagain the Americans would have the best of it. But in the end, althoughthe British fought hard, the Americans fought harder, and in the firstmonth of the year 1815 the war ended with a great battle in New Orleans,which the Americans won.CHAPTER XXXVIITHE STORY of the ERIE CANALEverything was going along smoothly when all at once the yellow feverbroke out on the west side, far downtown. It raged with even moreviolence than had the small-pox. Citizens fled, and the strickendistrict was fenced off so that no one might enter it. It was like aplace of the dead, silent and deserted. Many people went far out of townto Greenwich Village, and many business houses opened offices in thislittle settlement; with the result that Greenwich Village started on anew life, and it was not long before it grew to be an important partof New York instead of a suburb. For many who had transferred theirbusiness also went to live there, not returning to the city even afterthe fever had passed away.[Illustration: Landing of Lafayette at Castle Garden.]In the year after the fever (it was by this time 1824) General Lafayettecame again to America and was warmly received. Landing first atStaten Island, he was, on the following day, escorted by a navalprocession and conducted to Castle Garden. A multitude came to voicetheir welcome and follow him to the City Hall, where he was greeted bythe Mayor and all of the officials. During his stay he held dailyreceptions in the City Hall, and afterward visited the publicinstitutions and buildings. On leaving for a tour of the country he wasaccompanied all the way to Kingsbridge by a detachment of troops. Forthirteen months he travelled through the country, and when he returnedto New York in the autumn of the next year, the citizens gave a banquetin his honor, at Castle Garden, which surpassed anything of the kindthat had ever been seen.Then General Lafayette sailed away to France again. In the month afterhe had gone, with all the city cheering him and making such a din thatyou would have thought that there never could be a greater, in the verynext month the city was again all decorated, and more shouts rent theair, for a grand undertaking had just been completed, which you shallnow hear of.Ever since the days of the Revolution there had been talk of digging acanal from the Great Lakes to the Atlantic Ocean; for you must know thatin these days there being no railroads, most of the traffic and travelwere done by water. This canal had been long talked of, but no step hadbeen taken toward building it.Now you will remember that De Witt Clinton, while he was Mayor, took agreat deal of interest in everything that was for the good of the city.Well, after he had been Mayor for some years, he became Governor of theState, and it was he who came to think that although the building of thecanal would be a great undertaking, for it would have to be more than300 miles long, it might after all be accomplished. For years he worked,with some others, while many said that it was a foolish idea, and toomuch of a task even to think of. But still Clinton worked at his plans,and finally, the money having been given by the State, the digging ofthe canal was begun. The work went on for eight years, and in the monthof October, 1825, was finished.The canal was a water-way that stretched across the State of New Yorkfrom Buffalo to Albany and there joined the Hudson River, which leadsstraight to the city of New York, and so on to the ocean.The people in the city and in the State were delighted at thecompletion of the work, and on the day of the opening of the canal theyexpressed their joy as loudly as they could. Governor De Witt Clintonwas at the Buffalo end, and he, with the State officers, started in aboat decorated with flags and bunting and was towed through the canal.As the boat set out from Buffalo, a cannon was fired, and many morecannon having been placed each within hearing distance of the other bythe side of the canal, in turn took up the sound and carried it along,mile after mile, until the last one, stationed in the city of New York,was fired, one hour and twenty-five minutes after the first had beenfired at Buffalo. By this the people all across the State knew that thecanal had been opened.For ten days the boats crept along the canal, and at each town bandsplayed, and speeches were made, until on the tenth day the Governor andhis party reached New York--the first to make the journey across theState by water. They were taken to Sandy Hook, the Mayor of New York,with many others, attending, and surrounded by all the ships in the bay,with their colors flying and their whistles blowing. And there at SandyHook, Governor Clinton poured a keg of water which he had brought fromLake Erie into the waters of the ocean.Thus were the waters of the Great Lakes and the waters of the AtlanticOcean united, and the city was illuminated as it had never been before,and great bonfires burned all night, in honor of the wedding.CHAPTER XXXVIIITHE BUILDING of the CROTON AQUEDUCTIt really seemed now as though some fairy wand had been turned towardNew York. Blocks of houses of brick and stone sprang up, and buildingsof every sort crept up the Island of Manhattan and were occupied by morethan 200,000 people. The city was the centre of art and literature andscience in America. The streets were lighted by gas; there were finetheatres; and the first street railroad in the world was inoperation--the first step toward crowding out the lumbering stages.Newspapers were multiplying, and there were now fifty various sorts,daily, weekly, and monthly. The dailies cost six cents, and weredelivered to regular subscribers. In the year 1833 the _Sun_, the firstpenny paper to be published in the city, was issued. It was a success.Boys sold it on the streets in all parts of the town. This was thebeginning of the work of the news-boys, and after this they were to befound all over the country.But now there came another great fire. On a December night, a night socold that it was said there had not been such another in fifty years,flames broke out in the lower part of town near the river. The citizensbattled with it as best they could, but it burned for three days,destroying almost all of the business end of the city. For yearsafterward it was called the "Great Fire," and was remembered with dread.To-day there is a marble tablet on a house in Pearl Street near CoentiesSlip, which was the centre of the burned district, where you can read ofhow fearful the fire was and how thankful the people were that theentire city was not destroyed. But the houses were quickly rebuilt, andNew York prospered more than ever before.[Illustration: View of Park Row, 1825.]Destructive as the fire was, however, it called attention to the factthat there was a woful lack of water in the city. Most of the water wasstill supplied by the wells and springs which had been sufficient fora small town, but were by no means so for a city of the present size. Itwas now that the idea of bringing a large supply of water from withoutthe city was conceived. The plan was to build an artificial course, oraqueduct, for water, from the Croton River, forty miles and more abovethe city. Many thought that this was not possible, but then otherseemingly impossible things had been accomplished, so they pushed aheadand commenced the building of this work. A dam was thrown across theCroton River, forming a lake five miles long. The aqueduct extended fromthis dam to the city. Sometimes it had to be cut through the solid rock;sometimes it was continued underground by tunnel; sometimes over valleysby embankments, until at last it reached the Harlem River where a stonebridge, called the High Bridge, was built to support it. Through thischannel of solid masonry the water was brought into the city, and whenit reached the Island of Manhattan was distributed in pipes over theentire city. This wonderful work cost 9,000,000, and took seven yearsto build. When the water was first released from Croton River and flowedinto the new channel, rushing along for forty miles to the city, thecitizens rejoiced greatly. There was a celebration with parades andilluminations.[Illustration: High Bridge, Croton Aqueduct.]It now looked as though there would be enough water to last no matterhow large the city should become, for there were now 95,000,000 gallonsa day available. But before another fifty years had passed there was acry for more water, But this time the people knew just what to do, andanother aqueduct was built from the Croton River. This one was carriedunder the Harlem River instead of over it, supplying so much water thatit will doubtless be many a long year indeed before another will beneeded.CHAPTER XXXIXPROFESSOR MORSE and the TELEGRAPHThere lived in New York at this time a man whose name was Samuel F.B.Morse. He was an artist and was interested in many branches of science.He had founded the National Academy of Design and was Professor of theLiterature of the Arts of Design at the University of the City of NewYork. This man believed that an electric current could be transmittedthrough a wire and so make it possible to convey a message from onepoint to another. One night, after having worked on his idea for years,he invited a few friends to the University building, which overlookedWashington Square, and showed them the result of his labors. It was thefirst telegraph in the world. This was a crude affair, but ProfessorMorse proved that he could send a message over a wire. In the year 1845he had advanced so far that a telegraph line was built between New YorkCity and Philadelphia. Then all the world recognized the genius ofMorse. The people of New York especially honored him, and even in hislifetime they erected a statue of him which you can see to-day inCentral Park.By this time the city had crept up to both Greenwich Village and BoweryVillage, and had engulfed them. On every side were houses, some of themfive and six stories high, where before they had been but two stories.An open space nearby Bowery Village was called Astor Place. This was thescene in 1849 of a famous riot, which came about in this wise: EdwinForrest, an American actor, and William Charles Macready, an Englishactor, had quarrelled about some fancied slight. So when Macready cameto the city to play at the Astor Place Opera House, some friends ofForrest's gathered and sought to prevent his acting by shouting theirdisapproval. This was the excuse for an unruly mob to gather outside thetheatre and storm the house with stones. Macready escaped by leavingthe theatre by a rear door. Then a regiment of soldiers came and afterusing all peaceful measures to quell the disturbance, fired upon the moband killed many of them before the space was cleared and quiet restored.[Illustration: Crystal Palace.]Castle Garden, which had once been Fort Clinton, had become a place ofamusement. Here Jenny Lind, "the Swedish Nightingale," sang, and manyanother artist of rare ability was seen and heard.Now, too, a World's Fair was opened on Murray Hill. Held in afairy-like building of glass, made in the form of a Greek cross, withgraceful dome and arches, it was a Crystal Palace in fact as in name,where all the products of the world were shown. But, unfortunately, afew years later it was burned to the ground.There are always some wise and thoughtful people who think of thecomfort of others, and some of these realized that it would not be longbefore the Island of Manhattan would be so covered with houses thatthere would be no open places where one might enjoy fresh air andrecreation. They said it would be well to have a garden laid out forthis purpose, with walks and drives as needed. This was done and animmense tract of woodland and forest, almost as large as the city itselfat the time, was set apart. As this was in the centre of the island itwas called the Central Park. Millions of people have been thankful forit, although they have not put their gratitude into words.We have now come to the days of the Great Civil War, when many menleft the city to join the army. Now there were those who did not seethe necessity for war and had no desire to be soldiers, so when moremen were called for there was a riot; a terrible and destructive one.A mob swept over the city, a murderous, plundering mob that left a trailof horror wherever it touched; and before it was put down a thousandpersons had been killed or injured, and 2,000,000 damage had been done.This was the Draft Riot. The Civil War ended, the city prospered,growing greater and greater, until in the year 1878 the stages andhorse-cars could no longer carry all the people. Then railroads elevatedabove the streets were built that could carry great numbers swiftly toall parts of the city.New York, already become one of the great cities of the world, advancedwith giant strides.CHAPTER XLTHE GREATER NEW YORKThe time came when the city of New York grew beyond the limits of theIsland of Manhattan, though the island had seemed such a boundless tractof land, that it had been thought laughable for the City Plan to providefor streets over its entire length. The city grew larger and larger. Itstretched up to the Harlem River, leaped over it and went branching outinto the country beyond. Great libraries were built; hospitals for thesick; prisons for the wrong-doer, markets, churches, public institutionsof every kind. Buildings grew taller and taller until they came to betwenty and twenty-five stories high. Even then there were so many peoplethat there were not houses enough to hold them all. So they swarmed overinto the already large city of Brooklyn, on Long Island. And theferry-boats being no longer able to carry the vast crowds in comfort, agreat suspension bridge was built over the East River from New York toBrooklyn. At last the city of New York and the city of Brooklyn had somuch in common, that they, with some of their suburbs, were united intoone great city in the year 1898.Then the Island of Manhattan became simply the Borough of Manhattan, oneof the five boroughs of Greater New York.So the story of the Island of Manhattan is ended.TABLE of EVENTSYear1609.  Hudson discovers the island of Manhattan1613.  Ship Tiger burned1614.  United New Netherland Company organized1614.  Fort Manhattan built1621.  West India Company organized1626.  Peter Minuit Governor       Fort Amsterdam built1629.  Charter adopted under which the Manors were established1633.  Van Twillier Governor1636.  Annetje Jans' Farm laid out1638.  William Kieft appointed Governor1641.  First Cattle Fair held on Bowling Green1642.  Stadt Huys built       Church built in the Fort1643.  Beginning of the Indian wars1644.  Fence erected, which was later replaced by a wall, and still         later by Wall Street1646.  Peter Stuyvesant appointed Governor1647.  Kieft and Dominie Bogardus drowned in the wreck of the Princess         while returning to Holland1652.  City of New Amsterdam incorporated1653.  New Amsterdam made a walled city by the building of a wall         across the island1655.  Stuyvesant subdues the Swedes on the Delaware       Indian war breaks out again1664.  English capture New Amsterdam and it becomes New York       Richard Nicolls Governor1667.  Francis Lovelace appointed Governor1670.  Lovelace establishes the first Exchange1673.  First mail route established       The Dutch retake New York1674.  English again in possession of New York       Sir Edmund Andros Governor       Captain Manning disgraced for surrendering New York to the Dutch1678.  Bolting Act created1681.  Andros recalled1682.  Thomas Dongan Governor1686.  Dongan Charter granted to the city1688.  New York and New England united, and Sir Edmund Andros Governor1689.  William III. becomes King of England       Jacob Leisler assumes title of Lieutenant-Governor         and takes charge of New York1691.  Henry Sloughter Governor       Leisler and Milborne executed       Governor Sloughter dies1692.  Benjamin Fletcher Governor1693.  Bradford establishes first printing press in the colony1696.  Trinity Church built       Bolting Act repealed       Lord Bellomont appointed Governor       Captain Kidd sails to search for pirates1697.  Streets first lighted at night1699.  City wall demolished and Wall Street laid out       City Hall built in Wall Street1700.  First library opened1701.  Captain Kidd executed in England       Lord Bellomont dies1702.  Lord Cornbury Governor1705.  Queen's Farm granted to Trinity Church by Queen Anne1708.  Lord Lovelace Governor1710.  Robert Hunter Governor1711.  Public slave market established1714.  First public clock set on City Hall in Wall Street1715.  Lewis Morris appointed Chief-Justice1720.  William Burnet Governor1725.  Bradford prints first newspaper in city1728.  John Montgomery Governor1729.  First Jewish cemetery established1731.  First Fire Department organized       Montgomery dies1732.  William Cosby Governor1733.  James De Lancey made Chief-Justice1735.  Peter Zenger tried for libel1736.  Governor Cosby dies1741.  Negro Plot1743.  George Clinton Governor1745.  Louisburg captured1752.  Walton House built1753.  Sir Danvers Osborne Governor1755.  Sir Charles Hardy Governor1756.  Corner-stone of King's College laid       Lord Loudoun appointed Commander-in-Chief of the British forces         in America1759.  General Jeffrey Amherst appointed Commander-in-Chief in place         of Lord Loudoun1760.  Montreal captured       Lieutenant-Governor De Lancey dies       George II. of England dies       George III. becomes King1761.  Robert Monckton Governor1763.  Monckton resigns as Governor1765.  Stamp Act passed       First Colonial Congress held in New York       Sir Henry Moore Governor1766.  Stamp Act repealed       Liberty Pole set up on the Common1770.  Statues of William Pitt and George III. erected       Tax removed on all articles except tea       Battle of Golden Hill1771.  Sir William Tryon Governor1773.  Tax on tea reduced1774.  Taxed Tea dumped into the river       First Continental Congress held1775.  Lexington massacre       Second Continental Congress       Turtle Bay stores seized       Marinus Willett seizes the British ammunition wagons       Battle of Bunker Hill       Governor Tryon returns from England       General Montgomery killed at Quebec1776.  April.--General Washington comes to New York after the success         of the Continental army at Boston       July.--Independence declared       August.--Battle of Long Island1776.  September.--British occupy New York                   Battle of Harlem Heights                   A Great Fire                   Nathan Hale executed       November.--Fort Washington captured1777.  George Clinton, Governor of New York State       Burgoyne surrenders at Saratoga       Washington at Valley Forge1780.  Benedict Arnold's treason1781.  Surrender of Lord Cornwallis1783.  September.--Treaty of Peace, between Great Britain and the                     United States, signed       November.--British troops depart from New York       December.--Washington bids farewell to his officers at                    Fraunces's Tavern1788.  The Doctors' Mob1789.  New York the seat of the National Government       Washington becomes First President of the United States and         comes to live in New York       The Government House built       Tammany Society organized1790.  Trinity Church rebuilt1798.  Small-pox epidemic       Manhattan Company established1803.  New City Hall begun1804.  Alexander Hamilton killed by Aaron Burr1805.  Free School Society organized1807.  The Clermont launched1811.  City Plan completed1812.  United States at war with Great Britain1814.  Fort Clinton (afterward called Castle Garden) built       War with Great Britain ended1823.  Yellow fever epidemic1824.  General Lafayette comes again to America1825.  Erie Canal celebration       Gas introduced into city1833.  First penny newspaper started1835.  The "Great Fire" destroys six hundred houses       Work commenced on the Croton Aqueduct1842.  Water admitted through the Croton Aqueduct1845.  First telegraph recording apparatus publicly tested by         Samuel F.B. Morse1849.  Forrest-Macready riots1853.  World's Fair in the Crystal Palace1856.  Ground bought by the city for the Central Park1863.  The Draft Riot1870.  Brooklyn Bridge started1878.  Elevated roads built1883.  Brooklyn Bridge completed1898.  The island of Manhattan becomes the Borough of Manhattan         of Greater New YorkINDEXAdventure Galley, 82, 83Amherst, General Jeffrey, 123Amsterdam, 2, 14Andre, Major John, 177, 178Andros, Edmund, 61, 62, 64, 66, 68Anne, Queen, 28, 91-93Annetje Jans's farm, 27, 28Anti-Federalists, 187Anti-Leislerian Party, 68Apthorpe, Charles Ward, 156Apthorpe mansion, 156Aqueduct, Croton, 227-229Army, Continental, 144, 148, 151, 179Arnold, Benedict, 177, 178Astor Place riot, 231, 232Astor Place, 231Bank, Manhattan, 203Banks, 201-203Battery, 10, 68, 176Battle of Bunker Hill, 148Battle of Golden Hill, 136-138Battle of Harlem Heights, 164, 165, 166Battle of Long Island, 154, 155Bayard Farm, 189Bayard, Nicholas, 69, 72, 89Bellomont, Lord, 82, 83, 86-88Block, Adrian, 10-12Bogardus, Everardus, 26, 37, 42Bolting Act, 62, 63Boston, 66, 84, 140, 141, 143Boston Port closed, 141Bouweries laid out, 21Bouwerie Lane, 21Bouwerie Village, 54, 76, 231Bowery Road, 179Bowery, the, 21, 35Bowling Green, 12, 35, 93, 105, 131, 134, 152, 200Bradford, William, 79, 108Bridge, East River, 236Bridge, High, 227British occupy New York City, 163Broad Street, 57, 148Broadway, 12, 58, 93, 162, 198, 204Bunker Hill, Battle of, 148Burgomasters, 46Burgoyne, General, 171, 172Burnet, William, 101-103Burns's Coffee-House, 129, 130Burr, Aaron, 150, 201, 203-207Burton, Mary, 112-114Buttermilk Channel, 30Cabot, John, 23, 50Cabot, Sebastian, 23, 50Canal, Erie, 220-222Canal Street, 205Cape of Good Hope, 3Castle Garden, 215, 232Cemetery, first Jewish, 104Central Park, 233Chambers, Captain, 139, 140Charles I., 23Charles II., 62Church in the Fort, 36, 37Church, St. Mark's, 54Church, St. Paul's, 150, 167, 195, 198Church, Trinity, 28, 79, 129, 198City Hall (first), 36, 47, 75, 87, 122City Hall (in Wall Street), 87-89, 94, 99, 128, 133, 152, 190City Hall (present), 152, 205City Hall Park, 50, 175, 176, 214City Hospital, 184City Plan, 212, 213City Wall, 48, 87Clarke, George, 111, 115, 116Clermont, the, 210, 211Clinton, Admiral George, 116-118Clinton, De Witt, 208, 220-222Clinton, Governor George, 171Clock, first public, 99Colden, Cadwallader, 102, 131, 133Collect Pond, 50, 114, 189, 198, 202, 204, 205, 209College, Columbia, 184College, King's, 121, 184Colonial Congress, the, 129Columbia College, 184Columbia Heights, 164Columbia University, 121, 164Colve, Captain Anthony, 58, 59Committee of Safety, 68Common, the, 50, 137, 152, 184, 198, 205Congress, Colonial, 129Congress, First Continental, 141-143Congress, Second Continental, 144, 147Constitution of the United States, 186-188Continental Army, 148-149, 151, 179Continental Congress, First, 141-143Continental Congress, Second, 144, 147Cornbury, Lord, 89-94Cornwallis, Lord, 178Corporation Library, 87Cosby, William, 105-110Council of Twelve, 39Croton Aqueduct, 223, 227-229Crystal Palace, 233Cunningham,  Provost-Marshal, 176Declaration of Independence, 152De Lancey, James, 107-109, 117-121, 123-125De Lancey, Stephen, 99De Lancey, Susannah, 116Demont, William, 168De Vries, Captain David Pietersen, 28, 39, 40District of Columbia, 199Doctors' Mob, 185Dongan Charter, 65Dongan, Thomas, 64, 65Draft Riot, 234Duel between Alexander Hamilton and Aaron Burr, 206, 207Duke of York, 50-54, 55, 60, 61, 64, 65Dutch Netherlands, 2East India Company, 2-5, 13East Indies, 2-5, 13East River Bridge, 236Elevated railways, 234English claim New Netherland, 23, 53Erie Canal, 220-222Exchange Place, 57Fairs on Bowling Green, 35, 36Federal Hall, 190-194Federalists, 187, 188"Federal Ship Hamilton," 188Ferry-boats, 211Fire Department, first, 105Fire of 1776, 167Fire, "the Great," 224First City Hall, 36, 47, 75, 87, 122First Continental Congress, 141-143First Fire Department, 105First houses of white men, 12First Jewish cemetery, 104First mail route, 57First minister, 26, 36, 42, 43First newspaper, 79First night-watch, 87First pavements, 93First printing press, 79First public clock, 99First roads, 35First schoolmaster, 26First sidewalks, 198First soldiers in New Netherland, 26First steamboat, 208-211First street lamps, 87First street numbers, 198First telegraph, 230, 231First vessel built, 12Fitch, John, 209Fitzroy, Lord Augustus, 109, 110Fletcher, Benjamin, 77-81Forrest, Edwin, 231Fort Amsterdam, 19, 27, 53Fort Clinton, 215, 232Fort James, 54Fort Manhattan, 13Fort Washington, 168"Fourteen Miles 'round," 195Franklin House, 193Franklin Square, 193Franklin, Walter, 193Fraunces's Tavern, 99, 100, 180Frederick, Kryn, 19Free School Society, 208French Revolution, 199"Fulton's Folly," 211Fulton, Robert, 210, 211Gage, General Thomas, 141Gardiner's Island, 84Gates, General, 172_Gazette, New York_, 108George II., 104, 116, 125George III., 125, 134, 136, 142, 152Golden Hill, Battle of, 136, 137, 138Golden Hill Inn, 137Government House, 196Governor's Island, 30Grant's Tomb, 164"Great Fire," the, 224Greenwich Village, 216, 231Hale, Nathan, 157, 158Half Moon, 2, 3, 4Hall of Records, 176Hamilton, Alexander, 187, 188, 201-203, 206, 207Hamilton, Andrew, 109Hardy, Sir Charles, 121Harlem Heights, 161Harlem Heights, Battle of, 164-166Harlem River, 229Heights, Columbia, 164Heights, Harlem, 161Heights, Vandewater, 164High Bridge, 227Holland, 2Holland, States-General of, 15, 16Houses, first, of white men, 12Howe, Admiral, 153Howe, General William, 153, 155, 158, 168, 171Hudson's Bay, 7Hudson, Henry, 3-8, 10Hudson's River, 8Hunter, Robert, 96, 97, 99, 100Hyde, Edward (Lord Cornbury), 91.India, 4Indians, 1, 4, 8, 9, 10, 16, 33, 34, 37-41Indian War, 38-43, 49Ingoldsby, Richard, 71Island, Gardiner's, 84Island, Governor's, 30Island, Long, 30, 31, 84Island of Manhattan bought from Indians, 18Island, Nut, 30Island, Randall's, 31Island, Staten, 10, 28, 39Island, Ward's, 31Jail, New, 175, 176Jamaica, Long Island, 92James, Duke of York, 50-54, 60, 61, 64, 65James II., 64, 66, 67Jans, Annetje, 28, 42Jans's farm, 27, 28Jersey, the, 176, 177Jewish cemetery, the first, 104John Street Theatre, 195_Journal, New York Weekly_, 108Kidd, Captain William, 83-85Kieft, William, 33-43King's College, 121, 184Kip's Bay, 158, 161, 162Koopman, the, 19, 34Lafayette, Marquis de, 171, 217-219Leisler, Jacob, 67-76, 86, 89Leislerian Party, 68, 89Lexington massacre, 143Liberty Pole, 134, 136Lind, Jenny, 232Lispenard's Meadow, 204Livingston, Robert, 209, 210Lockyer, Captain, 138, 139Long Island, 30, 31, 84Long Island, Battle of, 154-155Lords of the Manors, 21, 22Loudoun, Lord, 123Louisburg, 117Lovelace, Francis, 55-58Lovelace, Lord John, 95, 96Macready, William Charles, 231, 232Mail route, the first, 57Manhattan Bank, 203Manhattan Company, 203Manhattan Island, 8, 10Manhattans, 8Manning, Captain John, 58, 59, 61, 62Manors, 21, 22May, Cornelius Jacobsen, 16Milborne, Jacob, 68, 69, 72-74Minister, first, 26, 36, 42, 43Minuit, Peter, 17-24Mohawks, 40Monckton, Robert, 125, 126Money used by Indians, 37Montgomery, General Richard, 150Montgomery, John, 103-105Montreal, capture of, 123Moore, Sir Henry, 133Morris, Lewis, 96, 101, 107Morris Mansion, 164Morris, Richard, 96Morris, Roger, 164Morrisania, 96Morse, Samuel F.B., 230, 231Murray Family, 158-161Murray Hill, 158Mutiny Bill, 134, 135Nanfan, John, 89National Academy of Design, 230Negro Plot, 111-115Negro slaves, 27, 98, 99, 111-115Netherlands, 2Netherlands, Dutch, 2New England, 48, 64-67New Jail, 175, 176New Jersey, 40New Netherland, 12-14, 16-18, 24, 50, 60New Orange, 59Newspaper, first, 79Newspapers, 223, 224_New York Gazette_, 108_New York Weekly Journal_, 108Nicholson, Francis, 66, 68-70Nicolls, Colonel Richard, 55Night watch, first, 87Non-Importation Agreement, 130, 136Non-Importation Association, 130North Pole, 7Northwest Passage, 7Nut Island, 30Orange, Prince of, 60Osborne, Sir Danvers, 116-120Park, City Hall, 50, 175, 176, 214Patriots, 143Patroons, 21, 22, 34Pavements, first, 93Pearl Street, 16, 36, 193Permanent revenue, the, 95, 97, 119Pirates, 80-84Pitt, William, 134Plot, Negro, 111-115Prince of Orange, 60Printing press, the first, 79Prisons, 173-177Prison ships, 176, 177Prison, Tombs, 205Privateers, 80, 83Provisional Assembly, the, 144, 147, 149Provost, the, 176Putnam, General, 157, 161Quebec, 149, 150Queen Street, 122Railroad, elevated, 234Randall's Island, 31Rebels, 143Restless, the, 12Revolution, French, 199Revolutionary War, 143, 144, 146, 152, 177, 178Riot, Astor Place, 231, 232Riot, Doctors', 185Riot, Draft, 234River of the Mountains, 4, 8Roads, the first, 35Rolandsen, Adam, 26Royalists, 143St. Mark's Church, 54St. Paul's Chapel, 150, 167, 195, 198Schepens, the, 46Schoolmaster, the first, 26Schools, 208School Society, Free, 208Schout, the, 46Schout-fiscal, the, 19Schuyler, General Philip, 172Schuyler, Peter, 99Seal of New York, 63Second Continental Congress, 144, 147Ship Adventure Galley, 82, 83Ship Clermont, 210, 211Ship, the first built, 12Ship Half Moon, 2-4Ship Restless, 12Ship Tiger, 10, 12Ships, prison, 176, 177Ships, tea, 138, 139, 140Sidewalks, the first, 198Slave Market, 98Slaves, 26, 27, 98, 99, 111-115Sloughter, Henry, 70-73, 75, 76Small-pox, 200Smugglers, 34, 39Soldiers, first, 25, 26Sons of Liberty, 128, 136, 137, 145-147Spain, 13Stadt Huys, 36, 47, 75, 87, 122Stamp Act, 127-136Staten Island, 10, 28, 39States-General of Holland, 15, 16Steamboat, first, 208-211Steam ferry-boats, 211Street lamps, first, 87Street numbers, first, 198Street railways, elevated, 234Streets, how laid out, 212Stuyvesant, Peter, 44-49, 53, 54, 76Sugar-house, 174, 175Tammany Hall, 197Tammany Society, 197Taxed tea, 135, 139-141Tea ships, 138, 139, 140Tea taxed, 135, 139-141Telegraph, first, 230, 231Theatre, John Street, 195Third City Hall, 152, 205Tiger, 10, 12Tombs Prison, 152, 205Tories, 143Trading Stations, 103Trinity Church, 28, 79, 129, 198Trinity Churchyard, 207Tryon's Gate, 198Tryon's Row, 198Tryon, William, 149, 158Turtle Bay, 145, 146"Tyrant of New England," 64United New Netherland Company, 12University of the City of New York, 230Valley Forge, 172Van Arsdale, John, 180Van Dam, Rip, 105-108, 110, 111Vandewater Heights, 164Van Dincklagen, the schout-fiscal, 31Van Rensselaer, Kiliaen, 25Van Twiller buys Governor's Island, 30Van Twiller's tobacco plantation, 27Van Twiller, Walter, 25-32Vauxhall, 132Verhulst, William, 17Wall Street, 41, 87, 190Wall Street, City Hall in, 87-89, 94, 99, 128, 133, 152, 190Wall, the city's, 48, 87Walton House, 122Walton, William, 122Ward's Island, 31War, Indian, 38-43, 49War of the Revolution, 143, 144, 146, 152, 177, 178War of 1812, 213-215Warren, Admiral Peter, 116, 117Washington, City of, 199Washington, George, 123, 145, 148, 149, 151-158, 162, 164, 168, 170,     172, 173,178-183, 186, 189, 190, 193-195, 199, 200Weehawken, 207Westchester, 168West India Company, 13-16, 18, 21-23, 25, 32, 42, 46, 53, 67West Indies, 14West Point, 177Whigs, 143Willett, Marinus, 147, 148Willett, Thomas, 55William III., 60, 67, 68, 70, 82"William the Testy," 33Windmills, 27, 34World's Fair, 233Yellow fever, 216York, James, Duke of, 50-54. 55, 60, 61, 64, 65Zenger, Peter, 108-110***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STORY OF MANHATTAN********** This file should be named 13842.txt or 13842.zip *******This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/1/3/8/4/13842Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/pglaf.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://www.gutenberg.net/about/contactFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/donateWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit:http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Shadow of the Rope, by E. W. HornungThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Shadow of the RopeAuthor: E. W. HornungRelease Date: June 12, 2004 [EBook #12590][Last updated: December 2, 2015]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SHADOW OF THE ROPE ***Produced by Steven desJardins and Distributed Proofreaders[Illustration: She had recoiled into the narrow hall, driven by anuncontrollable revulsion.]THE SHADOW OF THE ROPEBY E.W. HORNUNGILLUSTRATED BY HARVEY T. DUNN1906TO MY FRIENDEDWARD SHORTTCONTENTSChapterI.  The End of Their LifeII.  The Case for the CrownIII.  Name and NatureIV.  The Man in the TrainV.  The Man in the StreetVI.  A Peripatetic ProvidenceVII.  A Morning CallVIII.  The Dove and the SerpentIX.  A Change of SceneX.  A Slight DiscrepancyXI.  Another New FriendXII.  Episode of the Invisible VisitorXIII. The Australian RoomXIV. Battle RoyalXV.  A Chance EncounterXVI.  A Match for Mrs. VenablesXVII.  Friends in NeedXVIII.  "They Which Were Bidden"XIX.  Rachel's ChampionXX.  More HasteXXI. Worse SpeedXXII. The Darkest HourXXIII. DawnXXIV.  One Who Was Not BiddenXXV.  A Point to LangholmXXVI.  A Cardinal PointXXVII.  The Whole TruthXXVIII.  In the Matter of a MotiveILLUSTRATIONSShe had recoiled into the narrow hall, driven by an uncontrollablerevulsion."I will!" she answered through her teeth--and she swept past him out ofthe room."I'll tell you who I thought it was at first," said he, heartily.The Shadow of the RopeCHAPTER ITHE END OF THEIR LIFE"It is finished," said the woman, speaking very quietly to herself. "Notanother day, nor a night, if I can be ready before morning!"She stood alone in her own room, with none to mark the white-hot pallorof the oval face, the scornful curve of quivering nostrils, the drylustre of flashing eyes. But while she stood a heavy step wentblustering down two flights of stairs, and double doors slammed upon theground floor.It was a little London house, with five floors from basement to attic,and a couple of rooms upon each, like most little houses in London; butthis one had latterly been the scene of an equally undistinguished dramaof real life, upon which the curtain was even now descending. Although athird was whispered by the world, the persons of this drama were reallyonly two.Rachel Minchin, before the disastrous step which gave her that surname,was a young Australian lady whose apparent attractions were onlyequalled by her absolute poverty; that is to say, she had been born atHeidelberg, near Melbourne, of English parents more gentle thanpractical, who soon left her to fight the world and the devil with noother armory than a good face, a fine nature, and the pride of anyheiress. It is true that Rachel also had a voice; but there was neverenough of it to augur an income. At twenty, therefore, she was already agoverness in the wilds, where women are as scarce as water, but wherethe man for Rachel did not breathe. A few years later she earned a berthto England as companion to a lady; and her fate awaited her on board.Mr. Minchin had reached his prime in the underworld, of which he alsowas a native, without touching affluence, until his fortieth year.Nevertheless, he was a travelled man, and no mere nomad of the bush. Asa mining expert he had seen much life in South Africa as well as inWestern Australia, but at last he was to see more in Europe as agentleman of means. A wife had no place in his European scheme; ahusband was the last thing Rachel wanted; but a long sea voyage, anuncongenial employ, and the persistent chivalry of a handsome,entertaining, self-confident man of the world, formed a combination asfatal to her inexperience as that of so much poverty, pride, and beautyproved to Alexander Minchin. They were married without ceremony on thevery day that they arrived in England, where they had not an actualfriend between them, nor a relative to whom either was personally known.In the beginning this mattered nothing; they had to see Europe and enjoythemselves; that they could do unaided; and the bride did it only themore thoroughly, in a sort of desperation, as she realized that thebenefits of her marriage were to be wholly material after all.In the larger life of cities, Alexander Minchin was no longer the idleand good-humored cavalier to whom Rachel had learned to look forunfailing consideration at sea. The illustrative incidents may beomitted; but here he gambled, there he drank; and in his cups everyvirtue dissolved. Rachel's pride did not mend matters; she was a thoughttoo ready with her resentment; of this, however, she was herself aware,and would forgive the more freely because there was often some obviousfault on her side before all was said. Quarrels of infinite bitternesswere thus patched up, and the end indefinitely delayed.In the meantime, tired of travelling, and impoverished by the husband'sfollies, the hapless couple returned to London, where a pure fluke withsome mining shares introduced Minchin to finer gambling than he hadfound abroad. The man was bitten. There was a fortune waiting forspecial knowledge and a little ready cash; and Alexander Minchin settleddown to make it, taking for the nonce a furnished house in a modestneighborhood. And here it was that the quarrelling continued to itsculmination in the scene just ended."Not another day," said Rachel, "nor a night--if I can be ready beforemorning!"Being still a woman with some strength of purpose, Mrs. Minchin did notstop at idle words. The interval between the slamming of doors below andanother noise at the top of the house was not one of many minutes. Theother noise was made by Rachel and her empty trunk upon the loftiest andthe narrowest flight of stairs; one of the maids opened their door aninch."I am sorry if I disturbed you," their mistress said. "These stairs areso very narrow. No, thank you, I can manage quite well." And they heardher about until they slept.It was no light task to which Rachel had set her hand; she was goingback to Australia by the first boat, and her packing must be done thatnight. Her resolve only hardened as her spirit cooled. The sooner herdeparture, the less his opposition; let her delay, and the callousnessof the passing brute might give place to the tyranny of the normal man.But she was going, whether or no; not another day--though she woulddoubtless see its dawn. It was the month of September. And she was notgoing to fly empty-handed, nor fly at all; she was going deliberatelyaway, with a trunk containing all that she should want upon the voyage.The selection was not too easily made. In his better moods the creaturehad been lavish enough; and more than once did Rachel snatch from draweror wardrobe that which remained some moments in her hand, while theincidents of purchase and the first joys of possession, to one who hadpossessed so little in her life, came back to her with a certainpoignancy.But her resolve remained unshaken. It might hurt her to take hispersonal gifts, but that was all she had ever had from him; he had nevergranted her a set allowance; for every penny she must needs ask and lookgrateful. It would be no fault of hers if she had to strip her fingersfor passage-money. Yet the exigency troubled her; it touched her honor,to say nothing of her pride; and, after an unforeseen fit ofirresolution, Rachel suddenly determined to tell her husband of herdifficulty, making direct appeal to the capricious generosity which hadbeen recalled to her mind as an undeniably redeeming point. It was truethat he had given her hearty leave to go to the uttermost ends of theearth, and highly probable that he would bid her work her own way. Shefelt an impulse to put it to him, however, and at once.She looked at her watch--it at least had been her mother's--and thefinal day was already an hour old. But Alexander Minchin was a latesitter, as his young wife knew to her cost, and to-night he had told herwhere he meant to sleep, but she had not heard him come up. The roomwould have been the back drawing-room in the majority of such houses,and Rachel peeped in on her way down. It was empty; moreover, the bedwas not made, nor the curtains drawn. Rachel repaired the firstomission, then hesitated, finally creeping upstairs again for cleansheets. And as she made his bed, not out of any lingering love for him,but from a sense of duty and some consideration for his comfort, therewas yet something touching in her instinctive care, that breathed thewife she could have been.He did not hear her, though the stairs creaked the smallness of thehour--or if he heard he made no sign. This discouraged Rachel as shestole down the lower flight; she would have preferred the angriest sign.But there were few internal sounds which penetrated to the little studyat the back of the dining-room, for the permanent tenant was the widowof an eminent professor lately deceased, and that student had protectedhis quiet with double doors. The outer one, in dark red baize, made analarming noise as Rachel pulled it open; but, though she waited, nosound came from within; nor was Minchin disturbed by the final entry ofhis wife, whose first glance convinced her of the cause. In theprofessor's armchair sat his unworthy successor, chin on waistcoat, anewspaper across his knees, an empty decanter at one elbow. Somethingremained in the glass beside the bottle; he had tumbled off before theend. There were even signs of deliberate preparations for slumber, forthe shade was tilted over the electric light by which he had beenreading, as a hat is tilted over the eyes.Rachel had a touch of pity at seeing him in a chair for the night; butthe testimony of the decanter forbade remorse. She had filled it herselfin the evening against her husband's return from an absence ofmysterious length. Now she understood that mystery, and her facedarkened as she recalled the inconceivable insult which his explanationhad embraced. No, indeed; not another minute that she could help! And hewould sleep there till all hours of the morning; he had done it before;the longer the better, this time.She had recoiled into the narrow hall, driven by an uncontrollablerevulsion; and there she stood, pale and quivering with a disgust thatonly deepened as she looked her last upon the shaded face and theinanimate frame in the chair. Rachel could not account for the intensityof her feeling; it bordered upon nausea, and for a time prevented herfrom retracing the single step which at length enabled her to shut bothdoors as quietly as she had opened them, after switching off the lightfrom force of habit. There was another light still glowing in the hall,and, again from habit, Rachel put it out also before setting foot uponthe stairs. A moment later she was standing terror-stricken in the dark.It was no sound from the study, but the tiniest of metallic rattles fromthe flap of the letter-box in the front door. The wind might have doneit, for the flap had lost its spring; and, though the noise was notrepeated, to the wind Rachel put it down, as she mounted the stairs atlast in a flutter that caused her both shame and apprehension. Her nervewas going, and she needed it so! It should not go; it should not; and asif to steady it, she opened the landing window, and spent some minutesgazing out into the cool and starry night. Not that she could see veryfar. The backs of houses hid half the stars in front and on either hand,making, with the back of this house and its fellows, a kind of squareturned inside out. Miserable little gardens glimmered through anirregular network of grimy walls, with here and there a fair tree inautumnal tatters; but Rachel looked neither at these nor at the starsthat lit them dimly. In a single window of those right opposite a singlelamp had burnt all night. It was the only earthly light that Rachelcould see, the only one of earth or heaven upon which she looked; andshe discovered it with thanksgiving, and tore her eyes away from it witha prayer.In time the trunk was packed, and incontinently carried downstairs, byan effort which left Rachel racked in every muscle and swaying giddily.But she could not have made much noise, for still there was no sign fromthe study. She scarcely paused to breathe. A latchkey closed the doorbehind her very softly; she was in the crisp, clean air at last.But it was no hour for finding cabs; it was the hour of the scavengerand no other being; and Rachel walked into broad sunlight before shespied a solitary hansom. It was then she did the strangest thing;instead of driving straight back for her trunk, when near the house shegave the cabman other directions, subsequently stopping him at one witha card in the window.A woman answered the bell with surprising celerity, and a face firststartled and then incensed at the sight of Mrs. Minchin."So you never came!" cried the woman, bitterly."I was prevented," Rachel replied coldly. "Well?"And the monosyllable was a whisper."He is still alive," said the woman at the door."Is that all?" asked Rachel, a catch in her voice."It is all I'll say till the doctor has been.""But he has got through the night," sighed Rachel, thankfully. "I couldsee the light in his room from hour to hour, even though I could notcome. Did you sit up with him all night long?""Every minute of the night," said the other, with undisguised severityin her fixed red eyes. "I never left him, and I never closed a lid.""I am so sorry!" cried Rachel, too sorry even for renewed indignation atthe cause. "But I couldn't help it," she continued, "I really could not.We--I am going abroad--very suddenly. Poor Mr. Severino! I do wish therewas anything I could do! But you must get a professional nurse. And whenhe does recover--for something assures me that he will--you can tellhim--"Rachel hesitated, the red eyes reading hers."Tell him I hope he will recover altogether," she said at length; "mind,altogether! I have gone away for good, tell Mr. Severino; but, as Iwasn't able to do so after all, I would rather you didn't mention that Iever thought of nursing him, or that I called last thing to ask how hewas."And that was her farewell message to the very young man with whom ahole-and-corner scandal had coupled Rachel Minchin's name; it was to bea final utterance in yet another respect, and one of no slight orprivate significance, as the sequel will show. Within a minute or two ofits delivery, Rachel was on her own doorstep for the last time, deftlyand gently turning the latchkey, while the birds sang to frenzy in aneighboring garden, and the early sun glanced fierily from the brassknocker and letter-box. Another moment and the door had been flung wideopen by a police officer, who seemed to fill the narrow hall, with acomrade behind him and both servants on the stairs. And with littlefurther warning Mrs. Minchin was shown her husband, seated much as shehad left him in the professor's chair, but with his feet raised stifflyupon another, and the hand of death over every inch of him in the broadnorth light that filled the room.The young widow stood gazing upon her dead, and four pairs of eyes gazedyet more closely at her. But there was little to gather from thestrained profile with the white cheek and the unyielding lips. Not a cryhad left them; she had but crossed the threshold, and stopped thatinstant in the middle of the worn carpet, the sharpest of silhouettesagainst a background of grim tomes. There was no swaying of the lissomefigure, no snatching for support, no question spoken or unspoken. Inmoments of acute surprise the most surprising feature is often the wayin which we ourselves receive the shock; a sudden and completedetachment, not the least common of immediate results, makes ussometimes even conscious of our failure to feel as we would or should;and it was so with Rachel Minchin in the first moments of her tragicfreedom. So God had sundered whom God had joined together! And this wasthe man whom she had married for love; and she could look upon his clayunmoved! Her mind leapt to a minor consideration, that still made hershudder, as eight eyes noted from the door; he must have been dead whenshe came down and found him seated in shadow; she had misjudged thedead, if not the living. The pose of the head was unaltered, the chinupon the chest, the mouth closed in death as naturally as in sleep. Nowonder his wife had been deceived. And yet there was somethingunfamiliar, something negligent and noble, and all unlike the livingman; so that Rachel could already marvel that she had not at oncedetected this dignity and this distinction, only too foreign to herhusband as she had learnt to know him best, but unattainable in thenoblest save by death. And her eyes had risen to the slice of sky in theupper half of the window, and at last the tears were rising in her eyes,when they filled instead with sudden horror and enlightenment.There was a jagged hole in the pane above the hasp; an upset of ink onthe desk beneath the window; and the ink was drying with the dead man'sblood, in which she now perceived him to be soaked, while the newspaperon the floor beside him was crisp as toast from that which it had hiddenwhen she saw him last."Murdered!" whispered Rachel, breaking her long silence with a gasp."The work of thieves!"The policemen exchanged a rapid glance."Looks like it," said the one who had opened the door, "I admit."There was a superfluous dryness in his tone; but Rachel no more noticedthis than the further craning of heads in the doorway."But can you doubt it?" she cried, pointing from the broken window tothe spilled ink. "Did you think that he had shot himself?"And her horror heightened at a thought more terrible to her than all therest. But the constable shook his head."We should have found the pistol--which we can't," said he. "But shot heis, and through the heart.""Then who could it be but thieves?""That's what we all want to know," said the officer; and still Rachelhad no time to think about his tone; for now she was bending over thebody, her white hands clenched, and agony enough in her white face."Look! look!" she cried, beckoning to them all. "He was wearing hiswatch last night; that I can swear; and it has gone!""You are sure he was wearing it?" asked the same constable, approaching."Absolutely certain.""Well, if that's so," said he, "and it can't be found, it will be apoint in your favor."Rachel sprang upright, her wet eyes wide with pure astonishment."In my favor?" she cried. "Will you have the goodness to explainyourself?"The constables were standing on either side of her now."Well," replied the spokesman of the pair, "I don't like the way thatwindow's broken, for one thing, and if you look at it you'll see what Imean. The broken glass is all outside on the sill. But that's not all,ma'am; and, as you have a cab, we might do worse than drive to thestation before more people are about."CHAPTER IITHE CASE FOR THE CROWNIt was years since there had been a promise of such sensation at the OldBailey, and never, perhaps, was competition keener for the very fewseats available in that antique theatre of justice. Nor, indeed, couldthe most enterprising of modern managers, with the star of all thestages at his beck for the shortest of seasons, have done more to spreadthe lady's fame, or to excite a passionate curiosity in the public mind,than was done for Rachel Minchin by her official enemies of theMetropolitan Police.Whether these gentry had their case even more complete than theypretended, when the prisoner was finally committed for trial, or whetherthe last discoveries were really made in the ensuing fortnight, is nowof small account--though the point provided more than one excuse foracrimony on the part of defending counsel during the hearing of thecase. It is certain, however, that shortly after the committal it becameknown that much new evidence was to be forthcoming at the trial; thatthe case against the prisoner would be found even blacker than before;and that the witnesses were so many in number, and their testimony soentirely circumstantial, that the proceedings were expected to occupy aweek.Sure enough, the case was accorded first place in the November Sessions,with a fair start on a Monday morning toward the latter end of themonth. In the purlieus of the mean, historic court, it was a morning notto be forgotten, and only to be compared with those which followedthroughout the week. The prisoner's sex, her youth, her high bearing,and the peculiar isolation of her position, without a friend to stand byher in her need, all appealed to the popular imagination, and produced afascination which was only intensified by the equally general feelingthat no one else could have committed the crime. From the judgedownward, all connected with the case were pestered for days beforehandwith more or less unwarrantable applications for admission. And when thetime came, the successful suppliant had to elbow every yard of his wayfrom Newgate Street or Ludgate Hill; to pass three separate barriersheld by a suspicious constabulary; to obtain the good offices of theUnder Sheriff, through those of his liveried lackeys; and finally tooccupy the least space, on the narrowest of seats, in a varnished stallfilled with curiously familiar faces, within a few feet of the heavilyveiled prisoner in the dock, and not many more from the red-robed judgeupon the bench.The first to take all this trouble on the Monday morning, and the lastto escape from the foul air (shot by biting draughts) when the courtadjourned, was a white-headed gentleman of striking appearance andstamina to match; for, undeterred by the experience, he was in likemanner first and last upon each subsequent day. Behind him came and wentthe well-known faces, the authors and the actors with asemi-professional interest in the case; but they were not well known tothe gentleman with the white head. He heard no more than he could helpof their constant whisperings, and, if he knew not at whom he more thanonce had occasion to turn and frown, he certainly did not look the manto care. He had a well-preserved reddish face, with a small mouth ofextraordinary strength, a canine jaw, and singularly noble forehead; buthis most obvious distinction was his full head of snowy hair. The onlyhair upon his face, a pair of bushy eyebrows, was so much darker as tosuggest a dye; but the eyes themselves were black as midnight, with aglint of midnight stars, and of such a subtle inscrutability that acertain sweetness of expression came only as the last surprise in a facefull of contrast and contradiction.No one in court had ever seen this man before; no one but the UnderSheriff learnt his name during the week; but by the third day hisidentity was a subject of discussion, both by the professional studentsof the human countenance, who sat behind him (balked of their study bythe prisoner's veil), and among the various functionaries who hadalready found him as free with a sovereign as most gentlemen are with apiece of silver. So every day he was ushered with ceremony to the sameplace, at the inner end of the lowest row; there he would sit watchingthe prisoner, a trifle nearer her than those beside or behind him; andonly once was his attentive serenity broken for an instant by a changeof expression due to any development of the case.It was not when the prisoner pleaded clearly through her veil, in thefirst breathless minutes of all; it was not a little later, when theurbane counsel for the prosecution, wagging his pince-nez at the jury,thrilled every other hearer with a mellifluous forecast of the newevidence to be laid before them. The missing watch and chain had beenfound; they would presently be produced, and the jury would have anopportunity of examining them, together with a plan of the chimney ofthe room in which the murder had been committed; for it was there thatthey had been discovered upon a second search instituted since theproceedings before the magistrates. The effect of this announcement maybe conceived; it was the sensation of the opening day. The whole case ofthe prosecution rested on the assumption that there had been, on thepart of some inmate of the house, who alone (it was held) could havecommitted the murder, a deliberate attempt to give it the appearance ofthe work of thieves. Thus far this theory rested on the bare facts thatthe glass of the broken window had been found outside, instead ofwithin; that no other mark of foot or hand had been made or left by thesupposititious burglars; whereas a brace of revolvers had beendiscovered in the dead man's bureau, both loaded with such bullets asthe one which had caused his death, while one of them had clearly beendischarged since the last cleaning. The discovery of the missing watchand chain, in the very chimney of the same room, was a piece of idealevidence of the confirmatory kind. But it was not the point that made animpression on the man with the white hair; it did not increase hisattention, for that would have been impossible; he was perhaps the onespectator who was not, if only for the moment, perceptibly thrilled.Thrilling also was the earlier evidence, furnished by maid-servants andpolice constables in pairs; but here there was no surprise. The maidswere examined not only as to what they had seen and heard on the nightof the murder--and they seemed to have heard everything except the fatalshot--but upon the previous relations of their master and mistress--ofwhich they showed an equally extensive knowledge. The constables wereperforce confined to their own discoveries and observations when themaids had called them in. But all four witnesses spoke to the prisoner'sbehavior when shown the dead body of her husband, and there was theutmost unanimity in their several tales. The prisoner had exhibitedlittle or no surprise; it was several minutes before she had uttered asyllable; and then her first words had been to point out that burglarsalone could have committed the murder.In cross-examination the senior counsel for the defence thus earlyshowed his hand; and it was not a strong one to those who knew the game.A Queen's Counsel, like the leader for the Crown, this was analtogether different type of lawyer; a younger man, with a more engagingmanner; a more brilliant man, who sought with doubtful wisdom to blindthe jury with his brilliance. His method was no innovation at the OldBailey; it was to hold up every witness in turn to the derision andcontempt of the jury and the court. So both the maids were reduced totears, and each policeman cleverly insulted as such. But the testimonyof all four remained unshaken; and the judge himself soothed the youngwomen's feelings with a fatherly word, while wigs were shaken in thewell of the court. That was no road to the soft side of a decent,conscientious, hard-headed jury, of much the same class as thesewitnesses themselves; even the actors and authors had a sound opinion onthe point, without waiting to hear one from the professional gentlemenin the well. But the man in front with the very white hair--the man whowas always watching the prisoner at the bar--there was about as muchexpression of opinion upon his firm, bare face as might be seen throughthe sable thickness of her widow's veil.It was the same next day, when, for some five hours out of a possiblefive and a half, the attention of the court was concentrated upon apoint of obviously secondary significance. It was suggested by thedefence that the watch and chain found up the study chimney were notthose worn by the deceased at the time he met his death. The contentionwas supported by photographs of Alexander Minchin wearing a watch-chainthat might or might not be of another pattern altogether; expertopinions were divided on the point; and experts in chains as well as inphotography were eventually called by both sides. Interesting in thebeginning, the point was raised and raised again, and on subsequentdays, until all were weary of the sight of the huge photographicenlargements, which were handed about the court upon each occasion. Eventhe prisoner would droop in her chair when the "chain photograph" wasdemanded for the twentieth time by her own unflagging counsel; even thejudge became all but inattentive on the point, before it was finallydropped on an intimation from the jury that they had made up their mindsabout the chains; but no trace of boredom had crossed the keen, alertface of the unknown gentleman with the snowy hair.So the case was fought for Mrs. Minchin, tooth and nail indeed, yetperhaps with more asperity than conviction, and certainly at times uponpoints which were hardly worth the fighting. Yet, on the Fridayafternoon, when her counsel at last played his masterstroke, and,taking advantage of the then new Act, put the prisoner herself in thewitness-box, it was done with the air of a man who is throwing up hiscase. The truth could be seen at a glance at the clean-cut, handsome,but too expressive profile of the crushing cross-examiner of femalewitnesses and insolent foe to the police. As it had been possible topredict, from the mere look with which he had risen to his feet, thekind of cross-examination in store for each witness called by theprosecution, so it was obvious now that his own witness had come forwardfrom her own wilful perversity and in direct defiance of his advice.It was a dismal afternoon, and the witness-box at the Old Bailey is sosituated that evidence is given with the back to the light; thus, thoughher heavy veil was raised at last, and it could be seen that she wasvery pale, it was not yet that Rachel Minchin afforded a chance to thelightning artists of the half-penny press, or even to the students ofphysiognomy behind the man with the white hair. This listener did notlean forward an inch; the questions were answered in so clear a voice asto render it unnecessary. Yet it was one of these questions, put by herown counsel, which caused the white-headed man to clap a sudden hand tohis ear, and to incline that ear as though the answer could not comewithout some momentary hesitation or some change of tone. Rachel hadtold sadly but firmly of her final quarrel with her husband,incidentally, but without embarrassment, revealing its cause. A neighborwas dangerously ill, whom she had been going to nurse that night, whenher husband met her at the door and forbade her to do so."Was this neighbor a young man?""Hardly more than a boy," said Rachel, "and as friendless as ourselves.""Was your husband jealous of him?""I had no idea of it until that night.""Did you find it out then?""I did, indeed!""And where had your husband been spending the evening?""I had no idea of that either--until he told me he had been watching thehouse--and why!"Though the man was dead, she could not rid her voice of its scorn; andpresently, with bowed head, she was repeating his last words to her. Acold thrill ran through the court."And was that the last time you saw him alive?" inquired counsel, hisface lightening in ready apprehension of the thrill, and his assurancecoming back to him on the spot, as though it were he who had insistedon putting his client in the box.But to this there was no immediate answer; for it was here that thewhite-haired man raised his hand to his ear; and the event was exactlyas he seemed to have anticipated."Was that the last time you saw your husband alive?" repeated Rachel'scounsel, in the winning accents and with the reassuring face that hecould assume without an effort at his will."It was," said Rachel, after yet another moment's thought.It was then that the white-headed man dropped his eyes for once; and foronce the thin, hard lines of his mouth relaxed in a smile that seemed toepitomize all the evil that was in his face, and to give it forth in onesudden sour quintessence.CHAPTER IIINAME AND NATUREThe prisoner's evidence concluded with a perfectly simple if somewhathesitating account of her own doings during the remainder of the nightof her husband's murder. That story has already been told in greaterdetail than could be extracted even by the urbane but deadlycross-examiner who led for the Crown. A change had come over the mannerin which Rachel was giving her evidence; it was as though her strengthand nerve were failing her together, and henceforth the words had to beput into her mouth. Curiously enough, the change in Mrs. Minchin'sdemeanor was almost coincident with the single and rather sinisterdisplay of feeling upon the part of the white-haired gentleman who hadfollowed every word of the case. On the whole, however, her story borethe stamp of truth; and a half-apologetic but none the less persistentcross-examination left it scarcely less convincing than before.There was one independent witness for the defence, in addition to theexperts in photography and chains. The landlady of the house at whichRachel called, in the early morning, on her way home with the cab, wasabout five minutes in the witness-box, but in those five minutes shesupplied the defence with one of its strongest arguments. It was atleast conceivable that a woman who had killed her husband might coollyproceed to pack her trunk, and thereafter fetch the cab which was toremove herself and her effects from the scene of the tragedy. But was itcredible that a woman of so much presence of mind, to whom every minutemight make the difference between life and death, would, having foundher cab, actually drive out of her way to inquire after a sick friend,or even a dying lover, before going home to pick up her luggage and toascertain whether her crime was still undetected? Suppose it were alover, and inquire one must: would one not still leave those inquiriesto the last? And having made them, last or first; and knowing the grimnecessity of flight; would one woman go out of her way to tell anotherthat she "had to go abroad very suddenly, and was going for good?""Inconceivable!" cried the prisoner's counsel, dealing with the point;and the word was much upon his lips during the course of a long and verystrenuous speech, in which the case for the Crown was flouted frombeginning to end, without, perhaps, enough of concentration on its moreobvious weaknesses, or of respect for its undoubted strength. For theprisoner's proceedings on the night of the murder, however, supposingshe had committed it, and still more on the morning after, it would havebeen difficult to find a better epithet; the only drawback was that thisone had seen service in the cause of almost every murderer who ever wentto the gallows--as counsel for the prosecution remarked in his reply,with deadly deference to his learned friend."On the other hand," he went on, wagging his eyeglasses with leisurelydeliberation, and picking his words with a care that enhanced theireffect, after the unbridled rhetoric of the defence--"on the other hand,gentlemen, if criminals never made mistakes, inconceivable or not as wemay choose to consider them--if they never made those mistakes, theywould never stand in that dock."It was late on the Saturday afternoon when the judge summed up; but apleasant surprise was in store for those who felt that his lordship mustspeak at greater length than either of the counsel between whom he wasto hold the scales. The address from the bench was much the shortest ofthe three. Less exhaustive than the conventional review of acomplicated case, it was a disquisition of conspicuous clearness andimpartiality. Only the salient points were laid before the jury, for thelast time, and in a nutshell, but with hardly a hint of the judge's ownopinion upon any one of them. The expression of that opinion wasreserved for a point of even greater import than the value of anyseparate piece of evidence. If, said the judge, the inferences andtheory of the prosecution were correct; if this unhappy woman, driven todesperation by her husband, and knowing where he kept his pistols, hadtaken his life with one of them, and afterwards manufactured the tracesof a supposititious burglary; then there was no circumstance connectedwith the crime which could by any possibility reduce it from murder tomanslaughter. The solemnity of this pronouncement was felt in thefarthest corner of the crowded court. So they were to find her guilty ofwilful murder, or not guilty at all! Every eye sped involuntarily to theslim black figure in the dock; and, under the gaze of all, the figuremade the least little bow--a movement so slight and so spontaneous as tosuggest unconsciousness, but all the more eloquent on that account.Yet to many in court, more especially to the theatrical folk behind theman with the white hair, the gesture was but one more subtle touch inan exhibition of consummate art and nerve."If they do acquit her," whispered one of these wiseacres to another,"she will make her fortune on the stage!"Meanwhile the judge was dealing at the last with the prisoner's evidencein her own behalf, and that mercifully enough, though with lessreticence than had characterized the earlier portions of his address. Hedid not think it possible or even desirable to forget that this was theevidence of a woman upon trial for her life. It must not be discreditedon that account. But it was for the jury to bear in mind that the storywas one which admitted of no corroboration, save in unimportant details.More than that he would not say. It was for them to judge of that storyas they had heard it for themselves, on its own merits, but also inrelation to the other evidence. If the jury believed it, there was anend of the case. If they had any reasonable doubt at all, the prisonerwas entitled to the full benefit of that doubt, and they must acquither. If, on the other hand, the facts taken together before and afterthe murder brought the jury to the conclusion that it was none otherthan the prisoner who had committed the murder--though, of course, noone was present to see the act committed--they must, in duty to theiroaths, find her guilty.During the judge's address the short November day had turned fromafternoon to night, and a great change had come over the aspect of thedim and dingy court. Opaque globes turned into flaring suns;incandescent burners revealed unsuspected brackets; the place was warmedand lighted for the first time during the week. And the effect of thelight and warmth was on all the faces that rose as one while the judgesidled from the bench, and the jury filed out of their box, and theprisoner disappeared down the dock stairs for the last time in ignoranceof her fate. Next moment there was the buzz of talk that you expect in atheatre between the acts, rather than in a court of justice at thesolemn crisis of a solemn trial. It was like a class-room with themaster called away. Hats were put on again in the bulging galleries;hardly a tongue was still. On the bench a red-robed magnate and anotherin knee-breeches exchanged views upon the enlarged photographs which hadplayed so prominent a part in the case; in the well the barristers' wigsnodded or shook over their pink blotters and their quill pens; gentlemenof the Press sharpened their pencils and indulged in prophecy; and ontheir right, between the reporters and the bench, the privileged few,the literary and theatrical elect, discussed the situation with abnormalcallousness, masking emotion with a childlike cynicism of sentiment andphrase.And for once the stranger in their midst, the man with more outwarddistinction than any one of them, the unknown man with the snowy hair,could afford to listen to what they had to say."No chance, my dear man. Not an earthly!""I'm not so sure of that.""Will you bet?""No, hang it! What a beast you are! But I thought the woman was speakingthe truth.""You heard what the judge said. Where's your corroboration? No, theyought never to have let her go into the box. I hear she insisted. But ithasn't saved anybody yet.""The new law? Then it shows her pluck!""But not necessarily her innocence, dear boy."Thus one shaven couple. Others had already exhausted the subject."Yes, I finished it down at Westgate last week.""Satisfied?""In a way. It depends so much on the cast.""These actor-managers--what?""More or less. I must be off. Dining out.""What! Not going to wait for the end of the fourth act?""No, I'm late as it is. Ta-ta!"The white-haired man was amused. He did not turn round, nor, if he had,would he have known the retreating gentleman for the most eminent ofliving playwrights; but he knew the reason for his sudden retreat. Ahush had fallen, and some one had whispered, "They're coming!" Thelight-hearted chatter had died away on the word; perhaps it was not solight-hearted after all. But the alarm was false, there was no sign ofthe jury, and the talk rose again, as the wind will in a storm."We shall want a glass when this is over," whispered one of the pair whohad argued about the case."And we'll have it, too, old man!" rejoined his friend.The white-haired man was grimly interested. So this was the way mentalked while waiting to hear a fellow-creature sentenced to death! Itwas worth knowing. And this was what the newspaper men would call a lowbuzz--an expectant hush--this animated babble! Yet the air was chargedwith emotion, suppressed perhaps, but none the less distinguishable inevery voice. Within earshot a perspiring young pressman was informinghis friends that to come there comfortably you should commit the murderyourself, then they gave you the Royal Box; but his teeth could be heardchattering through the feeble felicity. The white-headed listener curleda contemptuous nostril. They could joke, and yet they could feel! Hehimself betrayed neither weakness, but sat waiting patiently and idlylistening, with the same grim jaw and the same inscrutable eye withwhich he had watched the prisoner and the jury alternately throughoutthe week. And when the latter at last returned, and then the former, itwas the same subtle stare that he again bent upon them both in turn.The jury had been absent but forty minutes after all; and theirexpedition seemed as ill an omen as their nervous and responsible faces.There was a moment's hush, another moment of prophetic murmurs, and thena stillness worthy of its subsequent description in every newspaper. Theprisoner was standing in the front of the dock, a female warder uponeither hand. The lightning pencil of the new journalist had its will ofher at last. For Mrs. Minchin had dispensed not only with the chairwhich she had occupied all the week, but also with the heavy veil whichshe had but partially lifted during her brief sojourn in thewitness-box, and never once in the dock. The veil was now flung backover the widow's bonnet, peaking and falling like a sable cowl, againstwhich the unearthly pallor of her face was whiter far then that of themerely dead, just as mere death was the least part of the fateconfronting her. Yet she had raised her veil to look it fairly in theface, and the packed assembly marvelled as it gazed.Was that the face that had been hidden from them all these days? It wasnot what they had pictured beneath the proud, defiant carriage of itsconcealing veil. Was that the face of a determined murderess?Beautiful it was not as they saw it then, but the elements of beauty layunmistable beneath a white mist of horror and of pain, as a lovelylandscape is still lovely at its worst. The face was a thin but perfectoval, lengthened a little by depth of chin and height of forehead, asnow also by unnatural emaciation and distress. The mouth was at oncebloodless, sweet, and firm; the eyes of a warm and lustrous brown,brilliant, eloquent, brave--and hopeless!Yes, she had no hope herself! It was plain enough at the first glimpseof the deadly white, uncovered face, in the cruel glare of gas. But itbecame plainer still as, with sad, unflinching eyes, she watched andlistened while, for the last time, the jurymen answered to their names.Now they were done. The foreman shifted nervously in his place. In theoverstrain of the last dread pause, the crowded court felt hotter andlighter than ever. It seemed to unite the glare of a gin palace with thetemperature of a Turkish bath."Gentlemen, are you greed upon your verdict?""We are.""Do you find the prisoner guilty or not guilty?""Not guilty."There was a simultaneous gasp from a hundred throats--a distinct cryfrom some. Then the Clerk of Arraigns was seen to be leaning forward, ahand to his ear, for the foreman's voice had broken with excitement. Andevery soul in court leaned forward too.But this time his feelings had a different effect upon the excitedforeman."_Not_ guilty!" he almost bawled.Dead silence then, while the clock ticked thrice."And that is the verdict of you all?""Of every one of us!"The judge leant back in his place, his eyes upon the desk before him,without a movement or a gesture to strike the personal note which hadbeen suppressed with such admirable impartiality throughout the trial.But it was several moments before his eyes were lifted with his voice."Let her be discharged," was all he said even then; but he would seem tohave said it at once gruffly, angrily, thankfully, disgustedly, withemotion, and without any emotion at all. You read the papers, and youtake your choice.So Rachel Minchin was supported from the court before the round eyes ofa hundred or two of her fellow-creatures, in the pitiable state of onewho has been condemned to die, and not set free to live. It was asthough she still misunderstood a verdict which had filled most faceswith incredulity, but none with an astonishment to equal her own. Herwhite face had leaped alight, but not with gladness. The pent-up emotionof the week had broken forth in an agony of tears; and so they half led,half carried her from the court. She had entered it for the last timewith courage enough; but it was the wrong kind of courage; and, for theone supreme moment, sentence of life was harder to bear than sentence ofdeath.In a few minutes the court was empty--a singular little theatre of palevarnish and tawdry hangings, still rather snug and homely in the heatand light of its obsolete gas, and with as little to remind one of theplay as any other theatre when the curtain is down and the house empty.But there was clamor in the corridors, and hooting already in thestreet. Nor was the house really empty after all. One white-hairedgentleman had not left his place when an attendant returned to put outthe lights. The attendant pointed him out to a constable at the door;both watched him a few moments. Then the attendant stepped down andtouched him on the shoulder.The gentleman turned slowly without a start. "Ah, you're the man I wantto see," said he. "Was that the Chief Warder in the dock?""Him with the beard," said the attendant, nodding."Well, give him this, and give it him quick. I'll wait up there till hecan see me."And he pressed his card into the attendant's palm, with a couple ofsovereigns underneath."Wants to see the Chief Warder," explained the attendant to theconstable at the door."He's been here all the week," mused the constable aloud. "I wonder whohe is?""Name of Steel," whispered the other, consulting the card, as thegentleman advanced up the steps toward them, the gaslight gleaming inhis silver hair, and throwing his firm features into strong relief."And not a bad name for him," said the constable at the door.CHAPTER IVTHE MAN IN THE TRAINRachel fought her weakness with closed eyes, and was complete mistressof herself when those about her thought that consciousness alone wasreturning. She recognized the chamber at a glance; it was the one inwhich generations of metropolitan malefactors, and a few innocentpersons like herself, had waited for the verdict of life or death. Forher it was life, life, life! And she wondered whether any other of thefew had ever come back to life with so little joy.The female warders were supporting her in a chair; the prison doctorstood over her with a medicine glass."Drink this," said he, kindly."But I have been conscious all the time.""Never mind. You need it."And Rachel took the restorative without more words.It did its work. The color came back to her face. The blood ran hot inher veins. In a minute she was standing up without assistance."And now," said Rachel, "I shall not trespass further on your kindness,and I am sure that you will not wish to detain me.""We cannot," said the doctor, with a broad smile and a bow; "you are asfree as air, and will perhaps allow me to be the first to congratulateyou. At the same time, my dear madam, and quite apart from yourcondition--which is wonderful to me after what you've been through--atthe same time, and even with your fortitude, I think it would beadvisable to--to wait a little while."The doctor raised his eyes, and all at once Rachel heard.Overheard--outside--in the world--there was the brutal hooting of athoughtless mob."So that is for me!"Rachel set her teeth."On the contrary," said the kindly doctor, "it may be for the witnesses;but crowds are fickle things; and I should strongly urge you not tocourt a demonstration of one sort or the other. You are best where youare for the time being, or at all events somewhere within the precincts.And meanwhile your solicitor is waiting to add his congratulations tomine.""Is he, indeed!" cried Rachel, in a voice as hard as her eye."Why, to be sure," rejoined the other, taken somewhat aback. "Theremust be many matters for discussion between you, and he at least seemsvery anxious to discuss them. In fact, I may say that he is onlyawaiting my permission for an immediate interview.""Then let him await mine!" exclaimed Rachel, in a vindictive voice forwhich she was apologizing in the next breath. "I owe you much," sheadded, "if only for your kindness and sympathy during these few minutes.But to him I owe nothing that I cannot pay in cash. He tried to keep mefrom telling my own story in the box--they all did--but he was the worstof all. So I certainly do not owe him my life. He came to me and he saidwhat he liked; he may have forgotten what he said, but I never shall.""He would be the first to admit his error now.""Perhaps; but he believed me guilty to the very end; and I utterlyrefuse to see him to-night.""Then I shall tell him so."And the good doctor disappeared for the nonce, but was back in a coupleof minutes, full of the lawyer's expostulations. What did Mrs. Minchinintend to do? Where did she propose to go? There were a hundred mattersfor explanation and arrangement. Her solicitor said she had no friends,and seemed himself most anxious to act in that capacity. Rachel's lipscurled at the thought."At least," said she, "I have the friends who guaranteed his bill, ifthat has anything to say to his anxiety! But what I mean to do and whereI may go, are entirely my own affair. And as for the hundred matters hementions, he might have spoken of them during the week. Perhaps hethought it would be waste of breath, but I should have appreciated therisk."So her solicitor was beaten off, with all the spirit which was one ofRachel's qualities, but also with the rashness which was that quality'sdefect. The man was indeed no ornament to his profession, but apolice-court practitioner of the pushing order, who had secured the casefor notoriety and nothing else. Rachel's soul sickened when she thoughtof her interviews, and especially her most recent interviews, with onewhom she had never seen before her trouble, and whom she devoutly hopednever to see again. She did not perceive that the time had come when thelawyer might have been really useful to her. Yet his messages left hermore alive to the difficulties that lay before her as a free woman, andto the immediate necessity of acting for herself once more.After all there had been a silver lining to the cloud under which shehad lain so long. Others had acted for her. It had been a rest. But,conscious of her innocence, and serene in that consciousness, she hadprepared herself rather for another life than for a new lease of thisone; and, while seeking to steel her soul to the awful sequel of aconviction, in the other direction she had seldom looked beyond theconsummate incident of an acquittal. Life seems a royal road when it isdeath that stares one in the face; but already Rachel saw the hills andthe pitfalls; for indeed they began under her nose.She had no plans, nor a single soul to help her to make any. In all theworld she had no real friend. And yet, with the very independence towhich this isolation was largely due, she must pick and choose, andreject, in the hour when any friend would have been better than none!In the first ten minutes of the new life which Rachel Minchin began withher acquittal, she had refused to see her own solicitor, and an unknowngentleman whose card was brought to her by the Chief Warder himself.With the card was a message which might have inspired confidence, andthe same might be said of the address. But it was enough for Rachel thatshe knew no one of the name. The Chief Warder, one of the kindliestmortals, displayed no little irritation under her repeated refusals; butit was the agent, and not the principal, who was so importunate; and themessage was not repeated once the former could be induced to bear Mrs.Minchin's answer. The Chief Warder did indeed return, but it was not tomake any further reference to the mysterious Mr. Steel who had craved aninterview with Mrs. Minchin. And now the good fellow was all smiles."Feeling more yourself?" said he; and, when Rachel said she was, heasked her to listen now; and there was nothing to listen to. "Thecoast's as clear as the Criminal Court," explained this pleasantofficial. "A closed cab did it, with an officer on the box; and I'llcall you another as soon as you like."Rachel rose at once."It was kind of you to let me stay so long," she said. "But I don'tthink I will take a cab, thank you, if there's an underground stationwithin reach, and you will kindly tell me the way.""There's Blackfriars Bridge within five minutes. But you will have morethan you can carry--""I have nothing worth taking away with me," said Rachel, "except thethings I stand up in; but you may give what I leave to any poor womanwho cares to have them. And I hope you will accept this trifle foryourself, with my deep gratitude for all your kindness."Indeed, the man had been kind, and his kindness would have continued tothe last had the trial ended differently. Nevertheless, Rachel's triflewas a piece of gold, and one of her last. Nor was this pure generosity.There was an untold joy in being able to give again. It was the firstreal taste of freedom; and in another minute Rachel was free.Oh, but what a miracle to hear her feet on the now deserted pavement, tosee her breath in the raw November night, and the lights of Ludgate Hillbeyond! Rachel raised her veil to see them better. Who would look forher afoot so near the scene of her late ordeal? And what did it matterwho saw her and who knew her now? She was innocent; she could look thewhole world in the face once more. Oh, to rub shoulders with the worldagain!A cab came tinkling up behind her, and Rachel half thought of hailingit, and driving through the lighted town after all; but the hansom wasoccupied, and the impulse passed. She put down her veil and turned intothe stream without catching a suspicious eye. Why should they suspecther? And again, what did it matter if they did?"Trial an' verdic'! Trial an' verdic'! Acquittal o' Mrs. Minchin! Trialan' verdic'!"Everybody was buying the damp, pink sheets. Rachel actually bought oneherself; and overheard the opinion of the man in the street without apang. So she might think herself lucky! But she did, she did; in thereaction that had come upon her with the first mouthful of raw air, inthe intoxication of treading the outer world again, she thought herselfthe luckiest woman in London, and revelled rather than otherwise in thevery considerations which had appalled her in the precincts of thecourt. How good, after all, to be independent as well as free! How greatto drift with the tide of innocent women and law-abiding men, once moreone of themselves, and not even a magnet for morbid curiosity! Thatwould come soon enough; the present was all the more to be enjoyed; andeven the vagueness of the immediate future, even the lack of definiteplans, had a glamor of their own in eyes that were yet to have theirfill of street lamps and shop windows and omnibuses and hansom cabs.The policeman under the bridge was a joy in himself; he refreshedRachel's memory as to the way, without giving her an unnecessary look;and he called her "madam" into the bargain! After all, it was not everypoliceman who had been on duty at the Old Bailey, nor one in manythousands of the population who had gained admission to the court.Yet if Rachel had relieved the tedium of her trial by using her eyes alittle more; if, for example, she had condescended to look twice at thehandful of mere spectators beyond the reporters on her right, she couldscarcely have failed to recognize the good-looking, elderly man who wasat her heels when she took her ticket at Blackfriars Bridge. His whitehair was covered by his hat, but the face itself was not one to beforgotten, with its fresh color, its small, grim mouth, and the deep-setglitter beneath the bushy eyebrows. Rachel, however, neither recognizednor looked again.In a few minutes she had a better chance, when, having entered an emptycompartment in the first class, she was joined by this gentleman as thetrain began to move.Rachel hid herself behind the newspaper which she had bought, not thatshe had looked twice at her companion, but because at such closequarters, and in the comparatively fierce light of the first-classcompartment, she was terribly afraid that he might look once too oftenat her. But this fear passed from her in the matchless fascination ofreading and re-reading five words in the stop-press column:--"MINCHINCASE--Verdict, Not guilty."Not guilty! Not guilty! And to see it in print! Her eyes filled at thesight, and she dried them to gloat again. There were columns and columnsabout the case, embellished with not unskilful sketches of counseladdressing the jury, and of the judge in the act of summing up. ButRachel had listened to every word from all three; and the professionalreport was less full and less accurate than the one which she carried inher brain and would carry to her grave. Not that the speeches matterednow. It was no speech that had saved her; it was her own story, from herown lips, that the lawyers would have closed! Rachel forgave them now;she was almost grateful to them for having left it to her to saveherself in spite of them all: so should her perfect innocence beimpressed upon the whole country as on those twelve fair minds. And oncemore she pored upon the hurriedly added and ill-printed line which gavetheir verdict to the world, while the train stopped and started, only tostop and start again."And what do you think of it, madam?"The voice came from the opposite corner of the compartment, and Rachelknew it for that of the gentleman who had jumped in at the last momentat Blackfriars Bridge. It was Charing Cross that they were leaving now,and the door had not opened at that station or the last. Rachel satbreathless behind her evening paper. Not to answer might be to fastensuspicion upon her widow's weeds; and, for all her right to look mankindin the face, she shrank instinctively from immediate recognition. Thenin a clap came the temptation to discuss her own case with the owner ofa voice at once confident and courtly, and subtly reminiscent of hernative colony, where it is no affront for stranger to speak to strangerwithout introduction or excuse.Rachel's hesitation lasted perhaps a couple of seconds, and then herpaper lay across her lap."Of what?" she asked, with some presence of mind, for she had never aninstant's doubt that the question referred to the topic of the hour."We were reading the same paper," replied the questioner, with perfectcourtesy; "it only struck me that we might both be reading the samething, and feeling equally amazed at the verdict.""You mean in the Minchin case," said Rachel steadily, and without theleast interrogation in her tone. "Yes, I was reading it, as I supposeeverybody is. But I disagree with you about the verdict."The young widow's manner was as downright as her words. There was asudden raising of the bushy eyebrows in the opposite corner, a briefopening of the black eyes underneath."Pardon me," said the gentleman, breaking into a smile; "I was not awarethat I had expressed an opinion on that point.""I understood you were amazed," said Rachel, dryly."And are not you?" cried the other point-blank. "Do you mean to tell methat you were prepared for an acquittal?""I was prepared for anything," replied Rachel, returning a peculiarlypenetrating stare with one at least as steady, and yet holding herbreath for very fear lest this stranger had found her out, until hisnext words allayed the suspicion."Madam, have you followed the case?""Indeed I have," sighed honest Rachel."And as a woman you believe this woman innocent?""I do."It was hard enough to say no more than that; but Rachel was very freshfrom her great lesson in self-control."It is easy to see that you do not," she merely permitted herself toadd."On the contrary," said he, with great precision; "on the contrary, mydear madam, I believe this poor lady to be as innocent as yourself."Again their eyes were locked; again Rachel drew the only inference fromso pointed a pronouncement, and yet again was the impression shaken byher companion's next words."But I really have no right to an opinion," said he; "since, unlike you,I cannot claim to have read the case. Nor is that the interesting thingnow." The stations had come and gone, until now they were at Victoria.The speaker looked out of the window, until they were off again, and offby themselves as before. "The interesting thing, to me, is not what thispoor lady has or has not done, but what on earth she is going to donow!"He looked at her again, and now Rachel was sure. But there was akindness in his look that did away both with resentment and regret."They say she has literally no friends in England," he went on, withunconcealed concern. "That is incredible; and yet, if there be any truthin it, what a terrible position! I fear that everybody will not shareyour conviction, and, I may add, my own. If one can judge thus early bywhat one has heard and seen for oneself, this verdict is a personaldisappointment to the always bloodthirsty man in the street. Then, Godhelp the poor lady if he spots her! I only hope she will not give him achance."And now Rachel not only knew that he knew, but that he wished to appriseher of his knowledge without confessing it in so many words. So he wouldspare her that embarrassment, and would help her if he could, this utterstranger! Yet she saw it in his face, she heard it in his voice; andbecoming gradually alive to his will to help her, as she instinctivelywas to his power, she had herself the will to consult one whose goodintention and better tact were alike obvious. Mystery there was in hermeeting with this man; something told her that it was no accident on hisside; she began to wonder whether she had not seen him before; and whileshe wondered he came and sat opposite to her, and went on speaking in alower voice, his dark eyes fixed on hers."If Mrs. Minchin wants a friend--and to-night I think she must--if evershe did or will! Well, if she does, I for one would be her friend--ifshe would trust me!"The last words were the lowest of all; and in the tone of them there wasa timbre which thrilled Rachel as the dark eyes fascinated her. Shebegan to feel a strange repugnance--and yet more strange attraction. Butto the latter her independence gave instant battle--a battle the easierto fight since the next station was Rachel's destination."Do you think she would trust me?" he almost whispered leaning towardsher. "As a woman--don't you think she might?"As Rachel hesitated the carriages began to groan beneath the brake; andher hesitation was at an end. So also was her limited capacity forpretence. She sat more upright in her corner, her shoulders fell inangles, and beneath the veil, which she had raised to read her paper,her eyes carried the war of interrogation into the enemy's country."I seem to have seen you before," said Rachel, cool of tongue but hot atheart."I think it very possible that you have.""Were you at the trial?""From first to last!"The pause that followed was really broken by the lights of Sloane Squarestation."You know me," said Rachel, hurriedly; "I have seen that for some time.May I ask if you are Mr. Steel?""I am.""The Mr. Steel who sent me his card after the trial?"Steel bowed."As a perfect stranger?""As a perfect stranger who had watched you for a whole long week incourt."Rachel ignored the relative clause."And because I would not see you, Mr. Steel, you have followed me, andforced yourself upon me!"The train stopped, and Rachel rose."You will gather my motives when you recall our conversation," observedSteel; and he opened the door for her. But Rachel turned to him beforealighting."Mr. Steel," said she, "I am quite sure that you mean kindly and well,and that I above all women should feel supremely grateful; but I cannothelp thinking that you are unjust to the man in the street!""Better give him a trial," said Steel, coldly enough in his turn."I should prefer to," rejoined Rachel, getting out; and there was nolittle sting in the intonation of the verb; but Mr. Steel was leftsmiling and nodding very confidently to himself.CHAPTER VTHE MAN IN THE STREETRachel's perturbation was only the greater from her success inconcealing, or at least suppressing it, during the actual process ofthis singular interview. You may hold your breath without moving amuscle, but the muscles will make up for it when their turn comes, andit was so with Rachel and her nerves; they rose upon her even on theplatform, and she climbed the many stairs in a tremor from head to foot.And at the top, in the open night, and at all the many corners of asquare that is nothing of the kind, from hoarse throat and on flutteringplacard, it was "Trial and Verdict," or "Sensational Verdict at the OldBailey," here as at the other end of the town.But now all Rachel's thoughts were of this mysterious Mr. Steel; of hisinexplicable behavior towards her, and of her own attitude towards him.Yet, when all was said, or when all that had been said could beremembered, would his behavior be found so very inexplicable? Rachel wasnot devoid of a proper vanity, albeit that night she had probably lessthan most women with a tithe of her personal attractions; and yet uponreflection she could conceive but one explanation of such conduct in anelderly man."There is no fool like an old fool," quoted Rachel to herself; and itwas remarkable that until this moment she had never thought of Mr. Steelas either elderly or old. His eyes were young; his voice was young; shecould hear him and see him still, so the strong impression was not allon one side. No more, it would seem, was the fascination. Rachel,indeed, owned to no such feeling, even in her inmost heart. But she didbegin to blame herself, alike for her reception of advances which mightwell have been dictated by mere eccentric benevolence, and for herreadiness now to put another construction upon them. And all this timeshe was threading the streets of Chelsea at a pace suggestive of adestination and a purpose, while in her mind she did nothing but lookback.Impulsive by nature, Rachel had also the courage of each impulse whileit lasted; on the other hand, if quick to act, she was only too ready toregret. Like many another whose self-reliance is largely on the surface,an achievement of the will and not the gift of a temperament, sheusually paid for a display of spirit with the most dispiritingreaction; and this was precisely the case in point. Rachel was ashamedalike of her rudeness and her vanity; the latter she traced to itssource. It was inspired by vague memories of other women who had beenthrough the same ordeal as herself. One had been handed a bouquet in thedock; another had been overwhelmed by proposals of marriage. Rachelherself had received letters of which the first line was enough. Butthere had been no letter from Mr. Steel. Ah! but he had attended hertrial; she remembered him now, his continual presence had impresseditself very subtly upon her mind, without the definite memory of asingle glance; and after the trial he sent her his card, he dogged herin the train! What was she to think? There was the voice in which he hadoffered her his aid; there was the look in his eyes; there was thedelicate indirectness of that offer.A year or two ago, with all her independence, Rachel would not have beenso ready to repel one whose advances, however unwarrantable inthemselves, were yet marked by so many evidences of sympathy andconsideration. She had not always been suspicious and repellent; and shesighed to think how sadly she must have changed, even before thenightmare of the last few weeks.But a more poignant reminder of her married life was now in store forRachel Minchin. She had come to Chelsea because it was the only portionof the town in which she had the semblance of a friend; but there didlive in Tite Street a young couple with whom the Minchins had at onetime been on friendly terms. That was in the day of plenty andextravagance; and the acquaintance, formed at an hotel in the Trossachs,had not ripened in town as the two wives could have wished. It was Mrs.Carrington, however, who had found the Minchins their furnished house,while her husband certainly interested himself in Rachel's defence.Carrington was a barrister, who never himself touched criminal work, buthe had spoken to a friend who did, to wit the brilliant terror of femalewitnesses, and caustic critic of the police, to whom Rachel owed solittle. But to Carrington himself she owed much--more indeed than shecared to calculate--for he was not a man whom she liked. She wished tothank him for his kindness, to give certain undertakings and to ask hisadvice, but it was Mrs. Carrington whom she really hoped to see. Therewas a good heart, or Rachel was much mistaken. They would have seen moreof each other if Mrs. Carrington had had her way. Rachel remembered heron the occasion of the solitary visit she had received at Holloway--forMrs. Carrington had been the visitor."Don't tell Jim," she had said, "when you get off and come to see us."And she had kissed her captive sister in a way that made poor Rachelsometimes think she had a friend in England after all; but that wasbefore her committal; and thereafter from that quarter not a word. Itwas not Mrs. Carrington whom Rachel blamed, however, and those lastwords of hers implied an invitation which had never been withdrawn. Butinvitation or no invitation, friend or no friend, Mrs. Carrington shewould have to see. And even he would be different now that he knew shewas innocent; and if it was easy to see what he had believed of herbefore, well, so much the more credit to him for what he had done.So Rachel had decided before quitting the precincts of the Old Bailey;but her subsequent experiences in street and train so absorbed her thatshe was full of the interview that was over when she ought to have beenpreparing for the one still before her. And, in her absence of mind, theforce of habit had taken advantage of her; instead of going on to TiteStreet, she turned too soon, and turned again, and was now appalled tofind herself in the very street in which her husband had met his death.The little street was as quiet as ever; Rachel stood quite still, andfor the moment she was the only person in it. She stole up to the house.The blinds were down, and it was in darkness, otherwise all was as sheremembered it only too well. Her breath came quickly. It was a strangetrick her feet had played her, bringing her here against her will! Yetshe had thought of coming as a last resort. The furnished house shouldbe hers for some months yet; it had been taken for six months from July,and this was only the end of November. At the worst--if no one wouldtake her in--She shuddered at the unfinished thought; and yet there was something init that appealed to Rachel. To go back there, if only for the shortesttime--to show her face openly where it was known--not to slink and hideas though she were really guilty! That might give her back herself-respect; that might make others respect her too. But could she doit, even if she would? Could she bring herself to set foot inside thathouse again?Rachel felt tremulously in her pocket; there had been more keys thanone, and that which had been in her possession when she was arrestedwas in it still. Nobody had asked her for it; she had kept it for this;dare she use it after all? The street was still empty; it is thequietest little street in Chelsea. There would never be a better chance.Rachel crept up the steps. If she should be seen!She was not; but a footstep rang somewhere in the night, and on that thekey was fitted and the door opened without another moment's hesitation.Rachel entered, the door shut noisily behind her, and then her own steprang in turn upon the floor. It was bare boards; and as Rachel felt herway to the electric switches, beyond the dining-room door, her fingersmissed the pictures on the walls. This prepared her for what she foundwhen the white light sprang out above her head. The house had beendismantled; not a stick in the rooms, not so much as a stair-rod on thestairs, nor a blind to the window at their head.The furniture removed while the use of it belonged legally to her! Hadthey made so sure of her conviction as all that? Rachel's blood camestraight from zero to the boil; this was monstrous, this was illegal andwicked. The house was hers for other two months; and there were thingsof hers in it, she had left everything behind her. If they had beenremoved, then this outrage was little short of felony, and she wouldinvoke the law from whose clutches she herself had escaped. Rachel hadexpected to be terrified in the house; she was filled insted with angerand indignation.It was as she expected; not a trunk had been left; and the removal hadtaken place that very week. This would account for the electric lightbeing still intact. Rachel discovered it by picking up a crumplednewspaper, which seemed to have contained bread and cheese; it didcontain a report of the first day of the trial. They might have waitedtill her trial was over; they should suffer for their impatience, it wastheir turn. So angry was Rachel that her own room wounded her with nomemories of the past. It was an empty room, and nothing more; and onlyon her return to the lower floor did that last dread night come back toher in all its horror and all its pitifulness.The double doors of the late professor! Rachel forgot her grudge againsthis widow; she pulled the outer door, and pushed the inner one, just asshe had done in the small hours of that fatal morning, but this time allwas darkness within. She had to put on the electric light for herself.The necessity she could not have explained, but it existed in her mind;she must see the room again. And the first thing she saw was that thewindow was broken still.Rachel looked at it more closely than she had done on the morning whenshe had given her incriminating opinion to the police, and the longershe looked the less reason did she see to alter that opinion. The brokenglass might have been placed upon the sill in order to promote the verytheory which had been so gullibly adopted by the police, and the watchand chain hidden in the chimney for the same purpose. They might havehanged the man who kept them; and surely this was not the first thiefwho had slunk away empty-handed after the committal of a crimeinfinitely greater than the one contemplated.Rachel had never wavered in these ideas, but neither had she dwelt onthem to any extent, and now they came one instant only to go the next.Her husband was dead--that was once more the paramount thought--and shehis widow had been acquitted on a charge of murdering him. But for themoment she was thinking only of him, and her eyes hung over the spotwhere she had seen him sitting dead--once without dreaming it--and soonthey filled. Perhaps she was remembering all that had been good in him,perhaps all that had been evil in herself; her lips quivered, and hereyes filled. But it was hard to pity one who was at rest, hard for herwith the world to face afresh that night, without a single friend. TheCarringtons? Well, she would see; and now she had a very definite pointupon which to consult Mr. Carrington. That helped her, and she went,quietly and unseen as she had come.There was still a light in the ground-floor windows of the Tite Streethouse, strong lights and voices; it was the dining-room, for theMinchins had dined there once; and the voices did not include a feminineone that Rachel could perceive. If there were people dining with them,the ladies must have gone upstairs, and Mrs. Carrington was the woman tosee Rachel for five minutes, and the one woman in England to whom shecould turn. It was an opportunity not to miss--she had not the courageto let it pass--and yet it required almost as much to ring the bell. Andeven as she rang--but not until that moment--did Rachel recognize andadmit to herself the motive which had brought her to that door. It wasnot to obtain the advice of a clever man; it was the sympathy of anotherwoman that she needed that night more than anything else in all theworld.She was shown at once into the study behind the dining-room, andimmediately the voices in the latter ceased. This was ominous; it wasfor Mrs. Carrington that Rachel had asked; and the omen was instantlyfulfilled. It was Mr. Carrington who came into the room, dark, dapper,and duskily flushed with his own hospitality, but without the genialfront which Rachel had liked best in him. His voice also, when he hadcarefully shut the door behind him, was unnaturally stiff."I congratulate you," he said, with a bow but nothing more; and Rachelsaw there and then how it was to be; for with her at least this man hadnever been stiff before, having indeed offended her with his familiarityat the time when her husband and he were best friends."I owe it very largely to you," faltered Rachel. "How can I thank you?"Carrington said it was not necessary."Then I only hope," said Rachel, on one of her impulses, "that you don'tdisagree with the verdict?""I didn't read the case," replied Carrington glibly, and with neithermore nor less of the contemptuous superiority with which he would havereferred to any other Old Bailey trial; but the man himself was quick tosee the brutality of such a statement, and quicker yet to tone it down."It wasn't necessary," he added, with a touch of the early manner whichshe had never liked; "you see, I knew you."The insincerity was so obvious that Rachel could scarcely bring herselfto confess that she had come to ask his advice. "What was the point?" hesaid to that, so crisply that the only point which Rachel could think ofwas the fresh, raw grievance of the empty house."Didn't your solicitor tell you?" asked Carrington. "He came to me aboutit; but I suppose--"Rachel knew well what he supposed."He should have told you to-night," added Carrington, "at any rate. Therent was only paid for half the term--quite right--the usual way. Thepermanent tenant wanted to be done with the house altogether, and thatentitled her to take her things out. No, I'm afraid you have nogrievance there, Mrs. Minchin.""And pray," demanded Rachel, "where are my things?""Ah, your solicitor will tell you that--when you give him the chance! Hevery properly would not care to bother you about trifles until the caseagainst you was satisfactorily disposed of. By the way, I hope you don'tmind my cigar? We were smoking in the next room.""I have taken you from your guests," said Rachel, miserably. "I know Iought not to have come at such an hour."Carrington did not contradict her."But there seemed so much to speak about," she went desperately on."There are the money matters and--and--""If you will come to my chambers," said Carrington, "I shall bedelighted to go into things with you, and to advise you to the best ofmy ability. If you could manage to come at half-past nine on Mondaymorning, I would be there early and could give you twenty minutes."He wrote down the address, and, handing it to Rachel, rang the bell.This drove her to despair; evidently it never occurred to him that shewas faint with weariness and hunger, that she had nowhere to go for thenight, and not the price of a decent meal, much less a bed, in herpurse. And even now her pride prevented her from telling the truth; butit would not silence her supreme desire."Oh!" she cried; "oh, may I not speak to your wife?""Not to-night, if you don't mind," replied Carrington, with his bow andsmile. "We can't both desert our guests.""Only for a minute!" pleaded Rachel. "I wouldn't keep her more!""Not to-night," he repeated, with a broader smile, a clearerenunciation, and a decision so obviously irrevocable that Rachel said nomore. But she would not see the hand that he could afford to hold out toher now; and as for going near his chambers, never, never, though shestarved!"No, I wouldn't have kept her," she sobbed in the street; "but she wouldhave kept me! I know her! I know her! She would have had pity on me, inspite of him; but now I can never go near either of them again!"Then where was she to go? God knew! No respectable hotel would take herin without luggage or a deposit. What was she to do?But while she wondered her feet were carrying her once more in the olddirection, and as she walked an idea came. She was very near the fatallittle street at the time. She turned about, and then to the left. In afew moments she was timorously knocking at the door of a house with acard in the window."It's you!" cried the woman who came, almost shutting the door inRachel's face, leaving just space enough for her own."You have a room to let," said Rachel, steadily."But not to you," said the woman, quickly; and Rachel was notsurprised, the other was so pale, so strangely agitated."But why?" she asked. "I have been acquitted--thanks partly to your ownevidence--and yet you of all women will not take me in! Do you mean totell me that you actually think I did it still?"Rachel fully expected an affirmative. She was prepared for that opinionnow from all the world; but for once a surprise was in store for her.The pale woman shifted her eyes, then raised them doggedly, and the lookin them brought a sudden glow to Rachel's heart."No, I don't think that, and never did," said the one independentwitness for the defence. "But others do, and I am too near where ithappened; it might empty my house and keep it empty."Rachel seized her hand."Never mind, never mind," she whispered. "It is better, ten thousandtimes, that you should believe in me, that any woman should! Thank you,and God bless you, for that!"She was turning away, when she faced about upon the steps, gazing pastthe woman who believed in her, along the passage beyond, an unspokenquestion beneath the tears in her eyes."He is not here," said the landlady, quickly."But he did get over it?""So we hope; but he was at death's door that morning, and for days andweeks. Now he's abroad again--I'm sure I don't know where."Rachel said good-night, and this time the door not only shut before shehad time to change her mind again, but she heard the bolts shot as shereached the pavement. The fact did not strike her. She was thinking fora moment of the innocent young foreigner who had brought matters to acrisis between her husband and herself. On the whole she was glad thathe was not in England--yet there would have been one friend.And now her own case was really desperate; it was late at night; she wasfamished and worn out in body and mind, nor could she see the slightestprospect of a lodging for the night.And that she would have had in the condemned cell, with food and warmthand rest, and the blessed certainty of a speedy issue out of all herafflictions.It was a bitter irony, after all, this acquittal!There was but one place for her now. She would perish there of cold andhorror; but she might buy something to eat, and take it with her; and atleast she could rest, and would be alone, in the empty house, the houseof misery and murder, that was yet the one shelter that she knew of inall London.She crept to the King's road, and returned with a few sandwiches,walking better in her eagerness to break a fast which she had only feltsince excitement had given place to despair. But now it was making herfaint and ill. And she hurried, weary though she was.But in the little street itself she stood aghast. A crowd filled it; thecrowd stood before the empty house of sorrow and of crime; and in amoment Rachel saw the cause.It was her own fault. She had left the light burning in the upper room,the bedroom on the second floor.Rachel joined the skirts of the crowd--drawn by an irresistiblefascination--and listened to what was being said. All eyes were upon thelighted window of the bedroom--watching for herself, as she soondiscovered--and this made her doubly safe where she stood behind thepress."She's up there, I tell yer," said one."Not her! It's a ghost.""Her 'usband's ghost, then.""But vere's a chap 'ere wot sore 'er fice to fice in the next street;an' followed 'er and 'eard the door go; an' w'en 'e come back wiv 'ispals, vere was vat light.""Let's 'ave 'er aht of it.""Yuss, she ain't no right there.""No; the condemned cell's the plice for 'er!""Give us a stone afore the copper comes!"And Rachel saw the first stone flung, and heard the first glass break;and within a very few minutes there was not a whole pane left in thefront of the house; but that was all the damage which Rachel herself sawdone.A hand touched her lightly on the shoulder."Do you still pin your faith to the man in the street?" said a voice.And, though she had heard it for the first time that very evening, itwas a voice that Rachel seemed to have known all her life.CHAPTER VIA PERIPATETIC PROVIDENCE"Do you still pin your faith to the man in the street?"It was Mr. Steel who stood at Rachel's elbow, repeating his questionword for word; but he did not repeat it in the same tone. There was anearnest note in the lowered voice, an unspoken appeal to her to admitthe truth and be done with proud pretence. And indeed the pride had goneout of Rachel at sight of him; a delicious sense of safety filled herheart instead. She was as one drowning, and here was a strong swimmercome to her rescue in the nick of time. What did it matter who or whathe was? She felt that he was strong to save. Yet, as the nearly drowneddo struggle with their saviours, so Rachel must fence instinctively withhers."I never did pin my faith to him," said she."Yet see the risk that you are running! If he turns round--if any one ofthem turns round and recognizes you--listen to that!"It was only the second window, but a third and a fourth followed likeshots from the same revolver. Rachel winced."For God's sake, come away!" he whispered, sternly.And Rachel did come a few yards before a flicker of her spirit called ahalt."Why should I run away?" she demanded, in sudden tears of mortificationand of weakness combined. "I am innocent--so why should I?""Because they don't like innocent people; and there appear to be nopolice in these parts; and if you fall into their hands--well, it wouldbe better for you if you had been found guilty and were safe and soundin Newgate now!"That was exactly what Rachel had felt herself; she took a few stepsmore, but still with reluctance and irresolution; and once round thenearest corner, and out of that hateful street for ever, she turned toher companion in unconcealed despair."But what am I to do?" she cried. "But where am I to turn?""Mrs. Minchin," said Steel, "can you not really trust me yet?"He stood before her under a street lamp, handsome still, upright for allhis years, strong as fate itself, and surely kinder than any fate whichRachel Minchin had yet met with in the course of her short butcheckered life. And yet--and yet--she trusted and distrusted him too!"I can and I cannot," she sighed; and even with the words one reasonoccurred to her. "You have followed me, you see, after all!""I admit it," he replied, "and without a particle of shame. My dearlady, I was not going to lose sight of you to-night!""And why not?""Because I foresaw what might happen, and may happen still! Nay, madam,it will, if you continue to let your pride sit upon your common sense.Do you hear them now? That means the police, and when they're dispersedthey'll come this way to King's Road. Any moment they may be upon us.And there's a hansom dropped from heaven!"He raised his umbrella, the bell tinkled, the two red eyes dilated andwidened in the night, then with a clatter the horse was pulled up besidethe curb, and Steel spread his hand before the muddy wheel."Be sensible," he whispered, "and jump in! In a hansom you can see whereyou are going; in a hansom you can speak to the driver or attract theattention of any decent person on the sidewalk. Ah! you will trust meso far at last--I thank you from my heart!""Where to, sir?" asked the cabman through the roof.And Rachel listened with languid curiosity; but that was all. She hadput herself in this man's hands; resistance was at an end, and areckless indifference to her fate the new attitude of a soul as utterlyovertaxed and exhausted as its tired tenement of clay."Brook Street," said Steel, after a moment's pause--"and double-quickfor a double fare. We shall be there in a quarter of an hour," he addedreassuringly as the trap-door slammed, "and you will find everythingready for you, beginning with something to eat. I, at all events,anticipated the verdict; if you don't believe me, you will when we getthere, for they have been ready for you all day. Do you know Claridge'sHotel, by the way?""Only by name," said Rachel, wearily."I'm glad to hear it," pursued Mr. Steel, "for I think you will bepleased. It is not like the ordinary run of hotels. Your rooms are yourcastle--regular self-contained flat--and you needn't see another soul ifyou don't like. I am staying in the hotel myself, for example, but youshall not set eyes on me for a week unless you wish to.""But I don't understand," began Rachel, roused a little from her apathy.She was not suffered to proceed."Nor are you to attempt to do so," said her companion, "until to-morrowmorning. If you feel equal to it then, I shall crave an audience, andyou shall hear what I have got to say. But first, let me beg of you, anadequate supper and a good night's rest!""One thing is certain," said Rachel, half to herself: "they can't knowwho I am, or they never would have taken me in. And no luggage!""That they are prepared for," returned Steel; "and in your rooms youwill find a maid who is also prepared and equipped for your emergency.As to their not knowing who you are at the hotel, there you are right;they do not know; it would have been inexpedient to tell them.""Then at least," said Rachel, "I ought to know who I am supposed to be."And she smiled, for interest and curiosity were awakened within her,with the momentary effect of stimulants; but Mr. Steel sat silent at herside. The cab was tinkling up Park Lane. The great park on the left, thegreat houses on the right, the darkness on the one hand, the lights onthe other, had all the fascination of sharp contrasts--that veryfascination which was Mr. Steel's. Rachel already discovered it in hisface, and divined it in his character, without admitting to herself thatthere was any fascination at all. Yet otherwise she would have droppedrather than have done what she was doing now. The man had cast a spellupon her; and for the present she did feel safe in his hands. But withthat unmistakable sense of immediate security there mingled a subtlerpremonition of ultimate danger, to which Rachel had felt alive from thefirst. And this was the keenest stimulus of all.What was his intention, and what his object? To draw back was to findout neither; and to say the truth, even if she had not been friendlessand forlorn, Rachel would have been very sorry to draw back now.The raw air in her face had greatly revived her; the sights and lightsof the town were still new and dear to her; she had come back to theworld with a vengeance, to a world of incident and interest, with anadventure ready waiting to take her out of her past self!But it was only her companion's silence which enabled Rachel to realizeher strange fortune at this stage, and she had to put her questionpoint-blank before she obtained any answer at all."If you insist upon hearing all the little details to-night," saidSteele, with a good-humored shrug, "well, I suppose you must hear them;but I hope you will not insist. I have had to make provisions which youmay very possibly resent, but I thought it would be time enough for usto quarrel about them in the morning. To-night you need rest andsustenance, but no excitement; of that God knows you have had enough! Noone will come near you but the maid of whom I spoke; no questions willbe put to you; everything is arranged. But to-morrow, if you feel equalto it, you shall hear all about me, and form your own cool judgment ofmy behavior towards you. Meanwhile won't you trust me--implicitly--untilthen?""I do," said Rachel, "and I will--until to-morrow.""Then there are one or two things that I can promise you," said Steel,with the heartiness of a man who has gained his point. "You will not becompromised in any sort or kind of way; your self-respect shall notsuffer; nothing shall vex or trouble you, if I can help it, while youremain at this hotel. And this I guarantee--whether you like it ornot--unless you tell them, not a single soul in the place shall have thefaintest inkling as to who you are. Now, only keep your why andwherefore till to-morrow," he concluded cheerily, "and I can promise youalmost every satisfaction. But here we are at the hotel."He thrust his umbrella outside, pointing to a portico and courtyard onthe right; and in another moment Rachel was receiving the bows ofpowdered footmen in crimson plush, while Steel, hat in hand, his whitehair gleaming in the electric light, led the way to the lift.Rachel's recollection of that night was ever afterwards disjointed andinvolved as that of any dream; but there were certain features that shenever forgot. There was the beautiful suite of rooms, filled withflowers that must have cost a small fortune at that time of year, and inone of them a table tastefully laid. Rachel remembered the dazzle ofsilver and the glare of napery, the hot plates, the sparkling wine, thehot-house fruit, and the deep embarrassment of sitting down to all thisin solitary state. Mr. Steel had but peeped in to see that all was inaccordance with his orders; thereafter not even a waiter was allowed toenter, but only Rachel's attendant, to whose charge she had beencommitted; a gentle and assiduous creature, quiet of foot and quick ofhand, who spoke seldom but in a soothing voice, and with the delicateand pretty accent of the French-Swiss.Rachel used to wonder whether she had shocked this mannerly young womanby eating very ravenously; she remembered a nervous desire to be donewith that solitary repast, and to get to bed. Yet when she was there, inthe sweetest and whitest of fine linen, with a hot bottle at her feet,and a fire burning so brightly in the room that the brass bedsteadseemed here and there red-hot, then the sound sleep that she sorelyneeded seemed further off than ever, for always she dreamt she was inprison and condemned to die, till at length she feared to close hereyes. But nothing had been forgotten; and Rachel's last memory of thateventful day, and not less eventful night, was of a mild, foreign facebending over her with a medicine-glass and a gentle word.And the same good face and the same soft voice were waiting for her whenshe awoke after many hours; the fire still burned brightly, also theelectric-light, though the blind was up and the window filled with adull November sky. It was a delicious awakening, recollection was soslow to come. Rachel might have been ill for days. She experienced thepeace that is left by illness of sufficient gravity. But all she ailedwas a slight headache, quickly removed by an inimitable cup of tea, thatfortified her against the perplexing memories which now came swarming toher mind. This morning, however, enlightenment was due, and meanwhileRachel received a hint, though a puzzling one, from the Swiss maid, asto the new identity which had been thrust upon her for the time being inlieu of her own."It was very sad for madame to lose all her things," cooed the girl, asshe busied herself about the room."It was irritating," Rachel owned, beginning to wonder how much theother knew."But it was better than losing your life, madame!" the girl added with asmile.And now Rachel lay silent. Could this amiable young woman know all? Inone way Rachel rather hoped it was the case; it would be something tohave received so much kindness and attention, even though bought andpaid for, from one of her own sex who knew all there was to know, andyet did not shrink from her. But the young woman's next words dismissedthis idea."When so many poor people were drowned!" said she. And the mystificationincreased.Presently there was a knock at the outer door, which the maid answered,returning with Mr. Steele's card."Is he there?" asked Rachel, hastily."No, madame, but one of the servants is waiting for an answer. I thinkthere is something written on the back, madame."Rachel read the harmless request on the back of the card; nothing couldhave been better calculated to turn away suspicion of one sort oranother, and there was obvious design in the absence of an envelope. ButRachel was not yet in the secret, and she was determined not to wait anhour longer than she need."What is the time, please?""I will see, madame."The girl glided out and in."Well?""A quarter to ten, madame.""Then order my breakfast for a quarter past, and let Mr. Steele be toldthat I shall be delighted to see him at eleven o'clock."CHAPTER VIIA MORNING CALL"The way to conceal one's identity," observed Mr. Steel, "is to assumeanother as distinctive as one's own."This oracular utterance was confidentially delivered from the leathernchair at the writing-table, in an inner recess of Rachel's sumptuoussitting-room. The chair had been wheeled aloof from the table, on whichwere Steel's hat and gloves, and such a sheaf of book-stall literatureas suggested his immediate departure upon no short journey, unless,indeed, the magazines and the Sunday newspapers turned out to be anotheroffering to Mrs. Minchin, like the nosegay of hothouse flowers which shestill held in her hand. Rachel herself had inadvertently taken the veryeasy-chair which was a further feature of the recess; in its cushioneddepths she already felt at a needless disadvantage, with Mr. Steelbending over her, his strong face bearing down, as it were, upon hers,and his black eyes riddling her with penetrating glances. But to haverisen now would have been to show him what she felt. So she trifled withhis flowers without looking up, though her eyebrows rose a little ontheir own account."I know what you are thinking," resumed Steel; "that you had no desireto assume any new identity, or for a single moment to conceal your own,and that I have taken a great deal upon myself. That I most freelyadmit. And I think you will forgive me when you see the papers!""Is there so much about me, then?" asked Rachel, with a sigh ofapprehension."A leading article in every one of them. But they will keep. Indeed, Iwould much rather you never saw them at all.""Was that why you brought them in, Mr. Steel?"The question was irresistible, its satire unconcealed; but Steel'sdisregard of it steered admirably clear of contempt."That was why I bought them, certainly," he admitted. "But I broughtthem with me for quite a different purpose, for which one would indeedhave been enough. I was saying, however, that the best way to sink one'sidentity is to assume another, provided that the second be asdistinctive as the first. We will leave for a moment the question of myofficiousness in the matter, and we'll suppose, for the sake ofargument, that I was authorized by you to do what in fact I have done.All last week the papers were literally full of your trial, but onSaturday there was a second sensation as well, and this morning it ishard to say which is first and which second; they both occupy so manycolumns. You may not know it, but the Cape liner due on Saturday waslost with scores of lives, off Finisterre, on Friday morning last."Rachel failed to see the connection, and yet she felt vaguely that therewas one, if she could but recall it; meanwhile she said nothing, butlistened with as much attention as a mental search would permit."I heard of it first," continued Steel, "late on Friday afternoon, as Icame away from the Old Bailey. Now, it was on Friday afternoon, if yourecollect, that you gave evidence yourself in your own defence. When youleft the witness-box, Mrs. Minchin, and even before you left it, I knewthat you were saved!"Rachel remembered the Swiss maid's remark about the loss of her clothesand the number of persons who had fared so much worse and lost theirlives. But Steel's last words dismissed every thought but that of theirown import. And in an instant she was trembling upright in theeasy-chair."You believed me!" she whispered. "You believed me at the time!"And for nothing had he earned such gratitude yet; her moist eyes saw theold-fashioned courtesy of his bow in answer, but not the subtlety of thesmile that bore it company in the depths of the dark eyes: it was asmile that did not extend to the short, tight mouth."What is more to the point, my dear lady," he went on in words, "thejury believed you, and I saw that they did. You made a tremendousimpression upon them. The lawyer against you was too humane to try veryhard to remove it, and the judge too just--though your own man did hisbest. But I saw at once that it would never be removed. It was betweenyou and the jury--human being to human beings--and no third legal partyintervening. That was where you scored; you went straight as a die tothose twelve simple hearts. And I saw what you had done--what thelawyers between them could not undo--and took immediate measures."Rachel looked up with parted lips, only to shut them firmly without aword."And who was I to take measures on your behalf?" queried Steel, puttingthe question for her. "What right or excuse had I to mix myself up inyour affairs? I will tell you, for this morning is not last night, andat least you have one good night's rest between you and the past. Mydear Mrs. Minchin, I had absolutely no right at all; but I had theexcuse which every man has who sees a woman left to stand alone againstthe world, and who thrusts himself, no matter how officiously, into thebreach beside her. And then for a week I had seen you all day and everyday, upon your trial!"At last there something with a ring of definite insincerity, somethingthat Rachel could take up; and she gazed upon her self-appointedchampion with candid eyes."Do you mean to say that you never saw me before--my trouble, Mr.Steel?""Never in my life, my dear lady.""Then you knew something about me or mine!""What one read in the newspapers--neither more nor less--upon my mostsolemn word--if that will satisfy you."And it did; for if there had been palpable insincerity in his previousprotestations, there was sincerity of a still more obvious order in Mr.Steel's downright assurances on these two points. He had never everseen her before. He knew nothing whatever about her up to the period ofnotoriety; he had no special and no previous knowledge of his own. Itmight not be true, of course; but there was that in the deep-set eyeswhich convinced Rachel once and for all. There was a sudden light inthem, a light as candid as that which happened to be shining in her own,but a not too kindly one, rather a glint of genuine resentment. It washis smooth protestations that Rachel distrusted and disliked. If shecould ruffle him, she might get at the real man; and with her questionsshe appeared to have done so already."I am more than satisfied, in one way," replied Rachel, "and less inanother. I rather wish you had known something about me; it would havemade it more natural for you to come to my assistance. But never mind.What were these immediate measures?""I took these rooms; I had spoken of taking them earlier in the week.""For me?""Yes, on the chance of your getting off.""But you did not say they were for me!""No; and I was vague in what I had said until then. I had a daughter--awidow--whom I rather expected to arrive from abroad towards the end ofthe week. But I was quite vague.""Because you thought I had no chance!""I had not heard your evidence. The very afternoon I did hear it, andhad no longer any doubt about the issue in my own mind, I also heard ofthis wreck. The very thing! I waited till next morning for the list ofthe saved; luckily there were plenty of them; and I picked out the nameof a married woman travelling alone, and therefore very possibly awidow, from the number. Then I went to the manager. The daughter whom Iexpected had been wrecked, but she was saved, and would arrive thatnight. As a matter of fact, the survivors were picked up by a passingNorth German Lloyd, and they did reach London on Saturday night.Meanwhile I had impressed it upon the manager to keep the matter asquiet as possible, for many excellent reasons, which I need not go intonow.""But the reason for so elaborate a pretence?"And the keen, dark face was searched with a scrutiny worthy of itself.Steel set his mouth in another visible resolution to tell the truth."I thought you might not be sorry to cease being Mrs. Minchin--the Mrs.Minchin who had become so cruelly notorious through no fault of herown--if only for a day or two, or a single night. That was most easilyto be effected by your arriving here minus possessions, and plus a verydefinite story of your own.""You made very sure of me!" said Rachel, dryly."I trusted to my own powers of persuasion, and it was said you had nofriends. I will confess," added Steel, "that I hoped the report wastrue.""Did it follow that I could have no pride?""By no means; on the contrary, I knew that you were full of pride; itis, if I may venture to say so, one of your most salientcharacteristics. Nothing was more noticeable at your trial; nothingfiner have I ever seen! But," added Steel, suppressing a burst ofenthusiasm that gained by the suppression, "but, madam, I hoped andprayed that you would have the sense to put your pride in the secondplace for once.""Well," said Rachel, "and so far I have done so, Heaven knows!""And that is something," rejoined Steel, impressively. "Even if it endsat this--even if you won't hear me out--it is something that you havehad one night and one morning free from insult, discomfort, andannoyance."Rachel felt half frightened and half indignant. Steel was standing up,looking very earnestly down upon her. And something that she had dimlydivined in the very beginning--only to chide herself for the merethought--that thing was in his face and in his voice. Rachel made adesperate attempt to change the subject, but, as will be seen, anunlucky one."So I am supposed to be your daughter!" she exclaimed nervously. "May Iask my new name?""If you like; but I am going to suggest to you a still newer name, Mrs.Minchin."Rachel tried to laugh, though his quietly determined and serious facemade it more than difficult."Do you mean that I am not to be your daughter any longer, Mr. Steel?""Not if I can help it. But it will depend upon yourself.""And what do you want to make me now?""My wife!"CHAPTER VIIITHE DOVE AND THE SERPENTRachel was bereft of speech; and yet a certain sense of relief underlaythe natural embarrassment caused by a proposal so premature and soabrupt. Nor was the deeper emotion very difficult to analyze. Here atlast was a logical explanation of the whole behavior of this man; it wasthe first that had occurred to her, and, after all, it was the onlypossible one."I want you to be my wife," repeated Mr. Steel, with enough of respectin his tone, yet none the less with the air of a man who is accustomedto obtain what he wants.And Rachel, looking at the wiry, well-knit, upright figure, and at thefresh, elderly, but virile face, with its sombre eyes and its snowyhair, thought once again of the ancient saw which she had quoted toherself the night before, only to dismiss it finally from her mind. Thisman was no fool, nor was he old. He might be eccentric, but he waseminently sane; he might be elderly, in the arbitrary matter of mereyears; but an old man he was not, and never would be with those eyes.She tried to tell him it was absurd, but before the word could come shesaw that it was the last one to apply; he was so confident, so quiet, sosure of himself, if not of Rachel. At last she told him she could notthink of it, he had seen nothing of her, and could not possibly care forher, even supposing that she cared for him."By 'caring,'" said he, "do you mean being 'in love,' as they say, andall that?""Naturally," said Rachel, with great ease and irony, but with a newmisgiving every moment."And have I said I was in love with you?" inquired Mr. Steel, with asmile as indulgent as his tone. "It might, perhaps, be no more than thetruth; but have I had the insolence to tell you so?""It is a greater insult if you are not," returned Rachel, speaking hotlyand quickly, but with lowered eyes."What! To offer to marry a person whom one does not--as yet--pretend tolove?"Rachel vouchsafed no reply."Whom one only--but tremendously--admires?"Rachel felt bound to answer him, for at least there was no insult inhis tone. She raised her candid eyes, a sweet brown blush upon her face."Yes," she said, "I think there is absolutely no excuse for a proposalof marriage, if it is not founded upon love and nothing else!""Or its pretence and nothing else," amended Steel, with a bow and asmile of some severity. "That is a hard saying," he went on, resuminghis chair, and wheeling it even nearer to Rachel's than it had beenbefore; "moreover," he added, "since I have already insulted you, let metell you that it is an exceedingly commonplace saying, into the bargain.It depends, you must admit, upon the commonplace conception of marriage;and before we go any further I should like to give you my ownconception, not of the institution, but of the particular marriage whichI have in view."So he had it in view! It was not an inspiration, but already quite aprospect! Rachel made an acid little note of this; but there was noacidity in her permission to him to proceed; her turn was coming last."The marriage that I propose to you," continued Steel, "is simply themost convenient form of friendship of which I can think. I want to beyour friend; indeed, that much I mean to be, if necessary, in spite ofyou. I was interested in your case, so I came up to hear your trial. Iwas more interested in your trial, but most interested of all inyourself. There, indeed, the word is too weak; but I will not vex yourspirit with a stronger. My attraction you know; my determination youknow; even the low wiles to which your pride reduced me, even my dodgingand dogging, have been quite openly admitted to you on the firstreasonable opportunity. All this business of the shipwrecked daughterwas of course a crude device enough; but I had very little time tothink, and my first care was that you should not be recognized here orelsewhere in my society. That was essential, if there was the slightestchance of your even listening to my proposition, as indeed you are doingnow. Last night I told you nothing, because that's always easier thantelling only a little; moreover, you were so distraught that you wouldpossibly have gone right away without benefiting even to the slightextent of the comfortable night's rest you so badly needed; but thismorning I am prepared to put it to the touch. And let me begin bysaying, that if circumstances would permit me to continue the paternalimposture, that would be quite enough for me; unluckily, I am known inmy own country as an old bachelor; so that I cannot suddenly produce awidowed daughter, without considerable unpleasantness for us both. WhatI can do, however," and Steel bent further forward, with eyes that heldRachel's in their spell; "what I can do, and will, is to go back with alady who shall be my wife in name, my daughter in effect. We should, Itrust, be the best of friends; but I will give you my word, and not onlymy word but my bond, that we never need be anything more."He had spoken rapidly; the pause that followed lasted longer than thislengthy speech. And through it all they sat with eyes still locked,until he spoke again."You believe, at least, in the bona fides of my offer?"And Rachel, still looking in his eyes, murmured that she did."You will bear in mind how essentially it differs from the ordinaryoffer of the kind; also, that I have never for a moment pretended to bein love with you?""I will."Steel had risen as if to go; the keen scrutiny was withdrawn, a distinctspell as distinctly broken; and yet he lingered, with a smile."That," said he, "was a poor compliment to pay twice over! But it ishuman to err, and in my anxiety not to do so on the side of sentiment Iown myself in danger of flying to the other extreme. Well, you knowwhich is the common extreme in such cases; and at all events we shallavoid the usual pitfall. I am going to give you a few minutes to thinkit over; then, if you care to go into it further, I shall be most happy;if not, the matter is at an end."A few minutes! Rachel felt very angry, without knowing that she was mostangry with herself for not feeling angrier still. She had heard quiteenough; it were weakness to listen to another word; and yet--and yet--"Don't go," said Rachel, with some petulance; "that is quiteunnecessary. Anything more extraordinary--but I owe you too much alreadyto be your critic. Still, I do think I am entitled to go a littlefurther into the matter, as you said, without committing myself.""To be sure you are."But this time he remained standing; and for once he kept those mesmericeyes to himself. Obviously, Rachel was to have a chance."You spoke of your own country," she began. "Do you live abroad?"There was the least suspicion of eagerness in the question. Rachelherself was unaware of it; not so Mr. Steel, and he sighed."A mere figure," he said; "what I meant was my own country-side.""And where is that?""In the north," he replied vaguely. "Did you look twice at my card?Well, here is another, if you will do me that honor now. The initialsJ. B. stand for no very interesting names--John Buchanan. A certaininterest in the Buchanan, perhaps; it comes out in the flesh, I fancy,though not on the tongue. As for the address, Normanthorpe House is therather historic old seat of the family of that name; but they have somany vastly superior and more modern places, and the last fifty yearshave so ruined the surroundings, that I was able to induce the Duke totake a price for it a year or two ago. He had hardly slept a night therein his life, and I got it lock-stock-and-barrel for a song. TheNorthborough which, you will observe, it is 'near'--a good four miles,as a matter of fact--is the well-known centre of the Delvertoniron-trade. But you may very well have spent a year in this countrywithout having heard of it; they would be shocked at Northborough, butnowhere else."Rachel had dropped the card into her lap; she was looking straight atMr. John Buchanan Steel himself."You are very rich," she said gravely."I am nothing of the kind," he protested. "The Duke is rich, if youlike, but I had to scrape together to pay him what would replenish hisracing-stud, or stand him in a new yacht."But Rachel was not deceived."I might have known you were very rich," she murmured, as much toherself as to him; and there was a strange finality in her tone, asthough all was over between them; a still more strange regret,involuntary, unconscious, and yet distinct."Granting your hypothesis, for the sake of argument," he went on, withhis simplest smile; "is it as difficult as ever for the poor rich man toget to heaven?"Rachel spent some moments in serious thought. He was wonderfully honestwith her; of his central motive alone was she uncertain, unconvinced. Inall else she felt instinctively that he was telling her the truth,telling her even more than he need. His generous candor was a challengeto her own."It may be very small of me," she said at length, "but--somehow--if youhad been comparatively poor--I should have been less--ashamed!"And candor begot candor, as it generally will."Upon my word," he cried, "you make me sigh for the suburbs and sixhundred a year! But you shall know the worst. I meant you to know itwhen I came in; then I changed my mind; but in for a penny, in for thelot!"He caught up the magazine which he had brought in with the sheaf ofnewspapers, and he handed it to Rachel, open at an article quiteexcellently illustrated for an English magazine."There," he cried, "there's a long screed about the wretched place,before it came into my hands. But it's no use pretending it isn't quitethe place it was. I took over the whole thing--every stick outside andin--and I've put in new drainage and the electric light."His tone of regret was intentionally ludicrous. Had Rachel beenlistening, she would once more have suspected a pose. But already shewas deep in the article in the two-year-old magazine, or rather in itsnot inartistic illustrations."The House from the Tennis Lawn," "In the Kitchen Garden," "TheDrawing-room Door," "A Drawing-room Chimney-piece," "A Corner of theChinese Room," "A Portion of the Grand Staircase"--of such were thetitles underneath the process pictures. And (in all but theirproduction) each of these was more beautiful than the last."That," observed Steel, "happens to be the very article from which Ifirst got wind of the place, when I was looking about for one. Andnow," he added, "I suppose I have cut my own throat! Like the devil, Ihave taken you up to a high place--"It was no word from Rachel that cut him short, but his own taste, withwhich she at least had very little fault to find. And Rachel wascritical enough; but her experience was still unripe, and she liked hisview of his possessions, without perceiving how it disarmed her own.Presently she looked up."Now I see how much I should have to gain. But what would you gain?"The question was no sooner asked than Rachel foresaw the pretty speechwhich was its obvious answer. Mr. Steel, however, refrained from makingit."I am an oldish man," he said, "and--yes, there is no use in denyingthat I am comfortably off. I want a wife; or rather, my neighbors seembent upon finding me one; and, if the worst has to come to the worst, Iprefer to choose for myself. Matrimony, however, is about the very laststate of life that I desire, and I take it to be the same with you.Therefore--to put the cart before the horse--you would suit me ideally.One's own life would be unaltered, but the Delverton mothers would ceasefrom troubling, and at the head of my establishment there would be alady of whom I should be most justly proud. And even in my own life Ishould, I hope, be the more than occasional gainer by her society; may Ialso add, by her sympathy, by her advice? Mrs. Minchin," cried Steel,with sudden feeling, "the conditions shall be very rigid; my lawyershall see to that; nor shall I allow myself a loophole for any weaknessor nonsense whatsoever in the future. Old fellows like myself have madefools of themselves before to-day, but you shall be safeguarded from thebeginning. Let there be no talk or thought of love between us from firstto last! But as for admiration, I don't mind telling you that I admireyou as I never admired any woman in the world before; and I hope, inspite of that, we shall be friends."Still the indicative mood, still not for a moment the conditional!Rachel did not fail to make another note; but now there was nothingbitter even in her thoughts. She believed in this man, and in hispromises; moreover, she began to focus the one thing about him in whichshe disbelieved. It was his feeling towards her--nothing more andnothing else. There he was insincere; but it was a pardonableinsincerity, after all.Of his admiration she was convinced; it had been open and honest allalong; but there was something deeper than admiration. He could say whathe liked. The woman knew. And what could it be but love?The woman knew; and though the tragedy of her life was so close behindher; nay, though mystery and suspicion encompassed her still, as theymight until her death, the woman thrilled.It was a thrill of excitement chiefly, but excitement was not the onlyelement. There was the personal factor, too; there was the fascinationwhich this man had for her, which he could exert at will, and which hewas undoubtedly exerting now.To escape from his eyes, to think but once more for herself, and byherself, Rachel rose at last, and looked from the window which lit thisrecess.It was the usual November day in London; no sun; a mist, but not a fog;cabmen in capes, horses sliding on the muddy street, well-dressed womenpicking their way home from church--shabby women hurrying inshawls--hurrying as Rachel herself had done the night before--as shemight again to-night. And whither? And whither, in all the world?Rachel turned from the window with a shudder; she caught up the firstnewspaper of the sheaf upon the writing-table. Steel had moved into thebody of the room; she could not even see him through the alcove. So muchthe better; she would discover for herself what they said.Leading articles are easily found, and in a Sunday paper they are seldomlong. Rachel was soon through the first, her blood boiling; the secondshe could not finish for her tears; the third dried her eyes with thefires of fierce resentment. It was not so much what they said; it waswhat they were obviously afraid to say. It was their circumlocution,their innuendo, their mild surprise, their perfunctory congratulations,their assumption of chivalry and their lack of its essence, that woundedand stung the subject of these effusions. As she raised her flushed facefrom the last of them, Mr. Steel stood before her once more, theincarnation of all grave sympathy and consideration."You must not think," said he, "that my proposal admits of noalternative but the miserable one of making your own way in a suspiciousand uncharitable world. On the contrary, if I am not to be your nominaland legal husband, I still intend to be your actual friend. On the firstpoint you are to be consulted, but on the second not even you shallstand in my way. Nor in that event would I attempt to rob you of theindependence which you value so highly; on the other hand, I wouldpoint the way to an independence worth having. I am glad you have seenthose papers, though to-morrow they may be worse. Well, you may beshocked, but, if you won't have me, the worse the better, say I! Yourcase was most iniquitously commented upon before ever it came for trial;there is sure to be a fresh crop of iniquities now; but I shall be muchmistaken if you cannot mulct the more flagrant offenders in heavydamages for libel."Rachel shivered at the thought. She was done with her case for ever andfor ever. People could think her guilty if they liked, but that the caseshould breed other cases, and thus drag on and on, and, above all, thatshe should make money out of all that past horror, what an unbearableidea!On second thoughts, Mr. Steel agreed."Then you must let me send you back to Australia." No, no, no; she couldnever show her face there again, or anywhere else where she was known.She must begin life afresh, that was evident."It was evident to me," said Steel, quietly, "though not more so thanthe injustice of it, from the very beginning. Hence the plans andproposals that I have put before you."Rachel regarded him wildly; the Sunday papers had driven her todesperation, as, perhaps, it was intended that they should."Are you sure," she cried, "that they would not know me--up north?""Not from Eve," he answered airily. "I should see to that; and, besides,we should first travel, say until the summer.""If only I _could_ begin my life again!" said Rachel to herself, butaloud, in a way that made no secret of her last, most desperateinclination."That is exactly what I wish you to do," Steel rejoined quietly, evengently, his hand lying lightly but kindly upon her quivering shoulder.How strong his touch, how firm, how reassuring! It was her first contactwith his hand."I wish it so much," he went on, "that I would have your past lifeutterly buried, even between ourselves; nay, if it were possible, evenin your own mind also! I, for my part, would undertake never to ask youone solitary question about that life--on one small and only faircondition. Supposing we make a compact now?""Anything to bury my own past," owned Rachel; "yes, I would doanything--anything!""Then you must help me to bury mine, too," he said. "I was nevermarried, but a past I have.""I would do my best," said Rachel, "if I married you.""You will do your best," added Steel, correcting her; "and there is mycompact cut and dried. I ask you nothing; you ask me nothing; and thereis to be no question of love between us, first or last. But we help eachother to forget--from this day forth!"Rachel could not speak; his eyes were upon her, black, inscrutable,arrestive of her very faculties, to say nothing of her will. She couldonly answer him when he had turned away and was moving towards the door."Where are you going?" she cried."To send to my solicitor," replied Steel, "as I warned him that I might.It has all to be drawn up; and there is the question of a settlement;and other questions, perhaps, which you may like to put to him yourselfwithout delay."CHAPTER IXA CHANGE OF SCENEThe Reverend Hugh Woodgate, Vicar of Marley-in-Delverton--a benefice forgenerations in the gift of the Dukes of Normanthorpe, but latterly inthat of one John Buchanan Steel--was writing his sermon on a Fridayafternoon just six months after the foregoing events. The month wastherefore May, and, at either end of the long, low room in which Mr.Woodgate sat at work, the windows were filled with a flutter of summercurtains against a brilliant background of waving greenery. But a fireburned in one of the two fireplaces in the old-fashioned funnel of aroom, for a treacherous east wind skimmed the sunlit earth outside, andwhistled and sang through one window as the birds did through the other.Mr. Woodgate was a tall, broad-shouldered, mild-eyed man, with a blot ofwhisker under each ear, and the cleanest of clerical collarsencompassing his throat. It was a kindly face that pored over theunpretentious periods, as they grew by degrees upon the blue-linedpaper, in the peculiar but not uncommon hand which is the hall-mark ofa certain sort of education upon a certain order of mind. The presentspecimen was perhaps more methodical than most; therein it wascharacteristic of the man. From May to September, Mr. Woodgate neverfailed to finish his sermon on the Friday, that on the Saturday he mightbe free to play cricket with his men and lads. He was a poor preacherand no cricketer at all; but in both branches he did his best, with thesimple zeal and the unconscious sincerity which redeemed not a few ofhis deficiencies.So intent was the vicar upon his task, so engrossed in the expression ofthat which had already been expressed many a million times, that he didnot hear wheels in his drive, on the side where the wind sang loudest;he heard nothing until the door opened, and a girl in her twenties,trim, slim, and brown with health, came hurriedly in."I'm sorry to disturb you, dear, but who do you think is here?"Hugh Woodgate turned round in his chair, and his honest ox-eyes filledwith open admiration of the wife who was so many years younger thanhimself, and who had seen in him Heaven knew what! He never could lookat her without that look first; and only now, after some years ofmarriage, was he beginning sometimes to do so without this thoughtnext. But he had not the gift of expression, even in the perpetualmatter of his devotion; and perhaps its perpetuity owed something tothat very want; at least there was none of the verbal evaporation whichcomes of too much lovers' talk."Who is it?" he asked."Mrs. Venables!"Woodgate groaned. Was he obliged to appear? His jaw fell, and his wife'seyes sparkled."Dear, I wouldn't even have let you know she was here--you shouldn'thave been interrupted for a single instant--if Mrs. Venables wasn'tclamoring to see you. And really I begin to clamor too; for she is fullof some mysterious news, which she won't tell me till you are there tohear it also. Be an angel, for five minutes!"Woodgate wiped his pen in his deliberate way."Probably one of the girls is engaged," said he; "if so I hope it'sSybil.""No, Sybil is here too; she doesn't look a bit engaged, but ratherbored, as though she had heard the story several times already, whateverit may be. They have certainly paid several calls. Now you look quitenice, so in you come."Mrs. Venables, a stout but comely lady, with a bright brown eye, and aface full of character and ability, opened fire upon the vicar as soonas they had shaken hands, while her daughter looked wistfully at thenearest books."He is married!" cried Mrs. Venables, beginning in the middle like amodern novelist."Indeed?" returned the matter-of-fact clergyman, with equaldirectness--"and who is he?""Your neighbor and your patron--Mr. Steel!""Married?" repeated Mrs. Woodgate, with tremendous emphasis. "Mr.Steel?""This is news!" declared her husband, as though he had expected noneworthy of the name. And they both demanded further particulars, at whichMrs. Venables shook her expensive bonnet with great relish."Do you know Mr. Steel so well--so much better than we do--and can youask for particulars about anything he ever does? His marriage,"continued Mrs. Venables, "like everything else about him, is 'wrop inmystery,' as one of those vulgar creatures says in Dickens, but I reallyforget which. It was never announced in the _Times_; for that I canvouch myself. Was ever anything more like him, or less like anybodyelse? To disappear for six months, and then turn up with a wife!""But has he turned up?" cried the vicar's young wife, forgetting for amoment a certain preoccupation caused by the arrival of the tea-tray,and by a rapid resignation to the thickness of the bread and butter andthe distressing absence of such hot things as would have been inreadiness if Mrs. Venables had been expected for a single moment. Itshowed the youth of Morna Woodgate that she should harbor a wish tocompete with the wealthiest woman in the neighborhood, even in thematter of afternoon tea, and her breeding that no such thought waslegible in her clear-cut open-air face."I have heard nothing about it," said the vicar, in a tone indicative ofmuch honest doubt in the matter."Nor is it the case, to my knowledge," rejoined Mrs. Venables; "but fromall we hear it may become the case any moment. They were married inItaly last autumn--so he says--and are on their way home at thisminute.""If he says so," observed the vicar, with mild humor, "it is probablytrue. He ought to know.""And who was she?" his young wife asked with immense interest, the cupshaving gone round, and the bread and butter been accepted in spite ofits proportions."My dear Mrs. Woodgate," said Mrs. Venables, cordially, "you may wellask! Who was she, indeed! It was the first question I asked my owninformant, who, by the way, was your friend, Mr. Langholm; but he knewno more than the man in the moon.""And who told Mr. Langholm, of all people?" pursued Morna Woodgate. "Itis not often that we get news of the real world from him!""Birds of a feather," remarked her caller: "it was Mr. Steel himself whowrote to your other eccentric friend, and told him neither more nor lessthan I have told you. He was married in Italy last autumn; not even thetown--not even the month--let alone the lady's name--if, indeed--"And Mrs. Venables concluded with a sufficiently eloquent hiatus."I imagine she is a lady," said the vicar to his tea."You are so charitable, dear Mr. Woodgate!""I hope I am," he said simply. "In this case I see no reason to beanything else.""What--when you know really nothing about Mr. Steel himself?"And the bright brown eyes of Mrs. Venables grew smaller and harder asthey pinned Hugh Woodgate to his chair."I beg your pardon," said that downright person; "I know a great dealabout Mr. Steel. He has done an immense amount for the parish; thereare our new schoolrooms to speak for themselves. There are very few whowould do the half of what Mr. Steel has done for us during the shorttime he has been at Normanthorpe.""That may be," said the lady, with the ample smile of consciouscondescension; "for he has certainly not omitted to let his light shinebefore men. But that is not telling us who or what he was before he camehere, or how he made his money."Then Hugh Woodgate gave the half boyish, half bashful laugh with whichhe was wont to preface his most candid sayings."And I don't think it's any business of ours," he said.Morna went a trifle browner than she naturally was; her husband said solittle that what he did say was often almost painfully to the point; andnow Mrs. Venables had turned from him to her, with a smile which theyoung wife disliked, for it called attention to the vicar's discourtesywhile it appealed to herself for prettier manners and better sense. Itwas a moment requiring some little tact, but Mrs. Woodgate was justequal to it."Hugh, how rude of you!" she exclaimed, with only the suspicion of asmile. "You forget that it's your duty to be friendly with everybody;there's no such obligation on anybody else.""I should be friendly with Mr. Steel," said Hugh, "duty or no duty,after what he has done for the parish."And his pleasant honest face and smile did away with the necessity for aset apology."I must say," added his wife to her visitor, "that it's the same withme, you know."There was a pause."Then you intend to call upon her?" said Mrs. Venables, coming withdirectness to an obviously premeditated point."I do--I must--it is so different with us," said the vicar's young wife,with her pretty brown blush."Certainly," added the vicar himself, with dogmatic emphasis.Mrs. Venables did not look at him, but she looked the harder at Mornainstead."Well," said she, "I suppose you are right. In your position--yes--yourposition is quite different!" And the sudden, half accidental turn ofher sentence put Mrs. Venables on good terms with herself once more; andso she rose all smiles and velvet. "No, not even half a cup; but it wasreally quite delicious; and I hope you'll come and see me soon, and tellme all about her. At his age!" she whispered as she went. "Atsixty-five--if he's a day!"A stranger would have imagined that this lady had quite decided not tocall upon the newcomer herself; even Mrs. Woodgate was uncertain of herneighbor's intention as the latter's wheels ground the Vicarage driveonce more, and she and her husband were left alone."It will depend upon the county," said she; "and Mrs. Venables is notthe county pure and simple, she's half Northborough still, and she'lltake her cue from the Invernesses and the Uniackes. But I do believeshe's been round the whole country-side, getting people to say theywon't call; as if it mattered to a man like Mr. Steel, or any woman heis likely to have chosen. Still, it is mysterious, isn't it? But whatbusiness of ours, as you say? Only, dear, you needn't have said it quiteso pointedly. Of course I'll call as soon as I can in decency; she maylet me be of use to her. Oh, bother Mrs. Venables! If she doesn't call,no doubt many others won't; you must remember that he has neverentertained as yet. Oh, what a dance they could give! And did you hearwhat she said about his age? He is sixty-five, now!"The vicar laughed. It was his habit to let his young wife rattle on whenthey were alone, and even lay down the law for him to her heart'scontent; but, though fifteen years her senior, and never a vivaciousman himself, there was much in their life that he saw in the same lightas she did, though never quite so soon."Sixty-five!" he suddenly repeated, with a fresh chuckle; "and lastyear, when Sybil was thought to be in the running--poor Sybil, how wellshe took it!--last year her mother told me she knew for a fact he wasnot a day more than five-and-forty! Poor Steel, too! He has done forthem both in that quarter, I am afraid. And now," added Hugh, in hismatter-of-fact way, as though they had been discussing theology all thistime, "I must go back to my sermon if I am to get it done to-night."CHAPTER XA SLIGHT DISCREPANCYMrs. Woodgate paid the promised call a few days later, walking brisklyby herself along the woodland path that made it no distance from MarleyVicarage to Normanthorpe House, and cutting a very attractive figureamong the shimmering lights and shadows of the trees. She was rathertall, and very straight, with the pale brown skin and the dark browneye, which, more especially when associated with hair as light as MornaWoodgate's, go to make up one of the most charming and distinctive typesof English womanhood. Morna, moreover, took a healthy interest in herown appearance, and had not only the good taste to dress well, but thegood sense not to dress too well. Her new coat and skirt had just comehome, and, fawn-colored like herself, they fitted and suited her toequal perfection. Morna thought that she might even go to church in thecoat and skirt, now and again during the summer, and she had a brownstraw hat with fine feathers of the lighter shade which she madepeculiarly her own; but this she had discarded as too grand for aninformal call, for Hugh had been summoned to a sick-bed at the lastmoment, and might be detained too late to follow. But the Steels hadbeen back two days, and Morna could not wait another hour.She was certainly consumed with curiosity; but that was not the onlyfeeling which Mrs. Woodgate entertained towards the lady who was to be anearer neighbor of her own sex and class than any she could count asyet. On the class question Morna had no misgivings; nevertheless, shewas prepared for a surprise. Both she and her husband had seen a gooddeal of Mr. Steel. Morna had perhaps seen the best of him, since she wasat once young and charming, and not even an unwilling and personallyinnocent candidate for his hand, like honest Sybil Venables. Yet Mornaherself was not more attracted than repelled by the inscrutablepersonality of this rich man dropped from the clouds, who had never aword to say about his former life, never an anecdote to tell, never anadventure to record, and of whom even Mrs. Venables had not the courageto ask questions. What sort of woman would such a man marry, and whatsort of woman would marry such a man? Morna asked herself the onequestion after the other, almost as often as she set her right foot infront of her left; but she was not merely inquisitive in the matter, shehad a secret and instinctive compassion for the woman who had done thisthing."She will not have a soul to call her own, poor thing!" thought Morna,as indignantly as though the imaginary evil was one of the worst thatcould befall; for the vicar's wife had her little weaknesses, not by anymeans regarded as such by herself; and this was one of the last thingsthat could have been said about her, or that she would have cared tohear.The woodland path led at last into the long avenue, and there wasNormanthorpe House at the end of the vista; an Italian palacetransplanted into the north of England, radiantly white between thegreen trees and blue sky, with golden cupola burning in the sun; perhapsthe best specimen extant to mark a passing fashion in Georgianarchitecture, but as ill-suited to the Delverton district as anumbrella-tent to the North Pole. A cool grotto on a really hot day, thehouse was an ice-pit on any other; or so Mrs. Woodgate fancied, freshfrom the cosey Vicarage, and warm from her rapid walk, as she steppedinto another temperature, across polished marble that struck a chillthrough the soles of her natty brown shoes, and so into the loftydrawing-room with pilasters and elaborate architraves to the doors. Whata place for a sane man to build in bleak old Delverton, even beforethere was any Northborough to blacken and foul the north-east wind onits way from the sea! What a place for a sane man to buy; and yet, inits cool white smoothness, its glaring individuality, its alien air--howlike the buyer!Though it was May, and warm enough for the month and place, Morna got upwhen the footman had left her, and thrust one brown shoe after the otheras near as she could to the wood fire that glimmered underneath thegreat, ornate, marble mantelpiece. Then she sat down again, and wonderedwhat to say; for Morna was at once above and below the conversationalaverage of her kind. Soon she was framing a self-conscious apology forpremature intrusion--Mrs. Steel was so long in coming. But at last therewas a rustle in the conservatory, and a slender figure in a big hatstood for an instant on the threshold.That was Morna's first impression of the new mistress of Normanthorpe,and it was never erased from her mind; a slender silhouette in anenormous hat, the light all behind her, the pilastered doorway for aframe, a gay background of hothouse flowers, and in the figure itself anervous hesitancy which struck an immediate chord of sympathy in Morna.She also was shy; the touch of imperfect nature was mutually discernibleand discerned; and the two were kin from the meeting of their hands.Morna began her apology, nevertheless; but Rachel cut it very short. "Mydear Mrs. Woodgate, I think it is so kind of you!" she exclaimed, herlow voice full of the frankest gratitude; and Morna was surprised at thetime; it was as though she were the rich man's wife, and Mrs. Steel thevicar's.They sat a little, talking of the time of year; and it was some minutesbefore Morna really saw her new neighbor's face, what with her great hatand the position of the chair which Mrs. Steel selected. And for thesefew minutes, after that first frank speech, the greater constraint wason the part of the hostess; then all at once she seemed to throw it off,rising impulsively, as though the great high room, with the Italiantiles and the garish gilt furniture, struck the same chill to her as toMorna before her."Come round the garden," said Rachel, quickly. "I am delighted with thegarden, and I think it's really warmer than the house."Delightful it certainly was, or rather they, for the Normanthorpegardens were never spoken of in the singular number by those familiarwith their fame; they had been reconstructed and enlarged by a dead dukewith a fad for botany, and kept up by successors who could not endurethe cold, uncomfortable house. It was said to have been a similar tastein Mr. Steel which had first attracted him to the place; but as he neverconfirmed or contradicted anything that was said of him, and would onlysmile when a rumor reached his ears, there was no real foundation forthe report.The ducal botanist had left behind him the rarest collection of plantsand trees, and a tradition in scientific gardening which had not beenallowed to die; it was neglected Normanthorpe that had loaded the tablesand replenished the greenhouses of seats more favored by the family; andall this was the more wonderful as a triumph of art over some naturaldisadvantages in the way of soil and climate. The Normanthorpe roses,famous throughout the north of England, were as yet barely budding inthe kindless wind; the blaze of early bulbs was over; but there were thecurious alien trees, and the ornamental waters haunted by outlandishwildfowl, bred there on the same principle of acclimatization."I expect you know the way quite well," said Rachel, as they followed awinding path over a bank of rhododendrons near the lake; "to me everystroll is still a voyage of exploration, and I shall be rather sorrywhen I begin to know exactly what I am going to see next. Now, I havenever been this way before, and have no idea what is coming, so you musttell me, if you know. What a funny scent! I seem to know it, too. Why,what have they got here?"On the further side of the bank of rhododendrons the path had descendedinto a sheltered hollow, screened altogether from the colder winds, and,even in this temperate month of May, a very trap for the afternoon sun.And in this hollow was a clump of attenuated trees, with drooping leavesof a lacklustre hue, and a white bark peeling from the trunk; a pungentaroma, more medicinal than sylvan, hung rather heavily over thesequestered spot.Rachel stood a moment with wide nostrils and round eyes; the look hardlylasted longer, and she said no more, but she was aware that Morna hadmade some answer to her question."What did you say?" inquired Rachel, turning politely to her visitor."I said they were blue gums from Australia."Rachel made no immediate comment; secretive she might have to be, butto a deliberate pretence she would not stoop. So she did not even say,"Indeed!" but merely, after a pause, "You are something of a botanistyourself, then, Mrs. Woodgate?" For they had been talking of the gardensand of their history as they walked."I?" laughed Morna. "I only wish I was; but I happen to remember Mr.Steel telling me that one day when we were here last summer."Rachel opened her eyes again, and her lips with them; but instead ofspeaking she went to the nearest gum-tree and picked a spray of thelacklustre leaves. "I like the smell of them," she said, as they wenton; and the little incident left no impression upon Morna's mind.Yet presently she perceived that Mrs. Steel had some color after all--atthe moment Rachel happened to be smelling her gum-leaves--and that shewas altogether prettier than Morna had fancied hitherto. The fact wasthat it was her first good look at Rachel, who had kept her back to thelight indoors, and had literally led the way along the narrow paths,while her large hat had supplied a perpetual shadow of its own. It was apathetic habit, which had become second nature with Rachel during thelast six months; but now, for once, it was forgotten, and her faceraised unguardedly to the sun, which painted it in its true and sweetcolors, to Morna's surprise and real delight. The vicar's wife was oneof those healthy-hearted young women who are the first to admire theirown sex; she had very many friends among women, for whom marriage hadnot damped an enthusiasm which she hid from no one but themselves; andshe was to be sufficiently enthusiastic about the thin but perfect ovalof Rachel's face, the soft, sweet hazel of her eyes, the impetuous upperlip and the brave lower one, as she saw them now for an instant in theafternoon sun.Moreover, she was already interested in Rachel on her own account, andnot only as the wife of the mysterious Mr. Steel. There was an undoubtedair of mystery about her also; but that might only be derived from him,and with all her reserve she could not conceal a sweet and sympatheticself from one as like her in that essential as they were different inall others. Not that the reserve was all on one side. Morna Woodgate hadher own secrets too. One of them, however, was extracted during theirstroll."May I make a personal remark?" asked Rachel, who had been admiring thepale brown face of Morna in her turn, as they came slowly back to thehouse across the lawns."You frighten me," said Morna, laughing. "But let me hear the worst.""It's the ribbon on your hat," went on Rachel. "What pretty colors! Arethey your husband's school or college?""No," said Morna, blushing as she laughed again. "No, they're my owncollege colors."Rachel stood still on the grass."Have you really been at college?" said she; but her tone was soobviously one of envy that Morna, who was delightfully sensitive abouther learning, did not even think of the short answer which she sometimesreturned to the astonished queries of the intellectually vulgar, butadmitted the impeachment with another laugh."Now, don't say you wouldn't have thought it of me," she added, "anddon't say you would!""I am far too jealous to say anything at all," Rachel answered with aflattering stare. "And do you mean to tell me that you took a degree?""Of sorts," admitted Morna, whose spoken English was by no meansundefiled. But it turned out to have been a mathematical degree; andwhen, under sympathetic pressure, Morna vouchsafed particulars, evenRachel knew enough to appreciate the honors which the vicar's wife hadwon. What was more difficult to understand was how so young a woman ofsuch distinguished attainments could be content to hide her light underthe bushel of a country vicarage; and Rachel could not resist someexpression of her wonderment on that point."Did you do nothing with it all," she asked, "before you married?""No," said Morna; "you see, I got engaged in the middle of it, and theweek after the lists came out we were married.""What a career to have given up!""I would give it up again," said Morna, with a warmer blush; and Rachelwas left with a deeper envy."I am afraid we shall have nothing in common," sighed Mrs. Steel, asthey neared the house. "I have no education worthy the name."Morna waxed all but indignant at the implication; she had a morbidhorror of being considered a "blue-stocking," which she revealed withmuch girlish naivete and unconscious simplicity of sentiment and praise.She was not so narrow as all that; she had had enough of learning; shehad forgotten all that she had learnt; any dolt could be crammed to passexaminations. On the contrary, she was quite sure they would have heapsin common; for example, she was longing for some one to bicycle with;her husband seldom had the time, and he did not care for her to go quitealone in the country roads."But I don't bicycle," said Mrs. Steel, shaking her head rather sadly."Ah, I forgot! People who ride and drive never do." And it was Morna'sturn to sigh."No, I should like it; but I have never tried.""I'll teach you!" cried Morna at once. "What fun it will be!""I should enjoy it, I know. But--"The sentence was abandoned--as was often the case in the subsequentintercourse between Rachel Steel and Morna Woodgate. From the beginning,Rachel was apt to be more off her guard with Morna than with any onewhom she had met during the last six months; and, from the beginning,she was continually remembering and stopping herself in a manner thatwould have irritated Morna in anybody else. But then--yet again, fromthe beginning--these two were natural and immediate friends."You must learn," urged Morna, when she had waited some time for thesentence which had but begun. "There are people who scorn it--orpretend to--but I am sure you are not one. It may not be the finestform of exercise, but wait till you fly down these hills with your feeton the rests! And then you are so independent; no horses to consider, nocoachman to consult; only your own bones and your own self! Theindependence alone--""May be the very thing for you, Mrs. Woodgate, but it wouldn't do for mywife!"Mr. Steel had stolen a silent march upon them, on the soft, smoothgrass; and now he was taking off his straw hat to Morna, and smilingwith all urbanity as he held out his hand. But Morna had seen how hiswife started at the sound of his voice, and her greeting was a littlecool."I meant the bicycling," he was quick enough to add; "not theindependence, of course!"But there was something sinister in his smile, something quite sinisterand yet not unkindly, that vexed and puzzled Morna during the remainderof her visit, which she cut somewhat short on perceiving that Mr. Steelhad apparently no intention of leaving them to their own devices aftertea. Morna, however, would have been still more puzzled, and her spiritnot less vexed, had she heard the first words between the newly marriedcouple after she had gone."What's that you have got?" asked Steel, as they turned back up thedrive, after seeing Morna to her woodland path. Rachel was stillcarrying her spray of gum-leaves; he must have noticed it before, butthis was the first sign that he had done so. She said at once what itwas, and why she had pulled it from the tree."It took me back to Victoria; and, you know, I was born there."Steel looked narrowly at his wife, a hard gleam in his inscrutable eyes,and yet a lurking sympathy too, nor was there anything but the latter inthe tone and tenor of his reply."I don't forget," he said, "and I think I can understand; but neithermust you forget that I offered to take you back there. So that's a sprigof gum-tree, is it?"Rachel gave him a sudden glance, which for once he missed, beingabsorbed in a curious examination of the leaves."Did you never see one before?" she asked."A gum-tree?" said Steel, without looking up, as he sniffed andscrutinized. "Never in all my life--to my knowledge!"CHAPTER XIANOTHER NEW FRIENDThe country folk did call upon the Steels, as indeed, they couldscarcely fail to do, having called on him already as a bachelor the yearbefore. Nor were the Uniackes and the Invernesses the bell-wethers ofthe flock. Those august families had returned to London for the season;but the taboo half-suggested by Mrs. Venables had begun and ended in herown mind. Indeed, that potent and diplomatic dame, who was the undoubtedleader of society within a four-mile radius of Northborough town hall,was the first to recognize the mistake that she had made, and to behaveas though she had never made it. Quite early in June, the Steels werebidden to a dinner-party in their honor at Upthorpe Hall."Mrs. Venables!" cried Rachel, in dismay. "Is that the gushing womanwith the quiet daughters who called last Thursday?""That is the lady," said Steel, a gleam of humor in his grim eyes. Henever expressed an opinion to his wife about any one of theirneighbors, but when she let fall an impression of her own, he wouldlook at her in this way, as though it was the very one that he hadformed for himself a year ago."But need we go?" asked Rachel, with open apprehension."I think so," he said. "Why not?""A dinner-party, of all things! There is no cover at the dinner-table;you can't even wear a hat; you must sit there in a glare for hours andhours!" And Rachel shuddered. "Oh, don't let us go!" she urged; but hertone was neither pathetic nor despairing; though free from the faintestaccent of affection, it was, nevertheless, the tone of a woman who hasnot always been denied."I am afraid we must go," he said firmly, but not unkindly. "You see, itis in our honor--as I happen to know; for Venables gave me a hint when Imet him in the town the other day. He will take you in himself.""And what is he like?""Fond of his dinner; he won't worry you," said Steel, reassuringly. "Norneed you really bother your head about all that any more. Nobody hasrecognized you yet; nobody is in the least likely to do so down here.Don't you see how delightfully provincial they are? There's a locallawyer, a pillar of all the virtues, who has misappropriated his owndaughter-in-law's marriage portion and fled the country with theprincipal boy in their last pantomime; there are a lot of smart youngfellows who are making a sporting thousand every other day out of ironwarrants; the district's looking up after thirty years' bad times; andthis is the sort of thing it's talking about. These are its heroes andits villains. All you hear from London is what the last man spent whenhe was up, and where he dined; and from all I can gather, the Tichbornetrial made less impression down here than that of a Delverton parson whogot into trouble about the same time.""They must have heard of my trial," said Rachel, in a low voice. Theywere walking in the grounds after breakfast, but she looked round beforespeaking at all."They would glance at it," said Steel, with a shrug; "an occasionalschoolboy might read it through; but even if you were guilty, and werehere on view, you would command much less attention than the localmalefactor in an infinitely smaller way. I am sorry I put it quite likethat," added Steel, as Rachel winced, "but I feel convinced about it,and only wish I could convince you."And he did so, more or less; but the fear of recognition had increasedin Rachel, instead of abating, as time went on. It had increasedespecially since the rapid ripening of her acquaintance with MornaWoodgate into the intimacy which already subsisted between the two youngwives. Rachel had told her husband that she would not have Morna knowfor anything; and he had appeared in his own dark way to sympathize witha solicitude which was more actual than necessary; but that was perhapsbecause he approved of Mrs. Woodgate on his own account. And so rare wasthat approval, as a positive and known quantity, yet so marked in thiscase, that he usually contrived to share Morna's society with his wife."You shall not monopolize Mrs. Woodgate," he would say with all urbanityas he joined them when least expected. "I was first in the field, youknow!"And in the field he would remain. There were no commands, no wishes toobey in the matter, no embargo upon the comings and goings between thetwo new friends. But Mr. Steel invariably appeared upon the scene aswell. The good vicar attributed it to the elderly bridegroom's jealousinfatuation for his beautiful young bride; but Morna knew better fromthe first."Are you going?" asked Rachel, eagerly, when she and Morna met again;indeed, she had gone expressly to the Vicarage to ask the question; andnot until she had seen the Woodgates' invitation could Steel himselfinduce her to answer theirs.The Woodgates were going. Morna was already in alternate fits of despairand of ideas about her dress."I wish I might dress you!" said Rachel, knowing her well enough alreadyto say that. "I have wardrobes full of them, and yet my husband insistsupon taking me up to London to get something fit to wear!""But not necessarily on your back!" cried Steel himself, appearing atthat moment in his usual way, warm, breathless, but only playfully putout. "My dear Mrs. Woodgate, I must have a special wire between yourhouse and ours. One thing, however, I always know where to find her! Didshe tell you we go by the 12:55 from Northborough?"It was something to wear upon her neck--a diamond necklet of superbstones, gradually swelling to one of the first water at the throat; andRachel duly wore it at the dinner-party, with a rich gown of bridalwhite, whose dazzling purity had perhaps the effect of cancelling thebride's own pallor. But she was very pale. It was her first appearanceat a gathering of the kind, not only there in Delverton, but anywhereat all since her second marriage. And the invitation had been of thecorrect, most ample length; it had had time to wind itself aboutRachel's nerves.Mr. Venables, who of course did take her in, by no means belied herhusband's description of him; he was a rotund man with a highcomplexion, and his bulging eye was on the menu before his soft body hadsunk into his chair. His conversation proved limited, but strictly tothe point; he told Rachel what to eat, and once or twice what to avoid;lavished impersonal praise upon one dish, impartial criticisms uponanother, and only spoke between the courses. It was a largedinner-party; twenty-two sat down. Rachel was at last driven to glancingat the other twenty.To the man on her left she had not been introduced, but he had offeredone or two civil observations while Mr. Venables was better engaged;and, after the second, Rachel had chanced to catch sight of the cardupon which his name had been inscribed. He was, it seemed, a Mr.Langholm; and all at once Rachel leant back and looked at him. He was aloose-limbed, round-shouldered man, with a fine open countenance, and agreat disorderly moustache; his hair might have been shorter, and hisdress-coat shone where it caught the light. Rachel put the screw uponher courage."These cards," she said, with a glimpse of her own colonial self, "arevery handy when one hasn't been introduced. Your name is not verycommon, is it?""Not very," he answered, "spelt like that.""Yes it's spelt the same way as the Mr. Langholm who writes.""It is.""Then are you any relation?""I am the man himself," said Langholm, with quite a hearty laugh,accompanied by a flush of pleasurable embarrassment. He was not aparticularly popular writer, and this did not happen to him every day."I hoped you were," said Rachel, as she helped herself to the first_entree_."Then you haven't read my books," he chuckled, "and you never must.""But I have," protested Rachel, quite flushed in her turn by the smallexcitement. "I read heaps of them in Tauchnitz when we were abroad. ButI had no idea that I should ever meet you in the flesh!""Really?" he said. "Then that's funnier still; but I suppose Mr. Steeldidn't want to frighten you. We saw quite a lot of each other last year;he wrote to me from Florence before you came over; and I should havepaid my respects long ago, but I have been up in town, and only justcome back."The flush had died out of Rachel's face. Her husband told hernothing--nothing! In her indignation she was tempted to say so to thestranger; she had to think a moment what to say instead. A falsehood ofany sort was always a peculiar difficulty to Rachel, a constitutionalaversion, and it cost her an effort to remark at last that it was verystupid of her, she had quite forgotten, but now she remembered--ofcourse! And with that she turned to her host, who was offering anobservation across his empty plate."Strange thing, Mrs. Steel, but you can't get the meat in the countrythat you can in town. Those fillets, now--I wish you could taste 'em atmy club; but we give our chef a thousand a year, and he drives up everyday in his brougham."The novels of Charles Langholm were chiefly remarkable for theirintricate plots, and for the hope of better things that breathed throughthe cheap sensation of the best of them. But it was a hope that had beendeferred a good many years. His manner was better than his matter;indeed, an incongruous polish was said by the literary to preventLangholm from being a first favorite either with the great public or thelittle critics. As a maker of plots, however, he still had humblepoints; and Rachel assured him that she had burnt her candle all nightin order to solve one of his ingenious mysteries."What!" he cried; "you call yourself a lady, and you don't look at theend before you reach it?""Not when it's a good book.""Well, you have pitched on about the best of a bad lot; and it's asatisfaction to know you didn't cut the knot it took some months totie."Rachel was greatly interested. She had never before met a literary man;had no idea how the trick was done; and she asked many of thoseingenuous questions which seldom really displease the average gentlemanof this type. When not expatiating upon the heroine whom the exigenciesof "serial rights" demanded in his books, Charles Langholm, the talkerand the man, was an unmuzzled misogynist. But nobody would havesuspected it from his answers to Rachel's questions, or from any portionof their animated conversation. Certainly the aquiline lady whomLangholm had taken in, and to whom he was only attentive by remorsefulfits and penitential starts, had not that satisfaction; for herright-hand neighbor did not speak to her at all. There was thus oneclose and critical follower of a conversation which without warning tookthe one dramatic turn for which Rachel was forever on her guard; onlythis once, in an hour of unexpected entertainment, was she not."How do I get my plots?" said Langholm. "Sometimes out of my head, asthey say in the nursery; occasionally from real life; more often a blendof the two combined. You don't often get a present from the newspaperthat you can lift into a magazine more or less as it stands. Facts arestubborn things; they won't serialize. But now and then there's a case.There was one a little time ago. Oh, there was a great case not longsince, if we had but the man to handle it, without spoiling it, inEnglish fiction!""And what was that?""The Minchin case!"And he looked straight at her, as one only looks at one's neighbor attable when one is saying or hearing something out of the common; heturned half round, and he looked in Rachel's face with the smile of anartist with a masterpiece in his eye. It was an inevitable moment, comeat last when least expected; instinct, however, had prepared Rachel,just one moment before; and after all she could stare coldly on hisenthusiasm, without a start or a tremor to betray the pose."Yes?" she said, her fine eyebrows raised a little. "And do you reallythink that would make a book?"It was characteristic of Rachel that she did not for a moment--even thatunlooked-for moment--pretend to be unfamiliar with the case."Don't you?" he asked."I haven't thought about it," said Rachel, looking pensively at theflowers. "But surely it was a very sordid case?""The case!" he cried. "Yes, sordid as you like; but I don't mean thecase at all.""Then what do you mean, Mr. Langholm?""Her after life," he whispered; "the psychology of that woman, and hersubsequent adventures! She disappeared into thin air immediately afterthe trial. I suppose you knew that?""I did hear it."Rachel moistened her lips with champagne."Well, I should take her from that moment," said Langholm. "I shouldstart her story there.""And should you make her guilty or not guilty?""Ah!" said Langholm, as though that would require consideration;unluckily, he paused to consider on the spot."Who are you talking about?" inquired Mr. Venables, who had caughtRachel's last words."Mrs. Minchin," she told him steadily."Guilty!" cried Mr. Venables, with great energy. "Guilty, and I'd havegone to see her hanged myself!"And Mr. Venables beamed upon Rachel as though proud of the sentiment,while the diamonds rose and fell upon her white neck, where he wouldhave had the rope."A greater scandal," he went on, both to Rachel and to the lady on hisother side (who interrupted Mr. Venables to express devout agreement),"a greater scandal and miscarriage of justice I have never known.Guilty? Of course she was guilty; and I only wish we could try her againand hang her yet! Now don't pretend you sympathize with a woman likethat," he said to Rachel, with a look like a nudge; "you haven't beenmarried long enough; and for Heaven's sake don't refuse that bird! It'sthe best that can be got this time of year, though that's not sayingmuch; but wait till the grouse season, Mrs. Steel! I have a moor here inthe dales, keep a cellar full of them, and eat 'em as they drop off thestring.""Well?" said Rachel, turning to Langholm when her host became a busyman once more."I should make her guilty," said the novelist; "and she would marry aman who believed in her innocence, and he wouldn't care two pins whenshe told him the truth in the last chapter, and they would live happilyever afterwards. Nobody would touch the serial rights. But that would bea book!""Then do you think she really was guilty?"And Rachel waited while he shrugged, her heart beating for no goodreason that she knew, except that she rather liked Mr. Langholm, and didnot wish to cease liking him on the spot. But it was to him that theanswer was big with fate; and he trifled and dallied with the issue ofthe moment, little dreaming what a mark it was to leave upon his life,while the paradox beloved of the literary took shape on his tongue."What does it matter what she was? What do the facts matter, Mrs. Steel,when one has an idea like that for fiction? Fiction is truer than fact!""But you haven't answered my question."Rachel meant to have that answer."Oh, well, as a matter of fact, I read the case pretty closely, and Iwas thankful the jury brought in an acquittal. It required a littleimagination, but the truth always does. It is no treason to our host towhisper that he has none. I remember having quite a heated argument withhim at the time. Oh, dear, no; she was no more guilty than you or I; butit would be a thousand times more artistic if she were; and I shouldmake her so, by Jove!"Rachel finished her dinner in great tranquillity after this; but therewas a flush upon her face which had not been there before, and Langholmreceived an astonishing smile when the ladies rose. He had been makingtardy atonement for his neglect of the aquiline lady, but Rachel had thelast word with him."You will come and see us, won't you?" she said. "I shall want to hearhow the plot works out.""I am afraid it's one I can't afford to use," he said, "unless I stickto foolish fact and make her innocent."And she left him with a wry face, her own glowing again."You looked simply great--especially towards the end," whispered MornaWoodgate in the drawing-room, for she alone knew how nervous Rachel hadbeen about what was indeed her social debut in Delverton.The aquiline lady also had a word to say. Her eyes were like brownbeads, and her nose very long, which gave her indeed a hawk-likeappearance, somewhat unusual in a woman; but her gravity was rather thatof the owl."You talked a great deal to Mr. Langholm," said she, sounding her rebukerather cleverly in the key of mere statement of fact. "Have you read hisbooks, Mrs. Steel?""Some of them," said Rachel; "haven't you?""Oh, no, I never read novels, unless it be George Eliot, or in thesedays Mrs. Humphrey Ward. It's such waste of time when there areBrowning, Ruskin, and Carlyle to read and read again. I know I shouldn'tlike Mr. Langholm's; I am sure they are dreadfully uncultured andsensational.""But I like sensation," Rachel said. "I like to be taken out of myself.""So you suggested he should write a novel about Mrs. Minchin!""No, I didn't suggest it," said Rachel, hurriedly; but the beady browneyes were upon her, and she felt herself reddening horribly as shespoke."You seemed to know all about her," said the aquiline lady. "I'm not inthe habit of reading such cases. But I must really look this one up."CHAPTER XIIEPISODE OF THE INVISIBLE VISITORThat was something like a summer, as the saying is, and for once theycould say it even on the bleak northern spurs of the Delverton Hills.There were days upon days when that minor chain looked blue and noble asthe mountains of Alsace and hackneyed song, seen with an envious eyefrom the grimy outskirts of Northborough, and when from the hillsthemselves the only blot upon the fair English landscape was the pall ofsmoke that always overhung the town. On such days Normanthorpe Housejustified its existence in the north of England instead of in southernItaly; the marble hall, so chill to the tread at the end of May, was theone really cool spot in the district by the beginning of July; andnowhere could a more delightful afternoon be spent by those who cared toavail themselves of a general invitation.The Steels had not as yet committed themselves to formal hospitality ofthe somewhat showy character that obtained in the neighborhood, but theykept open house for all who liked to come, and whom they themselvesliked well enough to ask in the first instance. And here (as in someother matters) this curious pair discovered a reflex identity of taste,rare enough in the happiest of conventional couples, but a gratuitousirony in the makers of a merely nominal marriage. Their mutual feelingstowards each other were a quantity unknown to either; but about a thirdperson they were equally outspoken and unanimous. Thus they had fewerdisagreements than many a loving couple, and perhaps more points ofinsignificant contact, while all the time there was not even thepretence of love between them. Their lives made a chasm bridged bythreads.This was not seen by more than two of their acquaintance. Morna Woodgatehad both the observation and the opportunities to see a little how theland lay between them. Charles Langholm had the experience and theimagination to guess a good deal. But it was little enough that Mornasaw, and Langholm's guesses were as wide of the mark as only the guessesof an imaginative man can be. As for all the rest--honest Hugh Woodgate,the Venables girls, and their friends the young men in the variousworks, who saw the old-fashioned courtesy with which Steel alwaystreated his wife, and the grace and charm of her consideration forhim--they were every one receiving a liberal object lesson in matrimony,as some of them even realized at the time."I wish I could learn to treat my wife as Steel does his," sighed thegood vicar, once when he had been inattentive at the table, and Mornahad rebuked him in fun. "That would be my ideal--if I wasn't too old tolearn!""Then thank goodness you are," rejoined his wife. "Let me catch youdancing in front of me to open the doors, Hugh, and I shall keep my eyeon you as I've never kept it yet!"But Rachel herself did not dislike these little graces, partly becausethey were not put on to impress an audience, but were an incident oftheir private life as well; and partly because they stimulated a studyto which she had only given herself since their return to England andtheir establishment at Normanthorpe House. This was her study of the manwho was still calmly studying her; she was returning the compliment atlast.And of his character she formed by degrees some remote conception; hewas Steel by name and steel by nature, as the least observant mightdiscern, and the least witty remark; a grim inscrutability was hisdominant note; he was darkly alert, mysteriously vigilant, a measurerof words, a governor of glances; and yet, with all his self-mastery andmastery of others, there were human traits that showed themselves fromtime to time as the months wore on. Rachel did not recognize among thesethat studious consideration which she could still appreciate; it seemedrather part of a preconceived method of treating his wife, and the waryeye gleamed through it all. But it has been mentioned that Rachel at onetime had a voice, of which high hopes had been formed by inexperiencedjudges. It was only at Normanthorpe that her second husband became awareof her possession, one afternoon when she fancied that she had the houseto herself. So two could play at the game of consistent concealment! Hecould not complain; it was in the bond, and he never said a word. But hestood outside the window till she was done, for Rachel saw him in amirror, and for many an afternoon to come he would hover outside thesame window at the same time.Why had he married her? Did he care for her, or did he not? What couldbe the object of that extraordinary step? Rachel was as far from hittingupon a feasible solution of these mysteries as she was from penetratingthe deeper one of his own past life. Sometimes she put the likequestions to herself; but they were more easily answered. She had beenin desperate straits, in reckless despair; even if her second marriagehad turned out no better than her first, she could not have been worseoff than she was on the night of her acquittal; but she had been verywell off ever since. Then there had been the incentive of adventure, thefascination of that very mystery which was a mystery still. Andthen--yes!--there had been the compelling will of a nature infinitelystronger than her own or any other that she had ever known.Did she regret this second marriage, this second leap in the dark? No,she could not honestly pretend that she did; yet it had its sufficientlysinister side, its occasional admixture of sheer horror. But this wasonly when the mysteries which encompassed her happened to prey uponnerves unstrung by some outwardly exciting cause; it was then she wouldhave given back all that he had ever given her to pierce the veil of herhusband's past. Here, however, the impulse was more subtle; it was notthe mere consuming curiosity which one in Rachel's position was bound tofeel; it was rather a longing to be convinced that that veil hid nothingwhich should make her shudder to live under the same roof with this man.Of one thing she was quite confident; wherever her husband had spent ormisspent his life (if any part of so successful a whole could reallyhave been misspent), it was not in England. He was un-English in ahundred superficial ways--in none that cut deep. With all his essentialcynicism, there was the breadth and tolerance of a travelled man.Cosmopolitan on the other hand, he could not be called; he had provedhimself too poor a linguist in every country that they had visited. Itwas only now, in their home life, that Rachel received hints of thetruth, and it filled her with vague alarms, for that seemed to her to bethe last thing he need have kept to himself.One day she saw him ride a fractious horse, not because he was fond ofriding, but because nobody in the stables could cope with this animal.Steel tamed it in ten minutes. But a groom remarked upon the shortnessof his stirrups, in Rachel's hearing, and on the word a flash of memorylit up her brain. All at once she remembered the incident of thegum-leaves, soon after their arrival; he had told Morna what they were,yet to his wife he had pretended not to know. If he also was anAustralian, why on earth should that fact, of all facts, be concealedfrom her? Nor had it merely been concealed; it was a point upon whichRachel had been deliberately misled, and the only one she could recall.She was still brooding over it when a fresh incident occurred, whichserved not only to confirm her suspicions in this regard, but to deepenand intensify the vague horror with which her husband's presencesometimes inspired her.Mr. Steel was an exceptionally early riser. It was his boast that henever went to sleep a second time; and one of his nearest approaches toa confidence was the remark that he owed something to that habit. NowRachel, who was a bad sleeper, kept quite a different set of hours, andwas seldom seen outside her own rooms before the forenoon. Onemagnificent morning, however, she was tempted to dress and make the bestof the day which she had watched breaking shade by shade. The lawns weregray with dew; the birds were singing as they never sing twice in onesummer's day. Rachel thought that for once she would like to be up andout before the sun was overpowering. And she proceeded to fulfil herwish.All had been familiar from the window; all was unfamiliar on the landingand the stairs. No one had been down; the blinds were all drawn; a clockticked like a sledge-hammer in the hall. Rachel ran downstairs like amouse, and almost into the arms of her husband, whom she met coming outof the dining-room with a loaded tray. Another would have dropped it;with Steel there was not so much as a rattle of the things, but hiscolor changed, and Rachel had not yet had such a look as he gave herwith his pursed mouth and his flashing eyes."What does this mean?" he demanded, in the tone of distant thunder, withlittle less than lightning in his glance."I think that's for me to ask," laughed Rachel, standing up to him witha nerve that surprised herself. "I didn't know that you began so early!"A decanter and a glass were among the things upon the tray."And I didn't know it of you," he retorted. "Why are you up?"Rachel told him the simple truth in simple fashion. His tone of voicedid not hurt her; there was no opposite extreme of tenderness to call tomind for the contrast which inflicts the wound. On the other hand, therewas a certain satisfaction in having for once ruffled that smooth mienand smoother tongue; it was one of her rare glimpses of the real man,but as usual it was a glimpse and nothing more."I must apologize," said Steel, with an artificiality which was seldomso transparent; "my only excuse is that you startled me out of my temperand my manners. And I was upset to begin with. I have a poor fellow inrather a bad way in the boathouse.""Not one of the gardeners, I hope?" queried Rachel; but her kind anxietysubsided in a moment, for his dark eyes were measuring her, his darkmind meditating a lie; and now she knew him well enough to read him thusfar in his turn."No," replied Steel, deciding visibly against the lie; "no, not one ofour men, or anybody else belonging to these parts; but some unluckytramp, whom I imagine some of our neighbors would have given intocustody forthwith. I found him asleep on the lawn; of course he had nobusiness upon the premises; but he's so far gone that I'm taking himsomething to pull him together before I turn him off.""I should have said," remarked Rachel, thoughtfully, "that tea or coffeewould have been better for him than spirits."Steel smiled indulgently across the tray."Most ladies would say the same," he replied, "but very few men.""And why didn't you bring him into the house," pursued Rachel, lookingher husband very candidly in the face, "instead of taking him all thatway to the lake, and giving yourself so much more trouble than wasnecessary?"The smile broadened upon Steel's thin lips, perhaps because it hadentirely vanished from his glittering eyes."That," said he, "is a question you would scarcely ask if you had seenthe poor creature for yourself. I don't intend you to see him; he is arather saddening spectacle, and one of a type for which one can doabsolutely nothing permanent. And now, if you are quite satisfied, Ishall proceed, with your permission, to get rid of him in my own way."It was seldom indeed that Steel descended to a display of sarcasm at hiswife's expense, though few people who came much in contact with himescaped an occasional flick from a tongue that could be as bitter as itwas habitually smooth. His last words were therefore as remarkable ashis first; both were exceptions to a rule; and though Rachel moved awaywithout replying, feeling that there was indeed no more to be said, shecould not but dwell upon the matter in her mind. Satisfied she certainlywas not; and yet there was so much mystery between them, so manyinstinctive reservations upon either side, that very little circumstanceof the kind could not carry an ulterior significance, but many must bedue to mere force of habit.Rachel hated the condition of mutual secretiveness upon which she hadmarried this man; it was antagonistic to her whole nature; she longed torepudiate it, and to abolish all secrets between them. But there herpride stepped in and closed her lips; and the intolerable thought thatshe would value her husband's confidence more than he would value hers,that she felt drawn to him despite every sinister attribute, would bringhumiliation and self-loathing in its train. It was the truth, however,or, at all events, part of the truth.Yet a more unfair arrangement Rachel had been unable to conceive, eversince the fatally reckless moment in which she had acquiesced in thisone. The worst that could be known about her was known to her husbandbefore her marriage; she had nothing else to hide; all concealment ofthe past, as between themselves, was upon his side. But matters werecoming to a crisis in this respect; and, when Rachel deemed it donewith, this incident of the tramp was only just begun.It seemed that the servants knew of it, and that it was not Steel whohad originally discovered the sleeping intruder, but an under-gardener,who, seeing his master also up and about, had prudently inquired whatwas to be done with the man before meddling with him."And the master said, 'leave him to me,'" declared Rachel's maid, whowas her informant on the point, as she combed out her mistress'sbeautiful brown hair, before the late breakfast which did away withluncheon when there were no visitors at Normanthorpe."And did he do so?" inquired Rachel, looking with interest into her owneyes in the glass. "Did he leave him to your master?""He did that!" replied her maid, a simple Yorkshire wench, whom Rachelherself had chosen in preference to the smart town type. "Catch any on'em not doin what master tells them!""Then did John see what happened?""No, m'm--because master sent him to see if the chap'd come in at t'lodge gates, or where, and when he got back he was gone, blanket an'all, an' master with him.""Blanket and all!" repeated Rachel. "Do you mean to say he had theimpudence to bring a blanket with him?""And slept in it!" cried her excited little maid. "John says he foundhim tucked up in a corner of the lawn, out of the wind, behind some o'them shrubs, sound asleep, and lapped round and round in his bluebanket from head to heel."Rachel saw her own face change in the glass; but she only asked one morequestion, and that with a smile."Did John say it was a blue blanket, Harris, or did your own imaginationsupply the color?""He said it, m'm; faded blue.""And pray when did you see John to hear all this?" demanded Rachel,suddenly remembering her responsibility as mistress of this youngdaughter of the soil."Deary me, m'm," responded the ingenuous Harris, "I didn't see him, notmore than any of the others; he just comed to t' window of t' servants'hall, as we were having our breakfasts, and he told us all at once. Hewas that full of it, was John!"Rachel asked no more questions; but she was not altogether sorry thatthe matter had already become one of common gossip throughout the house.Meanwhile she made no allusion to it at breakfast, but her observationhad been quickened by the events of the morning, and thus it was thatshe noticed and recognized the narrow blue book which was too long forher husband's breast-pocket, and would show itself as he stooped overhis coffee. It was his check-book, and Rachel had not seen it sincetheir travels.That afternoon a not infrequent visitor arrived on his bicycle, to whichwas tied a bouquet of glorious roses instead of a lamp; this was CharlesLangholm, the novelist, who had come to live in Delverton, over twohundred miles from his life-long haunts and the literary market-place,chiefly because upon a happy-go-lucky tour through the district he hadchanced upon what he never tired of calling "the ideal rose-coveredcottage of my dreams," though also for other reasons unknown inYorkshire. His flat was abandoned before quarter-day, his effectstransplanted at considerable cost, and ever since Langholm had been abigoted countryman, who could not spend a couple of days in town withoutmaking himself offensive on the subject at his club, where he wasnevertheless discreetly vague as to the exact locality of his ruralparadise. Even at the club, however, it was admitted that his work hadimproved almost as much as his appearance; and he put it all down to theroses in which he lived embowered for so many months of the year. Suchwas their profusion that you could have filled a clothes-basket withoutmissing one, and Langholm never visited rich or poor without a littleoffering out of his abundance."They may be coals to Newcastle," he would say to the Woodgates or theSteels, "but none of your Tyneside collieries are a patch on mine."Like most victims of the artistic temperament, the literary Langholm wasa creature of moods; but the very fact of a voluntary visit from him wassufficient guarantee of the humor in which he came, and this afternoonhe was at his best. He had indeed been writing all day, and for manydays past, and was filled with the curious exhilaration whichaccompanies an output too rapid and too continuous to permit a runningsense of the defects. He was a ship with a fair wind, which he valuedthe more for the belts of calms and the adverse weather through which hehad passed and must inevitably pass again; for the moment he was a happyman, though one with no illusion as to the present product of histeeming pen."It is nonsense," he said to Rachel, in answer to a question from thatnew and sympathetic friend, "but it is not such nonsense as to seemnothing else when one's in the act of perpetrating it, and what more canone want? It had to be done by the tenth of August, and by Jove it willbe! A few weeks ago I didn't think it possible; but the summer hasthawed my ink.""Are you sure it isn't Mrs. Steel?" asked one of the Venables girls,who had also ridden over on their bicycles. "I heard you had atremendously literary conversation when you dined with us.""We had, indeed!" said Langholm, with enthusiasm. "And Mrs. Steel gaveme one of the best ideas I ever had in my life; that's another reasonwhy I'm racing through this rubbish--to take it in hand."It was Sybil to whom he was speaking, but at this point Rachel plungedinto the conversation with the sister, Vera, which required an effort,since the elder Miss Venables was a young lady who had cultivatedlanguor as a sign of breeding and sophistication. Rachel, however, madethe effort with such a will that the talk became general in a moment."I don't know how anybody writes books," was the elder young lady'ssolitary contribution; her tone added that she did not want to know."Nor I," echoed Sybil, "especially in a place like this, where nothingever happens. If I wanted to write a novel, I should go to Spain--orSiberia--or the Rocky Mountains--where things do happen, according toall accounts.""Young lady," returned the novelist, a twinkle in his eye, "I hadexactly the same notion when I first began, and I remember what a mucholder hand said to me when I told him I was going down to Cornwall forromantic background. 'Young man,' said he, 'have you placed a romance inyour mother's backyard yet?' I had not, but I did so at once instead ofgoing to Cornwall, and sounder advice I never had in my life. Material,like charity, begins at home; nor need you suppose that nothing everhappens down here. That is the universal idea of the native about his orher own heath, but I can assure you it isn't the case at all. Only justnow, on my way here, I saw a scene and a character that might have beenlifted bodily out of Bret Harte."Sybil Venables clamored for particulars, while her sister resignedherself to further weariness of the flesh. Rachel put down her cup andleant forward with curiously expectant eyes. They were sitting in thecool, square hall, with doors shut or open upon every hand, and thegilded gallery overhead. Statuettes and ferns, all reflected in thehighly polished marble floor, added a theatrical touch which was not outof keeping with a somewhat ornate interior."It was the character," continued Langholm, "who was making the scene;and a stranger creature I have never seen on English earth. He wore whatI believe they call a Crimean shirt, and a hat like a stage cowboy; andhe informed all passers that he was knocking down his check!""What?" cried Rachel and Sybil in one breath, but in curiously differenttones."Knocking down his check," repeated Langholm. "It's what they do in thefar west or the bush or somewhere--but I rather fancy it's thebush--when they get arrears of wages in a lump in one check.""And where did you see all this?" inquired Rachel, whose voice was veryquiet, but her hazel eyes alight with a deeper interest than the storywarranted."At the Packhorse on the York Road. I came that way round for the sakeof the surface and the exercise.""And did you see the check?""No, I only stopped for a moment, to find out what the excitement wasabout; but the fellow I can see now. You never set eyes on such apirate--gloriously drunk and bearded to the belt. I didn't stop, becausehe was lacing into everybody with a cushion, and the local loafersseemed to like it.""What a joke!" cried Sybil Venables."There is no accounting for taste," remarked her sapient sister."And he was belaboring them with a cushion, did you say?" added Rachel,with the slightest emphasis upon the noun."Well, it looked like one to me," replied Langholm, "but, on secondthoughts, it was more like a bolster in shape; and now I know what itwas! It has just dawned on me. It looked like a bolster done up in ablanket; but it was the swag that the tramps carry in Australia, withall their earthly goods rolled up in their bedding; and the fellow wasan Australian swagsman, that's what he was!""Swagman," corrected Rachel, instinctively. "And pray what color was theblanket?" she made haste to add."Faded blue."And, again from sheer force of instinct, Rachel gave a nod."Were you ever out there, Mrs. Steel?" inquired Langholm, carelessly. "Inever was, but the sort of thing has been done to death in books, and Ionly wonder I didn't recognize it at once. Well, it was the last typeone thought to meet with in broad daylight on an English country road!"Had Langholm realized that he had put a question which he had nobusiness to put? Had he convicted himself of a direct thoughunpremeditated attempt to probe the mystery of his hostess'santecedents, and were his subsequent observations designed to unsaythat question in effect? If so, there was no such delicacy in the elderMiss Venables, who became quite animated at the sudden change inRachel's face, and at her own perception of the cause."Have you been to Australia, Mrs. Steel?" repeated Vera, looking Rachelfull in the eyes; and she added slyly, "I believe you have!"There was a moment's pause, and then a crisp step rang upon the marble,as Mr. Steel emerged from his study."Australia, my dear Miss Venables," said he, "is the one country thatneither my wife nor I have ever visited in our lives, and the last onethat either of us has the least curiosity to see."And he took his seat among them with a smile.CHAPTER XIIITHE AUSTRALIAN ROOMIt was that discomfort to man, that cruelty to beast, that outrage byunnatural Nature upon all her children--a bitter summer's day. The windwas in the east; great swollen clouds wallowed across the sky, nowwithout a drop, now breaking into capricious showers of stinging rain;and a very occasional burst of sunlight served only to emphasize theevil by reminding one of the season it really was, or should have been,even if it did not entice one to the wetting which was the sure rewardof a walk abroad. The Delverton air was strong and bracing enough, butthe patron wind of the district bit to the bone through garments neverintended for winter wear.On such a day there could be few more undesirable abodes thanNormanthorpe House, with its marble floors, its high ceilings, and itsgeneral scheme of Italian coolness and discomfort. It was a Tuesday,when Mr. Steel usually amused himself by going on 'Change inNorthborough and lunching there at the Delverton Club. Rachel was thusnot only physically chilled and depressed, but thrown upon her ownsociety at its worst; and she missed that of her husband more than shewas aware.Once she had been a bright and energetic person with plenty of resourceswithin herself; now she had singularly few. She was distraught anduneasy in her mind, could settle less and less to her singing or a book,and was the victim of an increasing restlessness of mind and limb.Others did not see it; she had self-control; but repression was no cure.And for all this there were reasons enough; but the fear ofidentification by the neighbors as the notorious Mrs. Minchin was nolonger one of them.No; it was her own life, root and branch, that had grown into theupas-tree which was poisoning existence for Rachel Steel. She was beingpunished for her second marriage as she had been punished for her first,only more deservedly, and with more subtle stripes. Each day brought adozen tokens of the anomalous position which she had accepted in themadness of an hour of utter recklessness and desperation. Rachel was notmistress in her own house, nor did she feel for a moment that it was herown house at all. Everything was done for her; a skilled housekeepersettled the smallest details; and that these were perfect alike inarrangement and execution, that the said housekeeper was a woman ofirreproachable tact and capability, and that she herself had never anexcuse for concrete complaint, formed a growing though intangiblegrievance in Rachel's mind. She had not felt it at first. She hadchanged in these summer months. She wanted to be more like other wives.There was Morna Woodgate, with the work cut out for every hour of herfull and happy days; but Morna had not made an anomalous marriage, Mornahad married for love.And to-day there was not even Morna to come and see her, or for her togo and see, for Tuesday afternoon was not one of the few upon which thevicar's wife had no settled duty or occupation in the parish. Rachel soenvied her the way in which she helped her husband in his work; she hadtried to help also, in a desultory way; but it is one thing to do athing because it is a duty, and another thing to do it for something todo, as Rachel soon found out. Besides, Hugh Woodgate was not herhusband. Rachel had the right feeling to abandon those half-heartedattempts at personal recreation in the guise of good works, and thecourage to give Morna her reasons; but she almost regretted it thisafternoon.She had explored for the twentieth time that strange treasury known asthe Chinese Room, a state apartment filled with loot brought home fromthe Flowery Land by a naval scion of the house of Normanthorpe, andsomewhat cynically included in the sale. The idols only leered inRachel's face, and the cabinets of grotesque design were unprovided withany key to their history of former uses. In sheer desperation Rachelbetook herself to her husband's study; it was the first time she hadcrossed that threshold in his absence, but within were the books, and abook she must have.These also had been purchased with the house. With few exceptions, theywere ancient books in battered calf, which Steel had stigmatized as"musty trash" once when Rachel had asked him if she might take one. Shehad not made that request again; indeed, it was seldom enough that shehad set foot inside the spacious room which the old books lined, and inwhich the master of the house disliked being disturbed. Yet it wasanything but trash which she now discovered upon the dusty shelves.There was _Tom Jones_ in four volumes and the _Spectator_ in eight, _GilBlas_ and the works of Swift, all with the long "s," and backs likepolished oak; in the lower shelves were Hogarth and Gillray in rarefolios; at every level and on either hand were books worth taking out.But this was almost all that Rachel did; she took them out and put themin again, for that was her unsettled mood. She spent some minutes overthe Swifts, but not sufficiently attracted to march off with them. Thequaint, obsolete type of the various volumes attracted her more as acuriosity than as readable print; the coarse satires of the earlymasters of caricature and cartoon did not attract her at all. Rachel'supbringing had deprived her of the traditions, the superstitions, andthe shibboleths which are at once a strength and a weakness of theordinary English education; if, however, she was too much inclined totake a world's masterpiece exactly as she found it, her taste, such asit was, at all events was her own.She had naturally an open mind, but it was not open now; it was full andrunning over with the mysteries and the perplexities of her ownenvironment. Books would not take her out of herself; in them she couldnot hope to find a key to any one of the problems within problems whichbeset and tortured her. So she ran her hand along the dusty books,little dreaming that the key was there all the time; so in the end, andquite by chance, but for the fact that she was dipping into so many, shetook out the right book, and started backward with it in her hand.The book was _The Faerie Queene_, and Rachel had extracted it in aGothic spirit, because she had once heard that very few living personshad read it from end to end; since she could not become interested inanything, she might as well be thoroughly bored. But she never openedthe volume, for in the dark slit which it left something shone like alittle new moon. Rachel put in her hand, and felt a small brass handle;to turn and pull it was the work of her hand without a guiding thought;but when tiers of books swung towards her with the opening door whichthey hid, it was not in human nature to shut that door again without somuch as peeping in.Rachel first peeped, then stepped, into a secret chamber asdisappointing at the first glance as such a place could possibly be. Itwas deep in dust, and filled with packing-cases not half unpacked, alumber-room and nothing more. The door swung to with a click behind heras Rachel stood in the midst of this uninteresting litter, andinstinctively she turned round. That instant she stood rooted to theground, her eyes staring, her chin fallen, a dreadful fear in everyfeature of her face.It was not that her second husband had followed and discovered her; itwas the face of her first husband that looked upon Rachel Steel, hisbold eyes staring into hers, through the broken glass of a fly-blownpicture-frame behind the door.The portrait was not hanging from the wall, but resting against it onthe floor. It was a photographic enlargement in colors, and the tintedeyes looked up at Rachel with all the bold assurance that she rememberedso keenly in the perished flesh. She had not an instant's doubt aboutthose eyes; they spoke in a way that made her shiver; and yet thephotograph was that of a much younger man than she had married. It wasAlexander Minchin with mutton-chop whiskers, his hair parted in themiddle, and the kind of pin in the kind of tie which had beenpractically obsolete for years; it was none the less indubitably andindisputably Alexander Minchin.And indeed that fact alone was enough to shake Rachel's nerves; herdiscovery had all the shock of an unwelcome encounter with the living.But it was the gradual appreciation of the true significance of herdiscovery that redoubled Rachel's qualms even as she was beginning toget the better of them. So they had been friends, her first husband andher second! Rachel stooped and looked hard at the enlargement, and theresure enough was the photographer's imprint. Yes, they had been friendsin Australia, that country which John Buchanan Steel elaborately andrepeatedly pretended never to have visited in all his travels!Rachel could have smiled as she drew herself up with this point settledin her mind for ever; why, the room reeked of Australia! These cases hadnever been properly unpacked, they were overflowing with memorials ofthe life which she herself knew so well. Here a sheaf of boomerangs werepeeping out; there was an old gray wide-awake, with a blue-silk fly-veilcoiled above the brim; that was an Australian saddle; and those glasscases contained samples of merino wool. So it was in Australia as asquatter that Steel had made his fortune! But why suppress a fact sofree from all discredit? These were just the relics of a bush life whicha departing colonist might care to bring home with him to the oldcountry. Then why cast them into a secret lumber-room whose veryexistence was unknown to the old Australian's Australian wife?Rachel felt her brain reeling; and yet she was thankful for the lightwhich had been vouchsafed to her at last. It was but a lantern flashthrough the darkness, which seemed the more opaque for that one thinbeam of light; but it was something, a beginning, a clew. For the restshe was going straight to the man who had kept her so long in suchunnecessary ignorance.Why had he not told her about Australia, at all events? What conceivableharm could that have done? It would have been the strongest possiblebond between them. But Rachel went further as she thought more. Why nothave told her frankly that he had known Alexander Minchin years beforeshe did herself? It could have made no difference after AlexanderMinchin's death; then why had he kept the fact so jealously to himself?And the dead man's painted eyes answered "Why?" with the bold andmocking stare his wife could not forget, a stare which at that momentassumed a new and sinister significance in her sight.Rachel looked upward through the window, which was barred, and almosttotally eclipsed by shrubs; but a clout of sky was just visible underthe architrave. It was a very gray sky; gray also was Rachel's face inthe sudden grip of horror and surmise. Then a ragged edge of cloudcaught golden fire, a glimmer found its way into the dust and dirt ofthe secret chamber, and Rachel relaxed with a slight smile but anexceedingly decided shake of the head. Thereafter she escapedincontinently, but successfully, as she had entered; closed the hiddendoor behind her, and restored _The Faerie Queene_ very carefully to itsplace. Rachel no longer proposed to join the select band of those whohave read that epic through.CHAPTER XIVBATTLE ROYALShe went to her own rooms to think and to decide; and what she firstthought and then decided was sensible enough. She was thankful she hadnot been caught like Fatima in the forbidden room; not that she lackedthe courage to meet the consequences of her acts, but it would have puther in the wrong and at a disadvantage at the first crash of battle. Anda battle royal Rachel quite expected; nor had she the faintest intentionof disguising what she had done; but it was her husband who was to betaken aback, for a change.The Steels dined alone, as usual, or as much alone as a man and his wifewith a butler and two footmen are permitted to be at their meals. Steelwas at his best after these jaunts of his to Northborough and the club.He would come home with the latest news from that centre of theuniverse, the latest gossip which had gone the rounds on 'Change and atlunch, the newest stories of Mr. Venables and his friends, which wereinvariably reproduced for Rachel's benefit with that slight butunmistakable local accent of which these gentry were themselves allunconscious. Steel had a wicked wit, and Rachel as a rule a sufficientlyappreciative smile, but this was to-night either lacking altogether orof an unconvincing character. Rachel could never pretend, and her firstspontaneous remark was when her glass filled up with froth."Champagne!" said she, for they seldom drank it."It has been such a wretched day," explained Steel, "that I ordered itmedicinally. I am afraid it must have been perishing here, as it was inthe town. This is to restore your circulation.""My circulation is all right," answered Rachel, too honest even to smileupon the man with whom she was going to war. "I felt cold all themorning, but I have been warm enough since the afternoon."And that was very true, for excitement had made her blood run hot inevery vein; nor had Rachel often been more handsome, or less lovely,than she was to-night, with her firm lip and her brooding eye."There was another reason for the champagne," resumed her husband, veryfrankly for him, when at last they had the drawing-room to themselves."I am in disgrace with you, I believe, and I want to hear from you whatI have done.""It is what you have not done," returned Rachel, as she stoodimperiously before the lighted fire; and her bosom rose and fell, whiteas the ornate mantelpiece of Carrara marble which gleamed behind her."And what, may I ask, is my latest sin of omission?"Rachel rushed to the point with a passionate directness that did her nodiscredit."Why have you pretended all these months that you never were inAustralia in your life? Why did you never tell me that you knewAlexander Minchin out there?"And she held her breath against the worst that he could do, being wellprepared for him to lose first his color and then the temper which hehad never lost since she had known him; to fly into a fury, to curse herup hill and down dale--in a word, to behave as her first husband haddone more than once, but this one never. What Rachel did not anticipatewas a smile that cloaked not a single particle of surprise, and thelittle cocksure bow that accompanied the smile."So you have found it out," said Steel, and his smile only ended as hesipped his coffee; even then there was no end to it in his eyes."This afternoon," said Rachel, disconcerted but not undone."By poking your nose into places which you would not think ofapproaching in my presence?""By the merest accident in the world!"And Rachel described the accident, truth flashing from her eyes; in aninstant her husband's face changed, the smile went out, but it was nofrown that came in its stead."I beg your pardon, Rachel," said he, earnestly. "I suppose," he added,"that a man may call his wife by her Christian name for once in a way? Idid so, however, without thinking, and because I really do most humblybeg your pardon for an injustice which I have done you for some hours inmy own mind. I came home between three and four, and I heard you were inmy study. You were not, but that book was out; and then, of course, Iknew where you were. My hand was on the knob, but I drew it back. Iwondered if you would have the pluck to do the tackling! And I apologizeagain," Steel concluded, "for I knew you quite well enough to have alsoknown that at least there was no question about your courage.""Then," said Rachel, impulsively, after having made up her mind toignore these compliments, "then I think you might at least be candidwith me!""And am I not?" he cried. "Have I denied that the portrait you saw isindeed the portrait of Alexander Minchin? And yet how easy that wouldhave been! It was taken long before you knew him; he must have alteredconsiderably after that. Or I might have known him under another name.But no, I tell you honestly that your first husband was a very dearfriend of mine, more years ago than I care to reckon. Did you hear me?"he added, with one of his sudden changes of tone and manner. "A verydear friend, I said, for that he undoubtedly was; but was I going to askyou to marry a very dear friend of the man who deteriorated so terribly,and who treated you so ill?"Delivered in the most natural manner imaginable, with the quietconfidence of which this man was full, and followed by a smile ofconscious yet not unkindly triumph, this argument, like most that fellfrom his lips upon her ears, was invested with a value out of allproportion to its real worth; and Steel clinched it with one of thosehomely saws which are not disdained by makers of speeches the wide worldover."Could you really think," he added, with one of his rarest and mostwinning smiles, "that I should be such a fool as to invite you to stepout of the frying-pan into the fire?"Rachel felt for a moment that she would like to say it was exactly whatshe had done; but even in that moment she perceived that such astatement would have been very far from the truth. And her nature waslarge enough to refrain from the momentary gratification of a bitterrepartee. But he was too clever for her; that she did feel, whateverelse he might be; and her only chance was to return to the plainquestions with which she had started, demanding answers as plain. Rachelled up to them, however, with one or two of which she already knew theanswer, thus preparing for her spring in quite the Old Bailey manner,which she had mastered subconsciously at her trial, and which for oncewas to profit a prisoner at the bar."Yet you don't any longer deny that you have been to Australia?""It is useless. I lived there for years.""And you admit that you knew Alexander quite well out there?""Most intimately, in the Riverina, some fifteen or twenty years ago; hewas on my station as almost everything a gentleman could be, up tooverseer; and by that time he was half a son to me, and half a youngerbrother.""But no relation, as a matter of fact?""None whatever, but my very familiar friend, as I have already toldyou.""Then why in the world," Rachel almost thundered, "could you not tell meso in the beginning?""That is a question I have already answered.""Then I have another. Why so often and so systematically pretend thatyou never were in Australia at all?""That is a question which I implore you not to press!"The two answers, so like each other in verbal form, were utterlydissimilar in the manner of their utterance. Suddenly, and for the firsttime in all her knowledge of him, his cynical aplomb had fallen from theman like a garment. One moment he was brazening past deceit with asmiling face; the next, he was in earnest, even he, and that mockingvoice vibrated with deep feeling."I should have thought all the more of you for being an Australian,"continued Rachel, vaguely touched at the change in him, "I who am proudof being one myself. What harm could it have done, my knowing that?""You are not the only one from whom I have hidden it," said Steel,still in a low and altered voice."Yet you brought home all those keepsakes of the bush?""But I thought better of them, and have never even unpacked them all, asyou must have seen for yourself.""Yet your mysterious visitor of the other day--""Another Australian, of course; indeed, another man who worked upon myown run.""And he knows why you don't want it known over here?""He does," said Steel, with grim brevity.Rachel moved forward and pressed his hand impulsively. To her surprisethe pressure was returned. That instant their hands fell apart."I beg your pardon in my turn," she said. "I can only promise you that Iwill never again reopen that wound--whatever it may be--and I won't eventry to guess. I undertook not to try to probe your past, and I will keepmy undertaking in the main; but where it impinges upon my own past Isimply cannot! You say you were my first husband's close friend," addedRachel, looking her second husband more squarely than ever in the eyes."Was that what brought you to my trial for his murder?"He returned her look."It was.""Was that what made you wish to marry me yourself?"No answer, but his assurance coming back, as he stood looking at herunder beetling eyebrows, over black arms folded across a snowy shirt. Itwas the wrong moment for the old Adam's return, for Rachel had reachedthe point upon which she most passionately desired enlightenment."I want to know," she cried, "and I insist on knowing, what first put itinto your head or your heart to marry me--all but convicted--"Steel held up his hand, glancing in apprehension towards the door."I have told you so often," he said, "and your glass tells you wheneveryou look into it. I sat within a few feet of you for the inside of aweek!""But that is not true," she told him quietly; "trust a woman to know, ifit were."In the white glare of the electric light he seemed for once to changecolor slightly."If you will not accept my word," he answered, "there is no more to besaid."And he switched off a bunch of the lights that had beaten too fiercelyupon him; but it only looked as if he was about to end the interview."You have admitted so many untruths in the last half hour," pursuedRachel, in a thrilling voice, "that you ought not to be hurt if Isuspect you of another. Come! Can you look me in the face and tell methat you married me for love? No, you turn away--because you cannot!Then will you, in God's name, tell me why you did marry me?"And she followed him with clasped hands, her beautiful eyes filled withtears, her white throat quivering with sobs, until suddenly he turnedupon her as though in self-defence."No, I will not!" he cried. "Since the answer I have given you, and theobvious answer, is not good enough for you, the best thing you can do isto find out for yourself."A truculent look came into Rachel's eyes, as they rested upon the smoothface so unusually agitated beneath the smooth silvery hair."I will!" she answered through her teeth. "I shall take you at yourword, and find out for myself I will!"And she swept past him out of the room.[Illustration: "I will!" she answered through her teeth--and she sweptpast him out of the room.]CHAPTER XVA CHANCE ENCOUNTERThere was now an open breach between the Steels, but no third personwould have discerned any difference in their relations. It was a meresnapping of the threads across the chasm which had always separatedRachel from her second husband. The chasm had been plain enough to thosewho came much in contact with the pair, but the little threads ofsympathy were invisible to the naked eye of ordinary observation. Therewas thus no outward change, for neither was there any outward rupture.It takes two to quarrel, and Steel imperturbably refused to make one.Rachel might be as trying as she pleased; no repulse depressed, nocaprice annoyed him; and this insensibility was not the least of Steel'soffences in the now jaundiced eyes of his wife.Rachel felt as bitter as one only does against those who have inspiredsome softer feeling; the poison of misplaced confidence rankled in herblood. Her husband had told her much, but it was not enough for Rachel,and the little he refused to tell eliminated all the rest from hermind. There was no merit even in such frankness as he had shown, sinceher own, accidental discoveries had forced some measure of honesty uponhim. He had admitted nothing which Rachel could not have deduced fromthat which she had found out for herself. She felt as far as ever fromany satisfactory clew to his mysterious reasons for ever wishing tomarry her. There lay the kernel of the whole matter, there the problemthat she meant to solve. If her first husband was at the bottom of it,no matter how indirectly, and if she had been married for the dead man'ssake, to give his widow a home, then Rachel felt that the last affronthad been put upon her, and she would leave this man as she had beenwithin an ace of leaving his friend. So ran the wild and unreasonabletenor of her thoughts. He had not married her for her own sake; it wasnot she herself who had appealed to him, after all. Curiosity mightconsume her, and a sense of deepening mystery add terrors of its own,but the resentful feeling was stronger than either of these, and wouldhave afforded as strange a revelation as any, had Rachel dared to lookdeeper into her own heart.If, on the other hand, she had already some conception of the truthabout herself, it would scarcely lessen her bitterness against one whoinspired in her emotions at once so complex and so painful. Suffice itthat this bitterness was extreme in the days immediately following thescene between Rachel and her husband in the drawing-room after dinner.It was also unconcealed, and must have been the cause of many anothersuch scene but for the imperturable temper and the singularly rulytongue of John Buchanan Steel. And then, in those same days, there fellthe two social events to which the bidden guests had been lookingforward for some two or three weeks, and of which the whole neighborhoodwas to talk for years.On the tenth of August the Uniackes were giving a great garden party atHornby Manor, while the eleventh was the date of the first realdinner-party for which the Steels had issued invitations to NormanthorpeHouse.The tenth was an ideal August day: deep blue sky, trees stilluntarnished in the hardy northern air, and black shadows under thetrees. Rachel made herself ready before lunch, to which she came downlooking quite lovely, in blue as joyous as the sky's, to find herhusband as fully prepared, and not less becomingly attired, in a grayfrock-coat without a ripple on its surface. They looked critically ateach other for an instant, and then Steel said something pleasant, towhich Rachel made practically no reply. They ate their lunch in asilence broken good-naturedly at intervals from one end of the tableonly. Then the Woodgates arrived, to drive with them to Hornby, whichwas some seven or eight miles away; and the Normanthorpe landau and pairstarted with, the quartette shortly after three o'clock.Morning, noon, and afternoon of this same tenth of August, CharlesLangholm, the minor novelist, never lifted his unkempt head from the oldbureau at which he worked, beside an open window overlooking his cottagegarden. A tumbler of his beloved roses stood in one corner of thewriting space, up to the cuts in MSS., and roses still ungathered peepedabove the window-sill and drooped from either side. But Langholm had asoul far below roses at the present moment; his neatly numbered sheetsof ruled sermon-paper were nearing the five hundredth page; his hero andhis heroine were in the full sweep of those emotional explanations whichthey had ingeniously avoided for the last three hundred at least; in aword, Charles Langholm's new novel is being finished while you wait. Itis not one of his best; yet a moment ago there was a tear in his eye,and now he is grinning like a child at play. And at play he is, thoughhe be paid for playing, and though the game is only being won afterweeks and months of uphill labor and downhill joy.At last there is the final ticking of inverted commas, and CharlesLangholm inscribes the autograph for which he is importuned once in ablue moon, and which the printer will certainly not set up at the footof the last page; but the thing is done, and the doer must needs set hishand to it out of pure and unusual satisfaction with himself. And so,thank the Lord!Langholm rose stiffly from the old bureau, where at his best he couldlose all sense of time; for the moment he was bent double, and faintwith fasting, because it was his mischievous rule to reach a given pointbefore submitting to the physical and mental distraction of a meal. Butto-day's given point had been the end of his book, and for some happyminutes Langholm fed on his elation. It was done at last, yet anothernovel, and not such a bad one after all. Not his best by any means, butperhaps still further from being his worst; and, at all events, thething was done. Langholm could scarcely grasp that fact, though therewas the last page just dry upon the bureau, and most of the rest lyingabout the room in galley-proofs or in typewritten sheets. Moreover, thepublishers were pleased; that was the joke. It was nothing less toLangholm when he reflected that the final stimulus to finish this bookhad been the prospect and determination of at last writing one to pleasehimself. And this reflection brought him down from his rosy clouds.It was the day of the Uniacke's garden-party; they had actually askedthe poor author, and the poor author had intended to go. Not that heeither shone or revelled in society; but Mrs. Steel would be there, andhe burned to tell her that he had finished his book, and was at lastfree to tackle hers; for hers at bottom it would be, the great novel bywhich the name of Langholm was to live, and which he was to found byRachel Steel's advice upon the case of her namesake Rachel Minchin.The coincidence of the Christian names had naturally struck thenovelist, but no suspicion of the truth had crossed a mind too skilledin the construction of dramatic situations to dream of stumbling intoone ready-made. It was thus with a heart as light as any feather thatLangholm made a rapid and unwholesome meal, followed by a deliberate andpainstaking toilet, after which he proceeded at a prudent pace upon hisbicycle to Hornby Manor.Flags were drooping from their poles, a band clashing fitfully throughthe sleepy August air, and carriages still sweeping into the long drive,when Langholm also made his humble advent. He was a little uneasy andself-conscious, and annoyed at his own anxiety to impart his tidings toMrs. Steel, but for whom he would probably have stayed at home. His eyesought her eagerly as he set foot upon the lawn, having left his bicycleat the stables, and carefully removed the clips from his trousers; butbefore his vigilance could be rewarded he was despatched by his hostessto the tea-tent, in charge of a very young lady, detached for the noncefrom the wing of a gaunt old gentleman with side whiskers and lanternjaws.Fresh from his fagging task, Langholm did not know what on earth to sayto the pretty schoolgirl, whose own shyness reacted on herself; but hewas doing his best, and atoning in attentiveness for his shortcomings asa companion, when in the tent he had to apologize to a lady in blue, whoturned out to be Rachel herself, with Hugh Woodgate at her side."Oh, no, we live in London," the young girl was saying; "only I go tothe same school as Ida Uniacke, and I am staying here on a visit.""I've finished it," whispered Langholm to Rachel, "this very afternoon;and now I'm ready for yours! I see," he added, dropping back into theattitude of respectful interest in the young girl; "only on a visit; andwho was the old gentleman from whom I tore you away?"The child laughed merrily."That was my father," she said; "but he is only here on his way toLeeds.""You mustn't call it my book," remonstrated Rachel, while Woodgatewaited upon both ladies."But it was you who gave me the idea of writing a novel round Mrs.Minchin.""I don't think I did. I am quite sure it was your own idea. But one bookat a time. Surely you will take a rest?""I shall correct this thing. It will depress me to the verge of suicide.Then I shall fall to upon my _magnum opus_.""You really think it will be that?""It should be mine. It isn't saying much; but I never had such a plot asyou have given me!"Rachel shook her head in a last disclaimer as she moved away with theVicar of Marley."Oh, Mr. Langholm, do you write books?" asked the schoolgirl, with roundblue eyes."For my sins," he confessed. "But do you prefer an ice, or morestrawberries and cream?""Neither, thank you. I've been here before," the young girl said with ajolly smile. "But I didn't know I should come back with an author!""Then we'll go out into the open air," the author said; and theyfollowed Rachel at but a few yards' distance.It was a picturesque if an aimless pageant, the smart frocks sweepingthe smooth sward, the pretty parasols with the prettier facesunderneath, the well-set-up and well-dressed men, with the old graymanor rising upon an eminence in the background, and a dazzling splashof scarlet and of brass somewhere under the trees. The band was playingselections from _The Geisha_ as Langholm emerged from the tea-tent inRachel's wake. Mrs. Venables was manoeuvring her two highly marriageablegirls in opposite quarters of the field, and had only her ownindefatigable generalship to thank for what it lost her upon thisoccasion. Mr. Steel and Mrs. Woodgate apparently missed the same thingthrough wandering idly in the direction of the band; but the tableaumight have been arranged for the express benefit of Charles Langholm andthe very young lady upon whom he was dancing laborious attendance.Mrs. Uniacke had stepped apart from the tall old gentleman with the sidewhiskers, to whom she had been talking for some time, and hadintercepted Rachel as she was passing on with Hugh Woodgate."Wait while I introduce you to my most distinguished guest, or rawtherhim to you," whispered Mrs. Uniacke, with the Irish brogue whichrendered her slightest observation a delight to the appreciative. "SirBaldwin Gibson--Mrs. Steel."Langholm and the little Miss Gibson were standing close behind, and thetrained eye of the habitual observer took in every detail of a scenewhich he never forgot. Handsome Mrs. Uniacke was clinching theintroduction with a smile, which ended in a swift expression ofsurprise. Sir Baldwin had made an extraordinary pause, his hand half wayto his hat, his lantern jaws fallen suddenly apart. Mrs. Steel, thoughslower at her part of the obvious recognition, was only a second slower,and thereupon stood abashed and ashamed in the eyes of all who saw; butonly for another second at the most; then Sir Baldwin Gibson not onlyraised his hat, but held out his hand in a fatherly way, and as she tookit Rachel's color changed from livid white to ruby red.Yet even Rachel was mistress of herself so quickly that the one or twoeye-witnesses of this scene, such as Mrs. Uniacke and Charles Langholm,who saw that it had a serious meaning, without dreaming what thatmeaning was, were each in hopes that no one else had seen as much asthey. Sir Baldwin plunged at once into amiable and fluent conversation,and before many moments Rachel's replies were infected with anapproximate assurance and ease; then Langholm turned to his juvenilecompanion, and put a question in the form of a fib."So that is your father," said he. "I seem, do you know, to know hisface?"Little Miss Gibson fell an easy prey."You probably do; he is the judge, you know!""The judge, is he?""Yes; and I wanted to ask you something just now in the tent. Did youmean the Mrs. Minchin who was tried for murder, when you were talkingabout your plot?"Langholm experienced an unforeseen shock from head to heel; he couldonly nod."He was the judge who tried her!" the schoolgirl said with pardonablepride.A lady joined them as they spoke."Do you really mean that that is Mr. Justice Gibson, who tried Mrs.Minchin at the Old Bailey last November?""Yes--my father," said the proud young girl."What a very singular thing! How do you do, Mr. Langholm? I didn't seeit was you."And Langholm found himself shaking hands with the aquiline lady to whomhe had talked so little at the Upthorpe dinner-party; she took herrevenge by giving him only the tips of her fingers now, and by lookingdeliberately past him at Rachel and her judge.CHAPTER XVIA MATCH FOR MRS. VENABLESThat was absolutely all that happened at the Uniackes' garden-party.There was no scene, no scandal, no incident whatsoever beyond anapparently mutual recognition between Mrs. Steel and Mr. Justice Gibson.Of this there were not half-a-dozen witnesses, all of whom were givenimmediate reason to suppose that either they or the pair in question hadmade a mistake; for nothing could have surpassed the presence of mindand the kindness of heart with which Sir Baldwin Gibson chatted to thewoman whom he had tried for her life within the year. And his charitycontinued behind her back."Odd thing," said Sir Baldwin to his hostess, at the earliestopportunity, "but for the moment I could have sworn that woman was someone else. May I ask who she is exactly?""Sure, Sir Baldwin," replied Mrs. Uniacke, "and that's what I thought wewere to hear at last. It's who she is we none of us know. And what doesit matter? She's pretty and nice, and I'm just in love with her; butthen nobody knows any more about her husband, and so we talk."A few more questions satisfied the judge that he could not possibly havebeen mistaken, and he hesitated a moment, for he was a pious man; butRachel's face, combined with her nerve, had deepended an impressionwhich was now nearly a year old, and the superfluous proximity of anangular and aquiline lady, to whom Sir Baldwin had not been introduced,but who was openly hanging upon his words, drove the good man's lastscruple to the winds."Very deceptive, these likenesses," said he, raising his voice for theinterloper's benefit; "in future I shall beware of them. I needn't tellyou, Mrs. Uniacke, that I never before set eyes upon the lady whom Ifear I embarrassed by behaving as though I had."Rachel was not less fortunate in her companion of the moment which hadso nearly witnessed her undoing. Ox-eyed Hugh Woodgate saw nothinginexplicable in Mrs. Steel's behavior upon her introduction to SirBaldwin Gibson, and anything he did see he attributed to an inconvenientsense of that dignitary's greatness. He did not think the matter worthmentioning to his wife, when the Steels had dropped them at theVicarage gate, after a pleasant but somewhat silent drive. Neither didRachel see fit to speak of it to her husband. There was a certainunworthy satisfaction in her keeping something from him. But again sheunderrated his uncanny powers of observation, and yet again he turnedthe tables upon her by a sudden display of the very knowledge which shewas painfully keeping to herself."Of course you recognized the judge?" said Steel, following his wife foronce into her own apartments, where he immediately shut a door behindhim and another in front of Rachel, who stood at bay before the glitterin his eyes."Of course," she admitted, with irritating nonchalance."And he you?""I thought he did at first; afterwards I was not so sure.""But I am!" exclaimed Steel through his teeth.Rachel's face was a mixture of surprise and incredulity."How can you know?" she asked coldly. "You were at least a hundred yardsaway at the time, for I saw you with Morna Woodgate.""And do you think my sight is not good for a hundred yards," retortedSteel, "when you are at the end of them? I saw the whole thing--hisconfusion and yours--but then I did not know who he was. He must havebeen in the house when we arrived; otherwise I should have taken goodcare that you never met. I saw enough, however, to bring me up in timeto see and hear more. I heard the way he was talking to you then; thatwas his damned good-nature, and he has us at his mercy all the same."Rachel had never seen her husband in such a passion; indeed, she hadnever before known him in a state of mind to justify the use of such aword. He was paler than his wont, his eyes brighter, his lips morebloodless. Rachel experienced a strange sense of advantage, at onceunprecedented and unforeseen, and with it an irresistible temptation tothe sort of revenge which she knew to be petty at the time. But he hadmade her suffer; for once it was her turn. He could be cold as ice whenshe was not, could deny her his confidence when she all but fell uponher knees before him; he should learn what it was to be treated as hehad treated her."I'm well aware of it," said Rachel, with a harsh, dry laugh, "though inpoint of fact I don't for a moment believe that he'll give me away. Butreally I don't think it matters if he does."Steel stared; it was wonderful to her to see his face."It doesn't matter?" he repeated in angry astonishment."Not to me," rejoined Rachel, bitterly. "You tell me nothing. What canmatter to me? When you can tell me why you felt compelled to marryme--when you have the courage to tell me that--other things may begin tomatter again!"Steel stared harder than before; he did not flinch, but his eyes seemedto hedge together as he stared, and the glittering light in them toconcentrate in one baleful gleam. Yet it was not a cruel look; it wasthe look of a man who has sealed his lips upon one point for ever, andwho views any questioning on that point as an attempt upon his treasury.There was more of self-defence than of actual hostility in thecompressed lips, the bloodless face, the glaring eyes. Then, with ashrug, the look, the resentment, and the passion were shaken off, andSteel stepped briskly to the inner door, which he had shut in Rachel'spath. Opening it, he bowed her through with a ceremony conspicuous evenin their ceremonious relations.But Rachel nursed her contrariety, even to the extent of a perversesatisfaction at her encounter with the judge, and a fierce enjoyment ofits still possible consequences. The mood was neither logical norgenerous, and yet it was human enough in the actual circumstances of thecase. At last she had made him feel! It had taken her the better part ofa year, but here at last was something that he really felt. And it hadto do with her; it was impending disaster to herself which had broughtabout this change in her husband; she knew him too well not to acquithim of purely selfish solicitude for his own good name and comfortablestatus in a society for which he had no real regard. There was never aman less dependent upon the good opinion of other men. In absoluteindependence of character, as in sheer strength of personality, Steelstood by himself in the estimation of his wife. But he had deceived herunnecessarily for weeks and months. He had lied to her. He had refusedher his whole confidence when she begged him for it, and when he knewhow he could trust her. There was some deep mystery underlying theirmarriage, he could not deny it, yet he would not tell her what it was.He had made her suffer needless pain; it was his turn. And yet, with allher resentment against him, and all her grim savoring of the scandalwhich he seemed to fear so much, there ran a golden thread ofunacknowledged contentment in the conviction that those fears were allfor her.Outwardly she was callous to the last degree, reckless as on the day shemade this marriage, and as light-hearted as it was possible to appear;but the excitement of the coming dinner-party was no small help toRachel in the maintenance of this attitude. It was to be a very largedinner-party, and Rachel's first in her own house; in any case she musthave been upon her mettle. Two dozen had accepted. The Upthorpe partywas coming in force; if anybody knew anything, it would be Mrs.Venables. What would she do or say? Mrs. Venables was capable of doingor of saying anything. And what might not happen before the day was out?It was a stimulating situation for one so curiously compact of courageand of nerves as the present mistress of Normanthorpe House; and foronce she really was mistress, inspecting the silver with her own eyes,arranging the flowers with her own hands, and, what was more difficult,the order in which the people were to sit. She was thus engaged, in herown sanctum, when Mrs. Venables did the one thing which Rachel had notdreamt of her doing.She called at three in the afternoon, and sent her name upstairs.Rachel's heart made itself felt; but she was not afraid. Something wascoming earlier than she had thought; she was chiefly curious to knowwhat. Her first impulse was to have Mrs. Venables brought upstairs, andto invoke her aid in the arrangement of the table before that lady couldopen fire. Rachel disliked the great cold drawing-room, and felt thatshe must be at a disadvantage in any interview there. On the other hand,if this was a hostile visit, the visitor could not be treated with toomuch consideration. And so the servant was dismissed with word that hermistress would not be a moment; nor was Rachel very many. She glanced ina glass, but that was all; she might have been tidier, but not easilymore animated, confident, and alert. She had reached the landing whenshe returned and collected all the cards which she had been trying toarrange; they made quite a pack; and Rachel laughed as she took themdownstairs with her.Mrs. Venables sat in solitary stiffness on the highest chair she hadbeen able to find; neither Sybil nor Vera was in attendance; a tablefulof light literature was at her elbow, but Mrs. Venables sat with foldedhands."This is too good of you!" cried Rachel, greeting her in a mannerredeemed from hypocrisy by a touch of irresistible irony. "You know myinexperience, and you have come to tell me things, have you not? Youcould not have come at a better time. How _do_ you fit in twenty-sixpeople at one table? I wanted to have two at each end, and it can't bedone!"Mrs. Venables suppressed a smile suggestive of some unconscious humor inthese remarks, but sat more upright than ever in her chair, with a hardlight in the bright brown eyes that stared serenely into Rachel's own."I cannot say I came to offer you my assistance, Mrs. Steel. I only takeliberties with very intimate friends.""Then I wonder what can have brought you!"And Rachel returned both the smile and the stare with irritatingself-control."I will tell you," said Mrs. Venables, weightily. "There is a certainthing being said of you, Mrs. Steel; and I wish to know from your ownlips whether there is any truth in it or none."Rachel held up her hands as quick as thought."My dear Mrs. Venables, you can't mean that you are bringing me a pieceof unpleasant gossip on the very afternoon of my first dinner-party?""It remains with you," said Mrs. Venables, changing color at this hit,"to say whether it is mere gossip or not. You must know, Mrs. Steel,though we were all quite charmed with your husband from the moment hecame among us, we none of us had the least idea where he came from norhave we yet.""You are speaking for the neighborhood?" inquired Rachel, sweetly."I am," said Mrs. Venables."Town _and_ county," murmured Rachel. "And you mean that nobody in thedistrict knew anything at all about my husband?""Not a thing," said Mrs. Venables."And yet you called on him; and yet you took pity on him, poor lonelybachelor that he was!"This shaft also left its momentary mark upon the visitor's complexion."The same applies to you," she went on the more severely. "We had noidea who you were, either!""And now?" said Rachel, still mistress of the situation, for she knew sowell what was coming."And now we hear, and I wish to know whether it is true or not. Wereyou, or were you not, the Mrs. Minchin who was tried last winter for herhusband's murder?"Rachel looked steadily into the hard brown eyes, until a certainhardness came into her own."I don't quite know what right you think you have to ask me such aquestion, Mrs. Venables. Is it the usual thing to question people whohave made a second marriage--supposing I am one--about their first? Ifancied myself that it was considered bad form; but then I am still veryignorant of the manners and customs in this part of the world. Since youask it, however, you shall have your answer." And Rachel's voice rangout through the room, as she rose majestically from the chair which shehad drawn opposite that of the visitor. "Yes, Mrs. Venables, I am thatunhappy woman. And what then?""No wonder you were silent about yourself," said Mrs. Venables, in avindictive murmur. "No wonder we never even heard--""And what then?" repeated Rachel, with a quiet and compelling scorn."Does it put one outside the local pale to keep to oneself any painfulincident in one's own career? Is an accusation down here the same thingas a conviction? Is there nothing to choose between 'guilty' and 'notguilty'?""You must be aware," proceeded Mrs. Venables, without taking any noticeof these questions--"indeed, you cannot fail to be perfectly wellaware--that a large proportion of the public was dissatisfied with theverdict in your case.""Your husband, for one!" Rachel agreed, with a scornful laugh. "He wouldhave come to see me hanged; he told me so at his own table.""You never would have been at his table," retorted Mrs. Venables, withsome effect, "if he or I had dreamt who you were; but now that we know,you may be quite sure that none of us will sit at yours."And Mrs. Venables rose up in all her might and spite, her brown eyesflashing, her handsome head thrown back."Are you still speaking for the district?" inquired Rachel, conquering arecreant lip to put the question, and putting it with her finest scorn."I am speaking for Mr. Venables, my daughters, and myself," rejoined thelady with great dignity; "others will speak for themselves; and you willsoon learn in what light you are regarded by ordinary people. It is amerciful chance that we have found you out--a merciful chance! That youshould dare--you, about whom there are not two opinions among sensiblepeople--that you should dare to come among us as you have done and tospeak to me as you have spoken! But one thing is certain--it is for thelast time."With that Mrs. Venables sailed to the door by which she was to make hertriumphant exit, but she stopped before reaching it. Steel stood beforeher on the threshold, and as he stood he closed the door behind him, andas he closed it he turned and took out the key. There was the other doorthat led through the conservatory into the garden. Without a word hecrossed the room, shut that door also, locked it, and put the two keysin his pocket. Then at last he turned to the imprisoned lady."You are quite right, Mrs. Venables. It is the last conversation we arelikely to have together. The greater the pity to cut it short!""Will you have the goodness to let me go?" the visitor demanded, whiteand trembling, but not yet unimpressive in her tremendous indignation."With the greatest alacrity," replied Steel, "when you have apologizedto my wife."Rachel stood by without a word."For what?" cried Mrs. Venables. "For telling her what the whole worldthinks of her? Never; and you will unlock that door this instant, unlessyou wish my husband to--to--horsewhip you within an inch of your life!"Steel merely smiled; he could well afford to do so, lithe and supple ashe still was, with flabby Mr. Venables in his mind's eye."I might have known what to expect in this house," continued Mrs.Venables, in a voice hoarse with suppressed passion, "what unmanly andungentlemanly behavior, what cowardly insults! I might have known!"And she glanced from the windows to the bells."It is no use ringing," said Steel, with a shake of his snowy head, "ordoing anything else of the sort. I am the only person on the premiseswho can let you out; your footman could not get in if he tried; but ifyou like I shall shout to him to try. As for insults, you have insultedmy wife most cruelly and gratuitously, for I happen to have heard morethan you evidently imagine. In fact, 'insult' is hardly the word forwhat even I have heard you say; let me warn you, madam, that you havesailed pretty close to the wind already in the way of indictableslander. You seem to forget that my wife was tried and acquitted bytwelve of her fellow-countrymen. You will at least apologize for thatforgetfulness before you leave this room.""Never!"Steel looked at his watch and sat down. "I begin to fear you are nojudge of character, Mrs. Venables; otherwise you would have seen erethis which of us will have to give in sooner or later. I can only tellyou which of us never will!"And Rachel still stood by without a word.CHAPTER XVIIFRIENDS IN NEEDThat afternoon the Vicar of Marley was paying house-to-house visitsamong his humbler parishioners. Though his conversation was the weakpoint to which attention has been drawn, Hugh Woodgate neverthelesspossessed the not too common knack of chatting with the poor. He had thesimplicity which made them kin, and his sympathy, unlike that of so manypersons who consider themselves sympathetic, was not exclusivelyreserved for the death-bed and the ruined home. He wrote letters for theilliterate, found places for the unemployed, knew one baby from anotheras soon as their own mothers, and with his own hand sent to the localpapers full reports of the village matches in which he rarely scored arun. Until this August afternoon he was not aware that he had made anactual enemy in all the years that he had spent in Delverton, first asan overworked Northborough curate, and latterly as one of the busiestcountry vicars in the diocese. But towards five o'clock, as Mr. Woodgatewas returning to the Vicarage, a carriage and pair, sweeping past himin a cloud of dust, left the clergyman quite petrified on the roadside,his soft felt hat still in his hand; the carriage contained Mrs.Venables, who had simply stared him in the face when he took it off.Woodgate was quite excited when he reached the Vicarage. Morna met himin the garden."Mrs. Venables cut me dead!" he cried while they were still yards apart."I am not surprised," replied Morna, who was in a state of suppressedexcitement herself."But what on earth is the meaning of it?""She has just been here.""Well?""She is not likely to come again. Oh, Hugh, I don't know how to tellyou! If you agree with her for a moment, if you see any possible excusefor the woman, it will break my heart!"Morna's fine eyes were filled with tears; the sight of them put out theflame that had leapt for once from stolid Hugh, and he took her hand inhis own great soothing grasp."Come and sit down," he said, "and tell me all about it. Have I evertaken anybody's part against you, Morna, that you should think me likelyto begin now?""No; but you would if you thought they were right and I was wrong."Hugh reflected until they reached the garden-seat upon the lawn."Well, not openly, at all events," said he; "and not under anycircumstances I can conceive in which Mrs. Venables was the otherperson.""But she isn't the only other person; that is just it. Oh, Hugh, you dolike Rachel, don't you?""I do," he said emphatically. "But surely you haven't been quarrellingwith her?""No, indeed! And that is exactly why I _have_ quarrelled with Mrs.Venables, because I wouldn't refuse to go to the dinner-party atNormanthorpe to-night!"Woodgate was naturally nonplussed."Wouldn't refuse?" he echoed."Yes. She actually asked me not to go; and now I do believe she has gonedriving round to ask everybody else!"Woodgate's amazement ended in a guffaw."And that is what you quarrelled about!" he roared. "The woman must bemad. What reason did she give?""She had a reason, dear.""But not a good one! There can be no excuse for such an action, letalone a good reason!"Morna looked at her husband with sidelong anxiety, wondering whether hewould say as much when he had heard all. She was sure enough of him. Butas yet they had never differed on a point that mattered, and the onewhich was coming mattered infinitely to Morna."Hugh," she began, "do you remember being with Rachel yesterday atHornby, when she was introduced to Sir Baldwin Gibson?""Perfectly," said Hugh."He is the judge, you know.""Yes, yes.""Did you think they looked as though they had ever seen each otherbefore?"The vicar revolved where he sat, looking his wife suddenly in the face,while a light broke over his own."Now you speak of it," he cried, "they did! It didn't strike me at thetime. I was rather surprised at her being so nervous, but that neveroccurred to me as the explanation. Yet now I have no doubt about it. Youdon't mean to say he knows something against Mrs. Steel, and has beengiving her away?""No, dear, the judge has not; but you were not the only one who saw themeeting; and other eyes are more suspicious than yours, Hugh. Darling,you would not think the worse of Rachel for keeping her past life toherself, would you, especially if it had been a very unhappy one?""Of course not; it is no business of ours.""So you told Mrs. Venables the day she came to tell us Mr. Steel wasmarried, and so I told her again this afternoon. However, that is nother main point, and there is another thing I am still surer you wouldnever do. If a person had been put upon her trial, and found not guiltyin open court, you would not treat her as though she had been foundguilty, would you--even though the verdict had come as a surprise?""Of course I would not, Morna; no decent Christian would, I should hope!But do you mean to tell me that Mrs. Steel has been tried forsomething?""Yes; and by Justice Gibson!""Poor thing," said Hugh Woodgate, after a pause.Morna took his hand."My dear, she is, or rather she was, Mrs. Minchin!""What! The woman who was tried for murdering her husband?""Yes--and acquitted.""Good heavens!" exclaimed the vicar, and for a minute that was all."Well," he continued, "I didn't read the case, and I am glad that Ididn't, but I remember, of course, what was said about it at the time.But what does it matter what is said? I imagine the jury knew what theywere about; they listened to the evidence for a week, I believe, whichother people read in a few minutes. Of course they knew best! But howlong have you known this, Morna?""Never until this afternoon; there was no reason why I should.""Of course there was not.""Then you agree with me, Hugh?"And Morna was transfigured."Of course I agree with you! But I want to know more. Do you mean totell me that a woman of education and ability, who calls herself aChristian, like Mrs. Venables, has actually backed out of thisdinner-party on this account, and asked others to do the same?""She certainly asked me, point-blank," said Morna. "And when I refused,and persisted in my refusal, she flounced out in a rage, and must havecut you dead next minute.""Incredible!" exclaimed Woodgate. "I mean, she must have had somefurther reason.""Oh, but she had! I forgot to tell you in my anxiety to know what youthought. She came to me straight from Normanthorpe, where they hadinsulted her as she had never been insulted in her life before!""Who? Steel or his wife?""Mr. Steel, I fancy. Mrs. Venables had no name bad enough for him, butshe brought it on herself, and I think more of him than I ever didbefore. You know that Mrs. Vinson, the Invernesses' new agent's wife?""I do. Langholm took her into dinner the night we dined at Upthorpe, andshe was in the offing yesterday when Mrs. Steel was talking to thejudge.""Exactly! It appears that it was Mrs. Vinson who first suspectedsomething, the very night you mention; and yesterday her suspicions wereconfirmed to her own satisfaction. At all events she felt justified inmentioning them to Mrs. Venables, who instantly drove over to ask Rachelto her face if there was any truth in the rumor that she was or had beenMrs. Minchin.""Well?""Rachel told her it was perfectly true.""Good!""And then the fat was in the fire; but what happened exactly it wasimpossible to gather from Mrs. Venables. I never saw a woman so besideherself with rage. She came in incoherent, and went out inarticulate!From the things she said of him, I could only guess that Mr. Steel hadcome upon the scene and insulted her as she deserved to be insulted. ButI would give a good deal to know what did happen.""Would you really?"Morna started to her feet. The vicar rose more slowly, after sitting forsome moments in mute confusion. It was Mrs. Steel who stood before themon their lawn, pale as death, and ten years older since the day before,yet with a smile upon her bloodless lips, which appeared indeed toexpress some faint irresistible amusement."Would you really like to know?" she repeated, standing at a distancefrom them, her great eyes travelling from one to the other. "It isstrange, because I had come on purpose to tell you both that and all therest--but especially all the rest--in which it seems Mrs. Venables hasbeen before me." She paused an instant, and the corners of her sad mouthtwitched just once. "What my husband did," said Rachel, "was to lock thedoors and refuse to let her out until she had begged my pardon.""I hope she did so," said Hugh Woodgate, with the emphasis which oftenatoned for the inadequacy of his remarks."In about three minutes," replied Rachel, dryly, with some pride, but notriumph in her tone.Morna had not spoken. Now she took a quick step forward, her eyesbrimming. But Rachel held up her hand."You are sure you realize who I am?""Yes, Rachel.""Rachel Minchin!" added Rachel, harshly. "The notorious Mrs.Minchin--the Mrs. Minchin whom Mr. Venables would have come to seehanged!""Hush, Rachel, hush!""Then be honest with me--mind, honest--not kind! You would not have saidwhat Mrs. Venables said to me; she said that all the world believed meguilty. You would not have said that, Morna; but are you sure you wouldnot have said it in your heart? Can you look me in the face and tell meyou don't believe it, like all the rest of the world?"There was no faltering of the firm, sweet voice; it was only unutterablysad.And Morna answered it only with a sob, as she flung her arms roundRachel's neck, while her husband waited with outstretched hand.CHAPTER XVIII"THEY WHICH WERE BIDDEN"The rose-covered cottage of Charles Langholm's dreams, which could nothave come true in a more charming particular, stood on a wooded hill atthe back of a village some three miles from Normanthorpe. It was one oftwo cottages under the same tiled roof, and in the other there lived anadmirable couple who supplied all material wants of the simple lifewhich the novelist led when at work. In his idle intervals the placeknew him not; a nomadic tendency was given free play, and the man was awanderer on the face of Europe. But he wandered less than he had donefrom London, finding, in his remote but fragrant corner of the earth,that peace which twenty years of a strenuous manhood had taught him tovalue more than downright happiness.Its roses were not the only merit of this ideal retreat, though in thesummer months they made it difficult for one with eyes and nostrils toappreciate the others. There was a delightful room running right throughthe cottage; and it was here that Langholm worked, ate, smoked, read,and had his daily being; his bath was in the room adjoining, and his bedin another adjoining that. Of the upper floor he made no use; it wasfilled with the neglected furniture of a more substantial establishment,and Langholm seldom so much as set foot upon the stairs. The lower roomswere very simply furnished. There was a really old oak bureau, and somesolid, comfortable chairs. The pictures were chiefly photographs ofother writers. There were better pictures deep in dust upstairs.An artist in temperament, if not in attainment, Langholm had of lateyears found the ups and downs of his own work supply all the excitementthat was necessary to his life; it was only when the work was done thathis solitude had oppressed him; but neither the one nor the other hadbeen the case of late weeks. His new book had been written under thespur of an external stimulus; it had not written itself, like all themore reputable members of the large but short-lived family to which itbelonged. Langholm had not felt lonely in the breathing spaces betweenthe later chapters. On the contrary, he would walk up and down among hisroses with the animated face of one on the happy heights of intercoursewith a kindred spirit, when in reality he was quite alone. But the manwrote novels, and withal believed in them at the time of writing. Itwas true that on one occasion, when the Steels came to tea, the novelistwalked his garden with the self-same radiant face with which he hadlately taken to walking it alone; but that also was natural enough.The change came on the very day he finished his book, when Langholm madehimself presentable and rode off to the garden-party at Hornby Manor inspirits worthy of the occasion. About seven of the same evening hedismounted heavily in the by-lane outside the cottage, and pushed hismachine through the wicket, a different man. A detail declared hisdepression to the woman next door, who was preparing him a moresubstantial meal than Langholm ever thought of ordering for himself: hewent straight through to his roses without changing his party coat forthe out-at-elbow Norfolk jacket in which he had spent that summer andthe last.The garden behind the two cottages was all Langholm's. The whole thing,levelled, would not have made a single lawn-tennis court, nor yet apractice pitch of proper length. Yet this little garden contained almosteverything that a garden need have. There were tall pines among thetimber to one side, and through these set the sun, so that on thehottest days the garden was in sufficient shadow by the time themorning's work was done. There was a little grass-plot, large enough fora basket-chair and a rug. There was a hedge of Penzance sweet-brieropposite the backdoor and the window at which Langholm wrote, and yetthis hedge broke down in the very nick and place to give the luckywriter a long glimpse across a green valley, with dim woods upon theopposite hill. And then there were the roses, planted by the lastcottager--a retired gardener--a greater artist than his successor--a manwho knew what roses were!Over the house clambered a William Allen Richardson and two Gloires deDijon, these last a-blowing, the first still resting from a profuseyield in June; in the southeast corner, a Crimson Rambler was at itsripe red height; and Caroline Testout, Margaret Dickson, La France,Madame Lambard, and Madame Cochet, blushed from pale pink to richestred, or remained coldly but beautifully white, at the foot of thePenzance briers. Langholm had not known one rose from another when hecame to live among this galaxy; now they were his separate, familiar,individual friends, each with its own character in his eyes, its owncharm for him; and the man's soul was the sweeter for each summer spentin their midst. But to-night they called to closed nostrils and blindeyes. And the evening sun, reddening the upper stems of the pines, andwarming the mellow tiles of his dear cottage, had no more to say toLangholm's spirit than his beloved roses.The man had emerged from the dreamy, artistic, aesthetic existence intowhich he had drifted through living alone amid so much simple beauty; hewas in real, human, haunting trouble, and the manlier man for italready.Could he be mistaken after all? No; the more he pondered, the moreconvinced he felt. Everything pointed to the same conclusion, beginningwith that first dinner-party at Upthorpe, and that first conversation ofwhich he remembered every word. Mrs. Steel was Mrs. Minchin--thenotorious Mrs. Minchin--the Mrs. Minchin who had been tried for herhusband's murder, and acquitted to the horror of a righteous world.And he had been going to write a book about her, and it was she herselfwho had given him the idea!But was it? There had been much light talk about Mrs. Steel's novel, andthe plot that Mrs. Steel had given Langholm, but that view of the matterhad been more of a standing joke than an intellectual bond betweenthem. It was strange to think of it in the former light to-night.Langholm recalled more than one conversation upon the same subject. Ithad had a fascination for Rachel, which somehow he was sorry to remembernow. Then he recollected the one end to all these conversations, and hismomentary regret was swept away by a rush of sympathy which it did himgood to feel. They had ended invariably in her obtaining from him, onone cunning pretext or another, a fresh assurance of his belief in Mrs.Minchin's innocence. Langholm radiated among his roses as his memoryconvinced him of this. Rachel had not talked about her case and his plotfor the morbid excitement of discussing herself with another, but forthe solid and wholesome satisfaction of hearing yet again that the otherdisbelieved in her guilt.And did he not? Langholm stood still in the scented dusk as he asked hisheart of hearts the point-blank question. And it was a crisper step thathe resumed, with a face more radiant than before.Yes, analytical as he was, there at least he was satisfied with himself.Thank God, he had always been of one opinion on that one point; that hehad made up his mind about her long before he knew the whilom Mrs.Minchin in the flesh, and had let her know which way almost as longbefore the secret of her identity could possibly have dawned upon him.Now, if the worst came to the worst, his sincerity at least could not bequestioned. Others might pretend, others again be unconsciouslyprejudiced in favor of their friend; he at least was above eithersuspicion. Had he not argued her case with Mrs. Venables at the time,and had he not told her so on the very evening that they met?Certainly Langholm felt in a strong position, if ever the worst came tothe worst; it illustrated a little weakness, however, that he himselfforesaw no such immediate eventuality. There had been a very briefencounter between two persons at a garden-party, and a yet more briefconfusion upon either side. Of all this there existed but half-a-dozenwitnesses, at the outside, and Langholm did not credit the other fivewith his own trained insight and powers of observation; he furthermorereflected that those others, even if as close observers as himself,could not possibly have put two and two together as he had done. Andthis was sound; but Langholm had a fatal knack of overlooking the ladywhom he had taken in to dinner at Upthorpe Hall, and scarcely noticed atHornby Manor. Cocksure as he himself was of the significance of thatwhich he had seen with his own eyes, the observer flattered himself thathe was the only real one present; remembered the special knowledge whichhe had to assist his vision; and relied properly enough upon the silenceof Sir Baldwin Gibson.The greater the secret, however, the more piquant the situation for onewho was in it; and there were moments of a sleepless night in whichLangholm found nothing new to regret. But he was in a quandary none theless. He could scarcely meet Mrs. Steel again without a word about theprospective story, which they had so often discussed together, and uponwhich he was at last free to embark; nor could he touch upon that themewithout disclosing the new knowledge which would burn him until he did.Charles Langholm and Rachel Steel had two or three qualities in common:an utter inability to pretend was one, if you do not happen to think ita defect.As a rule when he had finished a rapid bit of writing, Langholm sat downto correct, and a depressing task his spent brain always found it; butfor once he let it beat him altogether. After a morning's tussle withone unfortunate chapter, the desperate author sent off the rest in theirsins, and rode his bicycle to abolish thought. But that mild pastimefell lamentably short of its usual efficacy. It was not one of hisheroines who was worrying the novelist, but a real woman whom he likedand her husband whom he did not. The husband it was who had finishedmatters by entering the field of speculation during the morning's work.It may be confessed that Langholm had not by any means disliked him theyear before.What was the secret of this second marriage on the part of one who hadbeen so recently and so miserably married? Was it love? Langholm wouldnot admit it for a moment. Steel did not love his wife, and there wascertainly nothing to love in Steel. Langholm had begun almost to hatehim; he told himself it was because Steel did not even pretend to lovehis wife, but let strangers see the abnormal terms on which they lived.What, then, was the explanation--the history--the excuse? They weresupposed to have married on the Continent; that was one of the fewstatements vouchsafed by Steel, and he happened to have made it in thefirst instance to Langholm himself. Was there any truth in it? And didSteel know the truth concerning his wife?Your imaginative man is ever quick to form a theory based upon facts ofhis own involuntary invention. Langholm formed numerous theories andinvented innumerable facts during the four-and-twenty hours of hispresent separation from the heroine and the villain of these romances.The likeliest of the lot was the idea that the pair had really metabroad, at some out-of-the-way place, where Rachel had been in hidingfrom the world, and that in her despair of receiving common justice fromher kind, she had accepted the rich man without telling him who she was.His subsequent enlightenment was Langholm's explanation of Steel'scoldness towards his wife.He wondered if it was the kind of coldness that would ever be removed;if Steel believed her guilty, it never would. Langholm would not haveadmitted it, was not even aware of it in his own introspective mind, buthe almost hoped that Steel was not thoroughly convinced of his wife'sinnocence.The night of the dinner-party was so fine and the roads so clean thatLangholm went off on his bicycle once more, making an incongruous figurein his dress-suit, but pedalling sedately to keep cool. Fortune,however, was against him, for they had begun clipping those northernhedgerows, and an ominous bumping upon a perfectly flat road led to thediscovery of a puncture a long mile from Normanthorpe. Thence onward theunhappy cyclist had to choose between running beside his machine andriding on the rims, and between the two expedients arrived at last bothvery hot and rather late. But he thought he must be very late; for heneither met, followed, nor was followed by any vehicle whatsoever in thedrive; and the door did not open before Langholm rang, as it does whenthey are still waiting for one. Then the house seemed strangely silentwhen the door did open, and the footman wore a curious expression as heushered the late comer into an empty drawing-room. Langholm was nowalmost convinced that he had made some absurd mistake, and theimpression was not removed by the entry of Steel with his napkin in onehand."I've mistaken the night!" exclaimed the perspiring author."Not a bit of it," replied Steel; "only we thought you weren't coming atall.""Am I really so late as all that?"And Langholm began to wish he had mistaken the night."No," said Steel, "only a very few minutes, and the sin is oursentirely. But we thought you were staying away, like everybody else.""Like--everybody--else?""My dear fellow," said Steel, smiling on the other's bewilderment, "Ihumbly apologize for having classed you for an instant with the rank andfile of our delightful neighbors; for the fact is that all but two havemade their excuses at the last moment. The telegrams will delight you,one of these days!""There was none from me," declared Langholm, as he began to perceivewhat had happened."There was not; and my wife was quite confident that you would come; sothe fault is altogether mine. Langholm, you were almost at her heelswhen she was introduced to the old judge yesterday?""I was.""Have you guessed who she was--before she married me--or has anybodytold you?""I have guessed."Steel stood silent for an instant, his eyes resting in calm scrutinyupon the other, his mouth as firm and fixed, his face fresh as a youngman's, his hair like spun silver in the electric light. Langholm lookedupon the man who was looking upon him, and he could not hate him as hewould."And do you still desire to dine with us?" inquired his host at last."I don't want to be in the way," faltered Langholm, "on a painful--""Oh, never mind that!" cried Steel. "Are you quite sure you don't wantto cut our acquaintance?""You know I don't," said Langholm, bluntly."Then come in, pray, and take us as we are.""One moment, Steel! All this is inconceivable; do you mean to say thatyour guests have thrown you over on account of--of--""My wife having been a certain Mrs. Minchin before she changed her nameto Steel! Yes, every one of them, except our vicar and his wife, who arereal good friends.""I am another," said Langholm through his big mustache."The very servants are giving notice, one by one!""I am her servant, too!" muttered Langholm, as Steel stood aside to lethim pass out first; but this time it was through his teeth, though fromhis heart, and the words were only audible to himself.CHAPTER XIXRACHEL'S CHAMPIONThe immediate ordeal proved less trying than Langholm was prepared tofind it. His vivid imagination had pictured the long table, laid forsix-and-twenty, with four persons huddled at one end; but the telegramshad come in time to have the table reduced to its normal size, andLangholm found a place set for him between Mrs. Woodgate and Mrs. Steel.He was only embarrassed when Rachel rose and looked him in the eyesbefore holding out her hand."Have you heard?" she asked him, in a voice as cold as her marble face,but similarly redeemed and animated by its delicate and distant scorn."Yes," answered Langholm, sadly; "yes, I have heard.""And yet--"He interrupted her in another tone."I know what you are going to say! I give you warning, Mrs. Steel, Iwon't listen to it. No 'and yets' for me; remember the belief I had,long before I knew anything at all! It ought not to be a whit strongerfor what I guessed yesterday for myself, and what your husband has thisminute confirmed. Yet it is, if possible, ten thousand times strongerand more sure!""I do remember," said Rachel, slowly; "and, in my turn, I believe whatyou say."But her face did not alter as she took his hand; her own was so coldthat he looked at her in alarm; and the whole woman seemed turned tostone. Yet the dinner went on without further hitch; it might have beenthe very smallest and homeliest affair, to which only these guests hadbeen invited. Indeed, the menu had been reduced, like the table, by theunerring tact of Rachel's husband, so that there was no undue memorialto the missing one-and-twenty, and the whole ordeal was curtailed.There was, on the other hand, no blinking what had happened, no pretenceof ignoring the one subject which was in everybody's thoughts. Thus Mrs.Woodgate exclaimed aloud, what she was thinking to herself, that shewould never speak to Mrs. Venables again in all her life, and herhusband told her across the table that she had better not. Rachelthereupon put in her word, to the effect that the Woodgates would cutthemselves off from everybody if they made enemies of all whodisbelieved in her, and she could not allow them to do anything of thekind. Steel, again, speculated upon the probable behavior of theUniackes and the Invernesses, neither of these distinguished familieshaving been invited to the dinner, for obvious reasons arising fromtheir still recent return to the country. There was no effort to ignorethe absorbing topic before the butler and his satellites, but the linewas drawn in the right place, excluding as it did any reference to therout of Mrs. Venables, and indeed all details whatsoever.The butler, however, and in a less degree the footman, presented arather interesting study during the course of this momentous meal, hadthe professional observer present been only a little less concerned forhis hostess. The butler was a pompous but capable creature, whom Steelhad engaged when he bought the place. Though speedily reduced to a morerespectful servitude than he was accustomed to, the man had long sinceceased to complain of his situation, which carried with it the highestwages and all arbitrary powers over his subordinates. On the steps, ather deferred departure, Mrs. Venables had screamed the secret of hismistress's identity into the butler's ear. The butler had risen withdignity to the occasion, and, after a brief interview, resigned on thespot with all his men. The mild interest was in the present behavior ofthese gentry, which was a rich blend of dignity and depression, andbetrayed a growing doubt as to whether the sinking ship, that they hadbeen so eager to abandon, was really sinking after all.Certainly the master's manner could not have been very different at thehead of his table as originally laid. It was not festive, it was neitherunnaturally jocular nor showy in any way, but it was delightfullyconfident and serene. And the mistress was as calm in her way, thoughfor once hers was the colder way, and it was the opinion of the pantrythat she felt more than she showed; without a doubt Mrs. Woodgate hadmore work to restrain, now her tears for Rachel, and now her consumingindignation with the absentees."Your wife feels it as much as mine," said Steel to the vicar, when thegentlemen were alone at last; and one of them could have struck him forthe speech, one who had insight and could feel himself."I wouldn't go so far as that," the good vicar rejoined. "But Mornafeels it dreadfully. Dreadfully she feels it!""I almost wish we had kept the table as it was," pursued Steel over hiscigar, "and had one of those flash-light photographs taken, as they doat all the twopenny banquets nowadays. All that was left of them--leftof six-and-twenty!"His flippant tone made Langholm writhe, and drove him into theconversation to change its tenor. He asked by whom the evil had come."Surely not the judge?""No," said Steel, with emphasis. "Not that I have it for a fact, but Iwould put a thousand pounds upon his charity and his discretion in sucha matter. A kinder and a sounder man does not exist, though I say it whonever met him in my life. But I heard every word of my wife's trial, andI know the way the judge took the case. There were a heap of womenwitnesses, and her counsel was inclined to bully them; it was delightfulto see the fatherly consideration that they received as compensationfrom the bench."Langholm's breath was taken away. Here was an end to the likeliesttheory that he had evolved that morning among his roses. Steel had notmarried his wife in ignorance of her life's tragedy; he had beenpresent, and probably fallen in love with her, at her trial! Then whydid he never behave as though he were in love? And why must he expatiateupon the judge's kindness to the female witnesses, instead of on thegrand result of the trial over which he had presided? Did Steel himselfentertain the faintest doubt about the innocence of his wife, whosetrial he had heard, and whom he had married thereafter within a fewmonths at the most? Langholm's brain buzzed, even while he listened towhat Hugh Woodgate was saying."I am not surprised," remarked the vicar. "I remember once hearing thatSir Baldwin Gibson and Lord Edgeware were the two fairest judges on thebench; and why, do you suppose? Because they are both old athletes andOld Blues, trained from small boys to give their opponents everypossible chance!"Steel nodded an understanding assent. Langholm, however, who was betterqualified to appreciate the vicar's point, took no notice of it."If it was not the judge," said he, "who in the world is it who hassprung this mine, I saw them meet, and as a matter of fact I did guessthe truth. But I had special reasons. I had thought, God forgive me, ofmaking something out of your wife's case, Steel, little dreaming it washers, though I knew it had no ordinary fascination for her. But no oneelse can have known that.""You talked it over with her, however?"And Steel had both black eyes upon the novelist, who made his innocentadmission with an embarrassment due entirely to their unnecessarilypiercing scrutiny."You talked it over with her," repeated Steel, this time in drystatement of fact, "at least on one occasion, in the presence of a ladywho had a prior claim upon your conversation. That lady was Mrs. Vinson,and it is she who ought to have a millstone hanged about her neck, andbe cast into the sea. Don't look as though you deserved the same fate,Langholm! It would have been better, perhaps, if you had paid moreattention to Vinson's wife and less to mine; but she is the last womanin the world to blame you--naturally! And now, if you are ready, we willjoin them, Woodgate."Sensitive as all his tribe, and himself both gentle by nature andconsiderate of others according to his lights, which thoughtlessnessmight turn down or passion blur, but which burned steadily and brightlyin the main, Charles Langholm felt stung to the soul by the last fewwords, in which Hugh Woodgate noticed nothing amiss. Steel's tone wasnot openly insulting, but rather that of banter, misplaced perhaps, andin poor taste at such a time, yet ostensibly good-natured and innocentof ulterior meaning. But Langholm was not deceived. There was anulterior meaning to him, and a very unpleasant one withal. Yet he didnot feel unjustifiably insulted; he looked within, and felt justlyrebuked; not for anything he had said or done, but for what he found inhis heart at that moment. Langholm entered the drawing-room in profounddepression, but his state of mind was no longer due to anything that hadjust been said.The scene awaiting him was surely calculated to deepen that dejection.Rachel had left the gentlemen with the proud mien and the unbrokenspirit which she had maintained at table without trace of effort; theyfound her sobbing on Morna Woodgate's shoulder, in distress so poignantand so pitiful that even Steel stopped short upon the threshold. In aninstant she was on her feet, the tears still thick in her noble eyes,but the spirit once more alight behind the tears."Don't go!" she begged them, in a voice that pierced one heart at least."Stop and help me, for God's sake! I can't bear it. I am not strongenough. I can only pretend to bear it, for an hour, before the servants.Even that has almost maddened me, the effort, and the shame.""The shame is on others," said Steel, gravely enough now, "and not onyou. And who are those others, I should like to know? And what does itmatter what they think or say? A hole-and-corner district like this isnot the world!"Rachel shook her head sadly; her beautiful eyes were dry now, and onlythe more lustrous for the tears that they had shed. Langholm saw nothingelse."But it is the world," she asserted. "It is part of the world, and thesame thing would happen in any other part. It would happen in London,and everywhere else as soon as I became known. And henceforth I mean tobe known!" cried Rachel, wilfully; "there shall be no more hiding who Iwas, or am; that is the way to make them think the worst when they findout. But is it not disgraceful? I was acquitted, and yet I am to betreated as though I had been merely pardoned. Is that not a disgrace tocommon humanity?""Humanity is not so common as you imagine," remarked Steel."It is un-Christian!" cried Hugh Woodgate, with many repetitions of theepithet.Langholm said nothing. His eyes never left Rachel's face. Neither didshe meet them for an instant, nor had she a look for Hugh Woodgate oreven for his wife. It was to her husband that Rachel had spoken everyword; it was nearest him she stood, in his face only that she gazed."Are you going to let the disgrace continue?" she asked him, fiercely.His answer was natural enough."My dear Rachel, what can I do? I never dreamt that it would come outhere; it is by the merest fluke that it did.""But I want it to come out," cried Rachel; "if you mean the fact of mytrial and my acquittal. It was a mistake ever to hide either for amoment. Henceforth they shall be no secret.""Then we cannot prevent the world from thinking and saying what itlikes, however uncharitable and unjust. Do be reasonable, and listen toreason, though God knows you can be in no mood for such cold comfort!But I have done my best; I will do my best again. I will sell this placeto-morrow. We will go right away somewhere else.""And then the same thing will happen there! Is that all you can suggest,you who married me after hearing with your own ears every scrap ofevidence that they could bring against me?""Have you anything better to suggest yourself, Rachel?""I have," she answered, looking him full and sternly in the face, inthe now forgotten presence of their three guests. "Find out who _is_guilty, if you really want people to believe that I am not!"Steel did not start, though there came a day when one at least of thelistening trio felt honestly persuaded that he had; as a matter of fact,his lips came more closely together, while his eyes searched those ofhis wife with a wider stare than was often seen in them, but for two orthree seconds at most, before dropping in perplexity to the floor."How can I, Rachel?" her husband asked quietly, indeed gently, yet withlittle promise of acquiescence in his tone. "I am not a detective, afterall."But that was added for the sake of adding something, and was enough toprove Steel ill at ease, to the wife who knew him as no man ever had."A detective, no!" said she, readily enough. "But you are a rich man;you could employ detectives; you could clear your wife, if you liked.""Rachel, you know very well that you are cleared already.""That is your answer, then!" she cried scornfully, and snatched her eyesfrom him at last, without waiting for a denial. She was done with him,her face said plainly; he looked at her a moment, then turned aside witha shrug.But Rachel's eyes went swiftly round the room; they alighted for aninstant upon Morna Woodgate, leaning forward upon the sofa where theyhad sat together, eager, enthusiastic, but impotent as a woman must be;they passed over the vicar, looking stolid as usual, and more than alittle puzzled; but at last they rested on Langholm's thin, stoopingfigure, with untidy head thrust forward towards her, and a light in hisdreamy eyes that kindled a new light in her own."You, Mr. Langholm!" cried Rachel, taking a quick, short step in hisdirection. "You, with your plots and your problems that nobody cansolve; don't you think you could unravel this one for me?"Her eyes were radiant now, and their radiance all for him. Langholm feltthe heart swimming in his body, the brain in his head. A couple oflong-legged strides to meet her nine-tenths of the way, and he had takenRachel's hand before her husband and her friends."Before God," said Langholm, "I'll try!"Their hands met only to part. There was a sardonic laugh from Rachel'shusband."Do you forbid me?" demanded Langholm, turning upon him."Far from it," said Steel. "I shall be most interested to see you go towork.""Is that a challenge?"The two men faced each other, while the third man and the women lookedon. It had sounded like a challenge to all but the vicar, though neitherof the others had had time to think so before they heard the word andrecognized its justice."If you like," said Steel, indifferently."I accept it as such," rejoined Langholm, dogging the other with hiseyes. "And find him I will--the guilty man--if I never write anotherline--and if the villain is still alive!"CHAPTER XXMORE HASTEThere are eminent men of action who can acquit themselves with equalcredit upon the little field of letters, as some of the very best booksof late years go to prove. The man of letters, on the other hand,capable of cutting a respectable figure in action, is, one fears, a muchrarer type. Langholm was essentially a man of letters. He was at hisbest among his roses and his books, at his worst in unforeseen collisionwith the rougher realities of life. But give him time, and he was notthe man to run away because his equipment for battle was as short as hisconfidence in himself; and perhaps such courage as he possessed was notless courageous for the crust of cowardice (mostly moral) through whichit always had to break. Langholm had one other qualification for thequest to which he had committed himself, but for which he was asthoroughly unsuited by temperament as by the whole tenor of his solitarylife. In addition to an ingenious imagination (a quality with its owndefects, as the sequel will show), he had that capacity for takingpains which has no disadvantageous side, though in Langholm's case, forone, it was certainly not a synonym for genius.It was 3.45 on the Monday afternoon when he alighted at King's Cross,having caught the 9.30 from Northborough after an early adieu to WilliamAllen Richardson and the rest. Langholm made sure of the time beforegetting into his hansom at the terminus."Drive hard," he said, "to the Capital and Counties Bank in OxfordStreet."And he was there some minutes before the hour."I want to know my exact balance, if it is not too much trouble to lookit up before you close."A slip of paper was soon put into Langholm's hand, and at a glance heflushed to the hat with pleasure and surprise, and so regained his cab."The Cadogan Hotel, in Sloane Street," he cried through the trap; "andthere's no hurry, you can go your own pace."Nor was there any further anxiety in Langholm's heart. His balance was aclear hundred more than he had expected to find it, and his whole soulsang the praises of a country life. Unbusinesslike and unmethodical ashe was, in everything but the preparation of MS., such a discoverycould never have been made in town, where Langholm's expenditure hadmarched arm-in-arm with his modest earnings."And it can again," he said recklessly to himself, as he decided on thebest hotel in the field of his investigations, instead of lodgings;"thank God, I have enough to run this racket till the end of the year atleast! If I can't strike the trail by then--"He lapsed into dear reminiscence and dearer daydreams, their commonscene some two hundred miles north; but to realize his lapse was torecover from it promptly. Langholm glanced at himself in the littlemirror. His was an honest face, and it was an honest part that he mustplay, or none at all. He leaned over the apron and interested himself inthe London life that was so familiar to him still. It was as though hehad not been absent above a day, yet his perceptions were sharpened byhis very absence of so many weeks. The wood pavement gave off a strongbut not unpleasant scent in the heavy August heat; it was positivelydear to the old Londoner's nostrils. The further he drove upon hissouthwesterly course, the emptier were the well-known thoroughfares. St.James's Street might have been closed to traffic; the clubs in PallMall were mostly shut. On the footways strolled the folk whom one onlysees there in August and September, the entire families from thecountry, the less affluent American, guide book in hand. Here and therewas a perennial type, the pale actor with soft hat and blue-black chin,the ragged sloucher from park to park. Langholm could have foregatheredwith one and all, such was the strange fascination of the town for onewho was twice the man among his northern roses. But that is the kind ofmistress that London is to those who have once felt her spell; you mayforget her by the year, but the spell lies lurking in the first whiff ofthe wood pavement, the first flutter of the evening paper on the curb;and even in the cab you wonder how you have borne existence elsewhere.The hotel was very empty, and Langholm found not only the best of roomsat his disposal, but that flattering quality of attention which awaitsthe first comer when few come at all. He refreshed himself with tea anda bath, and then set out to reconnoitre the scene of the alreadyhalf-forgotten murder. He had a vague though sanguine notion that hisimaginative intuition might at once perceive some possibility which hadnever dawned upon the academic intelligence of the police.Of course he remembered the name of the street, and it was easilyfound. Nor had Langholm any difficulty in discovering the house, thoughhe had forgotten the number. There were very few houses in the street,and only one of them was empty and to let. It was plastered with thebills of various agents, and Langholm noted down the nearest of these,whose office was in King's Road. He would get an order to view thehouse, and would explore every inch of it that very night. But his bathand his tea had made away with the greater part of an hour; it was sixo'clock before Langholm reached the house-agent's, and the office wasalready shut.He dined quietly at his hotel, feeling none the less that he had made abeginning, and spent the evening looking up Chelsea friends, who werelikely to be more conversant than himself with all the circumstances ofMr. Minchin's murder and his wife's arrest; but who, as might have beenexpected, were one and all from home.In the morning the order of his plans were somewhat altered. It wasessential that he should have those circumstances at his fingers' ends,at least so far as they had transpired in open court. Langholm had readthe trial at the time with the inquisitive but impersonal interest whichsuch a case inspires in the average man. Now he must study it in a verydifferent spirit, and for the nonce he repaired betimes to the newspaperroom at the British Museum.By midday he had mastered most details of the complex case, and made anote of every name and address which had found their way into thenewspaper reports. But there was one name which did not appear in anyaccount. Langholm sought it in bound volume after bound volume, untileven the long-suffering attendants, who trundle the great tomes fromtheir shelves on trolleys, looked askance at the wanton reader whofilled in a new form every five or ten minutes. But the reader's faceshone with a brighter light at each fresh failure. Why had the name hewanted never come up in open court? Where was the evidence of the manwho had made all the mischief between the Minchins? Langholm intendedhaving first the one and then the other; already he was on the spring toa first conclusion. With a caution, however, which did infinite creditto one of his temperament, the amateur detective determined to look alittle further before leaping even in his own mind.Early in the afternoon he was back in Chelsea, making fraudulentrepresentations to the house-agent near the Vestry Hall."Not more than ninety," repeated that gentleman, as he went through hisbook, and read out particulars of several houses at about that rental;but the house which Langholm burned to see over was not among thenumber."I want a quiet street," said the wily writer, and named the one inwhich it stood. "Have you nothing there?""I have one," said the agent with reserve, "and it's only seventy.""The less the better," cried Langholm, light-heartedly. "I should liketo see that one."The house-agent hesitated, finally looking Langholm in the face."You may as well know first as last," said he, "for we have had enoughtrouble about that house. It was let last year for ninety; we're askingseventy because it is the house in which Mr. Minchin was shot dead.Still want to see it?" inquired the house-agent, with a wry smile.It was all Langholm could do to conceal his eagerness, but in the end heescaped with several orders to view, and the keys of the house of housesin his pocket. No caretaker could be got to live in it; the agent seemedhalf-surprised at Langholm's readiness to see over it all alone.About an hour later the novelist stood at a door whose name and numberwere not inscribed upon any of the orders obtained by fraud from theKing's Road agent. It was a door that needed painting, and there was aconspicuous card in the ground-floor window. Langholm tugged twice inhis impatience at the old-fashioned bell. If his face had been alightbefore, it was now on fire, for by deliberate steps he had arrived atthe very conclusion to which he had been inclined to jump. At last camea slut of the imperishable lodging-house type."Is your mistress in?""No.""When do you expect her?""Not before night.""Any idea what time of night?"The untidy child had none, but at length admitted that she had orders tokeep the fire in for the landlady's supper. Langholm drew his owndeduction. It would be little use in returning before nine o'clock. Fivehours to wait! He made one more cast before he went."Have you been here long, my girl?""Going on three months.""But your mistress has been here some years?""I believe so.""Are you her only servant?""Yes."And five hours to wait for more!It seemed an infinity to Langholm as he turned away. But at all eventsthe house had not changed hands. The woman he would eventually see wasthe woman who had given invaluable evidence at the Old Bailey.CHAPTER XXIWORSE SPEEDLangholm returned to his hotel and wrote a few lines to Rachel. It hadbeen arranged that he was to report progress direct to her, and as oftenas possible; but it was a very open arrangement, in which Steel hadsardonically concurred. Yet, little as there was to say, and for all hispractice with the pen, it took Langholm the best part of an hour towrite that he believed he had already obtained a most important clew,which the police had missed in the most incredible manner, though it hadbeen under their noses all the time. So incredible did it appear,however, even to himself, when written down, that Langholm decided notto post this letter until after his interview with the Chelsea landlady.To kill the interval, he went for his dinner to the single club to whichhe still belonged. It was a Bohemian establishment off the Strand, andits time-honored name was the best thing about it in this member's eyes.He was soon cursing himself for coming near the place while engagedupon his great and sacred quest. Not a "clubable" person himself, asthat epithet was understood in this its home, Langholm was not a littlesurprised when half-a-dozen men (most of whom he barely knew) rose togreet him on his appearance in the smoking-room. But even with theirgreetings came the explanation, to fill the newcomer with a horror toosudden for concealment.It appeared that Mrs. Steel's identity with the whilom Mrs. Minchin hadnot only leaked out in Delverton. Langholm gathered that it was actuallyin one of that morning's half-penny papers, at which he had not foundtime to glance in his hot-foot ardor for the chase. For the moment hewas shocked beyond words, and not a little disgusted, to discover thecause of his own temporary importance."Talk of the devil!" cried a comparative crony. "I was just telling themthat you must be the 'well-known novelist' in the case, as your cottagewas somewhere down there. Have you really seen anything of the lady?""Seen anything of her?" echoed a journalist to whom Langholm had neverspoken in his life. "Why, can't you see that he bowled her out himselfand came up straight to sell the news?"Langholm took his comparative crony by the arm."Come in and dine with me," he said; "I can't stand this! Yes, yes, Iknow her well," he whispered, as they went round the screen which wasthe only partition between pipes and plates; "but let me see what thatscurrilous rag has to say while you order. I'll do the rest, and you hadbetter make it a bottle of champagne."The "scurrilous rag" had less to say than Langholm had been led toexpect. He breathed again when he had read the sequence of short butpithy paragraphs. Mrs. Minchin's new name was not given after all, northat of her adopted district; while Langholm himself only slunk intoprint as "a well-known novelist who, oddly enough, was among the guests,and eye-witness of a situation after his own heart." The district mighthave been any one of the many manufacturing centres in "the largest ofshires," which was the one geographical clew vouchsafed by thehalf-penny paper. Langholm began to regret his readiness to admit theimpeachment with which he had been saluted; it was only in his own clubthat he would have been pounced upon as the "well-known novelist"; butit was some comfort to reflect that even in his own club his exactaddress was not known, for his solicitor paid his subscription and sentperiodically for his letters. Charles Langholm had not set up as hermitby halves; he had his own reasons for being thorough there. And it wasmore inspiriting than the champagne to feel that no fresh annoyance waslikely to befall the Steels through him."It's not so bad as I thought," said Langholm, throwing the newspaperaside as his companion, whose professional name was Valentine Venn,finished with the wine-card."Dear boy," said Venn, "it took a pal to spot you. Alone I did it! But Iwish you weren't so dark about that confounded cottage of yours; thehumble mummer would fain gather the crumbs that fall from the richscribe's table, especially when he's out of a shop, which is the presentcondition of affairs. Besides, we might collaborate in a play, and makemore money apiece in three weeks than either of us earns in a fat year.That little story of yours--""Never mind my little stories," said Langholm, hastily; "I've justfinished a long one, and the very thought of fiction makes me sick.""Well, you've got facts to turn to for a change, and for once theyreally do seem as strange as the other thing. Lucky bargee! Have you hadher under the microscope all the summer? Ye gods, what a part ofMrs.--""Drink up," said Langholm, grimly, as the champagne made an opportuneappearance; "and now tell me who that fellow is who's opening the piano,and since when you've started a musical dinner."The big room that the screen divided had a grand piano in the dininghalf, for use upon those Saturday evenings for which the old club wasstill famous, but rarely touched during the working days of the week.Yet even now a dark and cadaverous young man was raising the top of thepiano, slowly and laboriously, as though it were too heavy for him.Valentine Venn looked over his shoulder."Good God!" said he. "Another fact worth most folks' fiction--anothercoincidence you wouldn't dare to use!""Why--who is it?"Venn's answer was to hail the dark, thin youth with rude geniality. Theyoung fellow hesitated, almost shrank, but came shyly forward in theend. Langholm noted that he looked very ill, that his face was assensitive as it was thin and pale, but his expression singularly sweetand pleasing."Severino," said Venn, with a play-actor's pomp, "let me introduce youto Charles Langholm, the celebrated novelist--'whom not to know is toargue yourself unknown.'""Which is the champion _non sequitur_ of literature," added Langholm,with literary arrogance, as he took the lad's hand cordially in his own,only to release it hurriedly before he crushed such slender fingers totheir hurt."Mr. Langholm," pursued Venn, "is the hero of that paragraph"--Langholmkicked him under the table--"that--that paragraph about his last book,you know. Severino, Langholm, is the best pianist we have had in theclub since I have been a member, and you will say the same yourself inanother minute. He always plays to us when he drops in to dine, and youmay think yourself lucky that he has dropped in to-night.""But where does the coincidence come in?" asked Langholm, as the youngfellow returned to the piano with a rather sad shake of the head."What!" cried Venn, below his breath; "do you mean to say you are afriend of Mrs. Minchin's, or whatever her name is now, and that younever heard of Severino?""No," replied Langholm, his heart in an instantaneous flutter. "Who ishe?""The man she wanted to nurse the night her husband was murdered--thecause of the final row between them! His name was kept out of thepapers, but that's the man."Langholm sat back in his chair. To have spent a summer's day in stolidsearch for traces of this man, only to be introduced to the man himselfby purest chance in the evening! It was, indeed, difficult to believe;nor was persuasion on the point followed by the proper degree ofgratitude in Langholm for a transcendent stroke of fortune. In fact, healmost resented his luck; he would so much rather have stood indebted tohis skill. And there were other causes for disappointment, as in aninstant there were things more incredible to Langholm than the everydaycoincidence of a chance meeting with the one person whom one desires tomeet."So that's the man!" he echoed, in a tone that might have told hiscompanion something, only the fingers which Langholm had feared to crushhad already fallen upon the keys, with the strong, tender, unerringtouch of a master, and the impressionable player was swaying withenthusiasm on his stool."And can't he play?" whispered Valentine Venn, as though it were theman's playing alone that they were discussing.Yet even the preoccupied novelist had to listen and nod, and thenlisten again, before replying."He can," said Langholm at length. "But why was it that they took suchpains to keep his name out of the case?""They didn't. It would have done no good to drag him in. The poor devilwas at death's door at the time of the murder.""But is that a fact?"Venn opened his eyes."Supposing," continued Langholm, speaking the thing that was not in hismind with the deplorable facility of the professionalstory-teller--"supposing that illness had been a sham, and they hadreally meant to elope under cover of it!""Well, it wasn't.""I dare say not. But how do you know? They ought to have put him in thebox and had his evidence.""He was still too ill to be called," rejoined Venn. "But I'll take youat your word, dear boy, and tell you exactly how I do know all about hisillness. You see that dark chap with the cigar, who's just come in tolisten? That's Severino's doctor; it was he who put him up here; andI'll introduce you to him, if you like, after dinner.""Thank you," said Langholm, after some little hesitation; "as a matterof fact, I should like it very much. Venn," he added, leaning rightacross the little table, "I know the woman well! I believe in herabsolutely, on every point, and I mean to make her neighbors and mine dothe same. That is my object--don't give it away!""Dear boy, these lips are sealed," said Valentine Venn.But a very little conversation with the doctor sufficed to satisfyLangholm's curiosity, and to remove from his mind the wild prepossessionwhich he had allowed to grow upon it with every hour of that wasted day.The doctor was also one of the Bohemian colony in Chelsea, and by nomeans loath to talk about a tragedy of which he had exceptionalknowledge, since he himself had been one of the medical witnesses ateach successive stage of the investigations. He had also heard on theother side of the screen, that Langholm was the novelist referred to ina paragraph which had of course had a special interest for him; and, aswas only fair, Langholm was interrogated in his turn. What was lessfair, and indeed ungrateful in a marked degree, was the way in which theoriginal questioner parried all questions put to himself; and he verysoon left the club. On his way out, he went into the writing-room, and,tearing into little pieces a letter which he had written thatafternoon, left the fragments behind him in the waste-paper basket.His exit from the room was meanwhile producing its sequel in a littleincident which would have astonished Langholm considerably. Severino hadbeen playing for nearly an hour on end, had seemed thoroughly engrossedin his own fascinating performance, and quite oblivious of the diningand smoking going on around him according to the accepted ease andfreedom of the club. Yet no sooner was Langholm gone than the pianistbroke off abruptly and joined the group which the other had deserted."Who is that fellow?" said Severino, in English so perfect that theslight Italian accent only added a charm to his gentle voice. "I did notcatch the name."It was repeated, with such additions as may be fairly made behind aman's back."A dashed good fellow, who writes dashed bad novels," was one of these."You forget!" said another. "He is the 'well-known novelist' who isgoing the rounds as a neighbor and friend of Mrs.--"Looks from Venn and the doctor cut short the speech, but not before itsimport had come home to the young Italian, whose hollow cheeks flusheda dusky brown, while his sunken eyes caught fire. In an instant he wason his feet, with no attempt to hide his excitement, and still less tomask the emotion that was its real name."He knows her, do you tell me? He knows Mrs. Minchin--""Or whatever her name is now; yes; so he says.""And what is her name?""He won't say.""Nor where she lives?""No.""Then where does he live?""None of us know that either; he's the darkest horse in the club."Venn agreed with this speaker, some little bitterness in his tone.Another stood up for Langholm."We should be as dark," said he, "if we had married Gayety choristers,and they had left us, and we went in dread of their return!"They sum up the life tragedies pretty pithily, in these clubs."He was always a silly ass about women," rejoined Langholm's critic,summing up the man. "So it's Mrs. Minchin now!"The name acted like magic upon young Severino. His attention hadwandered. In an instant it was more eager than before."If you don't know where he lives in the country," he burst out, "whereis he staying in town?""We don't know that either.""Then I mean to find out!"And the pale musician rushed from the room, in pursuit of the man whohad been all day pursuing him.CHAPTER XXIITHE DARKEST HOURThe amateur detective walked slowly up to Piccadilly, and climbed on topof a Chelsea omnibus, a dejected figure even to the casual eye. He wasmore than disappointed at the upshot of his wild speculations, and inhimself for the false start that he had made. His feeling was one ofpositive shame. It was so easy now to see the glaring improbability ofthe conclusion to which he had jumped in his haste, at the firstpromptings of a too facile fancy. And what an obvious idea it had beenat last! As if his were the only brain to which it could have occurred!Langholm could have laughed at his late theory if it had only entailedthe loss of one day, but it had also cost him that self-confidence whichwas the more valuable in his case through not being a commoncharacteristic of the man. He now realized the difficulties of hisquest, and the absolutely wrong way in which he had set about it. Hisimagination had run away with him. It was no case for the imagination.It was a case for patient investigation, close reasoning, logicaldeduction, all arts in which the imaginative man is almost inevitablydeficient.Langholm, however, had enough lightness of temperament to abandon anidea as readily as he formed one, and his late suspicion was alreadydriven to the four winds. He only hoped he had not shown what was in hismind at the club. Langholm was a just man, and he honestly regretted theinjustice that he had done, even in his own heart, and for ever so fewhours, to a thoroughly innocent man.And all up Piccadilly this man was sitting within a few inches of him,watching his face with a passionate envy, and plucking up courage tospeak; he only did so at Hyde Park Corner, where an interveningpassenger got down.Langholm was sufficiently startled at the sound of his own name,breaking in upon the reflections indicated, but to find at his elbow thevery face which was in his mind was to lose all power of immediatereply."My name is Severino," explained the other. "I was introduced to you anhour or two ago at the club.""Ah, to be sure!" cried Langholm, recovering. "Odd thing, though, for wemust have left about the same time, and I never saw you till thismoment."Severino took the vacant place by Langholm's side. "Mr. Langholm," saidhe, a tremor in his soft voice, "I have a confession to make to you. Ifollowed you from the club!""_You_ followed _me_?"Langholm could not help the double emphasis; to him it seemed agrotesque turning of the tables, a too poetically just ending to thatmisspent day. It was all he could do to repress a smile."Yes, I followed you," the young Italian repeated, with his takingaccent, in his touching voice; "and I beg your pardon for doingso--though I would do the same again--I will tell you why. I thoughtthat you were talking about me while I was strumming to them at theclub. It is possible, of course, that I was quite mistaken; but when youwent out I stopped at once and asked questions. And they told me youwere a friend of--a great friend of mine--of Mrs. Minchin!""It is true enough," said Langholm, after a pause. "Well?""She was a very great friend of mine," repeated Severino. "That wasall."And he sighed."So I have heard," said Langholm, with sympathy. "I can well believeit, for I might almost say the same of her myself."The 'bus toiled on beside the park. The two long lines of lights rosegently ahead until they almost met, and the two men watched them as theyspoke."Until to-day," continued Severino, "I did not know whether she was deador alive.""She is both alive and well.""And married again?""And married again."There was a long pause. The park ended first."I want you to do me a great favor," said Severino in Knightsbridge."She was so good to me! I shall never forget it, and yet I have neverbeen able to thank her. I nearly died--it was at that time--and when Iremembered, she had disappeared. I beg and beseech you, Mr. Langholm, totell me her name, and where she is living now!"Langholm looked at his companion in the confluence of lights at theSloane Street corner. The pale face was alight with passion, the sunkeneyes ablaze. "I cannot tell you," he answered, shortly."Is it your own name?""Good God, no!"And Langholm laughed harshly."Will you not even tell me where she lives?""I cannot, without her leave; but if you like I will tell her aboutyou."There was no answer as they drove on. Then of a sudden Langholm's armwas seized and crushed by bony fingers."I am dying," the low voice whispered hoarsely in his ear. "Can't yousee it for yourself? I shall never get better; it might be a year ortwo, it may be weeks. But I want to see her again and make sure. Yes, Ilove her! There is no sense in denying it. But it is all on my side, andI am dying, and she has married again! What harm can it do anybody if Isee her once more?"The sunken eyes were filled with tears. There were more tears in thehollow voice. Langholm was deeply touched."My dear fellow," he said, "I will let her know. No, no, not that, ofcourse! But I will write to her at once--to-night! Will that not do?"Severino thanked him, with a heavy sigh. "Oh, don't get down," he added,as Langholm rose. "I won't talk about her any more.""I am staying in this street," explained Langholm, guardedly."And these are my lodgings," rejoined the other, pulling a letter fromhis pocket, and handing the envelope to Langholm. "Let me hear fromyou, for pity's sake, as soon as you hear from her!"Langholm sauntered on the pavement until the omnibus which he had leftwas no longer distinguishable from the general traffic of thethoroughfare. The address on the envelope was that of the lodging-houseat which he was to have called that night. He was glad now that his luckhad not left him to find Severino for himself; the sense of fatuitywould have been even keener than it was. In a way he now felt drawn tothe poor, frank boy who had so lately been the object of his unjust andunfounded suspicions. There was a new light in which to think of him, anew bond between them, a new spring of sympathy or jealousy, if not ofboth. But Langholm was not in London to show sympathy or friendship forany man. He was in London simply and solely upon his own great quest, inwhich no man must interrupt him. That was why he had been so guardedabout his whereabouts--though not guarded enough--and why he watched theomnibus out of sight before entering his hotel. The old Londoner hadforgotten how few places there are at which one can stay in SloaneStreet.A bad twenty-four hours was in store for him.They began well enough with the unexpected discovery that an eminentauthority on crime and criminals, who had been a good friend to Langholmin his London days, was still in town. The novelist went round to hishouse that night, chiefly because it was not ten minutes' walk from theCadogan Hotel, and with little hope of finding anybody at home. Yetthere was his friend, with the midnight lamp just lighted, and so kind awelcome that Langholm confided in him on the spot. And the man who knewall the detectives in London did not laugh at the latest recruit totheir ranks; but smile he did."I'll tell you what I might do," he said at length. "I might give you acard that should get you into the Black Museum at New Scotland Yard,where they would show you any relics they may have kept of the Minchinmurder; only don't say why you want to see them. Every man you see therewill be a detective; you may come across the very fellows who got up thecase; if so, they may tell you what they think of it, and you should beable to find out whether they're trying again. Here you are, Langholm,and I wish you luck. Doing anything to-morrow night?"Langholm could safely say that he was not."Then dine with me at the Rag at seven, and tell me how you get on. Itmust be seven, because I'm off to Scotland by the night mail. And Idon't want to be discouraging, my dear fellow, but it is only honest tosay that I think more of your chivalry than of your chances of success!"At the Black Museum they had all the trophies which had been produced incourt; but the officer who acted as showman to Langholm admitted thatthey had no right to retain any of them. They were Mrs. Minchin'sproperty, and if they knew where she was they would of course restoreeverything."But the papers say she isn't Mrs. Minchin any longer," the officeradded. "Well, well! There's no accounting for taste.""But Mrs. Minchin was acquitted," remarked Langholm, in tone asimpersonal as he could make it."Ye-es," drawled his guide, dryly. "Well, it's not for us to sayanything about that.""But you think all the more, I suppose?""There's only one opinion about it in the Yard.""But surely you haven't given up trying to find out who really didmurder Mr. Minchin?""We think we did find out, sir," was the reply to that.So they had given it up! For a single second the thought wasstimulating; if the humble author could succeed where the police hadfailed! But the odds against such success were probably a million toone, and Langholm sighed as he handled the weapon with which the crimehad been committed, in the opinion of the police."What makes you so certain that this was the revolver?" he inquired,more to satisfy his conscience by leaving no question unasked than tovoice any doubt upon the point.The other smiled as he explained the peculiarity of the pistol; it hadbeen made in Melbourne, and it carried the bullet of peculiar size whichhad been extracted from Alexander Minchin's body."But London is full of old Australians," objected Langholm, forobjection's sake."Well, sir," laughed the officer, "you find one who carries a revolverlike this, and prove that he was in Chelsea on the night of the murder,with a motive for committing it, and we shall be glad of his name andaddress. Only don't forget the motive; it wasn't robbery, you know,though her ladyship was so sure it was robbers! There's the maker's nameon the barrel. I should take a note of it, sir, if I was you!"That name and that note were all that Langholm had to show when he dinedwith the criminologist at his service club the same evening. Theamateur detective looked a beaten man already, but he talked throughhis teeth of inspecting the revolvers in every pawnbroker's shop inLondon."It will take you a year," said the old soldier, cheerfully."It seems the only chance," replied the despondent novelist. "It is acase of doing that or nothing.""Then take the advice of an older fogey than yourself, and do nothing!You are quite right to believe in the lady's innocence; there is noexcuse for entertaining any other belief, still less for expressing it.But when you come to putting salt on the real culprit, that's anothermatter. My dear fellow, it's not the sort of thing that you or I couldhope to do on our own, even were the case far simpler than it is. It wasvery sporting of you to offer for a moment to try your hand; but if Iwere you I should confess without delay that the task is far beyond you,for that's the honest truth."Langholm walked back to his hotel, revolving this advice. Its soundnesswas undeniable, while the source from which it came gave it exceptionalweight and value. It was an expert opinion which no man in his sensescould afford to ignore, and Langholm felt that Mrs. Steel also ought atleast to hear it before building on his efforts. The letter wouldprepare her for his ultimate failure, as it was only fair that sheshould be prepared, and yet would leave him free to strain every nervein any fresh direction in which a chance ray lit the path. But it wouldbe a difficult letter to write, and Langholm was still battling with thefirst sentence when he reached the Cadogan."A gentleman to see me?" he cried in surprise. "What gentleman?""Wouldn't leave his name, sir; said he'd call again; a foreigngentleman, he seemed to me.""A delicate-looking man?""Very, sir. You seem to know him better than he knows you," added thehall-porter, with whom Langholm had made friends. "He wasn't certainwhether it was the Mr. Langholm he wanted who was staying here, and heasked to look at the register.""Did you let him see it?" cried Langholm, quickly."I did, sir.""Then let me have another look at it, please!"It was as Langholm feared. Thoughtlessly, but naturally enough, whenrequested to put his own name in the book, he had also filled in thatfull address which he took such pains to conceal in places where he wasbetter known. And that miserable young Italian, that fellow Severino,had discovered not only where he was staying in town, but where he livedin the country, and his next discovery would be Normanthorpe House andits new mistress! Langholm felt enraged; after his own promise to writeto Rachel, a promise already fulfilled, the unhappy youth might have hadthe decency to refrain from underhand tricks like this. Langholm feltinclined to take a cab at once to Severino's lodgings, there to relievehis mind by a very plain expression of his opinion. But it was late; andperhaps allowances should be made for a sick man with a passion ashopeless as his bodily state; in any case he would sleep upon it first.But there was no sleep for Charles Langholm that night, nor did thethought of Severino enter his head again; it was suddenly swept asideand as suddenly replaced by that of the man who was to fill thenovelist's mind for many a day.Idly glancing up and down the autographed pages of the hotel register,as his fingers half-mechanically turned leaf after leaf backward,Langholm's eye had suddenly caught a name of late as familiar to him ashis own.It was the name of John Buchanan Steel.And the date was the date of the Minchin murder.CHAPTER XXIIIDAWNThe hall-porter was only too ready for further chat. It was the dullseason, and this visitor was one of a variety always popular in thequieter hotels; he was never above a pleasant word with the servants.Yet the porter stared at Langholm as he approached. His face wasflushed, and his eyes so bright that there would have been but onediagnosis by the average observer. But the porter knew that Langholm hadcome in sober, and that for the last twenty minutes he had sat absorbedin the hotel register."I see," said Langholm--and even his voice was altered, which made theother stare the harder--"I see that a friend of mine stayed here justupon a year ago. I wonder if you remember him?""If it was the off-season, sir, I dare say I shall.""It was in September, and his name was Steel.""How long did he stay?""Only one night, I gather--an elderly gentleman with very white hair."The porter's face lighted up."I remember him, sir! I should think I did! A very rich gentleman, Ishould say; yes, he only stayed the one night, but he gave me asovereign when he went away next day.""He is very rich," said Langholm, repressing by main force a desire toask a string of questions. He fancied that the porter was not one whoneeded questioning, and his patience had its immediate reward."I remember when he arrived," the man went on. "It was late at night,and he hadn't ordered his room. He came in first to see whether we couldgive him one. I paid the cab myself and brought in his bag.""He had just arrived from the country, I presume?"The porter nodded."At King's Cross, by the 10.45, I believe; but it must have been a goodbit late, for I was just coming off duty, and the night-porter was justcoming on.""Then you didn't see any more of Mr. Steel that night?""I saw him go out again," said the porter, dryly, "after he hadsomething to eat, for we are short-handed in the off-season, and Istopped up myself to see he got it. I didn't see him come in the secondtime."Langholm could hardly believe his ears. To cover his excitement he burstout laughing."The old dog!" he cried. "Do you know if he ever came in at all?""Between two and three, I believe," said the porter in the same tone.Langholm laughed again, but asked no more questions, and in a little hewas pacing his bedroom floor, with fevered face and tremulous stride, ashe was to continue pacing it for the greater part of that August night.Yet it was not a night spent in thought, but rather in intercepting andin casting out the kind of thoughts that chased each other through thenovelist's brain. His imagination had him by the forelock once more, butthis time he was resisting with all his might. It meant resistance tothe strongest attribute that he possessed. The man's mind was now apicture-gallery and now a stage. He thought in pictures and he saw inscenes. It was no fault of Langholm's, any more than it was a merit.Imagination was the predominant force of his intellect, as in others isthe power of reasoning, or the gift of languages, or the mastery offigures. Langholm could no more help it than he could change the colorof his eyes, but to-night he did his best. He had mistaken invention fordiscovery once already. He was grimly determined not to let it happentwice.To suspect Steel because he chanced to have been in the neighborhood ofChelsea on the night of the murder, and absent from his hotel about thehour of its committal, was not less absurd than his first suspicion ofthe man who could be proved to have been lying between life and death atthe time. There had been something to connect the dead man withSeverino. There was nothing within Langholm's knowledge to connect himwith Steel. Yet Steel was the most mysterious person that he had evermet with outside the pages of his own novels. No one knew where he hadmade his money. He might well have made it in Australia; they might haveknown each other out there. Langholm suddenly remembered the Australianswagman whom he had seen "knocking down his check" at a wayside innwithin a few miles of Normanthorpe, and Steel's gratuitously explicitstatement that neither he nor his wife had ever been in Australia intheir lives. There was one lie at least, then why not two? Yet, theproven lie might have been told by Steel simply to anticipate and allayany possible suspicion of his wife's identity. That was at leastconceivable. And this time Langholm sought the conceivable explanationmore sedulously than the suspicious circumstance.He had been far too precipitate in all that he had done hitherto, fromthe Monday morning up to this Wednesday night. His departure on theMonday had been in itself premature. He had come away without seeing theSteels again, whereas he should have had an exhaustive interview withone or both of them before embarking upon his task. But Steel'shalf-hostile and half-scornful attitude was more than Langholm couldtrust his temper to endure, and he had despaired of seeing Mrs. Steelalone. There were innumerable points upon which she could have suppliedhim with valuable information. He had hoped to obtain what he wantedfrom the fuller reports of the trial; but that investigation had beenconducted upon the supposition that his wife, and no other, had causedthe death of Alexander Minchin. No business friend of the deceased hadbeen included among the witnesses, and the very least had been made ofhis financial difficulties, which had formed no part of the case for theCrown.Langholm, however, his wits immensely quickened by the tonic of his newdiscovery, began to see possibilities in this aspect of the matter, and,as soon as the telegraph offices were open, he despatched a rather longmessage to Mrs. Steel, reply paid. It was simply to request the businessaddress of her late husband, with the name and address of any partner orother business man who had seen much of him in the City. If the telegramwere not intercepted, Langholm calculated that he should have his replyin a couple of hours, and one came early in the forenoon:--     "Shared office 2 Adam's Court Old Broad Street with a Mr. Crofts     his friend but not mine Rachel Steel."Langholm looked first at the end, and was thankful to see that the replywas from Rachel herself. But the penultimate clause introduced acomplication. It must have some meaning. It would scarcely be a whollyirrelevant expression of dislike. Langholm, at all events, read awarning in the words--a warning to himself not to call on Mr. Crofts asa friend of the dead man's wife. And this increased the complication,ultimately suggesting a bolder step than the man of letters quiterelished, yet one which he took without hesitation in Rachel's cause. Hehad in his pocket the card of the detective officer who had shown himover the Black Museum; luckily it was still quite clean; and Langholmonly wished he looked the part a little more as he finally salliedforth.Mr. Crofts was in, his small clerk said, and the sham detective followedthe real one's card into the inner chamber of the poky offices upon thethird floor. Mr. Crofts sat aghast in his office chair, the puzzledpicture of a man who feels his hour has come, but who wonders which ofhis many delinquencies has come to light. He was large and florid, witha bald head and a dyed mustache, but his coloring was an unwholesomepurple as the false pretender was ushered in."I am sorry to intrude upon you, Mr. Crofts," began Langholm, "but Ihave come to make a few inquiries about the late Alexander Minchin, who,I believe, once--""Quite right! Quite right!" cried Crofts, as the purple turned a normalred in his sanguine countenance. "Alexander Minchin--poor fellow--to besure! Take a seat, Inspector, take a seat. Happy to afford you anyinformation in my power."If Mr. Crofts looked relieved, however, as many a decent citizen mightunder similar visitation, it was a very real relief to Langholm not tohave been found out at a glance. He took the proffered seat with thegreater readiness on noting how near it was to the door."The death of Mr. Minchin is, as you know, still a mystery--""I didn't know it," interrupted Crofts, who had quite recovered hisspirits. "I thought the only mystery was how twelve sane men could haveacquitted his wife.""That," said Langholm, "was the opinion of many at the time; but it isone which we are obliged to disregard, whether we agree with it or not.The case still engages our attention, and must do so until we haveexplored every possible channel of investigation. What I want from you,Mr. Crofts, is any information that you can give me concerning Mr.Minchin's financial position at the time of his death.""It was bad," said Mr. Crofts, promptly; "about as bad as it could be.He had one lucky flutter, and it would have been the ruin of him if hehad lived. He backed his luck for more than it was worth, and his luckdeserted him on the spot. Yes, poor old devil!" sighed the sympatheticCrofts: "he thought he was going to make his pile out of hand, but inanother week he would have been a bankrupt.""Had you known him long, Mr. Crofts?""Not six months; it was down at Brighton we met, quite by chance, andgot on talking about Westralians. It was I put him on to his one goodspec. His wife was with him at the time--couldn't stand the woman! Shewas much too good for me and my missus, to say nothing of her ownhusband. I remember one night on the pier--""I won't trouble you about Brighton, Mr. Crofts," Langholm interrupted,as politely as he could. "Mr. Minchin was not afterwards a partner ofyours, was he?""Never; though I won't say he mightn't have been if things had pannedout differently, and he had gone back to Westralia with some capital.Meanwhile he had the run of my office, and that was all.""And not even the benefit of your advice?""He wouldn't take it, once he was bitten with the game."Thus far Langholm had simply satisfied his own curiosity upon one or twopoints concerning a dead man who had been little more than a name to himhitherto. His one discovery of the least potential value was thatMinchin had evidently died in difficulties. He now consulted some notesjotted down on an envelope upon his way to the City."Mr. Minchin, as you are aware," resumed Langholm, "was, like his wife,an Australian by birth. Had he many Australian friends here in London?""None at all," replied Mr. Crofts, "that I am aware of.""Nor anywhere else in the country, think you?""Not that I remember.""Not in the north of England, for example?"Thus led, Mr. Crofts frowned at his desk until an enlightened look brokeover his florid face."By Jove, yes!" said he. "Now you speak of it, there _was_ somebody upnorth--a rich man, too--but he only heard of him by chance a day or sobefore his death.""A rich man, you say, and an Australian?""I don't know about that, but it was out there they had known eachother, and Minchin had no idea he was in England till he saw it in thepaper a day or two before his death.""Do you remember the name?""No, I don't, for he never told it to me; fact is, we were not on thebest of terms just at the last," explained Mr. Crofts. "Moneymatters--money matters--they divide the best of friends--and to tell youthe truth he owed me more than I could afford to lose. But the daybefore the last day of his life he came in and said it was all right,he'd square up before the week was out, and if that wasn't good enoughfor me I could go to the devil. Of course I asked him where the moneywas coming from, and he said from a man he'd not heard of for yearsuntil that morning, but he didn't say how he'd heard of him then, onlythat he must be a millionaire. So then I asked why a man he hadn't seenfor so long should pay his debts, but Minchin only laughed and sworethat he'd make him. And that was the last I ever heard of it; he satdown at that desk over yonder and wrote to his millionaire there andthen, and took it out himself to post. It was the last time I saw himalive, for he said he wasn't coming back till he got his answer, and itwas the last letter he ever wrote in the place.""On that desk, eh?" Langholm glanced at the spare piece of officefurniture in the corner. "Didn't he keep any papers here?" he added."He did, but you fellows impounded them.""Of course we did," said Langholm, hastily. "Then you have nothing ofhis left?""Only his pen, and a diary in which he hadn't written a word. I slippedthem into a drawer with his papers, and there they are still."Langholm felt disappointed. He had learnt so much, it was tantalizingnot to learn a little more. If he could only make sure of thatmillionaire friend of Minchin! In his own mind he was all but sure, buthis own mind was too elastic by half.Crofts was drumming on the blotting-pad in front of him; all of a suddenLangholm noticed that it had a diary attached."Minchin's diary wasn't one like yours, was it?" he exclaimed."The same thing," said Mr. Crofts."Then I should like to see it.""There's not a word written in it; one of you chaps overhauled it at thetime.""Never mind!""Well, then, it's in the top long drawer of the desk he used to use--ifmy clerk has not appropriated it to his own use."Langholm held his breath as he went to the drawer in question. Inanother instant his breath escaped him in a sigh of thankfulness. The"Universal Diary" (for the year before) was there, sure enough. And itwas attached to a pink blotter precisely similar to that upon which Mr.Crofts still drummed with idle fingers."Anything more I can show you?" inquired that worthy, humorously.Langholm was gazing intently, not at the diary, but at the pinkblotting-paper. Suddenly he looked up."You say that was the last letter he ever wrote in your office?""The very last.""Then--yes--you can show me a looking-glass if you have one!"Crofts had a small one on his chimney-piece."By the Lord Harry," said he, handing it, "but you tip-top 'tecs are aleery lot!"CHAPTER XXIVONE WHO WAS NOT BIDDENLangholm went north next morning by the ten o'clock express from King'sCross. He had been but four nights in town, and not four days, yet toLangholm they might have been weeks, for he had never felt so much andslept so little in all his life. He had also done a good deal; but it isthe moments of keen sensation that make up the really crowded hours, andLangholm was to run the gamut of his emotions before this memorable weekwas out. In psychological experience it was to be, for him, a littlelifetime in itself; indeed, the week seemed that already, while it wasstill young, and comparatively poor in incident and surprise.He had bought magazines and the literary papers for his journey, but hecould concentrate his mind on nothing, and only the exigencies ofrailway travelling kept him off his legs. Luckily for Langholm, however,sleep came to him when least expected, in his cool corner of thecorridor train, and he only awoke in time for luncheon before thechange at York. His tired brain was vastly refreshed, but so far hecould not concentrate it, even on the events of these eventful days. Hewas still in the thick of them. A sense of proportion was as yetimpossible, and a consecutive review the most difficult of intellectualfeats. Langholm was too excited, and the situation too identical withsuspense, for a clear sight of all its bearings and potentialities; andthen there was the stern self-discipline, the determined bridling of theimagination, in which he had not yet relaxed. Once in the night,however, in the hopeless hours between darkness and broad day, he hadseen clearly for a while, and there and then pinned his vision down topaper. It concerned only one aspect of the case, but this was howLangholm found that he had stated it, on taking out his pocket-bookduring the final stages of his journey--PROVISIONAL CASE AGAINST ---- ---- ----1.  Was in Sloane Street on the night of the murder, at an hotel    about a mile from the house in which the murder was committed.    This can be proved.2.  Left hotel shortly after arrival towards midnight, believed to    have returned between two and three, and would thus have been    absent at very time at which crime was committed according to    medical evidence adduced at trial. But exact duration of absence    from hotel can be proved.3.  Knew M. in Australia, but was in England unknown to M. till two    mornings before murder, when M. wrote letter on receipt of which    ---- ---- ---- came up to town (arriving near scene of murder as    above stated, about time of commission). All this morally certain    and probably capable of legal proof.4.  "So then I asked why a man he hadn't seen for so long should pay    his debts; but M. only laughed and swore, and said he'd make him."    C. could be subpoenaed to confirm if not to amplify this statement    to me, with others to effect that it was for money M. admitted    having written to "a millionaire."5.  Attended Mrs. M.'s trial throughout, thereafter making her    acquaintance and offering marriage without any previous private    knowledge whatsoever of her character or antecedents.                          POSSIBLE MOTIVES    ---- ---- ---- is a human mystery, his past life a greater one.    He elaborately pretends that no part of that past was spent in    Australia.    M. said he knew him there; also that "he'd make him"--pay up!    Blackmail not inconsistent with M.'s character.    Men have died as they deserved before to-day for threatening    blackmail.    _Possible Motive for Marriage_    Atonement of the Guilty to the Innocent.As Langholm read and re-read these precise pronouncements, withsomething of the detachment and the mild surprise with which heoccasionally dipped into his own earlier volumes, he congratulatedhimself upon the evidently lucid interval which had produced so muchorder from the chaos that had been his mind. Chaotic as its conditionstill was, that orderly array of impression, discovery, and surmise,bore the test of conscientious reconsideration. And there was nothingthat Langholm felt moved to strike out in the train; but, on the otherhand, he saw the weakness of his case as it stood at present, and washelped to see it by the detective officer's remark to him at ScotlandYard: "You find one [old Australian] who carries a revolver like this,and prove that he was in Chelsea on the night of the murder, with amotive for committing it, and we shall be glad of his name and address."Langholm had found the old Australian who could be proved to have beenin Chelsea, or thereabouts, on the night in question; but the pistol hecould not hope to find, and the motive was mere surmise.And yet, to the walls of the mind that he was trying so hard to cleansefrom prejudice and prepossession--to school indeed to an inhumanfairness--there clung small circumstances and smaller details whichcould influence no one else, which would not constitute evidence beforeany tribunal, but which weighed more with Langholm himself than all thepoints arrayed in his note-book with so much primness and precision.There was Rachel's vain appeal to her husband, "Find out who _is_ guiltyif you want people to believe that I am not." Why should so natural apetition have been made in vain, to a husband who after all had shownsome solicitude for his wife's honor, and who had the means to employthe best detective talent in the world? Langholm could only conceiveone reason: there was nothing for the husband to find out, buteverything for him to hide.Langholm remembered the wide-eyed way in which Steel had looked at hiswife before replying, and the man's embarrassment grew automatically inhis mind. His lips had indeed shut very tight, but unconsciousexaggeration made them tremble first.And then the fellow's manner to himself, his defiant taunts, his finalchallenge! Langholm was not sorry to remember the last; it relieved himfrom the moral incubus of the clandestine and the underhand; it bid himgo on and do his worst; it set his eyes upon the issue as betweenhimself and Steel, and it shut them to the final possibilities astouching the woman in the case.So Langholm came back from sultry London to a world of smoke and rain,with furnaces flaring through the blurred windows, and the soot laidwith the dust in one of the grimiest towns in the island; but he soonshook both from his feet, and doubled back upon the local line to arural station within a mile and a half of his cottage. This distance hewalked by muddy ways, through the peculiarly humid atmosphere created bya sky that has rained itself out and an earth that can hold no more,and came finally to his dripping garden by the wicket at the back of thecottage. There he stood to inhale the fine earthy fragrance which atonedsomewhat for a rather desolate scene. The roses were all washed away.William Allen Richardson clung here and there, in the shelter of thesouthern eaves, but he was far past his prime, and had better haveperished with the exposed beauties on the tiny trees. The soakingfoliage had a bluish tinge; the glimpse of wooded upland, across thevalley through the gap in the hedge of Penzance briers, lay colorlessand indistinct as a faded print from an imperfect negative. A footstepcrunched the wet gravel at Langholm's back."Thank God you've got back, sir!" cried a Yorkshire voice in devoutaccents; and Langholm, turning, met the troubled face and tired eyes ofthe woman next door, who kept house for him while living in her own."My dear Mrs. Brunton," he exclaimed, "what on earth has happened? Youdidn't expect me earlier, did you? I wired you my train first thing thismorning.""Oh, no, it isn't that, sir. It's--it's the poor young gentleman--"And her apron went to her eyes."What young gentleman, Mrs. Brunton?""Him 'at you saw i' London an' sent all this way for change of air! Hewasn't fit to travel half the distance. I've been nursing of him allnight and all day too.""A young gentleman, and sent by me?" Langholm's face was blank until aharsh light broke over it. "What's his name, Mrs. Brunton?""I can't tell you, sir. He said he was a friend of yours, and that wasall before he took ill. He's been too bad to answer questions all day.And then we knew you'd soon be here to tell us.""A foreigner, I suppose?""I should say he was, sir.""And did he really tell you I had sent him?""Well, I can't say he did, not in so many words, but that was what Ithought he meant. It was like this, sir," continued Mrs. Brunton, asthey stood face to face on the wet gravel: "just about this timeyesterday I was busy ironing, when my nephew, the lad you used to sendwith letters, who's here again for his summer holidays, comes to me an'says, 'You're wanted.' So I went, and there was a young gentlemanlooking fit to drop. He'd a bag with him, and he'd walked all the wayfrom Upthorpe station, same as I suppose you have now; but yesterday wasthe hottest day we've had, and I never did see living face so like thedead. He had hardly life enough to ask if this was where you lived; andwhen I said it was, but you were away, he nodded and said he'd just seenyou in London; and he was sure he might come in and rest a bit. Well,sir, I not only let him do that, but you never will lock up anything, soI gave him a good sup o' your whiskey too!""Quite right," said Langholm--"and then?""It seemed to pull him together a bit, and he began to talk. He wantedto know about all the grand folks round about, where they lived and howlong they'd lived there. At last he made me tell him the way toNormanthorpe House, after asking any amount of questions about Mr. andMrs. Steel; it was hard work not to tell him what had just come out, butI remembered what you said before you went away, sir, and I left that toothers.""Good!" said Langholm. "But did he go to Normanthorpe?""He started, though I begged him to sit still while we tried to get hima trap from the village; and his self-will nearly cost him his life, ifit doesn't yet. He was hardly out of sight when we see him comestaggering back with his handkerchief up to his mouth, and the blooddripping through his fingers into the road.""A hemorrhage!""Yes, sir, yon was the very word the doctor used, and he says if he hasanother it'll be all up. So you may think what a time I've had! If he'sa friend of yours, sir, I'm sure I don't mind. In any case, poorgentleman--""He is a friend of mine," interrupted Langholm, "and we must do all wecan for him. I will help you, Mrs. Brunton. You shall have your sleepto-night. Did you put him into my room?""No, sir, your bed wasn't ready, so we popped him straight into our own;and now he has everything nice and clean and comfortable as I could makeit. If only we can pull him through, poor young gentleman, between us!""God bless you for a good woman," said Langholm, from his heart; "itwill be His will and not your fault if we fail. Yes, I should like tosee the poor fellow, if I may.""He is expecting you, sir. He told Dr. Sedley he must see you the momentyou arrived, and the doctor said he might. No, he won't know you're hereyet, and he can't have heard a word, for our room is at t'front o't'house.""Then I'll go up alone, Mrs. Brunton, if you won't mind."Severino was lying in a high, square bed, his black locks tossed upon aspotless pillow no whiter than his face; a transparent hand came fromunder the bedclothes to meet Langholm's outstretched one, but it fellback upon the sick man's breast instead."Do you forgive me?" he whispered, in a voice both hoarse and hollow."What for?" smiled Langholm. "You had a right to come where you liked;it is a free country, Severino.""But I went to your hotel--behind your back!""That was quite fair, my good fellow. Come, I mean to shake hands,whether you like it or not."And the sound man took the sick one's hand with womanly tenderness; andso sat on the bed, looking far into the great dark sinks of fever thatwere human eyes; but the fever was of the brain, for the poor fellow'shand was cool."You do not ask me why I did it," came from the tremulous lips at last."Perhaps I know.""I will tell you if you are right.""It was to see her again--your kindest friend--and mine," saidLangholm, gently."Yes! It was to see her again--before I die!"And the black eyes blazed again."You are not going to die," said Langholm, with the usual reassuringscorn."I am. Quite soon. On your hands, I only fear. And I have not seen heryet!""You shall see her," said Langholm, tenderly, gravely. He was rewardedwith a slight pressure of the emaciated hand; but for the first time hesuspected that all the scrutiny was not upon one side--that the sickyouth was trying to read him in his turn."I love her!" at last cried Severino, in rapt whispers. "Do you hear me?I love her! I love her! What does it matter now?""It would matter to her if you told her," rejoined Langholm. "It wouldmake her very unhappy.""Then I need not tell her.""You must not, indeed.""Very well, I will not. It is a promise, and I keep my promises; it isonly when I make none--""That's all right," said Langholm, smiling."Then you will bring her to me?""I shall have to see her first, and the doctor.""But you will do your best? That is why I am here, remember! I shalltell the doctor so myself.""I will do my best," said Langholm, as he rose.A last whisper followed him to the door."Because I worship her!" were the words.CHAPTER XXVA POINT TO LANGHOLM"I am glad you have come back," said Dr. Sedley with relief. "Of courseeventually he will require trained nursing, either here or somewhereelse; there is only one end to such a case, but it needn't come yet,unless he has another hemorrhage. I understand you offered him yourcottage while you were away, but there was some muddle, and he camebefore they were ready for him? It was like your kindness, my dearfellow, only never you send another consumptive to the northeast coastor anywhere near it! As to his seeing any ladies who like to look himup, by all means, only one at a time, and they mustn't excite him. Yourreturn, for example, has been quite enough excitement for to-day, and Ishould keep him quiet for the next twenty-four hours."The doctor had called within an hour of the return of Langholm, whorepeated these stipulations upstairs, with his own undertaking in regardto Rachel. He would write that night and beg her to call the followingday. No, he preferred writing to going to see her, and it took up farless time. But he would write at once. And, as he went downstairs to doso then and there, Langholm asked himself whether an honorable man couldmeet the Steels again without reading to their faces the notes that hehad made in London and conned in the train.This letter written, there was a small pile of them awaiting attentionon top of the old bureau; and Langholm sat glancing at proofs andcrumpling up press-cuttings until he needed a lamp. The letter that hekept to the last looked like one of the rare applications for hisautograph which he was not too successful to welcome as straws showingthe wind of popular approval. In opening the envelope, however, henoticed that it bore the Northborough postmark, also that thehandwriting was that of an illiterate person, and his very surnamemisspelt. The contents were as follows:     "Northborough, August 18, 189--.     "MR. LANGHAM, Sir,     "I here as you are on the tracks of them that murdered Alexander     Minchin, if you want to know of them that had a Reason for doing it     I can give you the straight Tip.     "I have been out to your place to-night, but you are only due home     to-morrow night, therefore I will be your way again to-morrow     night, but will only come to the cross-roads as your old girl look     suspichious last night and this is on the strickt Q.T.     "Till to-morrow night then at the cross-roads near your place, from     nine to ten to-morrow night, when you will here of something to     your advantage.     "Believe your's faithly,     "JOHN WILLIAM ABEL."Langholm could not guess who this man Abel might be, but idly imaginedhim one of the innumerable drinking drones who stood about the streetcorners of Northborough from morning till night throughout the year.This one had more information than the common run, with perhaps morecunning and ingenuity to boot. Langholm deemed it discreet not tomention the matter to his dear "old girl" of disrespectful reference,who served him an excellent supper at eight o'clock. And little betterthan an hour later, having seen the invalid once more, and left him calmand comfortable for the night, the novelist sallied forth to meet hisunknown correspondent.It was a dark night, for the rain was by no means over, though notactually falling at the moment; and the cross-roads, which lay low, withtrees in all four angles, was a dark spot at full moon. As he approachedwith caution, rapping the road with his stick in order to steer clearof the ditch, Langholm wished he had come on his bicycle, for the sakeof the light he might have had from its lamp; but a light there was,ready waiting for him, though a very small and feeble one; for hisilliterate correspondent was on the ground before him, with a cutty-pipein full blast."Name of Langholm?" said a rather rollicking voice, with a rank puff anda shower of sparks, as the cautious steps followed the rapping stick."That's it," said Langholm; "if yours is Abel, I have got your letter.""You have, have you?" cried the other, with the same jovial familiarity."And what do you think of it?"The glowing pipe lit a wild brown beard and mustache, thickly streakedwith gray, a bronzed nose, and nothing more. Indeed, it was only at eachinhalation that so much stood out upon the surrounding screen ofimpenetrable blackness. Langholm kept his distance, stick in hand, hisgaunt figure as invisible as the overhanging trees; but his voice mighthave belonged to the most formidable of men."As yet," said he, sternly, "I think very little of either you or yourletter. Who are you, and what do you mean by writing to me like that?""Steady, mister, you do know my name!" remonstrated the man, in rathermore respectful tones. "It's Abel--John William--and as much at yourservice as you like if you take him proper; but he comes from a countrywhere Jack isn't the dirt under his master's feet, and you're no mastero' mine.""I don't want to be, my good fellow," rejoined Langholm, modifying hisown manner in turn. "Then you're not a Northborough man?""Not me!""I seem to have heard your voice before," said Langholm, to whom thewild hair on the invisible face was also not altogether unfamiliar."Where do you come from?""A little place called Australia.""The devil you do!"And Langholm stood very still in the dark, for now he knew who this manwas, and what manner of evidence he might furnish, and against whom. Themissing links in his own secret chain, what if these were about to begiven to him by a miracle, who had discovered so much already by sheerchance! It seemed impossible; yet his instinct convinced Langholm of thenature of that which was to come. Without another word he stood untilhe could trust himself to speak carelessly, while the colonist madetraditional comparisons between the old country as he found it and theone which he wished he had never left."I know you," said Langholm, when he paused. "You're the man I saw'knocking down your check,' as you called it, at an inn near here calledthe Packhorse.""I am so!" cried the fellow, with sudden savagery. "And do you knowwhere I got the check to knock down? I believe he's a friend of yours;it's him I've come to talk to you about to-night, and he calls himselfSteel!""Isn't it his real name?" asked Langholm, quickly."Well, for all I know, it is. If it isn't, it ought to be!" added Abel,bitterly."You knew him in Australia, then?""Knew him? I should think I did know him! But who told you he was everout there? Not him, I'll warrant!""I happen to know it," said Langholm, "that's all. But do you mean totell me that it was Mr. Steel to whom you referred in your letter?""I do so!" cried Abel, and clinched it with an oath."You said 'they.'""But I didn't mean anybody else."Langholm lowered his voice. Neither foot nor hoof had passed or evensounded in the distance. There was scarcely a whisper of the trees; anordinary approach could have been heard for hundreds of yards, astealthy one for tens. Langholm had heard nothing, though his ears werepricked. And yet he lowered his voice."Do you actually hint that Mr. Steel has or could have been a gainer byMr. Minchin's death?"Abel pondered his reply."What I will say," he declared at length, "is that he might have been aloser by his life!""You mean if Mr. Minchin had gone on living?""Yes--amounts to the same thing, doesn't it?""You are not thinking of--of Mrs. Steel?" queried Langholm, afterpausing in his turn."Bless you, no! She wasn't born or thought of, so far as we wasconcerned, when we were all three mates up the bush.""Ah, all three!""Steel, Minchin, and me," nodded Abel, as his cutty glowed."And you were mates!""Well, we were and we weren't: that's just it," said Abel, resentfully."It would be better for some coves now, if we'd all been on the samefootin' then. But that we never were. I was overseer at the principalout-station--a good enough billet in its way--and Minchin was overseerin at the homestead. But Steel was the boss, damn him, trust Steel to bethe boss!""But if the station was his?" queried Langholm. "I suppose it was astation?" he added, as a furious shower of sparks came from the cutty."Was it a station?" the ex-overseer echoed. "Only about the biggest andthe best in the blessed back-blocks--that's all! Only about half thesize of your blessed little old country cut out square! Oh, yes, it washis all right; bought it for a song after the bad seasons fifteen yearago, and sold it in the end for a quarter of a million, after making afortune off of his clips alone. And what did I get out of it?" demandedAbel, furiously. "What was my share? A beggarly check same as he give methe other day, and not a penny more!""I don't know how much that was," remarked Langholm; "but if you weren'ta partner, what claim had you on the profits?""Aha! that's tellings," said Abel, with a sudden change both of toneand humor; "that's what I'm here to tell you, if you really want toknow! Rum thing, wasn't it? One night I turn up, like any other swaggy,humping bluey, and next week I'm overseer on a good screw (I will saythat) and my own boss out at the out-station. Same way, one morning Iturn up at his grand homestead here--and you know what! It was a checkfor three figures. I don't mind telling you. It ought to have been four.But why do you suppose he made it even three? Not for charity, you betyour boots! I leave it to you to guess what for."The riddle was perhaps more easily solvable by an inveterate novelistthan by the average member of the community. It was of a kind whichLangholm had been concocting for many years."I suppose there is some secret," said he, taking a fresh grip of hisstick, in sudden loathing of the living type which he had only imaginedhitherto."Ah! You've hit it," purred the wretch."It is evident enough, and always has been, for that matter," saidLangholm, coldly. "And so you know what his secret is!""I do, mister.""And did Mr. Minchin?""He did.""You would tell him, of course?"The sort of scorn was too delicate for John William Abel, yet even heseemed to realize that an admission must be accompanied by some form ofexcuse."I did tell him," he said, "for I felt I owed it to him. He was a goodfriend to me, was Mr. Minchin; and neither of us was getting enough forall we did. That was what I felt; to have his own way, the boss'd rideroughshod over us both, and he himself only--but that's tellings again.You must wait a bit, mister! Mr. Minchin hadn't to wait so very long,because I thought we could make him listen to two of us, so one night Itold him what I knew. You could ha' knocked him down with a feather.Nobody dreamt of it in New South Wales. No, there wasn't a hand on theplace who would have thought it o' the boss! Well, he was fond ofMinchin, treated him like a son, and perhaps he wasn't such a good sonas he might have been. But when he told the boss what I told him, andmade the suggestion that I thought would come best from a gent likehim--""That you should both be taken into partnership on the spot, I suppose?"interrupted Langholm."Well, yes, it came to something like that.""Go on, Abel. I won't interrupt again. What happened then?""Well, he'd got to go, had Mr. Minchin! The boss told him he could tellwho he liked, but go he'd have to; and go he did, with his tail betweenhis legs, and not another word to anybody. I believe it was the boss whostarted him in Western Australia.""Not such a bad boss," remarked Langholm, dryly; and the words set himthinking a moment on his own account. "And what happened to you?" headded, abandoning reflection by an effort."I stayed on.""Forgiven?""If you like to put it that way.""And you both filed the secret for future use!""Don't talk through your neck, mister," said Abel, huffily. "What areyou drivin' at?""You kept this secret up your sleeve to play it for all it was worth ina country where it would be worth more than it was in the back-blocks?That's all I mean.""Well, if I did, that's my own affair.""Oh, certainly. Only you came here at your own proposal in order, Isuppose, to sell this secret to me?""Yes, to sell it.""Then, you see, it is more or less my affair as well.""It may be," said Abel, doggedly. And his face was very evil as hestruck a match to relight his pipe; but before the flame Langholm hadstepped backward, with his stick, that no superfluous light might fallupon his thin wrists and half-filled sleeves."You are sure," he pursued, "that Mr. Minchin was in possession of thisprecious secret at the time of his death?""I told it him myself. It isn't one you would forget.""Was it one that he could prove?""Easily.""Could I?""Anybody could.""Well, and what's your price?""Fifty pounds.""Nonsense! I'm not a rich man like Mr. Steel.""I don't take less from anybody--not much less, anyhow!""Not twenty in hard cash?""Not me; but look here, mister, you show me thirty and we'll see."The voice drew uncomfortably close. And there were steps upon thecross-roads at last; they were those of one advancing with lumberinggait and of another stepping nimbly backward. The latter laughed aloud."Did you really think I would come to meet the writer of a letter likeyours, at night, in a spot like this, with a single penny-piece in mypocket? Come to my cottage, and we'll settle there.""I'm not coming in!""To the gate, then. It isn't three hundred yards from this. I'll leadthe way."Langholm set off at a brisk walk, his heart in his mouth. But thelumbering steps did not gain upon him; a muttered grumbling was theironly accompaniment; and in minute they saw the lights. In another minutethey were at the wicket."You really prefer not to come in?"There was a sly restrained humor in Langholm's tone."I do--and don't be long.""Oh, no, I shan't be a minute."There were other lights in the other cottage. It was not at all late. Awarm parallelogram appeared and disappeared as Langholm opened his doorand went in. Was it a sound of bolts and bars that followed? Abel wasstill wondering when his prospective paymaster threw up the window andreappeared across the sill."It was a three-figured check you had from Mr. Steel, was it?""Yes--yes--but not so loud!""And then he sent you to the devil to do your worst?""That's your way of putting it.""I do the same--without the check."And the window shut with a slam, the hasp was fastened, and the blindpulled down.CHAPTER XXVIA CARDINAL POINTThe irresistible discomfiture of this ruffian did not affect the valueof the evidence which he had volunteered. Langholm was glad to rememberthat he had volunteered it; the creature was well served for his spiteand his cupidity; and the man of peace and letters, whose temperamentshrank from contention of any kind, could not but congratulate himselfupon an incidental triumph for which it was impossible to feel thesmallest compunction. Moreover, he had gained his point. It was enoughfor him to know that there was a certain secret in Steel's life, uponwhich the wretch Abel had admittedly traded, even as his superiorMinchin had apparently intended to do before him. Only those two seemedto have been in this secret, and one of them still lived to reveal itwhen called upon with authority. The nature of the secret matterednothing in the meanwhile. Here was the motive, without which the caseagainst John Buchanan Steel must have remained incomplete. Langholmadded it to his notes--and trembled!He had compunction enough about the major triumph which now seemed incertain store for him; the larger it loomed, the less triumphant and themore tragic was its promise. And, with all human perversity, anunforeseen and quite involuntary sympathy with Steel was the lastcomplication in Langholm's mind.He had to think of Rachel in order to harden his heart against herhusband; and that ground was the most dangerous of all. It was strangeto Langholm to battle against _that_ by the bedside of a weaker brotherfallen in the same fight. Yet it was there he spent the night. He hadscarcely slept all the week. It was a comfort to think that this vigilwas a useful one.Severino slept fitfully, and Langholm had never a long stretch ofuninterrupted thought.But before morning he had decided to give Steel a chance. It was a vaguedecision, dependent on the chance that Steel gave him when they met, asmeet they must. Meanwhile Langholm had some cause for satisfaction withthe mere resolve; it defined the line that he took with a somewhatabsurd but equally startling visitor, who waited upon him early in theforenoon, in the person of the Chief Constable of Northborough.This worthy had heard of Langholm's quest, and desired to be informed ofwhat success, if any, he had met with up to the present. Langholm openedhis eyes."It's my own show," he protested."Would you say that if you had got the man? I doubt it would be our showthen!" wheezed the Chief Constable, who was enormously fat."It would be Scotland Yard's," admitted Langholm, "perhaps.""Unless you got him up here," suggested the fat official. "In that caseyou would naturally come to me."Langholm met his eyes. They were very small and bright, as the eyes ofthe obese often are, or as they seem by contrast with a large crassface. Langholm fancied he perceived a glimmer of his own enlightenment,and instinctively he lied."We are not likely to get him up here," he said. "This is about the lastplace where I should look!"The Chief Constable took his departure with a curious smile. Langholmbegan to feel uneasy; his unforeseen sympathy with Steel assumed theform of an actual fear on his behalf. Severino was another thorn in hisside. He knew that Rachel had been written to, and fell into a fever ofimpatience and despair because the morning did not bring her to hisbedside. She was not coming at all. She had refused to come--or herhusband would not allow it. So he must die without seeing her again! Theman was as unreasonable as sick men will be; nothing would console himbut Langholm's undertaking to go to Normanthorpe himself after lunch andplead in person with the stony-hearted lady or her tyrannical lord. Thisplan suited Langholm well enough. It would pave the way to the "chance"which he had resolved to give to Rachel's husband.That resolve was not weakened by successive encounters, first with apoliceman near the entrance gates, next with a trespasser whom Langholmrightly took for another policeman in plain clothes, and finally withthe Woodgates on their way from the house. The good couple welcomed himwith a warmth beyond his merits."Oh, what a blessing you have come!" cried Morna, whose kind eyesdiscovered a tell-tale moisture. "Do please go up and convince Mrs.Steel that you can't be rearrested on a charge on which you have alreadybeen tried and acquitted!""But of course you can't," said Langholm. "Who has put that into herhead, Mrs. Woodgate?""The place is hemmed in by police.""Since when?" asked Langholm, quickly."Only this morning."Langholm held his tongue. So the extortioner Abel, outwitted by theamateur policeman, had gone straight to the professional force! Theamateur had not suspected him of such resource."I don't think this has anything to do with Mrs. Steel," he said atlast; "in fact, I think I know what it means, and I shall be only tooglad to reassure her, if I can."But his own face was not reassuring, as Hugh Woodgate plainly told himin the first words which the vicar contributed to the discussion."I have been finding out things--I have not been altogetherunsuccessful--but the things are rather on my mind," the authorexplained. "How does Steel take the development, by the way?""As a joke!" cried Morna, with indignation; her husband was her echoboth as to words and tone; but Langholm could only stare."I must see him," he exclaimed, decisively. "By the way, once more, doyou happen to know whether Mrs. Steel got a letter from me this morning,Mrs. Woodgate?""Yes, she did," answered Morna at once. Her manner declared her to benot unacquainted with the contents of the letter, and Langholm treatedthe declaration as though spoken."And is she not going to see that poor fellow?" he asked."At once," said Morna, "and I am going with her. She is to call for mewith the phaeton at three.""Do you know anything about him, Mrs. Woodgate?""All.""Then I can only commend him to the sympathy which I know he hasalready. And I will talk to Mr. Steel while you are gone."The first sentence was almost mechanical. That matter was off Langholm'smind, and in a flash it was fully occupied with the prospect beforehimself. He lifted the peak of his cap, but, instead of remounting hisbicycle, he wheeled it very slowly up the drive. The phaeton was at thedoor when Langholm also arrived, and Rachel herself ran out to greet himon the steps--tall and lissome, in a light-colored driving cloak down toher heels, and a charming hat--yet under it a face still years olderthan the one he wore in his heart, though no less beautiful in itsdistress."I hardly dare ask you!" she gasped, her hand trembling in his. "Haveyou found out--anything at all?""A little."And he opened his hand so that hers must drop."Oh, but anything is better than nothing! Come in and tell me--quick!""Bravo!" added an amused voice from the porch.It was Steel, spruce and serene as ever, a pink glow upon his mobileface, a pink flower in his reefer jacket, a jaunty Panama straw coveringhis white hairs, and buckskin shoes of kindred purity upon his small andwell-shaped feet. Langholm greeted him in turn, only trusting that thetremors which had been instantly communicated to his own right handmight not be detected by the one it was now compelled to meet."I came to tell Mr. Steel," said Langholm, a little lamely."Excellent!" murmured that gentleman, with his self-complacent smile."But am I not to hear also?" demanded Rachel."My dear Mrs. Steel, there is very little to tell you as yet. I onlywish there were more. But one or two little points there are--if youwould not mind my first mentioning them to your husband?""Oh, of course."There was no pique in the tone. There was only disappointment--anddespair."You manage a woman very prettily," remarked Steel, as they watched thephaeton diminish down the drive like a narrow Roman road."You are the first who ever said so," rejoined the novelist, with arather heavy sigh."Well, let us have a cigar and your news. I confess I am interested. Astroll, too, would be pleasanter than sitting indoors, don't you think?The thickest walls have long ears, Langholm, when every servant in theplace is under notice. The whole lot? Oh, dear, yes--every mother's sonand daughter of them. It is most amusing; every one of them wants tostay and be forgiven. The neighbors are little better. The excuses theyhave stooped to make, some of them! I suppose they thought that weshould either flee the country or give them the sanguinary satisfactionof a double suicide. Well, we are not going to do either one or theother; we are agreed about that, if about nothing else. And my wife hasbehaved like a trump, though she wouldn't like to hear me say so; it isher wish that we should sit tighter than if nothing had happened, andnot even go to Switzerland as we intended. So we are advertising for afresh domestic crew, and we dine at Ireby the week after next. It istrue that we got the invitation before the fat fell into the fire, but Ifancy we may trust the Invernesses not to do anything startling. I aminterested, however, to see what they will do. It is pretty safe to bean object-lesson to the countryside, one way or the other."During this monologue the pair had strolled far afield with theircigars, and Langholm was beginning to puff his furiously. At first hehad merely marvelled at the other's coolness; now every feeling in hisbreast was outraged by the callousness, the flippancy, the cynicism ofhis companion. There came a moment when Langholm could endure thecombination no longer. Steel seemed disposed to discuss every aspect ofthe subject except that of the investigations upon which his very lifemight depend. Langholm glanced at him in horror as they walked. Thebroad brim of his Panama hat threw his face in shadow to the neck; butto Langholm's heated imagination, it was the shadow of the black cap andof the rope itself that he saw out of the corners of his eyes. It wasthe shadow that had lit upon the wife the year before, happily to liftforever; now it was settling upon the husband; and it rested withLangholm--if it did rest with him--and how could he be sure? His mindwas off at a tangent. He was not listening to Steel; without ceremony heinterrupted at last."I thought you came out to listen to me?""My dear fellow," cried Steel, "and so, to be sure, I did! Why on earthdid you let me rattle on? Let me see--the point was--ah, yes! Of course,my dear Langholm, you haven't really anything of any account to tell? Iconsidered you a Quixote when you undertook your quest; but I shallbegin to suspect a dash of Munchausen if you tell me you have found outanything in the inside of a week!""Nevertheless," said Langholm, grimly, "I have.""Anything worth finding out?""I think so.""You don't mean to tell me you have struck a clew?""I believe I can lay hands upon the criminal," said Langholm, as quietlyas he could. But he was the more nervous man of the two.The other simply stood still and stared his incredulity. The staremelted into a smile. "My dear fellow!" he murmured, in a mild blend ofhorror and reproof, as though it were the fourth dimension that Langholmclaimed to have discovered. It cost the discoverer no small effort notto cry out that he could lay hands on him then and there. The unspokenwords were gulped down, and a simple repetition substituted at the last."I could swear to him myself," added Langholm. "It remains to be seenwhether there is evidence enough to convict.""Have you communicated with the police?""Not yet.""They seem to have some absurd bee in their helmet down here, you know.""They don't get it from me."It was impossible any longer to doubt the import of Langholm's earnestand rather agitated manner. He was doing his best to suppress hisagitation, but that strengthened the impression that he had indeeddiscovered something which he himself honestly believed to be the truth.There was an immediate alteration in the tone and bearing of his host."My dear fellow," he said, "forgive my levity. If you have really foundout anything, it is a miracle; but miracles do happen now and then.Here's the pond, and there's the boathouse behind those rhododendrons.Suppose you tell me the rest in the boat? We needn't keep looking overour shoulders in the middle of the pond!"For an instant Langholm dreamt of the readiest and the vilest resource;in another he remembered, not only that he could swim, but the insidioussympathy for this man which a darker scoundrel had sown in his heart. Ithad grown there like Jonah's gourd; only his flippancy affected it; andSteel was far from flippant now. Langholm signed to him to lead the way,and in a very few minutes they were scaring the wildfowl in mid-water,Steel sculling from the after thwart, while Langholm faced him from thecrimson cushions."I thought," said the latter, "that I would like to tell you what sortof evidence I could get against him before--before going any further.I--I thought it would be fair."Steel raised his bushy eyebrows the fraction of an inch. "It would befairest to yourself, I agree. Two heads are better than one, and--well,I'm open to conviction still, of course."But even Langholm was not conscious of the sinister play upon words; hehad taken out his pocket-book, and was nervously turning to the leavesthat he had filled during his most sleepless night in town."Got it all down?" said Steel."Yes," replied Langholm, without raising his eyes; "at least I did makesome notes of a possible--if not a really damning--case against the manI mean.""And what may the first point be?" inquired Steel, who was graduallydrifting back into the tone which Langholm had resented on the shore; hetook no notice of it now."The first point," said Langholm, slowly, "is that he was in Chelsea, orat least within a mile of the scene of the murder, on the night that ittook place.""So were a good many people," remarked Steel, smiling as he dipped thesculls in and out, and let his supple wrists fall for the feather, asthough he were really rowing."But he left his--he was out at the time!" declared Langholm, making hisamended statement with all the meaning it had for himself."Well, you can't hang him for that.""He will have to prove where he was, then.""I am afraid it will be for you to prove a little more first."Langholm sat very dogged with his notes. There had been a pause onSteel's part; there was a thin new note in his voice. Langholm was toogrimly engrossed to take immediate heed of either detail, or to watchthe swift changes in the face which was watching him. And there he lostmost of all."The next point is that he undoubtedly knew Minchin in Australia--""Aha!""That he was and is a rich man, whereas Minchin was then on the verge ofbankruptcy, and that Minchin only found out that he was in Englandthirty-six hours before his own death, when he wrote to his old friendfor funds.""And you have really established all that!"Steel had abandoned all pretence of rowing; his tone was one ofadmiration, in both senses of the word, and his dark eyes seemed topenetrate to the back of Langholm's brain."I can establish it," was the reply."Well! I think you have done wonders; but you will have to do somethingmore before they will listen to you at Scotland Yard. What about amotive?""I was coming to that; it is the last point with which I shall troubleyou for the present." Langholm took a final glance at his notes, thenshut the pocket-book and put it away. "The motive," he continued,meeting Steel's eyes at last, with a new boldness in his own--"themotive is self-defence! There can be no doubt about it; there cannot bethe slightest doubt that Minchin intended blackmailing this man, atleast to the extent of his own indebtedness in the City of London.""Blackmailing him?"There was a further change of voice and manner; and this time nothingwas lost upon Charles Langholm."There cannot be the slightest doubt," he reiterated, "that Minchin wasin possession of a secret concerning the man in my mind, which secret hewas determined to use for his own ends."Steel sat motionless, his eyes upon the bottom of the boat. It wasabsolutely impossible to read the lowered face; even when at length heraised it, and looked Langholm in the eyes once more, the naturalinscrutability of the man was only more complete than ever."So that is your case!" said he.And even his tone might have been inspired either by awe or by contempt,so truly rang the note between the two."I should be sorry to have to meet it," observed Langholm, "if I werehe.""I should find out a little more," was the retort, "if I were you!""And then?""Oh, then I should do my duty like a man--and take all the emoluments Icould."The sneer was intolerable. Langholm turned the color of brick."I shall!" said he through his mustache. "I have consulted you; therewill be no need to do so again. I shall make a point of taking you atyour word. And now do you mind putting me ashore?"A few raindrops were falling when they reached the landing-stage; theyhurried to the house, to find that Langholm's bicycle had been removedfrom the place where he had left it by the front entrance."Don't let anybody trouble," he said, ungraciously enough, for he wasstill smarting from the other's sneer. "I can soon find it for myself."Steel stood on the steps, his midnight eyes upon Langholm, the glint ofa smile in those eyes, but not the vestige of one upon his lips."Oh, very well," said he. "You know the side-door near thebilliard-room? They have probably put it in the first room on the left;that is where we keep ours--for we have gone in for them at last.Good-by, Langholm; remember my advice."And, that no ceremony should be lost between them, the host turned onhis heel and disappeared through his own front door, leaving Langholmvery angry in the rain.But anger was the last emotion for such an hour; the judge might as wellfeel exasperated with the prisoner at the bar, the common hangman withthe felon on the drop. Langholm only wished that, on even one moment'sreflection, he could rest content in so primitive and so single a stateof mind. He knew well that he could not, and that every subtle sort ofcontest lay before him, his own soul the arena. In the meantime let himfind his bicycle and get away from this dear and accursed spot; for dearit had been to him, all that too memorable summer; but now of a suretythe curse of Cain brooded over its cold, white walls and deep-setwindows like sunken eyes in a dead face.Langholm found the room to which he had been directed; in fact, he knewit of old. And there were the two new Beeston Humbers; but theirlustrous plating and immaculate enamel did not shame his own olddisreputable roadster, for the missing machine certainly was not there.Langholm was turning away when the glazed gun-rack caught his eye. Yes,this was the room in which the guns were kept. He had often seen themthere. They had never interested him before. Langholm was no shot. Yetnow he peered through the glass--gasped--and opened one of the slidingpanels with trembling hand.There on a nail hung an old revolver, out of place, rusty, mostconspicuous; and at a glance as like the relic in the Black Museum asone pea to another. But Langholm took it down to make sure. And themaker's name upon the barrel was the name that he had noted down at theBlack Museum; the point gained, the last of the cardinal pointspostulated by the official who had shown him round.The fortuitous discoverer of them all was leaving like a thief--more andmore did Langholm feel himself the criminal--when the inner door openedand Steel himself stood beaming sardonically upon him."Sorry, Langholm, but I find I misled you about the bicycle. They hadtaken it to the stables. I have told them to bring it round to thefront.""Thank you.""Sure you won't wait till the rain is over?""No, thank you.""Well, won't you come through this way?""No, thank you.""Oh, all right! Good-by, Langholm; remember my advice."It was an inglorious exit that Langholm made; but he was thinking tohimself, was there ever so inglorious a triumph? He knew not what he hadsaid; there was only one thing that he did know. But was the law itselfcapable of coping with such a man?CHAPTER XXVIITHE WHOLE TRUTH"Have the ladies gone?"Langholm had ridden a long way round, through the rain, in order toavoid them; nor was there any sign of the phaeton in the lane; yet thesewere his first whispered words across the wicket, and he would notventure to set foot upon the noisy wet gravel without Mrs. Brunton'sassurance that the ladies had been gone some time."And they've left him a different man," she added. "But what have youbeen doing to get wet like that? Dear, dear, dear! I do call it foolishof yer! Well, sir, get out o' them nasty wet things, or I shall have youto nurse an' all!"The kind, blunt soul bustled to bring him a large can of scalding water,and Langholm bathed and changed before going near the invalid. He alsofelt another man. The thorough wetting had cooled his spirit and calmedhis nerves. His head still ached for sleep, but now it was clear enough.If only his duty were half as plain as the mystery that was one nomore! Yet it was something to have solved the prime problem; nay,everything, since it freed his mind for concentration upon his ownimmediate course. But Langholm reckoned without his stricken guest nextdoor; and went up presently, intending to stay five or ten minutes atthe most.Severino lay smiling, like a happy and excited child. Langholm was sorryto detect the excitement, but determined to cut his own visit shorterthan ever. It was more pleasing to him to note how neat and comfortablethe room was now, for that was his own handiwork, and the ladies hadbeen there to see it. The good Bruntons had moved most of their thingsinto the room to which they had themselves migrated. In their stead wereother things which Langholm had unearthed from the lumber in his upperstory, dusted, and carried down and up with his own hands. Thus at thebedside stood a real Chippendale table, with a real Delft vase upon it,filled with such roses as had survived the rain. A drop of water hadbeen spilt upon the table from the vase, and there was something almostfussy in the way that Langholm removed it with his handkerchief."Oh," said Severino, "she quite fell in love with the table you foundfor me, and Mrs. Woodgate wanted the vase. They were wondering if Mrs.Brunton would accept a price.""They don't belong to Mrs. Brunton," said Langholm, shortly."No? Mrs. Woodgate said she had never noticed them in your room. Wheredid you pick them up?"Langholm looked at the things, lamps of remembrance alight beneath hislowered eyelids. "The table came from a little shop on Bushey Heath, inHertfordshire, you know. We--I was spending the day there once ... youhad to stoop to get in at the door, I remember. The vase is only fromGreat Portland Street." The prices were upon his lips; both had beenbargains, a passing happiness and pride."I must remember to tell them when they come to-morrow," said Severino."They are the sort of thing a woman likes.""They are," agreed Langholm, his lowered eyes still lingering on thetable and the vase "the sort of thing a woman likes ... So these womenare coming again to-morrow, are they?"The question was quite brisk, when it came."Yes, they promised.""Both of them, eh?""Yes, I hope so!" The sick man broke into eager explanations. "I onlywant to see her, Langholm! That's all I want. I don't want her tomyself. What is the good? To see her and be with her is all Iwant--ever. It has made me so happy. It is really better than if shecame alone. You see, as it is, I can't say anything--that matters. Doyou see?""Perfectly," said Langholm, gently.The lad lay gazing up at him with great eyes. Langholm fancied theirexpression was one of incredulity. Twilight was falling early with therain; the casement was small, and further contracted by an overgrowth ofcreeper; those two great eyes seemed to shine the brighter through thedusk. Langholm could not make his visit a very short one, after all. Hefelt it would be cruel."What did you talk about, then?" he asked.A small smile came with the answer, "You!""Me! What on earth had you to say about me?""I heard all you had been doing.""Oh, that.""You know you didn't tell me, that evening in town.""No, I was only beginning, then."It seemed some months ago--more months since that very afternoon."Have you found out anything?"Langholm hesitated."Yes."Why should he lie?"Do you mean to say that you have any suspicion who it is?" Severino wason his elbow."More than a suspicion. I am certain. There can be no doubt about it. Apure fluke gave me the clew, but every mortal thing fits it."Severino dropped back upon his pillow. Langholm seemed glad to talk tohim, to loosen his tongue, to unburden his heart ever so little. And,indeed, he was glad."And what are you going to do about it?""That's my difficulty. She must be cleared before the world. That is thefirst duty--if it could be done without--making bad almost worse!""Bad--worse? How could it, Langholm?"No answer."Who do you say it is?"No answer again. Langholm had not bargained to say anything to anybodyjust yet.Severino raised himself once more upon an elbow."I must know!" he said.Langholm rose, laughing."I'll tell you who I thought it was at first," said he, heartily. "Idon't mind telling you that, because it was so absurd; and I thinkyou'll be the first to laugh at it. I was idiot enough to think it mightbe you, my poor, dear chap!""And you don't think so still?" asked Severino, harshly. He had not beenthe first to laugh."Of course I don't, my dear fellow.""I wish you would sit down again. That's better. So you know it is someone else?""So far as one can know anything.""And you are going to try to bring it home to this man?""I don't know. The police may save me the trouble. I believe they are onthe same scent at last. Meanwhile, I have given him as fair a warning asa man could wish."Severino lay back yet again in silence and deep twilight. His breathcame quickly. A shiver seemed to pass through the bed."You needn't have done that," he whispered at last."I thought it was the fair thing to do.""Yet you needn't have done it--because--your first idea was right!"[Illustration: "I'll tell you who I thought it was at first," said he,heartily.]"Right?" echoed Langholm, densely. "My first idea was--right?""You said you first thought it was I who killed--her husband.""It couldn't have been!""But it was."Langholm got back to his feet. He could conceive but one explanation ofthis preposterous statement. Severino's sickness had extended to hisbrain. He was delirious. This was the first sign."Where are you going?" asked the invalid, querulously, as his companionmoved towards the door."When was the doctor here last?" demanded Langholm in return.There was silence for a few moments, and then a faint laugh, thatthreatened to break into a sob, from the bed."I see what you think. How can I convince you that I have all my witsabout me? I'd rather not have a light just yet--but in my bag you'llfind a writing-case. It is locked, but the keys are in my trouser'spocket. In my writing-case you will find a sealed envelope, and in thata fuller confession than I shall have breath to make to you. Take itdownstairs and glance at it--then come back.""No, no," said Langholm, hoarsely; "no, I believe you! Yes--it was myfirst idea!""I hardly knew what I was doing," Severino whispered. "I was deliriousthen, if you like! Yet I remember it better than anything else in all mylife. I have never forgotten it for an hour--since it first came back!""You really were unconscious for days afterwards?""I believe it was weeks. Otherwise, you must know--she will be the firstto believe--I never could have let her--""My poor, dear fellow--of course--of course."Langholm felt for the emaciated hand, and stroked it as though it hadbeen a child's. Yet that was the hand that had slain Alexander Minchin!And Langholm thought of it; and still his own was almost womanly in thetender pity of its touch."I want to tell you," the sick lad murmured. "I wanted to tell her--Godknows it--and that alone was why I came to her the moment I could findout where she was. No--no--not that alone! I am too ill to pretend anymore. It was not all pretence when I let you think it was only passionthat drove me down here. I believe I should have come, even if I had hadnothing at all to tell her--only to be near her--as I was thisafternoon! But the other made it a duty. Yet, when she came thisafternoon, I could not do my duty. I had not the courage. It was too biga thing just to be with her again! And then the other lady--I thankedGod for her too--for she made it impossible for me to speak. But to youI must ... especially after what you say."The man came out in Langholm's ministrations. "One minute," he said; andreturned in two or three with a pint of tolerable champagne. "I keep afew for angel's visits," he explained; "but I am afraid I must light thecandle. I will put it at the other side of the room. Do you mind thetumbler? Now drink, and tell me only what you feel inclined, neithermore nor less.""It is all written down," began Severino, in better voice for the firstfew drams: "how I first heard her singing through the open windows inthe summer--only last summer!--how she heard me playing, and howafterwards we came to meet. She was unhappy; he was a bad husband; but Ionly saw it for myself. He was nice enough to me in his way--liked tosend round for me to play when they had anybody there--but there wasonly one reason why I went. Oh, yes ... the ground she trod on ... theair she breathed! I make no secret of it now; if I made any then, itwas because I knew her too well, and feared to lose what I had got. Andyet--that brute, that bully, that coarse--"He checked himself by an effort that stained his face a sickly brown inthe light of the distant candle. Langholm handed him the tumbler, and afew more drams went down to do the only good--the temporary good--thathuman aid could do for Severino now. His eyes brightened. He lay stilland silent, collecting strength and self-control."I was ill; she brought me flowers. I never had any constitution--trusta Latin race for that--and I became very ill indeed. With a man likeyou, a chill at worst; with me, pneumonia in a day. Then she came to seeme herself, saw the doctor, got in all sorts of things, and was comingto nurse me through the night herself. God bless her for the thoughtalone! I was supposed not to know; they thought I was unconsciousalready. But I kept conscious on purpose, I could have lived throughanything for that alone. And she never came!"My landlady sat up instead. She is another of the kindest women onearth; she thought far more of me than I was ever worth, and it was shewho screened me through thick and thin during the delirium thatfollowed, and after that. She did not tell the whole truth at the trial;may there be no mercy for me hereafter if the law is not merciful tothat staunch soul! She has saved my life--for this! But that night--itwas her second in succession--and she had been with me the whole longday--that night she fell asleep beside me in the chair. I can hear herbreathing now."Dear soul, how it angered me at the time! It made me fret all the morefor--her. Why had she broken faith? I knew that she had not. Somethinghad kept her; had he? I had hoped he was out of the way; he left her somuch. He was really on the watch, as you may know. At last I got up andwent to the window. And all the windows opposite were in darkness excepttheirs."Langholm sprang to his feet, but sat down again as suddenly."Go on!""What is it that you thought, Langholm?""I believe I know what you did. That's all.""What? Tell me, please, and then I will tell you.""All those garden walls--they connect.""Yes? Yes?""You got through your window, climbed upon your wall, and ran along tothe lights. It occurred to you suddenly; it did to me when I went overthe house the other day."Severino lay looking at the imaginative man."And yet you could suspect another after that!""Ah, there is some mystery there also. But it is strange, indeed, tothink that I was right in the beginning!""I did not know what I was doing," resumed the young Italian, who, likemany a clever foreigner, spoke more precise English than any Englishman;that, with an accent too delicate for written reproduction, alone wouldhave betrayed him. "I still have very little recollection of whathappened between my climbing out of our garden and dropping into theirs.I remember that my feet were rather cold, but that is about all."It was near midnight, as you know, and the room it happened in--thestudy--had the brightest light of all. An electric lamp was blazing onthe writing-table at the window, and another from a bracket among thebooks. The window was as wide open as it would go, the lower sash thrownright up; it was just above the scullery window, which is halfunderground, and has an outside grating. The sill was only the heightof one's chin. I can tell you all that now, but at the time I knew verylittle until I was in the room itself. Thank you, I will take anothersip. It does me more good than harm to tell you. But you will find itall written down."Langholm set down the glass and replenished it. The night had fallenwithout. The single candle in the farthest corner supplied the onlylight; in it the one man sat, and the other lay, their eyes locked."I spilt the ink as I was creeping over the desk. That is an odd thingto remember, but I was looking for something to wipe it up with when Iheard their voices upstairs.""You heard them both?""Yes--quarrelling--and about me! The first thing I heard was my ownname. Then the man came running down. But I never tried to get away. Thedoors were all open. I had heard something else, and I waited to tellhim what a liar he was! But I turned out the lights, so that she shouldnot hear the outcry, and sure enough he shut both doors behind him (youwould notice there were two) before he turned them on again. So there westood."'Don't let her hear us,' were my first words; and we stood and cursedeach other under our breath. I don't know why he didn't knock me down,or rather I do know; it was because I put my hands behind my back andinvited him to do it. I was as furious as he was. I forgot that therewas anything the matter with me, but when I began telling him that therehad been, he looked as though he could have spat in my face. It was nouse going on. I could not expect him to believe a word."At last he told me to sit down in the chair opposite his chair, and Isaid, 'With pleasure.' Then he said, 'We'd better have a drink, becauseonly one of us is coming out of this room alive,' and I said the samething again. He was full of drink already, but not drunk, and my ownhead was as light as air. I was ready for anything. He unlocked a drawerand took a brace of old revolvers from the case in which I put them awayagain. I locked up the drawer afterwards, and put his keys back in hispocket, before losing my head and doing all the rest that the police sawthrough at a glance. Sit still, Langholm! I am getting the cart beforethe horse. I was not so guilty as you think. They may hang me if theylike, but it was as much his act as mine."He stood with his back to me, fiddling with the revolvers for a goodfive minutes, during which time I heard him tear his handkerchief intwo, and wondered what in the world he was going to do next. What he didwas to turn round and go on fiddling with the pistols behind his back.Then he held out one in each hand by the barrel, telling me to take mychoice, that he didn't know which was which himself, but only one ofthem was loaded. And he had lapped the two halves of his handkerchiefround the chambers of each in such a way that neither of us could tellwhen we were going to fire."Then he tossed for first shot, and made me call, and I won. So he satdown in his chair and finished his drink, and told me to blaze across athim from where I sat in the other chair. I tried to get out of it,partly because I seemed to have seen more good in Minchin in those lastten minutes than in all the months that I had known him; he might be abrute, but he was a British brute, and all right about fair play.Besides, for the moment, it was difficult to believe he was serious, oreven very angry. But I, on my side, was more in a dream than not, or hewould not have managed me as he did. He broke out again, cursed me andhis wife, and swore that he would shoot her too if I didn't go throughwith it. You can't think of the things he was saying when--but Ibelieve he said them on purpose to make me. Anyhow I pulled at last, butthere was only a click, and he answered with another like lightning.That showed me how he meant it, plainer than anything else. It was toolate to get out. I set my teeth and pulled again ...""Like the clash of swords," whispered Langholm, in the pause.Severino moved his head from side to side upon the pillow."No, not that time, Langholm. There was such a report as might haveroused the neighborhood--you would have thought--but I forgot to tellyou he had shut the window and run up some shutters, and even drawn thecurtains, to do for the other houses what the double doors did for hisown. When the smoke lifted, he was lying back in his chair as though hehad fallen asleep ..."I think the worst was waiting for her to come down. I opened bothdoors, but she never came. Then I shut them very quietly--and utterlylost my head. You know what I did. I don't remember doing half. It wasthe stupid cunning of a real madman, the broken window, and the thingsup the chimney. I got back as I had come, in the way that struck you aspossible when you were there, and I woke my landlady getting in. Ibelieve I told her everything on the spot, and that it was the lastsense I spoke for weeks; she nursed me day and night that I might nevertell anybody else."So the story ended, and with it, as might have been expected, theunnatural strength which had sustained the teller till the last; he hadused up every ounce of it, and he lay exhausted and collapsed. Langholmbecame uneasy.Severino could not swallow the champagne which Langholm poured into hismouth.Langholm fetched the candle in high alarm--higher yet at what itrevealed.Severino was struggling to raise himself, a deadly leaden light upon hisface."Raise me up--raise me up."Langholm raised him in his arms."Another--hemorrhage!" said Severino, in a gasping whisper.And his blood dripped with the words.Langholm propped him up and rushed out shouting for Brunton--for Mrs.Brunton--for anybody in the house. Both were in, and the woman came upbravely without a word."I'll go for the doctor myself," said Langholm. "I shall be quickest."And he went on his bicycle, hatless, with an unlit lamp.But the doctor came too late.CHAPTER XXVIIIIN THE MATTER OF A MOTIVEThat was between eight and nine o'clock at night; before ten anoutrageous thought occurred to the man with the undisciplinedimagination. It closed his mind to the tragedy of an hour ago, to thedead man lying upstairs, whose low and eager voice still went on and onin his ears. It was a thought that possessed Langholm like an uncleanspirit from the moment in which he raised his eyes from the last wordsof the manuscript to which the dead man had referred.In the long, low room that Langholm lived in a fire was necessary indamp weather, irrespective of the season. It was on the fire that hiseyes fell, straight from the paper in his hand ...No one else had read it. There was an explicit assurance on the point.The Chelsea landlady had no idea that such a statement was in existence;she would certainly have destroyed it if she had known; and furtherwritten details convinced Langholm that the woman would never speak ofher own accord. There were strange sidelights on the feelings which theyoung Italian had inspired in an unlikely breast; a mother could havedone no more to shield him. On the night of the acquittal, for example,when he was slowly recovering in her house, it had since come to thewriter's knowledge that this woman had turned Mrs. Minchin from her doorwith a lying statement as to his whereabouts. This he mentioned toconfirm his declaration that he always meant to tell the truth toRachel, that it was his first resolve in the early stages of hisrecovery, long before he knew of her arrest and trial, and that thiswoman was aware of that resolve as of all else. But he doubted whethershe could be made to speak, though he hoped that for his sake she would.And Langholm grinned with set teeth as he turned back to this passage:he would be diabolically safe.It was only an evil thought. He did not admit it as a temptation. Yethow it stuck, and how it grew!There was the fire, as though lit on purpose; in a minute the writtenevidence could be destroyed for ever; and there was no other kind. Deadmen tell no tales, and live men only those that suit them!It all fitted in so marvellously. To a villain it would have been less atemptation than a veritable gift of his ends. Langholm almost wished hewere a villain.There was Steel. Something remained for explanation there, but therereally was a case against him. The villain would let that case come on;the would-be villain did so in his own ready fancy, and the end of itwas a world without Steel but not without his wife; only, she would beSteel's wife no more.And this brought Langholm to his senses. "Idiot!" he said, and went outto his wet paths and ruined roses. But the ugly impossible idea doggedhim even there."If Steel had been guilty--but he isn't, I tell you--no, but if he hadbeen, just for argument, would she ever have looked--hush!--idiot andegotist!--No, but _would_ she? And could you have made her happy if shehad?--Ah, that's another thing ... I wonder!--It is worth wonderingabout; you know you have failed before. Yes, yes, yes; do you think Iforget it? No, but I must remind you. Are you the type to make womenhappy, women with anything in them, women with nerves? Are you notmoody, morbid, uneven, full of yourself?--No, of my work. It comes tothe same thing for the woman. Could you have made her happy?--yes or no!If no, then pull yourself together and never think of it. Isn't italways better to be the good friend than the tiresome husband, and, ifyou care for her, to show her your best side instead of all your sides?I thought so! Then thank your stars, and--never again!"So the two voices, that are only one voice, within Langholm that night,in the heavy fragrance of his soaking garden, under the half-shut eye ofa waning moon; and, having conquered him, the voice of sense and sanityreminded him of his reward: "Remember, too, how you promised to serveher; and how, if less by management than good luck, you have, after all,performed the very prodigy you undertook. Go and tell her. I should goto-night. No, it is never too late to bring good news. I should jump onmy bicycle and go now!"The old moon's eye drooped also over Normanthorpe House, out of theclearest sky that there had been for days. The Steels were strolling onthe sweep of the drive before the house, out for outing's sake for thefirst time that day, and together for the sake of being together for thefirst time that month. There was something untoward in the air. In fact,there was suspicion, and Rachel was beginning to suspect what thatsuspicion was. She could not say absolutely that she did not entertainit herself for a single instant. She had entertained and had dismissedthe thought a good many times. Why had he never told her his real motivein marrying her? Some subtle motive there had been; why could he nevertell her what it was? Then there was his intimacy with her firsthusband, which she had only discovered by chance, after the mostsedulous concealment on his part. And, finally, there was the defiantcharacter of his challenge to Langholm, as it were to do his worst (nothis best) as a detective.On the other hand, there was that woman's instinct which no wise womandisregards; and Rachel's instinct had never confirmed her fancies inthis matter. But within the last few hours her point of view had totallychanged. Her husband was suspected. He said so laughingly himself. Hewas in a certain danger. Her place was by his side. And let it beremembered that, before his absolute refusal to answer her crucialquestion about his prime motive for the marriage, Rachel had grownrather to like that place.They had been strolling quite apart, though chatting amiably. Rachel hadnot dreamt of putting her hand within his arm, as she had sometimes donetowards the end before their quarrel. Yet she did it again now, thevery moment his quicker vision descried the cyclist in the drive."I hope they are not going to run me in to-night," he said. "If they do,I shall run _them_ in for riding without a light. So it's Langholm!Well, Langholm, put salt on him yet?""On whom?""Your murderer, of course.""I have his confession in my pocket."It was the first time that Rachel had known her husband taken visiblyaback."Good God!" he cried. "Then you don't think it's me any longer?""I know it is not. Nevertheless, Mrs. Steel must prepare for a shock."Rachel was shocked. But her grief and horror, though both were real andpoignant, were swept away for that hour at least by the full tide of herjoy.It was a double joy. Not only would Rachel be cleared for ever beforethe world, but her husband would stand exonerated at her side. The dayof unfounded suspicions, of either one of them, by the other or by theworld, that day at least was over once for all.Her heart was too full for many explanations; she lingered whileLangholm told of his interview with Abel, and then left him to one withher husband alone.Langholm thereupon spoke more openly of his whole case against Steel,who instantly admitted its strength."But I owe you an apology," the latter added, "not only for something Isaid to you this afternoon, more in mischief than in malice, which Iwould nevertheless unsay if I could, but for deliberately manufacturingthe last link in your chain. I happened to buy both my revolvers andMinchin's from a hawker up the country; his were a present from me; and,as they say out there, one pair was the dead spit of the other. Thismorning when I found I was being shadowed by these local heroes, itoccurred to me for my own amusement to put one of my pair in athoroughly conspicuous place, and this afternoon I could not resistsending you to the room to add it to your grand discoveries. You see, Icould have proved an alibi for the weapon, at all events, during my tripto town a year ago. Yes, poor Minchin wrote to me, and I went up to townby the next train to take him by surprise. How you got to know of hisletter I can't conceive. But it carried no hint of blackmail. I thinkyou did wonders, and I hope you will forgive me for that little trap;it really wasn't set for you. It is also perfectly true that I stayed atthe Cadogan and was out at that particular time. I went there because itwas the one decent hotel I knew of in those parts, which was probablyyour own reason, and I was out reconnoitring my old friend's housebecause I knew him for an inveterate late-bird, and he did not write asthough marriage had improved his habits. In fact, as you know, he hadgone to the dogs altogether."This reminded Langholm of the hour."It is late now," said he, "and I must be off. Poor Severino had not arelation in this country that I know of. There will be a great deal todo to-morrow."Steel at once insisted on bearing all expenses; that would be thelightest part, he said. "You have done so much!" he added. "By the way,you can't go without saying good-night to my wife. She has still tothank you.""I don't want to be thanked.""But for you the truth might never have come out.""Still I shall be much happier if she never speaks of it again.""Very well, she shall not--on one condition.""What is that?""Langholm, I thought last summer we were to be rather friends? I don'tthink that of many people. May I still think it of you?""If you will," said Langholm. "I--I don't believe I ever should havebrought myself to give you away!""You behaved most fairly, my dear fellow. I shall not forget it, nor theway you scored off the blackmailer Abel. If it is any satisfaction toyou, I will tell you what his secret was. Nay, I may as well; and mywife, I must tell her too, though all these months I have hidden it fromher; but I have no doubt he took it to the police when you failed him.It is bound to get about, but I can live it down as I did the thingitself. Langholm, like many a better man, I left my country for mycountry's good. Never mind the offence; the curious can hunt up thecase, and will perhaps admit there have been worse. But that man and Iwere transported to Western Australia on the same vessel in '69.""And yet," said Langholm--they were not quite his next words--"and yetyou challenged me to discover the truth! I still can't understand yourattitude that night!"Steel stood silent."Some day I may explain it to you," he said. "I am only now going toexplain it to my wife."The men shook hands.And Langholm rode on his bicycle off the scene of the one real melodramaof a life spent in inventing fictitious ones; and if you ask what he hadto show for his part in it, you may get your answer one day from hiswork. Not from the masterpiece which he used to talk over with Mrs.Steel, for it will never be written; not from any particular novel orstory, much less in the reproduction of any of these incidents, whereinhe himself played so dubious a part; but perhaps you will find youranswer in a deeper knowledge of the human heart, a stronger grasp of therealities of life, a keener sympathy with men and (particularly) withwomen, than formerly distinguished this writer's books. These, at allevents, are some of the things which Charles Langholm has to show, if hewill only show them. And in the meantime you are requested not to pityhim.Steel went straight to his wife. Tears were still in her eyes, but suchtears, and such eyes! It cost him an effort to say what he had to say,and that was unusual in his case."Rachel," he said at length, in a tone as new as his reluctance, "I amgoing to answer the question which you have so often asked me. I amgoing to answer it with perfect honesty, and very possibly you willnever speak to me again. I shall be sorry for both our sakes if you doanything precipitate, but in any case you shall act as you think best.You know that I was exceedingly fond of Alec Minchin as a young man;now, I am not often exceedingly fond of anybody, as you may also know bythis time. Before your trial I was convinced that you had killed my oldfriend, whom I was so keen to see again that I came up to town by thevery first train after getting his letter. You had robbed me of the onlyfriend I had in England at the very moment when he needed me and I wason my way to him. I could have saved his ship, and you had sent both himand it to the bottom! That, I say candidly, was what I thought.""I don't blame you for thinking it before the trial," said Rachel. "Itseems to have been the universal opinion.""I formed mine for myself, and I had a particular reason for formingit," continued Steel, with a marked vibration in his usually unemotionalvoice. "I don't know which to tell you first.... Well, it shall be thatreason. On the night of the murder do you remember coming downstairsand going or rather looking into the study--at one o'clock in themorning?"Rachel recoiled in her chair."Heavens!" she cried. "How can you know that?""Did you hear nothing as you went upstairs again?""I don't remember.""Not a rattle at the letter-box?""Yes! Yes! Now I do remember. And it was actually you!""It was, indeed," said Steel, gravely. "I saw you come down, I saw youpeep in--all dread and reluctance! I saw you recoil, I saw the face withwhich you shut those doors and put out the lights. And afterwards Ilearned from the medical evidence that your husband must have been deadat that time; one thing I knew, and that was that he was not shot duringthe next hour and more, for I waited about until half-past two in thehope that he would come out. I was not going to ring and bring you downagain, for I had seen your face, and I still saw your light upstairs.""So you thought I had come down to see my handiwork!""To see if he was really dead. Yes, I thought that afterwards. I couldnot help thinking it, Rachel.""Did it never occur to you that I might have thought he was asleep?""Yes, that has struck me since.""You have not thought me guilty all along, then?""Not all along.""Did you right through my trial?""God forgive me--yes, I did! And there was one thing that convinced memore than anything else; that was when you told the jury that theoccasion of your final parting upstairs was the last time you saw poorAlec alive.""But it was," said Rachel. "I remember the question. I did not know howto answer it. I could not tell them I had seen him dead but fancied himonly asleep; that they would never have believed. So I told the simpletruth. But it upset me dreadfully.""That I saw. You expected cross-examination.""Yes; and I did not know whether to stick to the truth or to lie!""I can read people sometimes," Steel continued after a pause. "I guessedyour difficulty. Surely you must see the only conceivable inference?""I did see it.""And, seeing, do you not forgive?""Yes, that. But you married me while you still thought me guilty. Iforgive you for denying it at the time. I suppose that was necessary.But you have not yet told me why you did it.""Honestly, Rachel, it was largely fascination--""But not primarily.""No.""Then let me hear the prime motive at last, for I am tired of trying toguess it!"Steel stood before his wife as he had never stood before her yet, hiswhite head bowed, his dark eyes lowered, hands clasped, shoulders bent,the suppliant and the penitent in one."I did it to punish you," he said. "I thought some one must--I felt Icould have hanged you if I had spoken out what I had seen--andI--married you instead!"His eyes were on the ground. When he raised them she was smiling throughunshed tears. But she had spoken first."It was not a very terrible motive, after all," she had said; "at least,it has not been such a very terrible--punishment!""No; but that was because I did the very last thing I ever thought ofdoing.""And that was?""To fall in love with you at the beginning!"Rachel gave a little start."Although you thought me guilty?""That made no difference at all. But I have thought it less and less,until, on the night you appealed first to me and then to Langholm--onthinking over that night--it was impossible to suppose it any more."Rachel rose, her cheeks divinely red, her lip trembling, her handoutstretched."And you fell in love with me!" she murmured."God knows I did, Rachel, in my own way," said Steel."I am so glad!" whispered his wife.THE ENDEnd of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Shadow of the Rope, by E. W. Hornung*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SHADOW OF THE ROPE ******** This file should be named 12590.txt or 12590.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/2/5/9/12590/Produced by Steven desJardins and Distributed ProofreadersUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALLProject Gutenberg's La reine Margot - Tome I, by Alexandre Dumas, PereThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: La reine Margot - Tome IAuthor: Alexandre Dumas, PereRelease Date: October 25, 2004 [EBook #13856]Language: FrenchCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LA REINE MARGOT - TOME I ***This Etext was prepared by Ebooks libres et gratuits andis available at http://www.ebooksgratuits.com in Word format,Mobipocket Reader format, eReader format and Acrobat Reader format.Alexandre DumasLA REINE MARGOTTome I(1845)Table des matieresI Le latin de M. de GuiseII La chambre de la reine de NavarreIII Un roi poeteIV La soiree du 24 aout 1572V Du Louvre en particulier et de la vertu en generalVI La dette payeeVII La nuit du 24 aout 1572VIII Les massacresIX Les massacreursX Mort, messe ou BastilleXI L'aubepine du cimetiere des InnocentsXII Les confidencesXIII Comme il y a des clefs qui ouvrent les portes auxquelleselles ne sont pas destineesXIV Seconde nuit de nocesXV Ce que femme veut Dieu le veutXVI Le corps d'un ennemi mort sent toujours bonXVII Le confrere de maitre Ambroise PareXVIII Les revenantsXIX Le logis de maitre Rene, le parfumeur de la reine mereXX Les poules noiresXXI L'appartement de Madame de SauveXXII Sire, vous serez roiXXIII Un nouveau convertiXXIV La rue Tizon et la rue Cloche-PerceeXXV Le manteau ceriseXXVI MargaritaXXVII  La main de DieuXXVIII La lettre de RomeXXIX Le departXXX MaurevelXXXI La chasse a courrePREMIERE PARTIEILe latin de M. de GuiseLe lundi, dix-huitieme jour du mois d'aout 1572, il y avait grandefete au Louvre.Les fenetres de la vieille demeure royale, ordinairement sisombres, etaient ardemment eclairees; les places et les ruesattenantes, habituellement si solitaires, des que neuf heuressonnaient a Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois, etaient, quoiqu'il futminuit, encombrees de populaire.Tout ce concours menacant, presse, bruyant, ressemblait, dansl'obscurite, a une mer sombre et houleuse dont chaque flot faisaitune vague grondante; cette mer, epandue sur le quai, ou elle sedegorgeait par la rue des Fosses-Saint-Germain et par la rue del'Astruce, venait battre de son flux le pied des murs du Louvre etde son reflux la base de l'hotel de Bourbon qui s'elevait en face.Il y avait, malgre la fete royale, et meme peut-etre a cause de lafete royale, quelque chose de menacant dans ce peuple, car il nese doutait pas que cette solennite, a laquelle il assistait commespectateur, n'etait que le prelude d'une autre remise a huitaine,et a laquelle il serait convie et s'ebattrait de tout son coeur.La cour celebrait les noces de madame Marguerite de Valois, filledu roi Henri II et soeur du roi Charles IX, avec Henri de Bourbon,roi de Navarre. En effet, le matin meme, le cardinal de Bourbonavait uni les deux epoux avec le ceremonial usite pour les nocesdes filles de France, sur un theatre dresse a la porte de Notre-Dame.Ce mariage avait etonne tout le monde et avait fort donne a songera quelques-uns qui voyaient plus clair que les autres; oncomprenait peu le rapprochement de deux partis aussi haineux quel'etaient a cette heure le parti protestant et le particatholique: on se demandait comment le jeune prince de Condepardonnerait au duc d'Anjou, frere du roi, la mort de son pereassassine a Jarnac par Montesquiou. On se demandait comment lejeune duc de Guise pardonnerait a l'amiral de Coligny la mort dusien assassine a Orleans par Poltrot du Mere. Il y a plus: Jeannede Navarre, la courageuse epouse du faible Antoine de Bourbon, quiavait amene son fils Henri aux royales fiancailles quil'attendaient, etait morte il y avait deux mois a peine, et desinguliers bruits s'etaient repandus sur cette mort subite.Partout on disait tout bas, et en quelques lieux tout haut, qu'unsecret terrible avait ete surpris par elle, et que Catherine deMedicis, craignant la revelation de ce secret, l'avait empoisonneeavec des gants de senteur qui avaient ete confectionnes par unnomme Rene, Florentin fort habile dans ces sortes de matieres. Cebruit s'etait d'autant plus repandu et confirme, qu'apres la mortde cette grande reine, sur la demande de son fils, deux medecins,desquels etait le fameux Ambroise Pare, avaient ete autorises aouvrir et a etudier le corps, mais non le cerveau. Or, commec'etait par l'odorat qu'avait ete empoisonnee Jeanne de Navarre,c'etait le cerveau, seule partie du corps exclue de l'autopsie,qui devait offrir les traces du crime. Nous disons crime, carpersonne ne doutait qu'un crime n'eut ete commis.Ce n'etait pas tout: le roi Charles, particulierement, avait mis ace mariage, qui non seulement retablissait la paix dans sonroyaume, mais encore attirait a Paris les principaux huguenots deFrance, une persistance qui ressemblait a de l'entetement. Commeles deux fiances appartenaient, l'un a la religion catholique,l'autre a la religion reformee, on avait ete oblige de s'adresserpour la dispense a Gregoire XIII, qui tenait alors le siege deRome. La dispense tardait, et ce retard inquietait fort la feuereine de Navarre; elle avait un jour exprime a Charles IX sescraintes que cette dispense n'arrivat point, ce a quoi le roiavait repondu:-- N'ayez souci, ma bonne tante, je vous honore plus que le pape,et aime plus ma soeur que je ne le crains. Je ne suis pashuguenot, mais je ne suis pas sot non plus, et si monsieur le papefait trop la bete, je prendrai moi-meme Margot par la main, et jela menerai epouser votre fils en plein preche.Ces paroles s'etaient repandues du Louvre dans la ville, et, touten rejouissant fort les huguenots, avaient considerablement donnea penser aux catholiques, qui se demandaient tout bas si le roiles trahissait reellement, ou bien ne jouait pas quelque comediequi aurait un beau matin ou un beau soir son denouement inattendu.C'etait vis-a-vis de l'amiral de Coligny surtout, qui depuis cinqou six ans faisait une guerre acharnee au roi, que la conduite deCharles IX paraissait inexplicable: apres avoir mis sa tete a prixa cent cinquante mille ecus d'or, le roi ne jurait plus que parlui, l'appelant son pere et declarant tout haut qu'il allaitconfier desormais a lui seul la conduite de la guerre; c'est aupoint que Catherine de Medicis, elle-meme, qui jusqu'alors avaitregle les actions, les volontes et jusqu'aux desirs du jeuneprince, paraissait commencer a s'inquieter tout de bon, et cen'etait pas sans sujet, car, dans un moment d'epanchement CharlesIX avait dit a l'amiral a propos de la guerre de Flandre:-- Mon pere, il y a encore une chose en ceci a laquelle il fautbien prendre garde: c'est que la reine mere, qui veut mettre lenez partout comme vous savez, ne connaisse rien de cetteentreprise; que nous la tenions si secrete qu'elle n'y voiegoutte, car, brouillonne comme je la connais, elle nous gateraittout.Or, tout sage et experimente qu'il etait, Coligny n'avait pu tenirsecrete une si entiere confiance; et quoiqu'il fut arrive a Parisavec de grands soupcons, quoique a son depart de Chatillon unepaysanne se fut jetee a ses pieds, en criant: "Oh! monsieur, notrebon maitre, n'allez pas a Paris, car si vous y allez vous mourrez,vous et tous ceux qui iront avec vous"; ces soupcons s'etaient peua peu eteints dans son coeur et dans celui de Teligny, son gendre,auquel le roi de son cote faisait de grandes amities, l'appelantson frere comme il appelait l'amiral son pere, et le tutoyant,ainsi qu'il faisait pour ses meilleurs amis.Les huguenots, a part quelques esprits chagrins et defiants,etaient donc entierement rassures: la mort de la reine de Navarrepassait pour avoir ete causee par une pleuresie, et les vastessalles du Louvre s'etaient emplies de tous ces braves protestantsauxquels le mariage de leur jeune chef Henri promettait un retourde fortune bien inespere. L'amiral de Coligny, La Rochefoucault,le prince de Conde fils, Teligny, enfin tous les principaux duparti, triomphaient de voir tout-puissants au Louvre et si bienvenus a Paris ceux-la memes que trois mois auparavant le roiCharles et la reine Catherine voulaient faire pendre a despotences plus hautes que celles des assassins. Il n'y avait que lemarechal de Montmorency que l'on cherchait vainement parmi tousses freres, car aucune promesse n'avait pu le seduire, aucunsemblant n'avait pu le tromper, et il restait retire en sonchateau de l'Isle-Adam, donnant pour excuse de sa retraite ladouleur que lui causait encore la mort de son pere le connetableAnne de Montmorency, tue d'un coup de pistolet par Robert Stuart,a la bataille de Saint-Denis. Mais comme cet evenement etaitarrive depuis plus de trois ans et que la sensibilite etait unevertu assez peu a la mode a cette epoque, on n'avait cru de cedeuil prolonge outre mesure que ce qu'on avait bien voulu encroire.Au reste, tout donnait tort au marechal de Montmorency; le roi, lareine, le duc d'Anjou et le duc d'Alencon faisaient a merveilleles honneurs de la royale fete.Le duc d'Anjou recevait des huguenots eux-memes des complimentsbien merites sur les deux batailles de Jarnac et de Moncontour,qu'il avait gagnees avant d'avoir atteint l'age de dix-huit ans,plus precoce en cela que n'avaient ete Cesar et Alexandre,auxquels on le comparait en donnant, bien entendu, l'inferioriteaux vainqueurs d'Issus et de Pharsale; le duc d'Alencon regardaittout cela de son oeil caressant et faux; la reine Catherinerayonnait de joie et, toute confite en gracieusetes, complimentaitle prince Henri de Conde sur son recent mariage avec Marie deCleves; enfin MM. de Guise eux-memes souriaient aux formidablesennemis de leur maison, et le duc de Mayenne discourait avecM. de Tavannes et l'amiral sur la prochaine guerre qu'il etaitplus que jamais question de declarer a Philippe II.Au milieu de ces groupes allait et venait, la tete legerementinclinee et l'oreille ouverte a tous les propos, un jeune homme dedix-neuf ans, a l'oeil fin, aux cheveux noirs coupes tres court,aux sourcils epais, au nez recourbe comme un bec d'aigle, ausourire narquois, a la moustache et a la barbe naissantes. Cejeune homme, qui ne s'etait fait remarquer encore qu'au combatd'Arnay-le-Duc ou il avait bravement paye de sa personne, et quirecevait compliments sur compliments, etait l'eleve bien-aime deColigny et le heros du jour; trois mois auparavant, c'est-a-dire al'epoque ou sa mere vivait encore, on l'avait appele le prince deBearn; on l'appelait maintenant le roi de Navarre, en attendantqu'on l'appelat Henri IV.De temps en temps un nuage sombre et rapide passait sur son front;sans doute il se rappelait qu'il y avait deux mois a peine que samere etait morte, et moins que personne il doutait qu'elle ne futmorte empoisonnee. Mais le nuage etait passager et disparaissaitcomme une ombre flottante; car ceux qui lui parlaient, ceux qui lefelicitaient, ceux qui le coudoyaient, etaient ceux-la memes quiavaient assassine la courageuse Jeanne d'Albret.A quelques pas du roi de Navarre, presque aussi pensif, presqueaussi soucieux que le premier affectait d'etre joyeux et ouvert,le jeune duc de Guise causait avec Teligny. Plus heureux que leBearnais, a vingt-deux ans sa renommee avait presque atteint cellede son pere, le grand Francois de Guise. C'etait un elegantseigneur, de haute taille, au regard fier et orgueilleux, et douede cette majeste naturelle qui faisait dire, quand il passait, quepres de lui les autres princes paraissaient peuple. Tout jeunequ'il etait, les catholiques voyaient en lui le chef de leurparti, comme les huguenots voyaient le leur dans ce jeune Henri deNavarre dont nous venons de tracer le portrait. Il avait d'abordporte le titre de prince de Joinville, et avait fait, au sieged'Orleans, ses premieres armes sous son pere, qui etait mort dansses bras en lui designant l'amiral Coligny pour son assassin.Alors le jeune duc, comme Annibal, avait fait un serment solennel:c'etait de venger la mort de son pere sur l'amiral et sur safamille, et de poursuivre ceux de sa religion sans treve nirelache, ayant promis a Dieu d'etre son ange exterminateur sur laterre jusqu'au jour ou le dernier heretique serait extermine. Cen'etait donc pas sans un profond etonnement qu'on voyait ceprince, ordinairement si fidele a sa parole, tendre la main a ceuxqu'il avait jure de tenir pour ses eternels ennemis et causerfamilierement avec le gendre de celui dont il avait promis la morta son pere mourant.Mais, nous l'avons dit, cette soiree etait celle des etonnements.En effet, avec cette connaissance de l'avenir qui manqueheureusement aux hommes, avec cette faculte de lire dans lescoeurs qui n'appartient malheureusement qu'a Dieu, l'observateurprivilegie auquel il eut ete donne d'assister a cette fete, eutjoui certainement du plus curieux spectacle que fournissent lesannales de la triste comedie humaine.Mais cet observateur qui manquait aux galeries interieures duLouvre, continuait dans la rue a regarder de ses yeux flamboyantset a gronder de sa voix menacante: cet observateur c'etait lepeuple, qui, avec son instinct merveilleusement aiguise par lahaine, suivait de loin les ombres de ses ennemis implacables ettraduisait leurs impressions aussi nettement que peut le faire lecurieux devant les fenetres d'une salle de bal hermetiquementfermee. La musique enivre et regle le danseur, tandis que lecurieux voit le mouvement seul et rit de ce pantin qui s'agitesans raison, car le curieux, lui, n'entend pas la musique.La musique qui enivrait les huguenots, c'etait la voix de leurorgueil.Ces lueurs qui passaient aux yeux des Parisiens au milieu de lanuit, c'etaient les eclairs de leur haine qui illuminaientl'avenir.Et cependant tout continuait d'etre riant a l'interieur, et memeun murmure plus doux et plus flatteur que jamais courait en cemoment par tout le Louvre: c'est que la jeune fiancee, apres etreallee deposer sa toilette d'apparat, son manteau trainant et sonlong voile, venait de rentrer dans la salle de bal, accompagnee dela belle duchesse de Nevers, sa meilleure amie, et menee par sonfrere Charles IX, qui la presentait aux principaux de ses hotes.Cette fiancee, c'etait la fille de Henri II, c'etait la perle dela couronne de France, c'etait Marguerite de Valois, que, dans safamiliere tendresse pour elle, le roi Charles IX n'appelait jamaisque _ma soeur Margot._Certes jamais accueil, si flatteur qu'il fut, n'avait ete mieuxmerite que celui qu'on faisait en ce moment a la nouvelle reine deNavarre. Marguerite a cette epoque avait vingt ans a peine, etdeja elle etait l'objet des louanges de tous les poetes, qui lacomparaient les uns a l'Aurore, les autres a Cytheree. C'etait eneffet la beaute sans rivale de cette cour ou Catherine de Medicisavait reuni, pour en faire ses sirenes, les plus belles femmesqu'elle avait pu trouver. Elle avait les cheveux noirs, le teintbrillant, l'oeil voluptueux et voile de longs cils, la bouchevermeille et fine, le cou elegant, la taille riche et souple, et,perdu dans une mule de satin, un pied d'enfant. Les Francais, quila possedaient, etaient fiers de voir eclore sur leur sol une simagnifique fleur, et les etrangers qui passaient par la Frances'en retournaient eblouis de sa beaute s'ils l'avaient vueseulement, etourdis de sa science s'ils avaient cause avec elle.C'est que Marguerite etait non seulement la plus belle, maisencore la plus lettree des femmes de son temps, et l'on citait lemot d'un savant italien qui lui avait ete presente, et qui, apresavoir cause avec elle une heure en italien, en espagnol, en latinet en grec, l'avait quittee en disant dans son enthousiasme: "Voirla cour sans voir Marguerite de Valois, c'est ne voir ni la Franceni la cour."Aussi les harangues ne manquaient pas au roi Charles IX et a lareine de Navarre; on sait combien les huguenots etaientharangueurs. Force allusions au passe, force demandes pourl'avenir furent adroitement glissees au roi au milieu de cesharangues; mais a toutes ces allusions, il repondait avec seslevres pales et son sourire ruse:-- En donnant ma soeur Margot a Henri de Navarre, je donne moncoeur a tous les protestants du royaume.Mot qui rassurait les uns et faisait sourire les autres, car ilavait reellement deux sens: l'un paternel, et dont en bonneconscience Charles IX ne voulait pas surcharger sa pensee; l'autreinjurieux pour l'epousee, pour son mari et pour celui-la meme quile disait, car il rappelait quelques sourds scandales dont lachronique de la cour avait deja trouve moyen de souiller la robenuptiale de Marguerite de Valois.Cependant M. de Guise causait, comme nous l'avons dit, avecTeligny; mais il ne donnait pas a l'entretien une attention sisoutenue qu'il ne se detournat parfois pour lancer un regard surle groupe de dames au centre duquel resplendissait la reine deNavarre. Si le regard de la princesse rencontrait alors celui dujeune duc, un nuage semblait obscurcir ce front charmant autourduquel des etoiles de diamants formaient une tremblante aureole,et quelque vague dessein percait dans son attitude impatiente etagitee.La princesse Claude, soeur ainee de Marguerite, qui depuisquelques annees deja avait epouse le duc de Lorraine, avaitremarque cette inquietude, et elle s'approchait d'elle pour lui endemander la cause, lorsque chacun s'ecartant devant la reine mere,qui s'avancait appuyee au bras du jeune prince de Conde, laprincesse se trouva refoulee loin de sa soeur. Il y eut alors unmouvement general dont le duc de Guise profita pour se rapprocherde madame de Nevers, sa belle-soeur, et par consequent deMarguerite. Madame de Lorraine, qui n'avait pas perdu la jeunereine des yeux, vit alors, au lieu de ce nuage qu'elle avaitremarque sur son front, une flamme ardente passer sur ses joues.Cependant le duc s'approchait toujours, et quand il ne fut plusqu'a deux pas de Marguerite, celle-ci, qui semblait plutot lesentir que le voir, se retourna en faisant un effort violent pourdonner a son visage le calme et l'insouciance; alors le duc saluarespectueusement, et, tout en s'inclinant devant elle, murmura ademi-voix:-- _Ipse attuli._Ce qui voulait dire:"Je l'ai_ apporte_, ou _apporte moi-meme_."Marguerite rendit sa reverence au jeune duc, et, en se relevant,laissa tomber cette reponse:-- _Noctu pro more. _Ce qui signifiait: "Cette nuit commed'habitude." Ces douces paroles, absorbees par l'enorme colletgoudronne de la princesse comme par l'enroulement d'un porte-voix,ne furent entendues que de la personne a laquelle on lesadressait; mais si court qu'eut ete le dialogue, sans doute ilembrassait tout ce que les deux jeunes gens avaient a se dire, carapres cet echange de deux mots contre trois, ils se separerent,Marguerite le front plus reveur, et le duc le front plus radieuxqu'avant qu'ils se fussent rapproches. Cette petite scene avait eulieu sans que l'homme le plus interesse a la remarquer eut paru yfaire la moindre attention, car, de son cote, le roi de Navarren'avait d'yeux que pour une seule personne qui rassemblait autourd'elle une cour presque aussi nombreuse que Marguerite de Valois,cette personne etait la belle madame de Sauve.Charlotte de Beaune-Semblancay, petite-fille du malheureuxSemblancay et femme de Simon de Fizes, baron de Sauve, etait unedes dames d'atours de Catherine de Medicis, et l'une des plusredoutables auxiliaires de cette reine, qui versait a ses ennemisle philtre de l'amour quand elle n'osait leur verser le poisonflorentin; petite, blonde, tour a tour petillante de vivacite oulanguissante de melancolie, toujours prete a l'amour et al'intrigue, les deux grandes affaires qui, depuis cinquante ans,occupaient la cour des trois rois qui s'etaient succede; femmedans toute l'acception du mot et dans tout le charme de la chose,depuis l'oeil bleu languissant ou brillant de flammes jusqu'auxpetits pieds mutins et cambres dans leurs mules de velours, madamede Sauve s'etait, depuis quelques mois deja, emparee de toutes lesfacultes du roi de Navarre, qui debutait alors dans la carriereamoureuse comme dans la carriere politique; si bien que Margueritede Navarre, beaute magnifique et royale, n'avait meme plus trouvel'admiration au fond du coeur de son epoux; et, chose etrange etqui etonnait tout le monde, meme de la part de cette ame pleine detenebres et de mysteres, c'est que Catherine de Medicis, tout enpoursuivant son projet d'union entre sa fille et le roi deNavarre, n'avait pas discontinue de favoriser presque ouvertementles amours de celui-ci avec madame de Sauve. Mais malgre cetteaide puissante et en depit des moeurs faciles de l'epoque, labelle Charlotte avait resiste jusque-la; et de cette resistanceinconnue, incroyable, inouie, plus encore que de la beaute et del'esprit de celle qui resistait, etait nee dans le coeur duBearnais une passion qui, ne pouvant se satisfaire, s'etaitrepliee sur elle-meme et avait devore dans le coeur du jeune roila timidite, l'orgueil et jusqu'a cette insouciance, moitiephilosophique, moitie paresseuse, qui faisait le fond de soncaractere.Madame de Sauve venait d'entrer depuis quelques minutes seulementdans la salle de bal: soit depit, soit douleur, elle avait resolud'abord de ne point assister au triomphe de sa rivale, et, sous lepretexte d'une indisposition, elle avait laisse son mari,secretaire d'Etat depuis cinq ans, venir seul au Louvre. Mais enapercevant le baron de Sauve sans sa femme, Catherine de Mediciss'etait informee des causes qui tenaient sa bien-aimee Charlotteeloignee; et, apprenant que ce n'etait qu'une legereindisposition, elle lui avait ecrit quelques mots d'appel,auxquels la jeune femme s'etait empressee d'obeir. Henri, toutattriste qu'il avait ete d'abord de son absence, avait cependantrespire plus librement lorsqu'il avait vu M. de Sauve entrer seul;mais au moment ou, ne s'attendant aucunement a cette apparition,il allait en soupirant se rapprocher de l'aimable creature qu'iletait condamne, sinon a aimer, du moins a traiter en epouse, ilavait vu au bout de la galerie surgir madame de Sauve; alors iletait demeure cloue a sa place, les yeux fixes sur cette Circe quil'enchainait a elle comme un lien magique, et, au lieu decontinuer sa marche vers sa femme, par un mouvement d'hesitationqui tenait bien plus a l'etonnement qu'a la crainte, il s'avancavers madame de Sauve.De leur cote les courtisans, voyant que le roi de Navarre, dont onconnaissait deja le coeur inflammable, se rapprochait de la belleCharlotte, n'eurent point le courage de s'opposer a leur reunion;ils s'eloignerent complaisamment, de sorte qu'au meme instant ouMarguerite de Valois et M. de Guise echangeaient les quelques motslatins que nous avons rapportes, Henri, arrive pres de madame deSauve, entamait avec elle en francais fort intelligible, quoiquesaupoudre d'accent gascon, une conversation beaucoup moinsmysterieuse.-- Ah! ma mie! lui dit-il, vous voila donc revenue au moment oul'on m'avait dit que vous etiez malade et ou j'avais perdul'esperance de vous voir?-- Votre Majeste, repondit madame de Sauve, aurait-elle lapretention de me faire croire que cette esperance lui avaitbeaucoup coute a perdre?-- Sang-diou! je crois bien, reprit le Bearnais; ne savez-vouspoint que vous etes mon soleil pendant le jour et mon etoilependant la nuit? En verite je me croyais dans l'obscurite la plusprofonde, lorsque vous avez paru tout a l'heure et avez soudaintout eclaire.-- C'est un mauvais tour que je vous joue alors, Monseigneur.-- Que voulez-vous dire, ma mie? demanda Henri.-- Je veux dire que lorsqu'on est maitre de la plus belle femme deFrance, la seule chose qu'on doive desirer, c'est que la lumieredisparaisse pour faire place a l'obscurite, car c'est dansl'obscurite que nous attend le bonheur.-- Ce bonheur, mauvaise, vous savez bien qu'il est aux mains d'uneseule personne, et que cette personne se rit et se joue du pauvreHenri.-- Oh! reprit la baronne, j'aurais cru, au contraire, moi, quec'etait cette personne qui etait le jouet et la risee du roi deNavarre.Henri fut effraye de cette attitude hostile, et cependant ilreflechit qu'elle trahissait le depit, et que le depit n'est quele masque de l'amour.-- En verite, dit-il, chere Charlotte, vous me faites la uninjuste reproche, et je ne comprends pas qu'une si jolie bouchesoit en meme temps si cruelle. Croyez-vous donc que ce soit moiqui me marie? Eh! non, ventre saint gris! ce n'est pas moi!-- C'est moi, peut-etre! reprit aigrement la baronne, si jamaispeut paraitre aigre la voix de la femme qui nous aime et qui nousreproche de ne pas l'aimer.-- Avec vos beaux yeux n'avez-vous pas vu plus loin, baronne? Non,non, ce n'est pas Henri de Navarre qui epouse Marguerite deValois.-- Et qui est-ce donc alors?-- Eh, sang-diou! c'est la religion reformee qui epouse le pape,voila tout.-- Nenni, nenni, Monseigneur, et je ne me laisse pas prendre a vosjeux d'esprit, moi: Votre Majeste aime madame Marguerite, et je nevous en fais pas un reproche, Dieu m'en garde! elle est assezbelle pour etre aimee.Henri reflechit un instant, et tandis qu'il reflechissait, un bonsourire retroussa le coin de ses levres.-- Baronne, dit-il, vous me cherchez querelle, ce me semble, etcependant vous n'en avez pas le droit; qu'avez-vous fait, voyons!pour m'empecher d'epouser madame Marguerite? Rien; au contraire,vous m'avez toujours desespere.-- Et bien m'en a pris, Monseigneur! repondit madame de Sauve.-- Comment cela?-- Sans doute, puisque aujourd'hui vous en epousez une autre.-- Ah! je l'epouse parce que vous ne m'aimez pas.-- Si je vous eusse aime, Sire, il me faudrait donc mourir dansune heure!-- Dans une heure! Que voulez-vous dire, et de quelle mort seriez-vous morte?-- De jalousie... car dans une heure la reine de Navarre renverrases femmes, et Votre Majeste ses gentilshommes.-- Est-ce la veritablement la pensee qui vous preoccupe, ma mie?-- Je ne dis pas cela. Je dis que, si je vous aimais, elle mepreoccuperait horriblement.-- Eh bien, s'ecria Henri au comble de la joie d'entendre cetaveu, le premier qu'il eut recu, si le roi de Navarre ne renvoyaitpas ses gentilshommes ce soir?-- Sire, dit madame de Sauve, regardant le roi avec un etonnementqui cette fois n'etait pas joue, vous dites la des chosesimpossibles et surtout incroyables.-- Pour que vous le croyiez, que faut-il donc faire?-- Il faudrait m'en donner la preuve, et cette preuve, vous nepouvez me la donner.-- Si fait, baronne, si fait. Par saint Henri! je vous ladonnerai, au contraire, s'ecria le roi en devorant la jeune femmed'un regard embrase d'amour.-- O Votre Majeste! ... murmura la belle Charlotte en baissant lavoix et les yeux. Je ne comprends pas... Non, non! il estimpossible que vous echappiez au bonheur qui vous attend.-- Il y a quatre Henri dans cette salle, mon adoree! reprit leroi: Henri de France, Henri de Conde, Henri de Guise, mais il n'ya qu'un Henri de Navarre.-- Eh bien?-- Eh bien, si vous avez ce Henri de Navarre pres de vous toutecette nuit...-- Toute cette nuit?-- Oui; serez-vous certaine qu'il ne sera pas pres d'une autre?-- Ah! si vous faites cela, Sire, s'ecria a son tour la dame deSauve.-- Foi de gentilhomme, je le ferai. Madame de Sauve leva sesgrands yeux humides de voluptueuses promesses et sourit au roi,dont le coeur s'emplit d'une joie enivrante.-- Voyons, reprit Henri, en ce cas, que direz-vous?-- Oh! en ce cas, repondit Charlotte, en ce cas je dirai que jesuis veritablement aimee de Votre Majeste.-- Ventre-saint-gris! vous le direz donc, car cela est, baronne.-- Mais comment faire? murmura madame de Sauve.-- Oh! par Dieu! baronne, il n'est point que vous n'ayez autour devous quelque cameriere, quelque suivante, quelque fille dont voussoyez sure?-- Oh! j'ai Dariole, qui m'est si devouee qu'elle se ferait couperen morceaux pour moi: un veritable tresor.-- Sang-diou! baronne, dites a cette fille que je ferai sa fortunequand je serai roi de France, comme me le predisent lesastrologues.Charlotte sourit; car des cette epoque la reputation gasconne duBearnais etait deja etablie a l'endroit de ses promesses.-- Eh bien, dit-elle, que desirez-vous de Dariole?-- Bien peu de chose pour elle, tout pour moi.-- Enfin?-- Votre appartement est au-dessus du mien?-- Oui.-- Qu'elle attende derriere la porte. Je frapperai doucement troiscoups; elle ouvrira, et vous aurez la preuve que je vous aiofferte.Madame de Sauve garda le silence pendant quelques secondes; puis,comme si elle eut regarde autour d'elle pour n'etre pas entendue,elle fixa un instant la vue sur le groupe ou se tenait la reinemere; mais si court que fut cet instant, il suffit pour queCatherine et sa dame d'atours echangeassent chacune un regard.-- Oh! si je voulais, dit madame de Sauve avec un accent de sirenequi eut fait fondre la cire dans les oreilles d'Ulysse, si jevoulais prendre Votre Majeste en mensonge.-- Essayez, ma mie, essayez...-- Ah! ma foi! j'avoue que j'en combats l'envie.-- Laissez-vous vaincre: les femmes ne sont jamais si fortesqu'apres leur defaite.-- Sire, je retiens votre promesse pour Dariole le jour ou vousserez roi de France. Henri jeta un cri de joie.C'etait juste au moment ou ce cri s'echappait de la bouche duBearnais que la reine de Navarre repondait au duc de Guise:"_Noctu pro more_: Cette nuit comme d'habitude."Alors Henri s'eloigna de madame de Sauve aussi heureux que l'etaitle duc de Guise en s'eloignant lui-meme de Marguerite de Valois.Une heure apres cette double scene que nous venons de raconter, leroi Charles et la reine mere se retirerent dans leursappartements; presque aussitot les salles commencerent a sedepeupler, les galeries laisserent voir la base de leurs colonnesde marbre. L'amiral et le prince de Conde furent reconduits parquatre cents gentilshommes huguenots au milieu de la foule quigrondait sur leur passage. Puis Henri de Guise, avec les seigneurslorrains et les catholiques, sortirent a leur tour, escortes descris de joie et des applaudissements du peuple.Quant a Marguerite de Valois, a Henri de Navarre et a madame deSauve, on sait qu'ils demeuraient au Louvre meme.IILa chambre de la reine de NavarreLe duc de Guise reconduisit sa belle-soeur, la duchesse de Nevers,en son hotel qui etait situe rue du Chaume, en face de la rue deBrac, et apres l'avoir remise a ses femmes, passa dans sonappartement pour changer de costume, prendre un manteau de nuit ets'armer d'un de ces poignards courts et aigus qu'on appelait unefoi de gentilhomme, lesquels se portaient sans l'epee; mais aumoment ou il le prenait sur la table ou il etait depose, ilapercut un petit billet serre entre la lame et le fourreau.Il l'ouvrit et lut ce qui suit:"J'espere bien que M. de Guise ne retournera pas cette nuit auLouvre, ou, s'il y retourne, qu'il prendra au moins la precautionde s'armer d'une bonne cotte de mailles et d'une bonne epee."-- Ah! ah! dit le duc en se retournant vers son valet de chambre,voici un singulier avertissement, maitre Robin. Maintenant faites-moi le plaisir de me dire quelles sont les personnes qui ontpenetre ici pendant mon absence.-- Une seule, Monseigneur.-- Laquelle?-- M. du Gast.-- Ah! ah! En effet, il me semblait bien reconnaitre l'ecriture.Et tu es sur que du Gast est venu, tu l'as vu?-- J'ai fait plus, Monseigneur, je lui ai parle.-- Bon; alors je suivrai le conseil. Ma jaquette et mon epee.Le valet de chambre, habitue a ces mutations de costumes, apportal'une et l'autre. Le duc alors revetit sa jaquette, qui etait enchainons de mailles si souples que la trame d'acier n'etait guereplus epaisse que du velours; puis il passa par-dessus son jaquedes chausses et un pourpoint gris et argent, qui etaient sescouleurs favorites, tira de longues bottes qui montaient jusqu'aumilieu de ses cuisses, se coiffa d'un toquet de velours noir sansplume ni pierreries, s'enveloppa d'un manteau de couleur sombre,passa un poignard a sa ceinture, et, mettant son epee aux mainsd'un page, seule escorte dont il voulut se faire accompagner, ilprit le chemin du Louvre.Comme il posait le pied sur le seuil de l'hotel, le veilleur deSaint-Germain-l'Auxerrois venait d'annoncer une heure du matin.Si avancee que fut la nuit et si peu sures que fussent les rues acette epoque, aucun accident n'arriva a l'aventureux prince par lechemin, et il arriva sain et sauf devant la masse colossale duvieux Louvre, dont toute les lumieres s'etaient successivementeteintes, et qui se dressait, a cette heure, formidable de silenceet d'obscurite.En avant du chateau royal s'etendait un fosse profond, sur lequeldonnaient la plupart des chambres des princes loges au palais.L'appartement de Marguerite etait situe au premier etage.Mais ce premier etage, accessible s'il n'y eut point eu de fosse,se trouvait, grace au retranchement, eleve de pres de trentepieds, et, par consequent, hors de l'atteinte des amants et desvoleurs, ce qui n'empecha point M. le duc de Guise de descendreresolument dans le fosse.Au meme instant, on entendit le bruit d'une fenetre du rez-de-chaussee qui s'ouvrait. Cette fenetre etait grillee; mais une mainparut, souleva un des barreaux descelles d'avance, et laissapendre, par cette ouverture, un lacet de soie.-- Est-ce vous, Gillonne? demanda le duc a voix basse.-- Oui, Monseigneur, repondit une voix de femme d'un accent plusbas encore.-- Et Marguerite?-- Elle vous attend.-- Bien. A ces mots le duc fit signe a son page, qui, ouvrant sonmanteau, deroula une petite echelle de corde. Le prince attachal'une des extremites de l'echelle au lacet qui pendait. Gillonnetira l'echelle a elle, l'assujettit solidement; et le prince,apres avoir boucle son epee a son ceinturon, commenca l'escalade,qu'il acheva sans accident. Derriere lui, le barreau reprit saplace, la fenetre se referma, et le page, apres avoir vu entrerpaisiblement son seigneur dans le Louvre, aux fenetres duquel ill'avait accompagne vingt fois de la meme facon, s'alla coucher,enveloppe dans son manteau, sur l'herbe du fosse et a l'ombre dela muraille. Il faisait une nuit sombre, et quelques gouttes d'eautombaient tiedes et larges des nuages charges de soufre etd'electricite.Le duc de Guise suivit sa conductrice, qui n'etait rien moins quela fille de Jacques de Matignon, marechal de France; c'etait laconfidente toute particuliere de Marguerite, qui n'avait aucunsecret pour elle, et l'on pretendait qu'au nombre des mysteresqu'enfermait son incorruptible fidelite, il y en avait de siterribles que c'etaient ceux-la qui la forcaient de garder lesautres.Aucune lumiere n'etait demeuree ni dans les chambres basses nidans les corridors; de temps en temps seulement un eclair livideilluminait les appartements sombres d'un reflet bleuatre quidisparaissait aussitot.Le duc, toujours guide par sa conductrice qui le tenait par lamain, atteignit enfin un escalier en spirale pratique dansl'epaisseur d'un mur et qui s'ouvrait par une porte secrete etinvisible dans l'antichambre de l'appartement de Marguerite.L'antichambre, comme les autres salles du bas, etait dans la plusprofonde obscurite.Arrives dans cette antichambre, Gillonne s'arreta.-- Avez-vous apporte ce que desire la reine? demanda-t-elle a voixbasse.-- Oui, repondit le duc de Guise; mais je ne le remettrai qu'a SaMajeste elle-meme.-- Venez donc et sans perdre un instant! dit alors au milieu del'obscurite une voix qui fit tressaillir le duc, car il lareconnut pour celle de Marguerite.Et en meme temps une portiere de velours violet fleurdelise d'orse soulevant, le duc distingua dans l'ombre la reine elle-meme,qui, impatiente, etait venue au-devant de lui.-- Me voici, madame, dit alors le duc. Et il passa rapidement del'autre cote de la portiere qui retomba derriere lui. Alors cefut, a son tour, a Marguerite de Valois de servir de guide auprince dans cet appartement d'ailleurs bien connu de lui, tandisque Gillonne, restee a la porte, avait, en portant le doigt a sabouche, rassure sa royale maitresse. Comme si elle eut compris lesjalouses inquietudes du duc, Marguerite le conduisit jusque danssa chambre a coucher; la elle s'arreta.-- Eh bien, lui dit-elle, etes-vous content, duc?-- Content, madame, demanda celui-ci, et de quoi, je vous prie?-- De cette preuve que je vous donne, reprit Marguerite avec unleger accent de depit, que j'appartiens a un homme qui, le soir deson mariage, la nuit meme de ses noces, fait assez peu de cas demoi pour n'etre pas meme venu me remercier de l'honneur que je luiai fait non pas en le choisissant, mais en l'acceptant pour epoux.-- Oh! madame, dit tristement le duc, rassurez-vous, il viendra,surtout si vous le desirez.-- Et c'est vous qui dites cela, Henri, s'ecria Marguerite, vousqui, entre tous, savez le contraire de ce que vous dites! Sij'avais le desir que vous me supposez, vous eusse-je donc prie devenir au Louvre?-- Vous m'avez prie de venir au Louvre, Marguerite, parce que vousavez le desir d'eteindre tout vestige de notre passe, et que cepasse vivait non seulement dans mon coeur, mais dans ce coffred'argent que je vous rapporte.-- Henri, voulez-vous que je vous dise une chose? repritMarguerite en regardant fixement le duc, c'est que vous ne mefaites plus l'effet d'un prince, mais d'un ecolier! Moi nier queje vous ai aime! moi vouloir eteindre une flamme qui mourra peut-etre, mais dont le reflet ne mourra pas! Car les amours despersonnes de mon rang illuminent et souvent devorent toutel'epoque qui leur est contemporaine. Non, non, mon duc! Vouspouvez garder les lettres de votre Marguerite et le coffre qu'ellevous a donne. De ces lettres que contient le coffre elle ne vousen demande qu'une seule, et encore parce que cette lettre estaussi dangereuse pour vous que pour elle.-- Tout est a vous, dit le duc; choisissez donc la-dedans celleque vous voudrez aneantir.Marguerite fouilla vivement dans le coffre ouvert, et d'une mainfremissante prit l'une apres l'autre une douzaine de lettres dontelle se contenta de regarder les adresses, comme si a l'inspectionde ces seules adresses sa memoire lui rappelait ce que contenaientces lettres; mais arrivee au bout de l'examen elle regarda le duc,et, toute palissante:-- Monsieur, dit-elle, celle que je cherche n'est pas la.L'auriez-vous perdue, par hasard; car, quant a l'avoir livree...-- Et quelle lettre cherchez-vous, madame?-- Celle dans laquelle je vous disais de vous marier sans retard.-- Pour excuser votre infidelite? Marguerite haussa les epaules.-- Non, mais pour vous sauver la vie. Celle ou je vous disais quele roi, voyant notre amour et les efforts que je faisais pourrompre votre future union avec l'infante de Portugal, avait faitvenir son frere le batard d'Angouleme et lui avait dit en luimontrant deux epees: "De celle-ci tue Henri de Guise ce soir, oude celle-la je te tuerai demain." Cette lettre, ou est-elle?-- La voici, dit le duc de Guise en la tirant de sa poitrine.Marguerite la lui arracha presque des mains, l'ouvrit avidement,s'assura que c'etait bien celle qu'elle reclamait, poussa uneexclamation de joie et l'approcha de la bougie. La flamme secommuniqua aussitot de la meche au papier, qui en un instant futconsume; puis, comme si Marguerite eut craint qu'on put allerchercher l'imprudent avis jusque dans les cendres, elle les ecrasasous son pied.Le duc de Guise, pendant toute cette fievreuse action, avait suivides yeux sa maitresse.-- Eh bien, Marguerite, dit-il quand elle eut fini, etes-vouscontente maintenant?-- Oui; car, maintenant que vous avez epouse la princesse dePorcian, mon frere me pardonnera votre amour; tandis qu'il nem'eut pas pardonne la revelation d'un secret comme celui que, dansma faiblesse pour vous, je n'ai pas eu la puissance de vouscacher.-- C'est vrai, dit le duc de Guise; dans ce temps-la vousm'aimiez.-- Et je vous aime encore, Henri, autant et plus que jamais.-- Vous?...-- Oui, moi; car jamais plus qu'aujourd'hui je n'eus besoin d'unami sincere et devoue. Reine, je n'ai pas de trone; femme, je n'aipas de mari.Le jeune prince secoua tristement la tete.-- Mais quand je vous dis, quand je vous repete, Henri, que monmari non seulement ne m'aime pas, mais qu'il me hait, mais qu'ilme meprise; d'ailleurs, il me semble que votre presence dans lachambre ou il devrait etre fait bien preuve de cette haine et dece mepris.-- Il n'est pas encore tard, madame, et il a fallu au roi deNavarre le temps de congedier ses gentilshommes, et, s'il n'estpas venu, il ne tardera pas a venir.-- Et moi je vous dis, s'ecria Marguerite avec un depit croissant,moi je vous dis qu'il ne viendra pas.-- Madame, s'ecria Gillonne en ouvrant la porte et en soulevant laportiere, madame, le roi de Navarre sort de son appartement.-- Oh! je le savais bien, moi, qu'il viendrait! s'ecria le duc deGuise.-- Henri, dit Marguerite d'une voix breve et en saisissant la maindu duc, Henri, vous allez voir si je suis une femme de parole, etsi l'on peut compter sur ce que j'ai promis une fois. Henri,entrez dans ce cabinet.-- Madame, laissez-moi partir s'il en est temps encore, car songezqu'a la premiere marque d'amour qu'il vous donne je sors de cecabinet, et alors malheur a lui!-- Vous etes fou! entrez, entrez, vous dis-je, je reponds de tout.Et elle poussa le duc dans le cabinet.Il etait temps. La porte etait a peine fermee derriere le princeque le roi de Navarre, escorte de deux pages qui portaient huitflambeaux de cire jaune sur deux candelabres, apparut souriant surle seuil de la chambre.Marguerite cacha son trouble en faisant une profonde reverence.-- Vous n'etes pas encore au lit, madame? demanda le Bearnais avecsa physionomie ouverte et joyeuse; m'attendiez-vous, par hasard?-- Non, monsieur, repondit Marguerite, car hier encore vous m'avezdit que vous saviez bien que notre mariage etait une alliancepolitique, et que vous ne me contraindriez jamais.-- A la bonne heure; mais ce n'est point une raison pour ne pascauser quelque peu ensemble. Gillonne, fermez la porte et laissez-nous.Marguerite, qui etait assise, se leva, et etendit la main commepour ordonner aux pages de rester.-- Faut-il que j'appelle vos femmes? demanda le roi. Je le feraisi tel est votre desir, quoique je vous avoue que, pour les chosesque j'ai a vous dire, j'aimerais mieux que nous fussions en tete-a-tete.Et le roi de Navarre s'avanca vers le cabinet.-- Non! s'ecria Marguerite en s'elancant au-devant de lui avecimpetuosite; non, c'est inutile, et je suis prete a vous entendre.Le Bearnais savait ce qu'il voulait savoir; il jeta un regardrapide et profond vers le cabinet, comme s'il eut voulu, malgre laportiere qui le voilait, penetrer dans ses plus sombresprofondeurs; puis, ramenant ses regards sur sa belle epousee palede terreur:-- En ce cas, madame, dit-il d'une voix parfaitement calme,causons donc un instant.-- Comme il plaira a Votre Majeste, dit la jeune femme enretombant plutot qu'elle ne s'assit sur le siege que lui indiquaitson mari.Le Bearnais se placa pres d'elle.-- Madame, continua-t-il, quoi qu'en aient dit bien des gens,notre mariage est, je le pense, un bon mariage. Je suis bien avous et vous etes bien a moi.-- Mais..., dit Marguerite effrayee.-- Nous devons en consequence, continua le roi de Navarre sansparaitre remarquer l'hesitation de Marguerite, agir l'un avecl'autre comme de bons allies, puisque nous nous sommes aujourd'huijure alliance devant Dieu. N'est-ce pas votre avis?-- Sans doute, monsieur.-- Je sais, madame, combien votre penetration est grande, je saiscombien le terrain de la cour est seme de dangereux abimes; or, jesuis jeune, et, quoique je n'aie jamais fait de mal a personne,j'ai bon nombre d'ennemis. Dans quel camp, madame, dois-je rangercelle qui porte mon nom et qui m'a jure affection au pied del'autel?-- Oh! monsieur, pourriez-vous penser...-- Je ne pense rien, madame, j'espere, et je veux m'assurer quemon esperance est fondee. Il est certain que notre mariage n'estqu'un pretexte ou qu'un piege.Marguerite tressaillit, car peut-etre aussi cette pensee s'etait-elle presentee a son esprit.-- Maintenant, lequel des deux? continua Henri de Navarre. Le roime hait, le duc d'Anjou me hait, le duc d'Alencon me hait,Catherine de Medicis haissait trop ma mere pour ne point me hair.-- Oh! monsieur, que dites-vous?-- La verite, madame, reprit le roi, et je voudrais, afin qu'on necrut pas que je suis dupe de l'assassinat de M. de Mouy et del'empoisonnement de ma mere, je voudrais qu'il y eut ici quelqu'unqui put m'entendre.-- Oh! monsieur, dit vivement Marguerite, et de l'air le pluscalme et le plus souriant qu'elle put prendre, vous savez bienqu'il n'y a ici que vous et moi.-- Et voila justement ce qui fait que je m'abandonne, voila ce quifait que j'ose vous dire que je ne suis dupe ni des caresses queme fait la maison de France, ni de celles que me fait la maison deLorraine.-- Sire! Sire! s'ecria Marguerite.-- Eh bien, qu'y a-t-il, ma mie? demanda Henri souriant a sontour.-- Il y a, monsieur, que de pareils discours sont bien dangereux.-- Non, pas quand on est en tete-a-tete, reprit le roi. Je vousdisais donc...Marguerite etait visiblement au supplice; elle eut voulu arreterchaque parole sur les levres du Bearnais; mais Henri continua avecson apparente bonhomie:-- Je vous disais donc que j'etais menace de tous cotes, menacepar le roi, menace par le duc d'Alencon, menace par le ducd'Anjou, menace par la reine mere, menace par le duc de Guise, parle duc de Mayenne, par le cardinal de Lorraine, menace par tout lemonde, enfin. On sent cela instinctivement; vous le savez, madame.Eh bien! contre toutes ces menaces qui ne peuvent tarder dedevenir des attaques, je puis me defendre avec votre secours; carvous etes aimee, vous, de toutes les personnes qui me detestent.-- Moi? dit Marguerite.-- Oui, vous, reprit Henri de Navarre avec une bonhomie parfaite;oui, vous etes aimee du roi Charles; vous etes aimee, il appuyasur le mot, du duc d'Alencon; vous etes aimee de la reineCatherine; enfin, vous etes aimee du duc de Guise.-- Monsieur..., murmura Marguerite.-- Eh bien! qu'y a-t-il donc d'etonnant que tout le monde vousaime? ceux que je viens de vous nommer sont vos freres ou vosparents. Aimer ses parents ou ses freres, c'est vivre selon lecoeur de Dieu.-- Mais enfin, reprit Marguerite oppressee, ou voulez-vous envenir, monsieur?-- J'en veux venir a ce que je vous ai dit; c'est que si vous vousfaites, je ne dirai pas mon amie, mais mon alliee, je puis toutbraver; tandis qu'au contraire, si vous vous faites mon ennemie,je suis perdu.-- Oh! votre ennemie, jamais, monsieur! s'ecria Marguerite.-- Mais mon amie, jamais non plus?...-- Peut-etre.-- Et mon alliee?-- Certainement. Et Marguerite se retourna et tendit la main auroi.Henri la prit, la baisa galamment, et la gardant dans les siennesbien plus dans un desir d'investigation que par un sentiment detendresse:-- Eh bien, je vous crois, madame, dit-il, et vous accepte pouralliee. Ainsi donc on nous a maries sans que nous nousconnussions, sans que nous nous aimassions; on nous a maries sansnous consulter, nous qu'on mariait. Nous ne nous devons donc riencomme mari et femme. Vous voyez, madame, que je vais au-devant devos voeux, et que je vous confirme ce soir ce que je vous disaishier. Mais nous, nous nous allions librement, sans que personnenous y force, nous, nous allions comme deux coeurs loyaux qui sedoivent protection mutuelle et s'allient; c'est bien comme celaque vous l'entendez?-- Oui, monsieur, dit Marguerite en essayant de retirer sa main.-- Eh bien, continua le Bearnais les yeux toujours fixes sur laporte du cabinet, comme la premiere preuve d'une alliance francheest la confiance la plus absolue, je vais, madame, vous raconterdans ses details les plus secrets le plan que j'ai forme a l'effetde combattre victorieusement toutes ces inimities.-- Monsieur..., murmura Marguerite en tournant a son tour etmalgre elle les yeux vers le cabinet, tandis que le Bearnais,voyant sa ruse reussir, souriait dans sa barbe.-- Voici donc ce que je vais faire, continua-t-il sans paraitreremarquer le trouble de la jeune femme; je vais...-- Monsieur, s'ecria Marguerite en se levant vivement et ensaisissant le roi par le bras, permettez que je respire;l'emotion... la chaleur... j'etouffe.En effet Marguerite etait pale et tremblante comme si elle allaitse laisser choir sur le tapis.Henri marcha droit a une fenetre situee a bonne distance etl'ouvrit. Cette fenetre donnait sur la riviere.Marguerite le suivit.-- Silence! silence! Sire! par pitie pour vous, murmura-t-elle.-- Eh! madame, fit le Bearnais en souriant a sa maniere, nem'avez-vous pas dit que nous etions seuls?-- Oui, monsieur; mais n'avez-vous pas entendu dire qu'a l'aided'une sarbacane, introduite a travers un plafond ou a travers unmur, on peut tout entendre?-- Bien, madame, bien, dit vivement et tout bas le Bearnais. Vousne m'aimez pas, c'est vrai; mais vous etes une honnete femme.-- Que voulez-vous dire, monsieur?-- Je veux dire que si vous etiez capable de me trahir, vousm'eussiez laisse continuer puisque je me trahissais tout seul.Vous m'avez arrete. Je sais maintenant que quelqu'un est cacheici; que vous etes une epouse infidele, mais une fidele alliee, etdans ce moment-ci, ajouta le Bearnais en souriant, j'ai plusbesoin, je l'avoue, de fidelite en politique qu'en amour...-- Sire..., murmura Marguerite confuse.-- Bon, bon, nous parlerons de tout cela plus tard, dit Henri,quand nous nous connaitrons mieux. Puis, haussant la voix:-- Eh bien, continua-t-il, respirez-vous plus librement a cetteheure, madame?-- Oui, Sire, oui, murmura Marguerite.-- En ce cas reprit le Bearnais, je ne veux pas vous importunerplus longtemps. Je vous devais mes respects et quelques avances debonne amitie; veuillez les accepter comme je vous les offre, detout mon coeur. Reposez-vous donc et bonne nuit.Marguerite leva sur son mari un oeil brillant de reconnaissance eta son tour lui tendit la main.-- C'est convenu, dit-elle.-- Alliance politique, franche et loyale? demanda Henri.-- Franche et loyale, repondit la reine. Alors le Bearnais marchavers la porte, attirant du regard Marguerite comme fascinee. Puis,lorsque la portiere fut retombee entre eux et la chambre acoucher:-- Merci, Marguerite, dit vivement Henri a voix basse, merci! Vousetes une vraie fille de France. Je pars tranquille. A defaut devotre amour, votre amitie ne me fera pas defaut. Je compte survous, comme de votre cote vous pouvez compter sur moi. Adieu,madame.Et Henri baisa la main de sa femme en la pressant doucement; puis,d'un pas agile, il retourna chez lui en se disant tout bas dans lecorridor:-- Qui diable est chez elle? Est-ce le roi, est-ce le duc d'Anjou,est-ce le duc d'Alencon, est-ce le duc de Guise, est-ce un frere,est-ce un amant, est-ce l'un et l'autre? En verite, je suispresque fache d'avoir demande maintenant ce rendez-vous a labaronne; mais puisque je lui ai engage ma parole et que Dariolem'attend... n'importe; elle perdra un peu, j'en ai peur, a ce quej'ai passe par la chambre a coucher de ma femme pour aller chezelle, car, ventre-saint-gris! cette Margot, comme l'appelle monbeau-frere Charles IX, est une adorable creature.Et d'un pas dans lequel se trahissait une legere hesitation Henride Navarre monta l'escalier qui conduisait a l'appartement demadame de Sauve.Marguerite l'avait suivi des yeux jusqu'a ce qu'il eut disparu, etalors elle etait rentree dans sa chambre. Elle trouva le duc a laporte du cabinet: cette vue lui inspira presque un remords.De son cote le duc etait grave, et son sourcil fronce denoncaitune amere preoccupation.-- Marguerite est neutre aujourd'hui, dit-il, Marguerite serahostile dans huit jours.-- Ah! vous avez ecoute? dit Marguerite.-- Que vouliez-vous que je fisse dans ce cabinet?-- Et vous trouvez que je me suis conduite autrement que devait seconduire la reine de Navarre?-- Non, mais autrement que devait se conduire la maitresse du ducde Guise.-- Monsieur, repondit la reine, je puis ne pas aimer mon mari,mais personne n'a le droit d'exiger de moi que je le trahisse. Debonne foi, trahiriez-vous le secret de la princesse de Porcian,votre femme?-- Allons, allons, madame, dit le duc en secouant la tete, c'estbien. Je vois que vous ne m'aimez plus comme aux jours ou vous meracontiez ce que tramait le roi contre moi et les miens.-- Le roi etait le fort et vous etiez les faibles. Henri est lefaible et vous etes les forts. Je joue toujours le meme role, vousle voyez bien.-- Seulement vous passez d'un camp a l'autre.-- C'est un droit que j'ai acquis, monsieur, en vous sauvant lavie.-- Bien, madame; et comme quand on se separe on se rend entreamants tout ce qu'on s'est donne, je vous sauverai la vie a montour, si l'occasion s'en presente, et nous serons quittes.Et sur ce le duc s'inclina et sortit sans que Marguerite fit ungeste pour le retenir. Dans l'antichambre il trouva Gillonne, quile conduisit jusqu'a la fenetre du rez-de-chaussee, et dans lesfosses son page avec lequel il retourna a l'hotel de Guise.Pendant ce temps, Marguerite, reveuse, alla se placer a safenetre.-- Quelle nuit de noces! murmura-t-elle; l'epoux me fuit etl'amant me quitte!En ce moment passa de l'autre cote du fosse, venant de la Tour duBois, et remontant vers le moulin de la Monnaie, un ecolier lepoing sur la hanche et chantant:_Pourquoi doncques, quand je veux__Ou mordre tes beaux cheveux,__Ou baiser ta bouche aimee,__Ou toucher a ton beau sein,__Contrefais-tu la nonnain__Dedans un cloitre enfermee?__Pour qui gardes-tu tes yeux__Et ton sein delicieux,__Ton front, ta levre jumelle?__En veux-tu baiser Pluton,__La-bas, apres que Caron__T'aura mise en sa nacelle?__Apres ton dernier trepas,__Belle, tu n'auras la-bas__Qu'une bouchette blemie;__Et quand, mort, je te verrai,__Aux ombres je n'avouerai__Que jadis tu fus ma mie.__Doncques, tandis que tu vis,__Change, maitresse, d'avis,__Et ne m'epargne ta bouche;__Car au jour ou tu mourras,__Lors tu te repentiras__De m'avoir ete farouche._Marguerite ecouta cette chanson en souriant avec melancolie; puis,lorsque la voix de l'ecolier se fut perdue dans le lointain, ellereferma la fenetre et appela Gillonne pour l'aider a se mettre aulit.IIIUn roi poeteLe lendemain et les jours qui suivirent se passerent en fetes,ballets et tournois.La meme fusion continuait de s'operer entre les deux partis.C'etaient des caresses et des attendrissements a faire perdre latete aux plus enrages huguenots. On avait vu le pere Cotton dineret faire debauche avec le baron de Courtaumer, le duc de Guiseremonter la Seine en bateau de symphonie avec le prince de Conde.Le roi Charles paraissait avoir fait divorce avec sa melancoliehabituelle, et ne pouvait plus se passer de son beau-frere Henri.Enfin la reine mere etait si joyeuse et si occupee de broderies,de joyaux et de panaches, qu'elle en perdait le sommeil.Les huguenots, quelque peu amollis par cette Capoue nouvelle,commencaient a revetir les pourpoints de soie, a arborer lesdevises et a parader devant certains balcons comme s'ils eussentete catholiques. De tous cotes c'etait une reaction en faveur dela religion reformee, a croire que toute la cour allait se faireprotestante. L'amiral lui-meme, malgre son experience, s'y etaitlaisse prendre comme les autres, et il en avait la tete tellementmontee, qu'un soir il avait oublie, pendant deux heures, de macherson cure-dent, occupation a laquelle il se livrait d'ordinairedepuis deux heures de l'apres-midi, moment ou son diner finissait,jusqu'a huit heures du soir, moment auquel il se remettait a tablepour souper.Le soir ou l'amiral s'etait laisse aller a cet incroyable oubli deses habitudes, le roi Charles IX avait invite a gouter avec lui,en petit comite, Henri de Navarre et le duc de Guise. Puis, lacollation terminee, il avait passe avec eux dans sa chambre, et lail leur expliquait l'ingenieux mecanisme d'un piege a loups qu'ilavait invente lui-meme, lorsque, s'interrompant tout a coup:-- Monsieur l'amiral ne vient-il donc pas ce soir? demanda-t-il;qui l'a apercu aujourd'hui et qui peut me donner de ses nouvelles?-- Moi, dit le roi de Navarre, et au cas ou Votre Majeste seraitinquiete de sa sante, je pourrais la rassurer, car je l'ai vu cematin a six heures et ce soir a sept.-- Ah! ah! fit le roi, dont les yeux un instant distraits sereposerent avec une curiosite percante sur son beau-frere, vousetes bien matineux, Henriot, pour un jeune marie!-- Oui, Sire, repondit le roi de Bearn, je voulais savoir del'amiral, qui sait tout, si quelques gentilshommes que j'attendsencore ne sont point en route pour venir.-- Des gentilshommes encore! vous en aviez huit cents le jour devos noces, et tous les jours il en arrive de nouveaux, voulez-vousdonc nous envahir? dit Charles IX en riant.Le duc de Guise fronca le sourcil.-- Sire, repliqua le Bearnais, on parle d'une entreprise sur lesFlandres, et je reunis autour de moi tous ceux de mon pays et desenvirons que je crois pouvoir etre utiles a Votre Majeste.Le duc, se rappelant le projet dont le Bearnais avait parle aMarguerite le jour de ses noces, ecouta plus attentivement.-- Bon! bon! repondit le roi avec son sourire fauve, plus il y enaura, plus nous serons contents; amenez, amenez, Henri. Mais quisont ces gentilshommes? des vaillants, j'espere?-- J'ignore, Sire, si mes gentilshommes vaudront jamais ceux deVotre Majeste, ceux de monsieur le duc d'Anjou ou ceux de monsieurde Guise, mais je les connais et sais qu'ils feront de leur mieux.-- En attendez-vous beaucoup?-- Dix ou douze encore.-- Vous les appelez?-- Sire, leurs noms m'echappent, et, a l'exception de l'un d'eux,qui m'est recommande par Teligny comme un gentilhomme accompli etqui s'appelle de la Mole, je ne saurais dire...-- De la Mole! n'est-ce point un Lerac de La Mole, reprit le roifort verse dans la science genealogique, un Provencal?-- Precisement, Sire; comme vous voyez, je recrute jusqu'enProvence.-- Et moi, dit le duc de Guise avec un sourire moqueur, je vaisplus loin encore que Sa Majeste le roi de Navarre, car je vaischercher jusqu'en Piemont tous les catholiques surs que j'y puistrouver.-- Catholiques ou huguenots, interrompit le roi, peu m'importe,pourvu qu'ils soient vaillants.Le roi, pour dire ces paroles qui, dans son esprit, melaienthuguenots et catholiques, avait pris une mine si indifferente quele duc de Guise en fut etonne lui-meme.-- Votre Majeste s'occupe de nos Flamands? dit l'amiral a qui leroi, depuis quelques jours, avait accorde la faveur d'entrer chezlui sans etre annonce, et qui venait d'entendre les dernieresparoles du roi.-- Ah! voici mon pere l'amiral, s'ecria Charles IX en ouvrant lesbras; on parle de guerre, de gentilshommes, de vaillants, et ilarrive; ce que c'est que l'aimant, le fer s'y tourne; mon beau-frere de Navarre et mon cousin de Guise attendent des renfortspour votre armee. Voila ce dont il etait question.-- Et ces renforts arrivent, dit l'amiral.-- Avez-vous eu des nouvelles, monsieur? demanda le Bearnais.-- Oui, mon fils, et particulierement de M. de La Mole; il etaithier a Orleans, et sera demain ou apres-demain a Paris.-- Peste! monsieur l'amiral est donc necromant, pour savoir ainsice qui se fait a trente ou quarante lieues de distance! Quant amoi, je voudrais bien savoir avec pareille certitude ce qui sepassa ou ce qui s'est passe devant Orleans!Coligny resta impassible a ce trait sanglant du duc de Guise,lequel faisait evidemment allusion a la mort de Francois de Guise,son pere, tue devant Orleans par Poltrot de Mere, non sans soupconque l'amiral eut conseille le crime.-- Monsieur, repliqua-t-il froidement et avec dignite, je suisnecromant toutes les fois que je veux savoir bien positivement cequi importe a mes affaires ou a celles du roi.Mon courrier est arrive d'Orleans il y a une heure, et, grace a laposte, a fait trente-deux lieues dans la journee. M. de La Mole,qui voyage sur son cheval, n'en fait que dix par jour, lui, etarrivera seulement le 24. Voila toute la magie.-- Bravo, mon pere! bien repondu, dit Charles IX. Montrez a cesjeunes gens que c'est la sagesse en meme temps que l'age qui ontfait blanchir votre barbe et vos cheveux: aussi allons-nous lesenvoyer parler de leurs tournois et de leurs amours, et resterensemble a parler de nos guerres. Ce sont les bons cavaliers quifont les bons rois, mon pere. Allez, messieurs, j'ai a causer avecl'amiral.Les deux jeunes gens sortirent, le roi de Navarre d'abord, le ducde Guise ensuite; mais, hors de la porte, chacun tourna de soncote apres une froide reverence.Coligny les avait suivis des yeux avec une certaine inquietude,car il ne voyait jamais rapprocher ces deux haines sans craindrequ'il n'en jaillit quelque nouvel eclair. Charles IX comprit cequi se passait dans son esprit, vint a lui, et appuyant son brasau sien:-- Soyez tranquille, mon pere, je suis la pour maintenir chacundans l'obeissance et le respect. Je suis veritablement roi depuisque ma mere n'est plus reine, et elle n'est plus reine depuis queColigny est mon pere.-- Oh! Sire, dit l'amiral, la reine Catherine...-- Est une brouillonne. Avec elle il n'y a pas de paix possible.Ces catholiques italiens sont enrages et n'entendent rien qu'aexterminer. Moi, tout au contraire, non seulement je veuxpacifier, mais encore je veux donner de la puissance a ceux de lareligion. Les autres sont trop dissolus, mon pere, et ils mescandalisent par leurs amours et par leurs dereglements. Tiens,veux-tu que je te parle franchement, continua Charles IX enredoublant d'epanchement, je me defie de tout ce qui m'entoure,excepte de mes nouveaux amis! L'ambition des Tavannes m'estsuspecte. Vieilleville n'aime que le bon vin, et il serait capablede trahir son roi pour une tonne de malvoisie. Montmorency ne sesoucie que de la chasse, et passe son temps entre ses chiens etses faucons. Le comte de Retz est Espagnol, les Guises sontLorrains: il n'y a de vrais Francais en France, je crois, Dieu mepardonne! que moi, mon beau-frere de Navarre et toi. Mais, moi, jesuis enchaine au trone et ne puis commander des armees. C'est toutau plus si on me laisse chasser a mon aise a Saint-Germain et aRambouillet. Mon beau-frere de Navarre est trop jeune et trop peuexperimente. D'ailleurs, il me semble en tout point tenir de sonpere Antoine que les femmes ont toujours perdu. Il n'y a que toi,mon pere, qui sois a la fois brave comme Julius Cesar, et sagecomme Plato. Aussi, je ne sais ce que je dois faire, en verite: tegarder comme conseiller ici, ou t'envoyer la-bas comme general. Situ me conseilles, qui commandera? Si tu commandes, qui meconseillera?-- Sire, dit Coligny, il faut vaincre d'abord, puis le conseilviendra apres la victoire.-- C'est ton avis, mon pere? eh bien, soit. Il sera fait selon tonavis. Lundi tu partiras pour les Flandres, et moi, pour Amboise.-- Votre Majeste quitte Paris?-- Oui. Je suis fatigue de tout ce bruit et de toutes ces fetes.Je ne suis pas un homme d'action, moi, je suis un reveur. Jen'etais pas ne pour etre roi, j'etais ne pour etre poete. Tu ferasune espece de conseil qui gouvernera tant que tu seras a laguerre; et pourvu que ma mere n'en soit pas, tout ira bien. Moi,j'ai deja prevenu Ronsard de venir me rejoindre; et la, tous lesdeux loin du bruit, loin du monde, loin des mechants, sous nosgrands bois, aux bords de la riviere, au murmure des ruisseaux,nous parlerons des choses de Dieu, seule compensation qu'il y aiten ce monde aux choses des hommes. Tiens, ecoute ces vers, parlesquels je l'invite a me rejoindre; je les ai faits ce matin.Coligny sourit. Charles IX passa sa main sur son front jaune etpoli comme de l'ivoire, et dit avec une espece de chant cadenceles vers suivants:_Ronsard, je connais bien que si tu ne me vois__Tu oublies soudain de ton grand roi la voix,__Mais, pour ton souvenir, pense que je n'oublie__Continuer toujours d'apprendre en poesie,__Et pour ce j'ai voulu t'envoyer cet ecrit,__Pour enthousiasmer ton fantastique esprit.__Donc ne t'amuse plus aux soins de ton menage,__Maintenant n'est plus temps de faire jardinage;__Il faut suivre ton roi, qui t'aime par sus tous,__Pour les vers qui de toi coulent braves et doux,__Et crois, si tu ne viens me trouver a Amboise,__Qu'entre nous adviendra une bien grande noise.__-- _Bravo! Sire, bravo! dit Coligny; je me connais mieux enchoses de guerre qu'en choses de poesie, mais il me semble que cesvers valent les plus beaux que fassent Ronsard, Dorat et memeMichel de l'Hospital, chancelier de France.-- Ah! mon pere! s'ecria Charles IX, que ne dis-tu vrai! car letitre de poete, vois-tu, est celui que j'ambitionne avant touteschoses; et, comme je le disais il y a quelques jours a mon maitreen poesie:_L'art de faire des vers, dut-on s'en indigner, Doit etre a plushaut prix que celui de regner; Tous deux egalement nous portonsdes couronnes: Mais roi, je les recus, poete, tu les donnes; Tonesprit, enflamme d'une celeste ardeur, Eclate par soi-meme et moipar ma grandeur. Si du cote des dieux je cherche l'avantage,Ronsard est leur mignon et je suis leur image. Ta lyre, qui ravitpar de si doux accords, Te soumet les esprits dont je n'ai que lescorps; Elle t'en rend le maitre et te fait introduire Ou le plusfier tyran n'a jamais eu d'empire.__-- _Sire, dit Coligny, je savais bien que Votre Majestes'entretenait avec les Muses, mais j'ignorais qu'elle en eut faitson principal conseil.-- Apres toi, mon pere, apres toi; et c'est pour ne pas metroubler dans mes relations avec elles que je veux te mettre a latete de toutes choses. Ecoute donc: il faut en ce moment que jereponde a un nouveau madrigal que mon grand et cher poete m'aenvoye... je ne puis donc te donner a cette heure tous les papiersqui sont necessaires pour te mettre au courant de la grandequestion qui nous divise, Philippe II et moi. Il y a, en outre,une espece de plan de campagne qui avait ete fait par mesministres. Je te chercherai tout cela et je te le remettrai demainmatin.-- A quelle heure, Sire?-- A dix heures; et si par hasard j'etais occupe de vers, sij'etais enferme dans mon cabinet de travail... eh bien, tuentrerais tout de meme, et tu prendrais tous les papiers que tutrouverais sur cette table, enfermes dans ce portefeuille rouge;la couleur est eclatante, et tu ne t'y tromperas pas; moi, je vaisecrire a Ronsard.-- Adieu, Sire.-- Adieu, mon pere.-- Votre main?-- Que dis-tu, ma main? dans mes bras, sur mon coeur, c'est la taplace. Viens, mon vieux guerrier, viens. Et Charles IX, attirant alui Coligny qui s'inclinait, posa ses levres sur ses cheveuxblancs. L'amiral sortit en essuyant une larme.Charles IX le suivit des yeux tant qu'il put le voir, tenditl'oreille tant qu'il put l'entendre; puis, lorsqu'il ne vit etn'entendit plus rien, il laissa, comme c'etait son habitude,retomber sa tete pale sur son epaule, et passa lentement de lachambre ou il se trouvait dans son cabinet d'armes.Ce cabinet etait la demeure favorite du roi; c'etait la qu'ilprenait ses lecons d'escrime avec Pompee, et ses lecons de poesieavec Ronsard. Il y avait reuni une grande collection d'armesoffensives et defensives des plus belles qu'il avait pu trouver.Aussi toutes les murailles etaient tapissees de haches, deboucliers, de piques, de hallebardes, de pistolets et demousquetons, et le jour meme un celebre armurier lui avait apporteune magnifique arquebuse sur le canon de laquelle etaientincrustes en argent ces quatre vers que le poete royal avaitcomposes lui-meme:_Pour maintenir la foy,__Je suis belle et fidele;__Aux ennemis du roy__Je suis belle et cruelle._Charles IX entra donc, comme nous l'avons dit, dans ce cabinet,et, apres avoir ferme la porte principale par laquelle il etaitentre, il alla soulever une tapisserie qui masquait un passagedonnant sur une chambre ou une femme agenouillee devant un prie-Dieu disait ses prieres.Comme ce mouvement s'etait fait avec lenteur et que les pas duroi, assourdis par le tapis, n'avaient pas eu plus deretentissement que ceux d'un fantome, la femme agenouillee,n'ayant rien entendu, ne se retourna point et continua de prier,Charles demeura un instant debout, pensif et la regardant.C'etait une femme de trente-quatre a trente-cinq ans, dont labeaute vigoureuse etait relevee par le costume des paysannes desenvirons de Caux. Elle portait le haut bonnet qui avait ete sifort a la mode a la Cour de France pendant le regne d'Isabeau deBaviere, et son corsage rouge etait tout brode d'or, comme le sontaujourd'hui les corsages des contadines de Nettuno et de Sora.L'appartement qu'elle occupait depuis tantot vingt ans etaitcontigu a la chambre a coucher du roi, et offrait un singuliermelange d'elegance et de rusticite. C'est qu'en proportion a peupres egale, le palais avait deteint sur la chaumiere, et lachaumiere sur le palais. De sorte que cette chambre tenait unmilieu entre la simplicite de la villageoise et le luxe de lagrande dame. En effet, le prie-Dieu sur lequel elle etaitagenouillee etait de bois de chene merveilleusement sculpte,recouvert de velours a crepines d'or; tandis que la bible, carcette femme etait de la religion reformee, tandis que la bibledans laquelle elle lisait ses prieres etait un de ces vieux livresa moitie dechires, comme on en trouve dans les plus pauvresmaisons.Or, tout etait a l'avenant de ce prie-Dieu et de cette bible.-- Eh! Madelon! dit le roi.La femme agenouillee releva la tete en souriant, a cette voixfamiliere; puis, se levant:-- Ah! c'est toi, mon fils! dit-elle.-- Oui, nourrice, viens ici.Charles IX laissa retomber la portiere et alla s'asseoir sur lebras du fauteuil. La nourrice parut.-- Que me veux-tu, Charlot? dit-elle.-- Viens ici et reponds tout bas. La nourrice s'approcha aveccette familiarite qui pouvait venir de cette tendresse maternelleque la femme concoit pour l'enfant qu'elle a allaite, mais alaquelle les pamphlets du temps donnent une source infinimentmoins pure.-- Me voila, dit-elle, parle.-- L'homme que j'ai fait demander est-il la?-- Depuis une demi-heure.Charles se leva, s'approcha de la fenetre, regarda si personnen'etait aux aguets, s'approcha de la porte, tendit l'oreille pours'assurer que personne n'etait aux ecoutes, secoua la poussiere deses trophees d'armes, caressa un grand levrier qui le suivait pasa pas, s'arretant quand son maitre s'arretait, reprenant sa marchequand son maitre se remettait en mouvement; puis, revenant a sanourrice:-- C'est bon, nourrice, fais-le entrer. La bonne femme sortit parle meme passage qui lui avait donne entree, tandis que le roiallait s'appuyer a une table sur laquelle etaient posees des armesde toute espece. Il y etait a peine, que la portiere se souleva denouveau et donna passage a celui qu'il attendait. C'etait un hommede quarante ans a peu pres, a l'oeil gris et faux, au nez recourbeen bec de chat-huant, au facies elargi par des pommettessaillantes: son visage essaya d'exprimer le respect et ne putfournir qu'un sourire hypocrite sur ses levres blemies par lapeur. Charles allongea doucement derriere lui une main qui seporta sur un pommeau de pistolet de nouvelle invention, et quipartait a l'aide d'une pierre mise en contact avec une roued'acier, au lieu de partir a l'aide d'une meche, et regarda de sonoeil terne le nouveau personnage que nous venons de mettre enscene; pendant cet examen il sifflait avec une justesse et memeavec une melodie remarquable un de ses airs de chasse favoris.Apres quelques secondes, pendant lesquelles le visage del'etranger se decomposa de plus en plus:-- C'est bien vous, dit le roi, que l'on nomme Francois deLouviers-Maurevel?-- Oui, Sire.-- Commandant des petardiers?-- Oui, Sire.-- J'ai voulu vous voir. Maurevel s'inclina.-- Vous savez, continua Charles en appuyant sur chaque mot, quej'aime egalement tous mes sujets.-- Je sais, balbutia Maurevel, que Votre Majeste est le pere deson peuple.-- Et que huguenots et catholiques sont egalement mes enfants.Maurevel resta muet; seulement, le tremblement qui agitait soncorps devint visible au regard percant du roi, quoique celuiauquel il adressait la parole fut presque cache dans l'ombre.-- Cela vous contrarie, continua le roi, vous qui avez fait une sirude guerre aux huguenots? Maurevel tomba a genoux.-- Sire, balbutia-t-il, croyez bien...-- Je crois, continua Charles IX en arretant de plus en plus surMaurevel un regard qui, de vitreux qu'il etait d'abord, devenaitpresque flamboyant; je crois que vous aviez bien envie de tuer aMoncontour M. l'amiral qui sort d'ici; je crois que vous avezmanque votre coup, et qu'alors vous etes passe dans l'armee du ducd'Anjou, notre frere; enfin, je crois qu'alors vous etes passe uneseconde fois chez les princes, et que vous y avez pris du servicedans la compagnie de M. de Mouy de Saint-Phale...-- Oh! Sire!-- Un brave gentilhomme picard?-- Sire, Sire, s'ecria Maurevel, ne m'accablez pas!-- C'etait un digne officier, continua Charles IX, -- et au fur eta mesure qu'il parlait, une expression de cruaute presque ferocese peignait sur son visage, -- lequel vous accueillit comme unfils, vous logea, vous habilla, vous nourrit.Maurevel laissa echapper un soupir de desespoir.-- Vous l'appeliez votre pere, je crois, continua impitoyablementle roi, et une tendre amitie vous liait au jeune de Mouy, sonfils?Maurevel, toujours a genoux, se courbait de plus en plus, ecrasesous la parole de Charles IX, debout, impassible et pareil a unestatue dont les levres seules eussent ete douees de vie.-- A propos continua le roi, n'etait-ce pas dix mille ecus quevous deviez toucher de M. de Guise au cas ou vous tueriezl'amiral?L'assassin, consterne, frappait le parquet de son front.-- Quant au sieur de Mouy, votre bon pere, un jour vousl'escortiez dans une reconnaissance qu'il poussait vers Chevreux.Il laissa tomber son fouet et mit pied a terre pour le ramasser.Vous etiez seul avec lui, alors vous prites un pistolet dans vosfontes, et, tandis qu'il se penchait, vous lui brisates les reins;puis le voyant mort, car vous le tuates du coup, vous prites lafuite sur le cheval qu'il vous avait donne. Voila l'histoire, jecrois?Et comme Maurevel demeurait muet sous cette accusation, dontchaque detail etait vrai, Charles IX se remit a siffler avec lameme justesse et la meme melodie le meme air de chasse.-- Or la, maitre assassin, dit-il au bout d'un instant, savez-vousque j'ai grande envie de vous faire pendre?-- Oh! Majeste! s'ecria Maurevel.-- Le jeune de Mouy m'en suppliait encore hier, et en verite je nesavais que lui repondre, car sa demande est fort juste.Maurevel joignit les mains.-- D'autant plus juste que, comme vous le disiez, je suis le perede mon peuple, et que, comme je vous repondais, maintenant que mevoila raccommode avec les huguenots ils sont tout aussi bien mesenfants que les catholiques.-- Sire, dit Maurevel completement decourage, ma vie est entre vosmains, faites-en ce que vous voudrez.-- Vous avez raison, et je n'en donnerais pas une obole.-- Mais, Sire, demanda l'assassin, n'y a-t-il donc pas un moyen deracheter mon crime?-- Je n'en connais guere. Toutefois, si j'etais a votre place, cequi n'est pas, Dieu merci! ...-- Eh bien, Sire! si vous etiez a ma place?... murmura Maurevel,le regard suspendu aux levres de Charles.-- Je crois que je me tirerais d'affaire, continua le roi.Maurevel se releva sur un genou et sur une main en fixant ses yeuxsur Charles pour s'assurer qu'il ne raillait pas.-- J'aime beaucoup le jeune de Mouy, sans doute, continua le roi,mais j'aime beaucoup aussi mon cousin de Guise; et si lui medemandait la vie d'un homme dont l'autre me demanderait la mort,j'avoue que je serais fort embarrasse. Cependant, en bonnepolitique comme en bonne religion, je devrais faire ce que medemanderait mon cousin de Guise, car de Mouy, tout vaillantcapitaine qu'il est, est bien petit compagnon, compare a un princede Lorraine.Pendant ces paroles, Maurevel se redressait lentement et comme unhomme qui revient a la vie.-- Or, l'important pour vous serait donc, dans la situationextreme ou vous etes, de gagner la faveur de mon cousin de Guise;et a ce propos je me rappelle une chose qu'il me contait hier.Maurevel se rapprocha d'un pas.-- "Figurez-vous, Sire, me disait-il, que tous les matins, a dixheures, passe dans la rue Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois, revenant duLouvre, mon ennemi mortel; je le vois passer d'une fenetre grilleedu rez-de-chaussee; c'est la fenetre du logis de mon ancienprecepteur, le chanoine Pierre Piles. Je vois donc passer tous lesjours mon ennemi, et tous les jours je prie le diable de l'abimerdans les entrailles de la terre." Dites donc, maitre Maurevel,continua Charles, si vous etiez le diable, ou si du moins pour uninstant vous preniez sa place, cela ferait peut-etre plaisir a moncousin de Guise?Maurevel retrouva son infernal sourire, et ses levres, palesencore d'effroi, laisserent tomber ces mots:-- Mais, Sire, je n'ai pas le pouvoir d'ouvrir la terre, moi.-- Vous l'avez ouverte, cependant, s'il m'en souvient bien, aubrave de Mouy. Apres cela, vous me direz que c'est avec unpistolet... Ne l'avez-vous plus, ce pistolet?...-- Pardonnez, Sire, reprit le brigand a peu pres rassure, mais jetire mieux encore l'arquebuse que le pistolet.-- Oh! fit Charles IX, pistolet ou arquebuse, peu importe, et moncousin de Guise, j'en suis sur, ne chicanera pas sur le choix dumoyen!-- Mais, dit Maurevel, il me faudrait une arme sur la justesse delaquelle je pusse compter, car peut-etre me faudra-t-il tirer deloin.-- J'ai dix arquebuses dans cette chambre, reprit Charles IX, aveclesquelles je touche un ecu d'or a cent cinquante pas. Voulez-vousen essayer une?-- Oh! Sire! avec la plus grande joie, s'ecria Maurevel ens'avancant vers celle qui etait deposee dans un coin, et qu'onavait apportee le jour meme a Charles IX.-- Non, pas celle-la, dit le roi, pas celle-la, je la reserve pourmoi-meme. J'aurai un de ces jours une grande chasse, ou j'esperequ'elle me servira. Mais toute autre a votre choix.Maurevel detacha une arquebuse d'un trophee.-- Maintenant, cet ennemi, Sire, quel est-il? demanda l'assassin.-- Est-ce que je sais cela, moi? repondit Charles IX en ecrasantle miserable de son regard dedaigneux.-- Je le demanderai donc a M. de Guise, balbutia Maurevel. Le roihaussa les epaules.-- Ne demandez rien, dit-il; M. de Guise ne repondrait pas. Est-cequ'on repond a ces choses-la? C'est a ceux qui ne veulent pas etrependus a deviner.-- Mais enfin a quoi le reconnaitrai-je?-- Je vous ai dit que tous les matins a dix heures il passaitdevant la fenetre du chanoine.-- Mais beaucoup passent devant cette fenetre. Que Votre Majestedaigne seulement m'indiquer un signe quelconque.-- Oh! c'est bien facile. Demain, par exemple, il tiendra sous sonbras un portefeuille de maroquin rouge.-- Sire, il suffit.-- Vous avez toujours ce cheval que vous a donne M. de Mouy, etqui court si bien?-- Sire, j'ai un barbe des plus vites.-- Oh! je ne suis pas en peine de vous! seulement il est bon quevous sachiez que le cloitre a une porte de derriere.-- Merci, Sire. Maintenant priez Dieu pour moi.-- Eh! mille demons! priez le diable bien plutot; car ce n'est quepar sa protection que vous pouvez eviter la corde.-- Adieu, Sire.-- Adieu. Ah! a propos, monsieur de Maurevel, vous savez que sid'une facon quelconque on entend parler de vous demain avant dixheures du matin, ou si l'on n'en entend pas parler apres, il y aune oubliette au Louvre!Et Charles IX se remit a siffler tranquillement et plus juste quejamais son air favori.IVLa soiree du 24 aout 1572Notre lecteur n'a pas oublie que dans le chapitre precedent il aete question d'un gentilhomme nomme La Mole, attendu avec quelqueimpatience par Henri de Navarre. Ce jeune gentilhomme, commel'avait annonce l'amiral, entrait a Paris par la porte Saint-Marcel vers la fin de la journee du 24 aout 1572, et jetant unregard assez dedaigneux sur les nombreuses hotelleries quietalaient a sa droite et a sa gauche leurs pittoresques enseignes,laissa penetrer son cheval tout fumant jusqu'au coeur de la ville,ou, apres avoir traverse la place Maubert, le Petit-Pont, le pontNotre-Dame, et longe les quais, il s'arreta au bout de la rue deBresec, dont nous avons fait depuis la rue de l'Arbre-Sec, et alaquelle, pour la plus grande facilite de nos lecteurs, nousconserverons son nom moderne.Le nom lui plut sans doute, car il y entra, et comme a sa gaucheune magnifique plaque de tole grincant sur sa tringle, avecaccompagnement de sonnettes, appelait son attention, il fit uneseconde halte pour lire ces mots: _A la Belle-Etoile_, ecrits enlegende sous une peinture qui representait le simulacre le plusflatteur pour un voyageur affame: c'etait une volaille rotissantau milieu d'un ciel noir, tandis qu'un homme a manteau rougetendait vers cet astre d'une nouvelle espece ses bras, sa bourseet ses voeux.-- Voila, se dit le gentilhomme, une auberge qui s'annonce bien,et l'hote qui la tient doit etre, sur mon ame, un ingenieuxcompere. J'ai toujours entendu dire que la rue de l'Arbre-Secetait dans le quartier du Louvre; et pour peu que l'etablissementreponde a l'enseigne, je serai a merveille ici.Pendant que le nouveau venu se debitait a lui-meme ce monologue,un autre cavalier, entre par l'autre bout de la rue, c'est-a-direpar la rue Saint-Honore, s'arretait et demeurait aussi en extasedevant l'enseigne de la Belle-Etoile.Celui des deux que nous connaissons, de nom du moins, montait uncheval blanc de race espagnole, et etait vetu d'un pourpoint noir,garni de jais. Son manteau etait de velours violet fonce: ilportait des bottes de cuir noir, une epee a poignee de fer cisele,et un poignard pareil. Maintenant, si nous passons de son costumea son visage, nous dirons que c'etait un homme de vingt-quatre avingt-cinq ans, au teint basane, aux yeux bleus, a la finemoustache, aux dents eclatantes, qui semblaient eclairer sa figurelorsque s'ouvrait, pour sourire d'un sourire doux et melancolique,une bouche d'une forme exquise et de la plus parfaite distinction.Quant au second voyageur, il formait avec le premier venu uncontraste complet. Sous son chapeau, a bords retrousses,apparaissaient, riches et crepus, des cheveux plutot roux queblonds; sous ses cheveux, un oeil gris brillait a la moindrecontrariete d'un feu si resplendissant, qu'on eut dit alors unoeil noir.Le reste du visage se composait d'un teint rose, d'une levremince, surmontee d'une moustache fauve et de dents admirables.C'etait en somme, avec sa peau blanche, sa haute taille et seslarges epaules, un fort beau cavalier dans l'acception ordinairedu mot, et depuis une heure qu'il levait le nez vers toutes lesfenetres, sous le pretexte d'y chercher des enseignes, les femmesl'avaient fort regarde; quant aux hommes, qui avaient peut-etreeprouve quelque envie de rire en voyant son manteau etrique, seschausses collantes et ses bottes d'une forme antique, ils avaientacheve ce rire commence par un _Dieu vous garde! _des plusgracieux, a l'examen de cette physionomie qui prenait en uneminute dix expressions differentes, sauf toutefois l'expressionbienveillante qui caracterise toujours la figure du provincialembarrasse.Ce fut lui qui s'adressa le premier a l'autre gentilhomme qui,ainsi que nous l'avons dit, regardait l'hotellerie de la Belle-Etoile.-- Mordi! monsieur, dit-il avec cet horrible accent de la montagnequi ferait au premier mot reconnaitre un Piemontais entre centetrangers, ne sommes-nous pas ici pres du Louvre? En tout cas, jecrois que vous avez eu meme gout que moi: c'est flatteur pour maseigneurie.-- Monsieur, repondit l'autre avec un accent provencal qui ne lecedait en rien a l'accent piemontais de son compagnon, je crois eneffet que cette hotellerie est pres du Louvre. Cependant, je medemande encore si j'aurai l'honneur d'avoir ete de votre avis. Jeme consulte.-- Vous n'etes pas decide, monsieur? la maison est flatteuse,pourtant. Apres cela, peut-etre me suis-je laisse tenter par votrepresence. Avouez neanmoins que voila une jolie peinture?-- Oh! sans doute; mais c'est justement ce qui me fait douter dela realite: Paris est plein de pipeurs, m'a-t-on dit, et l'on pipeavec une enseigne aussi bien qu'avec autre chose.-- Mordi! monsieur, reprit le Piemontais, je ne m'inquiete pas dela piperie, moi, et si l'hote me fournit une volaille moins bienrotie que celle de son enseigne, je le mets a la broche lui-memeet je ne le quitte pas qu'il ne soit convenablement rissole.Entrons, monsieur.-- Vous achevez de me decider, dit le Provencal en riant; montrez-moi donc le chemin, monsieur, je vous prie.-- Oh! monsieur, sur mon ame, je n'en ferai rien, car je ne suisque votre humble serviteur, le comte Annibal de Coconnas.-- Et moi, monsieur, je ne suis que le comte Joseph-Hyacinthe-Boniface de Lerac de la Mole, tout a votre service.-- En ce cas, monsieur, prenons-nous par le bras et entronsensemble.Le resultat de cette proposition conciliatrice fut que les deuxjeunes gens qui descendirent de leurs chevaux en jeterent la brideaux mains d'un palefrenier, se prirent par le bras, et, ajustantleurs epees, se dirigerent vers la porte de l'hotellerie, sur leseuil de laquelle se tenait l'hote. Mais, contre l'habitude de cessortes de gens, le digne proprietaire n'avait paru faire aucuneattention a eux, occupe qu'il etait de conferer tres attentivementavec un grand gaillard sec et jaune enfoui dans un manteau couleurd'amadou, comme un hibou sous ses plumes.Les deux gentilshommes etaient arrives si pres de l'hote et del'homme au manteau amadou avec lequel il causait, que Coconnas,impatiente de ce peu d'importance qu'on accordait a lui et a soncompagnon, tira la manche de l'hote. Celui-ci parut alors sereveiller en sursaut et congedia son interlocuteur par un "Aurevoir. Venez tantot, et surtout tenez-moi au courant de l'heure."-- Eh! monsieur le drole, dit Coconnas, ne voyez-vous pas que l'ona affaire a vous?-- Ah! pardon, messieurs, dit l'hote; je ne vous voyais pas.-- Eh! mordi! il fallait nous voir; et maintenant que vous nousavez vus, au lieu de dire "monsieur" tout court, dites "monsieurle comte", s'il vous plait.La Mole se tenait derriere, laissant parler Coconnas, quiparaissait avoir pris l'affaire a son compte.Cependant il etait facile de voir a ses sourcils fronces qu'iletait pret a lui venir en aide quand le moment d'agir seraitarrive.-- Eh bien, que desirez-vous, monsieur le comte? demanda l'hote duton le plus calme.-- Bien... c'est deja mieux, n'est-ce pas? dit Coconnas en seretournant vers La Mole, qui fit de la tete un signe affirmatif.Nous desirons, M. le comte et moi, attires que nous sommes parvotre enseigne, trouver a souper et a coucher dans votrehotellerie.-- Messieurs, dit l'hote, je suis au desespoir; mais il n'y aqu'une chambre, et je crains que cela ne puisse vous convenir.-- Eh bien, ma foi, tant mieux, dit La Mole; nous irons logerailleurs.-- Ah! mais non, mais non, dit Coconnas. Je demeure, moi; moncheval est harasse. Je prends donc la chambre, puisque vous n'envoulez pas.-- Ah! c'est autre chose, repondit l'hote en conservant toujoursle meme flegme impertinent. Si vous n'etes qu'un, je ne puis pasvous loger du tout.-- Mordi! s'ecria Coconnas, voici, sur ma foi! un plaisant animal.Tout a l'heure nous etions trop de deux, maintenant nous ne sommespas assez d'un! Tu ne veux donc pas nous loger, drole?-- Ma foi, messieurs, puisque vous le prenez sur ce ton, je vousrepondrai avec franchise.-- Reponds, alors, mais reponds vite.-- Eh bien, j'aime mieux ne pas avoir l'honneur de vous loger.-- Parce que?... demanda Coconnas blemissant de colere.-- Parce que vous n'avez pas de laquais, et que, pour une chambrede maitre pleine, cela me ferait deux chambres de laquais vides.Or, si je vous donne la chambre de maitre, je risque fort de nepas louer les autres.-- Monsieur de La Mole, dit Coconnas en se retournant, ne voussemble-t-il pas comme a moi que nous allons massacrer ce gaillard-la?-- Mais c'est faisable, dit La Mole en se preparant comme soncompagnon a rouer l'hotelier de coups de fouet.Mais malgre cette double demonstration, qui n'avait rien de bienrassurant de la part de deux gentilshommes qui paraissaient sidetermines, l'hotelier ne s'etonna point, et se contentant dereculer d'un pas afin d'etre chez lui:-- On voit, dit-il en goguenardant, que ces messieurs arrivent deprovince. A Paris, la mode est passee de massacrer les aubergistesqui refusent de louer leurs chambres. Ce sont les grands seigneursqu'on massacre et non les bourgeois, et si vous criez trop fort,je vais appeler mes voisins; de sorte que ce sera vous qui serezroues de coups, traitement tout a fait indigne de deuxgentilshommes.-- Mais il se moque de nous, s'ecria Coconnas exaspere, mordi!-- Gregoire, mon arquebuse! dit l'hote en s'adressant a son valet,du meme ton qu'il eut dit: "Un siege a ces messieurs."-- _Trippe del papa_! hurla Coconnas en tirant son epee; maisechauffez-vous donc, monsieur de La Mole!-- Non pas, s'il vous plait, non pas; car tandis que nous nousechaufferons, le souper refroidira, lui.-- Comment! vous trouvez? s'ecria Coconnas.-- Je trouve que M. de la Belle-Etoile a raison; seulement il saitmal prendre ses voyageurs, surtout quand ces voyageurs sont desgentilshommes. Au lieu de nous dire brutalement: Messieurs, je neveux pas de vous, il aurait mieux fait de nous dire avecpolitesse: Entrez, messieurs, quitte a mettre sur son memoire:_chambre de maitre, tant; chambre de laquais, tant; _attendu quesi nous n'avons pas de laquais nous comptons en prendre.Et, ce disant, La Mole ecarta doucement l'hotelier, qui etendaitdeja la main vers son arquebuse, fit passer Coconnas et entraderriere lui dans la maison.-- N'importe, dit Coconnas, j'ai bien de la peine a remettre monepee dans le fourreau avant de m'etre assure qu'elle pique aussibien que les lardoires de ce gaillard-la.-- Patience, mon cher compagnon, dit La Mole, patience! Toutes lesauberges sont pleines de gentilshommes attires a Paris pour lesfetes du mariage ou pour la guerre prochaine de Flandre, nous netrouverions plus d'autres logis; et puis, c'est peut-etre lacoutume a Paris de recevoir ainsi les etrangers qui y arrivent.-- Mordi! comme vous etes patient! murmura Coconnas en tortillantde rage sa moustache rouge et en foudroyant l'hote de ses regards.Mais que le coquin prenne garde a lui: si sa cuisine est mauvaise,si son lit est dur, si son vin n'a pas trois ans de bouteille, sison valet n'est pas souple comme un jonc....-- La, la, la, mon gentilhomme, fit l'hote en aiguisant sur unrepassoir le couteau de sa ceinture; la, tranquillisez-vous, vousetes en pays de Cocagne.Puis tout bas et en secouant la tete:-- C'est quelque huguenot, murmura-t-il; les traitres sont siinsolents depuis le mariage de leur Bearnais avec mademoiselleMargot!Puis, avec un sourire qui eut fait frissonner ses hotes s'ilsl'avaient vu, il ajouta:-- Eh! eh! ce serait drole qu'il me fut justement tombe deshuguenots ici... et que...-- Ca! souperons-nous? demanda aigrement Coconnas, interrompantles apartes de son hote.-- Mais, comme il vous plaira, monsieur, repondit celui-ci,radouci sans doute par la derniere pensee qui lui etait venue.-- Eh bien, il nous plait, et promptement, repondit Coconnas. Puisse retournant vers La Mole:-- Ca, monsieur le comte, tandis que l'on nous prepare notrechambre, dites moi: est-ce par hasard vous avez trouve Paris uneville gaie, vous?-- Ma foi, non, dit La Mole; il me semble n'y avoir vu encore quedes visages effarouches ou rebarbatifs. Peut-etre aussi lesParisiens ont-ils peur de l'orage. Voyez comme le ciel est noir etcomme l'air est lourd.-- Dites-moi, comte, vous cherchez le Louvre, n'est-ce pas?-- Et vous aussi, je crois, monsieur de Coconnas.-- Eh bien, si vous voulez, nous le chercherons ensemble.-- Hein! fit La Mole, n'est-il pas un peu tard pour sortir.-- Tard ou non, il faut que je sorte. Mes ordres sont precis.Arriver au plus vite a Paris, et, aussitot arrive, communiqueravec le duc de Guise.A ce nom du duc de Guise, l'hote s'approcha, fort attentif.-- Il me semble que ce maraud nous ecoute, dit Coconnas, qui, ensa qualite de Piemontais, etait fort rancunier, et qui ne pouvaitpasser au maitre de la Belle-Etoile la facon peu civile dont ilrecevait les voyageurs.-- Oui, messieurs, je vous ecoute, dit celui-ci en mettant la maina son bonnet, mais pour vous servir. J'entends parler du grand ducde Guise et j'accours. A quoi puis-je vous etre bon, mesgentilshommes?-- Ah! ah! ce mot magique, a ce qu'il parait, car d'insolent tevoila devenu obsequieux. Mordi! maitre, maitre... commentt'appelles-tu?-- Maitre La Huriere, repondit l'hote s'inclinant.-- Eh bien, maitre La Huriere, crois-tu que mon bras soit moinslourd que celui de M. le duc de Guise, qui a le privilege de terendre si poli?-- Non, monsieur le comte, mais il est moins long, repliqua LaHuriere. D'ailleurs, ajouta-t-il, il faut vous dire que ce grandHenri est notre idole, a nous autres Parisiens.-- Quel Henri? demanda La Mole.-- Il me semble qu'il n'y en a qu'un, dit l'aubergiste.-- Pardon, mon ami, il y en a encore un autre dont je vous invitea ne pas dire de mal; c'est Henri de Navarre, sans compter Henride Conde, qui a bien aussi son merite.-- Ceux-la, je ne les connais pas, repondit l'hote.-- Oui, mais moi je les connais, dit La Mole, et comme je suisadresse au roi Henri de Navarre, je vous invite a n'en pas mediredevant moi.L'hote, sans repondre a M. de La Mole, se contenta de toucherlegerement a son bonnet, et continuant de faire les doux yeux aCoconnas:-- Ainsi, monsieur va parler au grand duc de Guise? Monsieur estun gentilhomme bien heureux; et sans doute qu'il vient pour...?-- Pour quoi? demanda Coconnas.-- Pour la fete, repondit l'hote avec un singulier sourire.-- Vous devriez dire pour les fetes, car Paris en regorge, defetes, a ce que j'ai entendu dire; du moins on ne parle que debals, de festins, de carrousels. Ne s'amuse-t-on pas beaucoup aParis, hein?-- Mais moderement, monsieur, jusqu'a present du moins, reponditl'hote; mais on va s'amuser, je l'espere.-- Les noces de Sa Majeste le roi de Navarre attirent cependantbeaucoup de monde en cette ville, dit La Mole.-- Beaucoup de huguenots, oui, monsieur, repondit brusquement LaHuriere; puis se reprenant: Ah! pardon, dit-il; ces messieurs sontpeut-etre de la religion?-- Moi, de la religion! s'ecria Coconnas; allons donc! je suiscatholique comme notre saint-pere le pape.La Huriere se retourna vers La Mole comme pour l'interroger; maisou La Mole ne comprit pas son regard, ou il ne jugea point apropos d'y repondre autrement que par une autre question.-- Si vous ne connaissez point Sa Majeste le roi de Navarre,maitre La Huriere, dit-il, peut-etre connaissez-vous M. l'amiral?J'ai entendu dire que M. l'amiral jouissait de quelque faveur a lacour; et comme je lui etais recommande, je desirerais, si sonadresse ne vous ecorche pas la bouche, savoir ou il loge.-- _Il logeait_ rue de Bethisy, monsieur, ici a droite, reponditl'hote avec une satisfaction interieure qui ne put s'empecher dedevenir exterieure.-- Comment, il logeait? demanda La Mole; est-il donc demenage?-- Oui, de ce monde peut-etre.-- Qu'est-ce a dire? s'ecrierent ensemble les deux gentilshommes,l'amiral demenage de ce monde!-- Quoi! monsieur de Coconnas, poursuivit l'hote avec un malinsourire, vous etes de ceux de Guise, et vous ignorez cela?-- Quoi cela?-- Qu'avant-hier, en passant sur la place Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois, devant la maison du chanoine Pierre Piles, l'amiral arecu un coup d'arquebuse.-- Et il est tue? s'ecria La Mole.-- Non, le coup lui a seulement casse le bras et coupe deuxdoigts; mais on espere que les balles etaient empoisonnees.-- Comment, miserable! s'ecria La Mole, on espere! ...-- Je veux dire qu'on croit, reprit l'hote; ne nous fachons paspour un mot: la langue m'a fourche.Et maitre La Huriere, tournant le dos a La Mole, tira la langue aCoconnas de la facon la plus goguenarde, accompagnant ce gested'un coup d'oeil d'intelligence.-- En verite! dit Coconnas rayonnant.-- En verite! murmura La Mole avec une stupefaction douloureuse.-- C'est comme j'ai l'honneur de vous le dire, messieurs, reponditl'hote.-- En ce cas, dit La Mole, je vais au Louvre sans perdre unmoment. Y trouverai-je le roi Henri?-- C'est possible, puisqu'il y loge.-- Et moi aussi je vais au Louvre, dit Coconnas. Y trouverai-je leduc de Guise?-- C'est probable, car je viens de le voir passer il n'y a qu'uninstant, avec deux cents gentilshommes.-- Alors, venez, monsieur de Coconnas, dit La Mole.-- Je vous suis, monsieur, dit Coconnas.-- Mais votre souper, mes gentilshommes? demanda maitre LaHuriere.-- Ah! dit La Mole, je souperai peut-etre chez le roi de Navarre.-- Et moi chez le duc de Guise, dit Coconnas.-- Et moi, dit l'hote, apres avoir suivi des yeux les deuxgentilshommes qui prenaient le chemin du Louvre, moi, je vaisfourbir ma salade, emecher mon arquebuse et affiler ma pertuisane.On ne sait pas ce qui peut arriver.VDu Louvre en particulier et de la vertu en generalLes deux gentilshommes, renseignes par la premiere personne qu'ilsrencontrerent, prirent la rue d'Averon, la rue Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois, et se trouverent bientot devant le Louvre, dont lestours commencaient a se confondre dans les premieres ombres dusoir.-- Qu'avez-vous donc? demanda Coconnas a La Mole, qui, arrete a lavue du vieux chateau, regardait avec un saint respect ces ponts-levis, ces fenetres etroites et ces clochetons aigus qui sepresentaient tout a coup a ses yeux.-- Ma foi, je n'en sais rien, dit La Mole, le coeur me bat. Je nesuis cependant pas timide outre mesure; mais je ne sais pourquoice palais me parait sombre, et, dirai-je? terrible!-- Eh bien, moi, dit Coconnas, je ne sais ce qui m'arrive, mais jesuis d'une allegresse rare. La tenue est pourtant quelque peunegligee, continua-t-il en parcourant des yeux son costume devoyage. Mais, bah! on a l'air cavalier. Puis, mes ordres merecommandaient la promptitude. Je serai donc le bienvenu, puisquej'aurai ponctuellement obei.Et les deux jeunes gens continuerent leur chemin agites chacun dessentiments qu'ils avaient exprimes.Il y avait bonne garde au Louvre; tous les postes semblaientdoubles. Nos deux voyageurs furent donc d'abord assez embarrasses.Mais Coconnas, qui avait remarque que le nom du duc de Guise etaitune espece de talisman pres des Parisiens, s'approcha d'unesentinelle, et, se reclamant de ce nom tout-puissant, demanda si,grace a lui, il ne pourrait point penetrer dans le Louvre.Ce nom paraissait faire sur le soldat son effet ordinaire;cependant, il demanda a Coconnas s'il n'avait point le motd'ordre.Coconnas fut force d'avouer qu'il ne l'avait point.-- Alors, au large, mon gentilhomme, dit le soldat. A ce moment,un homme qui causait avec l'officier du poste, et qui, tout encausant, avait entendu Coconnas reclamer son admission au Louvre,interrompit son entretien, et, venant a lui:-- Goi fouloir, fous, a monsir di Gouise? dit-il.-- Moi, vouloir lui parler, repondit Coconnas en souriant.-- Imbossible! le dugue il etre chez le roi.-- Cependant j'ai une lettre d'avis pour me rendre a Paris.-- Ah! fous afre eine lettre d'afis?-- Oui, et j'arrive de fort loin.-- Ah! fous arrife de fort loin?-- J'arrive du Piemont.-- Pien! pien! C'est autre chose. Et fous fous abbelez...?-- Le comte Annibal de Coconnas.-- Pon! pon! Tonnez la lettre, monsir Annipal, tonnez.-- Voici, sur ma parole, un bien galant homme, dit La Mole separlant a lui-meme; ne pourrai-je point trouver le pareil pour meconduire chez le roi de Navarre.-- Mais tonnez donc la lettre, continua le gentilhomme allemand enetendant la main vers Coconnas qui hesitait.-- Mordi! reprit le Piemontais, defiant comme un demi-Italien, jene sais si je dois... Je n'ai pas l'honneur de vous connaitre,moi, monsieur.-- Je suis Pesme. J'abbartiens a M. le dugue de Gouise.-- Pesme, murmura Coconnas; je ne connais pas ce nom la.-- C'est monsieur de Besme, mon gentilhomme, dit la sentinelle. Laprononciation vous trompe, voila tout. Donnez votre lettre amonsieur, allez, j'en reponds.-- Ah! monsieur de Besme, s'ecria Coconnas, je le crois bien si jevous connais! ... comment donc! avec le plus grand plaisir. Voicima lettre. Excusez mon hesitation. Mais on doit hesiter quand onveut etre fidele.-- Pien, pien, dit de Besme, il n'y afre pas besoin d'exguses.-- Ma foi, monsieur, dit La Mole en s'approchant a son tour,puisque vous etes si obligeant, voudriez-vous vous charger de malettre comme vous venez de le faire de celle de mon compagnon?-- Comment fous abbelez-vous?-- Le comte Lerac de La Mole.-- Le gonte Lerag de La Mole.-- Oui.-- Che ne gonnais pas.-- Il est tout simple que je n'ai pas l'honneur d'etre connu devous, monsieur, je suis etranger, et, comme le comte de Coconnas,j'arrive ce soir de bien loin.-- Et t'ou arrifez-vous?-- De Provence.-- Avec eine lettre?-- Oui, avec une lettre.-- Pourmonsir de Gouise?-- Non, pour Sa Majeste le roi de Navarre.-- Che ne souis bas au roi de Navarre, monsir, repondit Besme avecun froid subit, che ne buis donc bas me charger de votre lettre.Et Besme, tournant les talons a La Mole, entra dans le Louvre enfaisant signe a Coconnas de le suivre.La Mole demeura seul.Au meme moment, par la porte du Louvre, parallele a celle quiavait donne passage a Besme et a Coconnas, sortit une troupe decavaliers d'une centaine d'hommes.-- Ah! ah! dit la sentinelle a son camarade, c'est de Mouy et seshuguenots; ils sont rayonnants. Le roi leur aura promis la mort del'assassin de l'amiral; et comme c'est deja lui qui a tue le perede Mouy, le fils fera d'une pierre deux coups.-- Pardon, fit La Mole s'adressant au soldat, mais n'avez-vous pasdit, mon brave, que cet officier etait monsieur de Mouy?-- Oui-da, mon gentilhomme.-- Et que ceux qui l'accompagnaient etaient...-- Etaient des parpaillots... Je l'ai dit.-- Merci, dit La Mole, sans paraitre remarquer le terme de meprisemploye par la sentinelle. Voila tout ce que je voulais savoir.Et se dirigeant aussitot vers le chef des cavaliers:-- Monsieur, dit-il en l'abordant, j'apprends que vous etesmonsieur de Mouy.-- Oui, monsieur, repondit l'officier avec politesse.-- Votre nom, bien connu parmi ceux de la religion, m'enhardit am'adresser a vous, monsieur, pour vous demander un service.-- Lequel, monsieur?... Mais, d'abord, a qui ai-je l'honneur deparler?-- Au comte Lerac de La Mole. Les deux jeunes gens se saluerent.-- Je vous ecoute, monsieur, dit de Mouy.-- Monsieur, j'arrive d'Aix, porteur d'une lettre de M. d'Auriac,gouverneur de la Provence. Cette lettre est adressee au roi deNavarre et contient des nouvelles importantes et pressees...Comment puis-je lui remettre cette lettre? comment puis-je entrerau Louvre?-- Rien de plus facile que d'entrer au Louvre, monsieur, repliquade Mouy; seulement, je crains que le roi de Navarre ne soit tropoccupe a cette heure pour vous recevoir. Mais n'importe, si vousvoulez me suivre, je vous conduirai jusqu'a son appartement. Lereste vous regarde.-- Mille fois merci!-- Venez, monsieur, dit de Mouy.de Mouy descendit de cheval, jeta la bride aux mains de sonlaquais, s'achemina vers le guichet, se fit reconnaitre de lasentinelle, introduisit La Mole dans le chateau, et, ouvrant laporte de l'appartement du roi:-- Entrez, monsieur, dit-il, et informez-vous. Et saluant La Mole,il se retira. La Mole, demeure seul, regarda autour de lui.L'antichambre etait vide, une des portes interieures etaitouverte.Il fit quelques pas et se trouva dans un couloir.Il frappa et appela sans que personne repondit. Le plus profondsilence regnait dans cette partie du Louvre.-- Qui donc me parlait, pensa-t-il, de cette etiquette si severe?On va et on vient dans ce palais comme sur une place publique.Et il appela encore, mais sans obtenir un meilleur resultat que lapremiere fois.-- Allons, marchons devant nous, pensa-t-il; il faudra bien que jefinisse par rencontrer quelqu'un. Et il s'engagea dans le couloir,qui allait toujours s'assombrissant.Tout a coup la porte opposee a celle par laquelle il etait entres'ouvrit, et deux pages parurent, portant des flambeaux eteclairant une femme d'une taille imposante, d'un maintienmajestueux, et surtout d'une admirable beaute.La lumiere porta en plein sur La Mole, qui demeura immobile. Lafemme s'arreta, de son cote, comme La Mole s'etait arrete du sien.-- Que voulez-vous, monsieur? demanda-t-elle au jeune homme d'unevoix qui bruit a ses oreilles comme une musique delicieuse.-- Oh! madame, dit La Mole en baissant les yeux, excusez-moi, jevous prie. Je quitte M. de Mouy, qui a eu l'obligeance de meconduire jusqu'ici, et je cherchais le roi de Navarre.-- Sa Majeste n'est point ici, monsieur; elle est, je crois, chezson beau frere. Mais, en son absence, ne pourriez-vous dire a lareine...-- Oui, sans doute, madame, reprit La Mole, si quelqu'un daignaitme conduire devant elle.-- Vous y etes, monsieur.-- Comment! s'ecria La Mole.-- Je suis la reine de Navarre, dit Marguerite.La Mole fit un mouvement tellement brusque de stupeur et d'effroique la reine sourit.-- Parlez vite, monsieur, dit-elle, car on m'attend chez la reinemere.-- Oh! madame, si vous etes si instamment attendue, permettez-moide m'eloigner, car il me serait impossible de vous parler en cemoment. Je suis incapable de rassembler deux idees; votre vue m'aebloui. Je ne pense plus, j'admire.Marguerite s'avanca pleine de grace et de beaute vers ce jeunehomme qui, sans le savoir, venait d'agir en courtisan raffine.-- Remettez-vous, monsieur, dit-elle. J'attendrai et l'onm'attendra.-- Oh! pardonnez-moi, madame, si je n'ai point salue d'abord VotreMajeste avec tout le respect qu'elle a le droit d'attendre d'un deses plus humbles serviteurs, mais...-- Mais, continua Marguerite, vous m'aviez prise pour une de mesfemmes.-- Non, madame, mais pour l'ombre de la belle Diane de Poitiers.On m'a dit qu'elle revenait au Louvre.-- Allons, monsieur, dit Marguerite, je ne m'inquiete plus devous, et vous ferez fortune a la cour. Vous aviez une lettre pourle roi, dites-vous? C'etait fort inutile. Mais, n'importe, ou est-elle? Je la lui remettrai... Seulement, hatez-vous, je vous prie.En un clin d'oeil La Mole ecarta les aiguillettes de sonpourpoint, et tira de sa poitrine une lettre enfermee dans uneenveloppe de soie.Marguerite prit la lettre et regarda l'ecriture.-- N'etes-vous pas monsieur de La Mole, dit-elle.-- Oui, madame. Oh! mon Dieu! aurais-je le bonheur que mon nom futconnu de Votre Majeste?-- Je l'ai entendu prononcer par le roi mon mari, et par mon frerele duc d'Alencon. Je sais que vous etes attendu.Et elle glissa dans son corsage, tout raide de broderies et dediamants, cette lettre qui sortait du pourpoint du jeune homme, etqui etait encore tiede de la chaleur de sa poitrine. La Molesuivait avidement des yeux chaque mouvement de Marguerite.-- Maintenant, monsieur, dit-elle, descendez dans la galerie au-dessous, et attendez jusqu'a ce qu'il vienne quelqu'un de la partdu roi de Navarre ou du duc d'Alencon. Un de mes pages va vousconduire.A ces mots Marguerite continua son chemin. La Mole se rangeacontre la muraille. Mais le passage etait si etroit, et levertugadin de la reine de Navarre si large, que sa robe de soieeffleura l'habit du jeune homme, tandis qu'un parfum penetrants'epandait la ou elle avait passe.La Mole frissonna par tout son corps, et, sentant qu'il allaittomber, chercha un appui contre le mur.Marguerite disparut comme une vision.-- Venez-vous, monsieur? dit le page charge de conduire La Moledans la galerie inferieure.-- Oh! oui, oui, s'ecria La Mole enivre, car comme le jeune hommelui indiquait le chemin par lequel venait de s'eloignerMarguerite, il esperait, en se hatant, la revoir encore.En effet en arrivant au haut de l'escalier, il l'apercut a l'etageinferieur; et soit hasard, soit que le bruit de ses pas fut arrivejusqu'a elle, Marguerite ayant releve la tete, il put la voirencore une fois.-- Oh! dit-il, en suivant le page, ce n'est pas une mortelle,c'est une deesse; et, comme dit Virgilius Maro:_Et vera incessu patuit dea.__-- _Eh bien? demanda le jeune page.-- Me voici, dit La Mole; pardon, me voici.Le page preceda La Mole, descendit un etage, ouvrit une premiereporte, puis une seconde et s'arretant sur le seuil:-- Voici l'endroit ou vous devez attendre, lui dit-il.La Mole entra dans la galerie, dont la porte se referma derrierelui.La galerie etait vide, a l'exception d'un gentilhomme qui sepromenait, et qui, de son cote, paraissait attendre.Deja le soir commencait a faire tomber de larges ombres du hautdes voutes, et, quoique les deux hommes fussent a peine a vingtpas l'un de l'autre, ils ne pouvaient distinguer leurs visages. LaMole s'approcha.-- Dieu me pardonne! murmura-t-il quand il ne fut plus qu'aquelques pas du second gentilhomme, c'est M. le comte de Coconnasque je retrouve ici.Au bruit de ses pas, le Piemontais s'etait deja retourne, et leregardait avec le meme etonnement qu'il en etait regarde.-- Mordi! s'ecria-t-il, c'est M. de La Mole, ou le diablem'emporte! Ouf! que fais-je donc la! je jure chez le roi; maisbah! il parait que le roi jure bien autrement encore que moi, etjusque dans les eglises. Eh, mais! nous voici donc au Louvre?...-- Comme vous voyez, M. de Besme vous a introduit?-- Oui. C'est un charmant Allemand que ce M. de Besme... Et vous,qui vous a servi de guide?-- M. de Mouy... Je vous disais bien que les huguenots n'etaientpas trop mal en cour non plus... Et avez-vous rencontreM. de Guise?-- Non, pas encore... Et vous, avez-vous obtenu votre audience duroi de Navarre?-- Non; mais cela ne peut tarder. On m'a conduit ici, et l'on m'adit d'attendre.-- Vous verrez qu'il s'agit de quelque grand souper, et que nousserons cote a cote au festin. Quel singulier hasard, en verite!Depuis deux heures le sort nous marie... Mais qu'avez-vous? voussemblez preoccupe...-- Moi! dit vivement La Mole en tressaillant, car en effet ildemeurait toujours comme ebloui par la vision qui lui etaitapparue; non, mais le lieu ou nous nous trouvons fait naitre dansmon esprit une foule de reflexions.-- Philosophiques, n'est-ce pas? c'est comme moi. Quand vous etesentre, justement, toutes les recommandations de mon precepteur merevenaient a l'esprit. Monsieur le comte, connaissez-vousPlutarque?-- Comment donc! dit La Mole en souriant, c'est un de mes auteursfavoris.-- Eh bien, continua Coconnas gravement, ce grand homme ne meparait pas s'etre abuse quand il compare les dons de la nature ades fleurs brillantes, mais ephemeres, tandis qu'il regarde lavertu comme une plante balsamique d'un imperissable parfum etd'une efficacite souveraine pour la guerison des blessures.-- Est-ce que vous savez le grec, monsieur de Coconnas? dit LaMole en regardant fixement son interlocuteur.-- Non pas; mais mon precepteur le savait, et il m'a fortrecommande, lorsque je serais a la cour, de discourir sur lavertu. Cela, dit-il, a fort bon air. Aussi, je suis cuirasse surce sujet, je vous en avertis. A propos, avez-vous faim?-- Non.-- Il me semblait cependant que vous teniez a la volailleembrochee de la Belle-Etoile; moi, je meurs d'inanition.-- Eh bien, monsieur de Coconnas, voici une belle occasiond'utiliser vos arguments sur la vertu et de prouver votreadmiration pour Plutarque, car ce grand ecrivain dit quelque part:Il est bon d'exercer l'ame a la douleur et l'estomac a la faim._Prepon esti ten men psuchen odune, ton de gastera semo askein.__-- _Ah ca! vous le savez donc, le grec? s'ecria Coconnasstupefait.-- Ma foi, oui! repondit La Mole; mon precepteur me l'a appris, amoi.-- Mordi! comte, votre fortune est assuree en ce cas; vous ferezdes vers avec le roi Charles IX, et vous parlerez grec avec lareine Marguerite.-- Sans compter, ajouta La Mole en riant, que je pourrai encoreparler gascon avec le roi de Navarre.En ce moment, l'issue de la galerie qui aboutissait chez le rois'ouvrit; un pas retentit, on vit dans l'obscurite une ombres'approcher. Cette ombre devint un corps. Ce corps etait celui deM. de Besme.Il regarda les deux jeunes gens sous le nez, afin de reconnaitrele sien, et fit signe a Coconnas de le suivre.Coconnas salua de la main La Mole.De Besme conduisit Coconnas a l'extremite de la galerie, ouvritune porte, et se trouva avec lui sur la premiere marche d'unescalier.Arrive la, il s'arreta, et regardant tout autour de lui, puis enhaut, puis en bas:-- Monsir de Gogonnas, dit-il, ou temeurez-fous?-- A l'auberge de la Belle-Etoile, rue de l'Arbre-Sec.-- Pon, pon! etre a teux pas t'izi... Rentez-fous fite a fotrehodel, et ste nuit... Il regarda de nouveau autour de lui.-- Eh bien, cette nuit? demanda Coconnas.-- Eh pien, ste nuit, refenez ici afec un groix planche a fotrejabeau. Li mot di basse, il sera _Gouise_. Chut! pouche glose.-- Mais a quelle heure dois-je venir?-- Gand fous ententrez le doguesin.-- Comment, le doguesin? demanda Coconnas.-- Foui, le doguesin: pum! pum! ...-- Ah! le tocsin?-- Oui, c'etre cela que che tisais.-- C'est bien! on y sera, dit Coconnas.Et saluant de Besme, il s'eloigna en se demandant tout bas:-- Que diable veut-il donc dire, et a propos de quoi sonnera-t-onle tocsin? N'importe! je persiste dans mon opinion: c'est uncharmant Tedesco que M. de Besme. Si j'attendais le comte de LaMole?... Ah! ma foi, non; il est probable qu'il soupera avec leroi de Navarre.Et Coconnas se dirigea vers la rue de l'Arbre-Sec, ou l'attiraitcomme un aimant l'enseigne de la Belle-Etoile.Pendant ce temps une porte de la galerie correspondant auxappartements du roi de Navarre s'ouvrit, et un page s'avanca versM. de La Mole.-- C'est bien vous qui etes le comte de La Mole? dit-il.-- C'est moi-meme.-- Ou demeurez-vous?-- Rue de l'Arbre-Sec, a la Belle-Etoile.-- Bon! c'est a la porte du Louvre. Ecoutez... Sa Majeste vousfait dire qu'elle ne peut vous recevoir en ce moment; peut-etrecette nuit vous enverra-t-elle chercher. En tout cas, si demainmatin vous n'aviez pas recu de ses nouvelles, venez au Louvre.-- Mais si la sentinelle me refuse la porte?-- Ah! c'est juste... Le mot de passe est _Navarre;_ dites ce mot,et toutes les portes s'ouvriront devant vous.-- Merci.-- Attendez, mon gentilhomme; j'ai ordre de vous reconduirejusqu'au guichet, de peur que vous ne vous perdiez dans le Louvre.-- A propos, et Coconnas? se dit La Mole a lui-meme quand il setrouva hors du palais. Oh! il sera reste a souper avec le duc deGuise.Mais en rentrant chez maitre La Huriere, la premiere figurequ'apercut notre gentilhomme fut celle de Coconnas attable devantune gigantesque omelette au lard.-- Oh! oh! s'ecria Coconnas en riant aux eclats, il parait quevous n'avez pas plus dine chez le roi de Navarre que je n'ai soupechez M. de Guise.-- Ma foi, non.-- Et la faim vous est-elle venue?-- Je crois que oui.-- Malgre Plutarque?-- Monsieur le comte, dit en riant La Mole, Plutarque dit dans unautre endroit: "Qu'il faut que celui qui a partage avec celui quin'a pas." Voulez-vous, pour l'amour de Plutarque, partager votreomelette avec moi, nous causerons de la vertu en mangeant?-- Oh! ma foi, non, dit Coconnas; c'est bon quand on est auLouvre, qu'on craint d'etre ecoute et qu'on a l'estomac vide.Mettez-vous la, et soupons.-- Allons, je vois que decidement le sort nous a faitsinseparables. Couchez-vous ici?-- Je n'en sais rien.-- Ni moi non plus.-- En tout cas je sais bien ou je passerai la nuit, moi.-- Ou cela?-- Ou vous la passerez vous-meme, c'est immanquable.Et tous deux se mirent a rire, en faisant de leur mieux honneur al'omelette de maitre La Huriere.VILa dette payeeMaintenant, si le lecteur est curieux de savoir pourquoi M. de LaMole n'avait pas ete recu par le roi de Navarre, pourquoiM. de Coconnas n'avait pu voir M. de Guise, et enfin pourquoi tousdeux, au lieu de souper au Louvre avec des faisans, des perdrix etdu chevreuil, soupaient a l'hotel de la Belle-Etoile avec uneomelette au lard, il faut qu'il ait la complaisance de rentreravec nous au vieux palais des rois et de suivre la reineMarguerite de Navarre que La Mole avait perdue de vue a l'entreede la grande galerie.Tandis que Marguerite descendait cet escalier, le duc Henri deGuise, qu'elle n'avait pas revu depuis la nuit de ses noces, etaitdans le cabinet du roi. A cet escalier que descendait Marguerite,il y avait une issue. A ce cabinet ou etait M. de Guise, il yavait une porte. Or, cette porte et cette issue conduisaienttoutes deux a un corridor, lequel corridor conduisait lui-meme auxappartements de la reine mere Catherine de Medicis.Catherine de Medicis etait seule, assise pres d'une table, lecoude appuye sur un livre d'heures entr'ouvert, et la tete poseesur sa main encore remarquablement belle, grace au cosmetique quelui fournissait le Florentin Rene, qui reunissait la double chargede parfumeur et d'empoisonneur de la reine mere.La veuve de Henri II etait vetue de ce deuil qu'elle n'avait pointquitte depuis la mort de son mari. C'etait a cette epoque unefemme de cinquante-deux a cinquante-trois ans a peu pres, quiconservait, grace a son embonpoint plein de fraicheur, les traitsde sa premiere beaute. Son appartement, comme son costume, etaitcelui d'une veuve. Tout y etait d'un caractere sombre: etoffes,murailles, meubles. Seulement, au-dessus d'une espece de daiscouvrant un fauteuil royal, ou pour le moment dormait couchee lapetite levrette favorite de la reine mere, laquelle lui avait etedonnee par son gendre Henri de Navarre et avait recu le nommythologique de Phebe, on voyait peint au naturel un arc-en-cielentoure de cette devise grecque que le roi Francois Ier lui avaitdonnee: _Phos pherei e de kai aithzen_, et qui peut se traduirepar ce vers francais:_Il porte la lumiere et la serenite._Tout a coup, et au moment ou la reine mere paraissait plongee auplus profond d'une pensee qui faisait eclore sur ses levrespeintes avec du carmin un sourire lent et plein d'hesitation, unhomme ouvrit la porte, souleva la tapisserie et montra son visagepale en disant:-- Tout va mal. Catherine leva la tete et reconnut le duc deGuise.-- Comment, tout va mal! repondit-elle. Que voulez-vous dire,Henri?-- Je veux dire que le roi est plus que jamais coiffe de seshuguenots maudits, et que, si nous attendons son conge pourexecuter la grande entreprise, nous attendrons encore longtemps etpeut-etre toujours.-- Qu'est-il donc arrive? demanda Catherine en conservant cevisage calme qui lui etait habituel, et auquel elle savaitcependant si bien, selon l'occasion, donner les expressions lesplus opposees.-- Il y a que tout a l'heure, pour la vingtieme fois, j'ai entameavec Sa Majeste cette question de savoir si l'on continuerait desupporter les bravades que se permettent, depuis la blessure deleur amiral, messieurs de la religion.-- Et que vous a repondu mon fils? demanda Catherine.-- Il m'a repondu: "Monsieur le duc, vous devez etre soupconne dupeuple comme auteur de l'assassinat commis sur mon second peremonsieur l'amiral; defendez-vous comme il vous plaira. Quant amoi, je me defendrai bien moi-meme si l'on m'insulte..." Et sur ceil m'a tourne le dos pour aller donner a souper a ses chiens.-- Et vous n'avez point tente de le retenir?-- Si fait. Mais il m'a repondu avec cette voix que vous luiconnaissez et en me regardant de ce regard qui n'est qu'a lui:"Monsieur le duc, mes chiens ont faim, et ce ne sont pas deshommes pour que je les fasse attendre..." Sur quoi je suis venuvous prevenir.-- Et vous avez bien fait, dit la reine mere.-- Mais que resoudre?-- Tenter un dernier effort.-- Et qui l'essaiera?-- Moi. Le roi est-il seul?-- Non! Il est avec M. de Tavannes.-- Attendez-moi ici. Ou plutot suivez-moi de loin. Catherine seleva aussitot et prit le chemin de la chambre ou se tenaient, surdes tapis de Turquie et des coussins de velours, les levriersfavoris du roi. Sur des perchoirs scelles dans la muraille etaientdeux ou trois faucons de choix et une petite pie-grieche aveclaquelle Charles IX s'amusait a voler les petits oiseaux dans lejardin du Louvre et dans ceux des Tuileries, qu'on commencait abatir. Pendant le chemin la reine mere s'etait arrange un visagepale et plein d'angoisse, sur lequel roulait une derniere ouplutot une premiere larme.Elle s'approcha sans bruit de Charles IX, qui donnait a ses chiensdes fragments de gateaux coupes en portions pareilles.-- Mon fils! dit Catherine avec un tremblement de voix si bienjoue qu'il fit tressaillir le roi.-- Qu'avez-vous, madame? dit le roi en se retournant vivement.-- J'ai, mon fils, repondit Catherine, que je vous demande lapermission de me retirer dans un de vos chateaux, peu m'importelequel, pourvu qu'il soit bien eloigne de Paris.-- Et pourquoi cela, madame? demanda Charles IX en fixant sur samere son oeil vitreux qui, dans certaines occasions, devenait sipenetrant.-- Parce que chaque jour je recois de nouveaux outrages de ceux dela religion, parce qu'aujourd'hui je vous ai entendu menacer parles protestants jusque dans votre Louvre, et que je ne veux plusassister a de pareils spectacles.-- Mais enfin, ma mere, dit Charles IX avec une expression pleinede conviction, on leur a voulu tuer leur amiral. Un infamemeurtrier leur avait deja assassine le brave M. de Mouy, a cespauvres gens. Mort de ma vie, ma mere! il faut pourtant unejustice dans un royaume.-- Oh! soyez tranquille, mon fils, dit Catherine, la justice neleur manquera point, car si vous la leur refusez, ils se la feronta leur maniere: sur M. de Guise aujourd'hui, sur moi demain, survous plus tard.-- Oh! madame, dit Charles IX laissant percer dans sa voix unpremier accent de doute, vous croyez?-- Eh! mon fils, reprit Catherine, s'abandonnant tout entiere a laviolence de ses pensees, ne savez-vous pas qu'il ne s'agit plus dela mort de M. Francois de Guise ou de celle de M. l'amiral, de lareligion protestante ou de la religion catholique, mais toutsimplement de la substitution du fils d'Antoine de Bourbon au filsde Henri II?-- Allons, allons, ma mere, voici que vous retombez encore dansvos exagerations habituelles! dit le roi.-- Quel est donc votre avis, mon fils?-- D'attendre, ma mere! d'attendre. Toute la sagesse humaine estdans ce seul mot. Le plus grand, le plus fort et le plus adroitsurtout est celui qui sait attendre.-- Attendez donc; mais moi je n'attendrai pas. Et sur ce,Catherine fit une reverence, et, se rapprochant de la porte,s'appreta a reprendre le chemin de son appartement. Charles IXl'arreta.-- Enfin, que faut-il donc faire, ma mere! dit-il, car je suisjuste avant toute chose, et je voudrais que chacun fut content demoi.Catherine se rapprocha.-- Venez, monsieur le comte, dit-elle a Tavannes, qui caressait lapie-grieche du roi, et dites au roi ce qu'a votre avis il fautfaire.-- Votre Majeste me permet-elle? demanda le comte.-- Dis, Tavannes! dis.-- Que fait Votre Majeste a la chasse quand le sanglier revientsur elle?-- Mordieu! monsieur, je l'attends de pied ferme, dit Charles IX,et je lui perce la gorge avec mon epieu.-- Uniquement pour l'empecher de vous nuire, ajouta Catherine.-- Et pour m'amuser, dit le roi avec un soupir qui indiquait lecourage pousse jusqu'a la ferocite; mais je ne m'amuserais pas atuer mes sujets, car enfin, les huguenots sont mes sujets aussibien que les catholiques.-- Alors, Sire, dit Catherine, vos sujets les huguenots ferontcomme le sanglier a qui on ne met pas un epieu dans la gorge: ilsdecoudront votre trone.-- Bah! vous croyez, madame, dit le roi d'un air qui indiquaitqu'il n'ajoutait pas grande foi aux predictions de sa mere.-- Mais n'avez-vous pas vu aujourd'hui M. de Mouy et les siens?-- Oui, je les ai vus, puisque je les quitte; mais que m'a-t-ildemande qui ne soit pas juste? Il m'a demande la mort du meurtrierde son pere et de l'assassin de l'amiral! Est-ce que nous n'avonspas puni M. de Montgommery de la mort de mon pere et de votreepoux, quoique cette mort fut un simple accident?-- C'est bien, Sire, dit Catherine piquee, n'en parlons plus.Votre Majeste est sous la protection du Dieu qui lui donna laforce, la sagesse et la confiance; mais moi, pauvre femme, queDieu abandonne sans doute a cause de mes peches, je crains et jecede.Et sur ce, Catherine salua une seconde fois et sortit, faisantsigne au duc de Guise, qui sur ces entrefaites etait entre, dedemeurer a sa place pour tenter encore un dernier effort.Charles IX suivit des yeux sa mere, mais sans la rappeler cettefois; puis il se mit a caresser ses chiens en sifflant un air dechasse.Tout a coup il s'interrompit.-- Ma mere est bien un esprit royal, dit-il; en verite elle nedoute de rien. Allez donc, d'un propos delibere, tuer quelquesdouzaines de huguenots, parce qu'ils sont venus demander justice!N'est-ce pas leur droit apres tout?-- Quelques douzaines, murmura le duc de Guise.-- Ah! vous etes la, monsieur! dit le roi faisant semblant del'apercevoir pour la premiere fois; oui, quelques douzaines; lebeau dechet! Ah! si quelqu'un venait me dire: Sire, vous serezdebarrasse de tous vos ennemis a la fois, et demain il n'enrestera pas un pour vous reprocher la mort des autres, ah! alors,je ne dis pas!-- Et bien, Sire.-- Tavannes, interrompit le roi, vous fatiguez Margot, remettez-laau perchoir. Ce n'est pas une raison, parce qu'elle porte le nomde ma soeur la reine de Navarre, pour que tout le monde lacaresse.Tavannes remit la pie sur son baton, et s'amusa a rouler et aderouler les oreilles d'un levrier.-- Mais, Sire, reprit le duc de Guise, si l'on disait a VotreMajeste: Sire, Votre Majeste sera delivree demain de tous sesennemis.-- Et par l'intercession de quel saint ferait-on ce miracle?-- Sire, nous sommes aujourd'hui le 24 aout, ce serait donc parl'intercession de saint Barthelemy.-- Un beau saint, dit le roi, qui s'est laisse ecorcher tout vif!-- Tant mieux! plus il a souffert, plus il doit avoir garderancune a ses bourreaux.-- Et c'est vous, mon cousin, dit le roi, c'est vous qui avecvotre jolie petite epee a poignee d'or, tuerez d'ici a demain dixmille huguenots! Ah! ah! ah! mort de ma vie! que vous etesplaisant, monsieur de Guise!Et le roi eclata de rire, mais d'un rire si faux, que l'echo de lachambre le repeta d'un ton lugubre.-- Sire, un mot, un seul, poursuivit le duc tout en frissonnantmalgre lui au bruit de ce rire qui n'avait rien d'humain. Unsigne, et tout est pret. J'ai les Suisses, j'ai onze centsgentilshommes, j'ai les chevau-legers, j'ai les bourgeois: de soncote, Votre Majeste a ses gardes, ses amis, sa noblessecatholique... Nous sommes vingt contre un.-- Eh bien, puisque vous etes si fort, mon cousin, pourquoi diablevenez-vous me rebattre les oreilles de cela?... Faites sans moi,faites! ...Et le roi se retourna vers ses chiens. Alors la portiere sesouleva et Catherine reparut.-- Tout va bien, dit-elle au duc, insistez, il cedera.Et la portiere retomba sur Catherine sans que Charles IX la vit oudu moins fit semblant de la voir.-- Mais encore, dit le duc de Guise, faut-il que je sache si enagissant comme je le desire, je serai agreable a Votre Majeste.-- En verite, mon cousin Henri, vous me plantez le couteau sur lagorge; mais je resisterai, mordieu! ne suis-je donc pas le roi?-- Non, pas encore, Sire; mais, si vous voulez, vous le serezdemain.-- Ah ca! continua Charles IX, on tuerait donc aussi le roi deNavarre, le prince de Conde... dans mon Louvre! ... Ah! Puis ilajouta d'une voix a peine intelligible:-- Dehors, je ne dis pas.-- Sire, s'ecria le duc, ils sortent ce soir pour faire debaucheavec le duc d'Alencon, votre frere.-- Tavannes, dit le roi avec une impatience admirablement bienjouee, ne voyez-vous pas que vous taquinez mon chien! Viens,Acteon, viens.Et Charles IX sortit sans en vouloir ecouter davantage, et rentrachez lui en laissant Tavannes et le duc de Guise presque aussiincertains qu'auparavant.Cependant une scene d'un autre genre se passait chez Catherine,qui, apres avoir donne au duc de Guise le conseil de tenir bon,etait rentree dans son appartement, ou elle avait trouve reuniesles personnes qui, d'ordinaire, assistaient a son coucher.A son retour Catherine avait la figure aussi riante qu'elle etaitdecomposee a son depart. Peu a peu elle congedia de son air leplus agreable ses femmes et ses courtisans; il ne resta bientotpres d'elle que madame Marguerite, qui, assise sur un coffre presde la fenetre ouverte, regardait le ciel, absorbee dans sespensees.Deux ou trois fois, en se retrouvant seule avec sa fille, la reinemere ouvrit la bouche pour parler, mais chaque fois une sombrepensee refoula au fond de sa poitrine les mots prets a s'echapperde ses levres.Sur ces entrefaites, la portiere se souleva et Henri de Navarreparut.La petite levrette, qui dormait sur le trone, bondit et courut alui.-- Vous ici, mon fils! dit Catherine en tressaillant, est-ce quevous soupez au Louvre?-- Non, madame, repondit Henri, nous battons la ville ce soir avecMM. d'Alencon et de Conde. Je croyais presque les trouver occupesa vous faire la cour.Catherine sourit.-- Allez, messieurs, dit-elle, allez... Les hommes sont bienheureux de pouvoir courir ainsi... N'est-ce pas, ma fille?-- C'est vrai, repondit Marguerite, c'est une si belle et si doucechose que la liberte.-- Cela veut-il dire que j'enchaine la votre, madame? dit Henri ens'inclinant devant sa femme.-- Non, monsieur; aussi ce n'est pas moi que je plains, mais lacondition des femmes en general.-- Vous allez peut-etre voir M. l'amiral, mon fils? dit Catherine.-- Oui, peut-etre.-- Allez-y; ce sera d'un bon exemple, et demain vous me donnerezde ses nouvelles.-- J'irai donc, madame, puisque vous approuvez cette demarche.-- Moi, dit Catherine, je n'approuve rien... Mais qui va la?...Renvoyez, renvoyez.Henri fit un pas vers la porte pour executer l'ordre de Catherine;mais au meme instant la tapisserie se souleva, et madame de Sauvemontra sa tete blonde.-- Madame, dit-elle, c'est Rene le parfumeur, que Votre Majeste afait demander. Catherine lanca un regard aussi prompt que l'eclairsur Henri de Navarre.Le jeune prince rougit legerement, puis presque aussitot palitd'une maniere effrayante. En effet, on venait de prononcer le nomde l'assassin de sa mere. Il sentit que son visage trahissait sonemotion, et alla s'appuyer sur la barre de la fenetre.La petite levrette poussa un gemissement. Au meme instant deuxpersonnes entraient, l'une annoncee et l'autre qui n'avait pasbesoin de l'etre. La premiere etait Rene, le parfumeur, quis'approcha de Catherine avec toutes les obsequieuses civilites desserviteurs florentins; il tenait une boite, qu'il ouvrit, et donton vit tous les compartiments remplis de poudres et de flacons.La seconde etait madame de Lorraine, soeur ainee de Marguerite.Elle entra par une petite porte derobee qui donnait dans lecabinet du roi et, toute pale et toute tremblante, esperant n'etrepoint apercue de Catherine qui examinait avec madame de Sauve lecontenu de la boite apportee par Rene, elle alla s'asseoir a cotede Marguerite, pres de laquelle le roi de Navarre se tenaitdebout, la main sur le front, comme un homme qui cherche a seremettre d'un eblouissement.En ce moment Catherine se retourna.-- Ma fille, dit-elle a Marguerite, vous pouvez-vous retirer chezvous. Mon fils, dit-elle, vous pouvez aller vous amuser par laville.Marguerite se leva, et Henri se retourna a moitie. Madame deLorraine saisit la main de Marguerite.-- Ma soeur, lui dit-elle tout bas et avec volubilite, au nom deM. de Guise, qui vous sauve comme vous l'avez sauve, ne sortez pasd'ici, n'allez pas chez vous!-- Hein! que dites-vous, Claude? demanda Catherine en seretournant.-- Rien, ma mere.-- Vous avez parle tout bas a Marguerite.-- Pour lui souhaiter le bonsoir seulement, madame, et pour luidire mille choses de la part de la duchesse de Nevers.-- Et ou est-elle, cette belle duchesse?-- Pres de son beau-frere M. de Guise.Catherine regarda les deux femmes de son oeil soupconneux, etfroncant le sourcil:-- Venez ca, Claude! dit la reine mere. Claude obeit. Catherinelui saisit la main.-- Que lui avez-vous dit? indiscrete que vous etes! murmura-t-elleen serrant le poignet de sa fille a la faire crier.-- Madame, dit a sa femme Henri, qui, sans entendre, n'avait rienperdu de la pantomime de la reine, de Claude et de Marguerite;madame, me ferez-vous l'honneur de me donner votre main a baiser?Marguerite lui tendit une main tremblante.-- Que vous a-t-elle dit? murmura Henri en se baissant pourrapprocher ses levres de cette main.-- De ne pas sortir. Au nom du Ciel, ne sortez pas non plus!Ce ne fut qu'un eclair; mais a la lueur de cet eclair, si rapidequ'elle fut, Henri devina tout un complot.-- Ce n'est pas le tout, dit Marguerite; voici une lettre qu'ungentilhomme provencal a apportee.-- M. de La Mole?-- Oui.-- Merci, dit-il en prenant la lettre et en la serrant dans sonpourpoint.Et passant devant sa femme eperdue, il alla appuyer sa main surl'epaule du Florentin.-- Eh bien, maitre Rene, dit-il, comment vont les affairescommerciales?-- Mais assez bien, Monseigneur, assez bien, reponditl'empoisonneur avec son perfide sourire.-- Je le crois bien, dit Henri, quand on est comme vous lefournisseur de toutes les tetes couronnees de France et del'etranger.-- Excepte de celle du roi de Navarre, repondit effrontement leFlorentin.-- Ventre-saint-gris! maitre Rene, dit Henri, vous avez raison; etcependant ma pauvre mere, qui achetait aussi chez vous, vous arecommande a moi en mourant, maitre Rene. Venez me voir demain ouapres-demain en mon appartement et apportez-moi vos meilleuresparfumeries.-- Ce ne sera point mal vu, dit en souriant Catherine, car ondit...-- Que j'ai le gousset fin, reprit Henri en riant; qui vous a ditcela, ma mere? est-ce Margot?-- Non, mon fils, dit Catherine, c'est madame de Sauve. En cemoment madame la duchesse de Lorraine, qui, malgre les effortsqu'elle faisait, ne pouvait se contenir, eclata en sanglots. Henrine se retourna meme pas.-- Ma soeur, s'ecria Marguerite en s'elancant vers Claude,qu'avez-vous?-- Rien, dit Catherine en passant entre les deux jeunes femmes,rien: elle a cette fievre nerveuse que Mazille lui recommande detraiter avec des aromates.Et elle serra de nouveau et avec plus de vigueur encore que lapremiere fois le bras de sa fille ainee; puis, se retournant versla cadette:-- Ca, Margot, dit-elle, n'avez-vous pas entendu que, deja, jevous ai invitee a vous retirer chez vous? Si cela ne suffit pas,je vous l'ordonne.-- Pardonnez-moi, madame, dit Marguerite tremblante et pale, jesouhaite une bonne nuit a Votre Majeste.-- Et j'espere que votre souhait sera exauce. Bonsoir, bonsoir.Marguerite se retira toute chancelante en cherchant vainement arencontrer un regard de son mari, qui ne se retourna pas meme deson cote.Il se fit un instant de silence pendant lequel Catherine demeurales yeux fixes sur la duchesse de Lorraine, qui de son cote, sansparler, regardait sa mere les mains jointes.Henri tournait le dos, mais voyait la scene dans une glace, touten ayant l'air de friser sa moustache avec une pommade que venaitde lui donner Rene.-- Et vous, Henri, dit Catherine, sortez-vous toujours?-- Ah! oui! c'est vrai! s'ecria le roi de Navarre. Ah! par ma foi!j'oubliais que le duc d'Alencon et le prince de Conde m'attendent:ce sont ces admirables parfums qui m'enivrent et, je crois, mefont perdre la memoire. Au revoir, madame.-- Au revoir! Demain, vous m'apprendrez des nouvelles de l'amiral,n'est ce pas?-- Je n'aurai garde d'y manquer. Eh bien, Phebe! qu'y a-t-il?-- Phebe! dit la reine mere avec impatience.-- Rappelez-la, madame, dit le Bearnais, car elle ne veut pas melaisser sortir.La reine mere se leva, prit la petite chienne par son collier etla retint, tandis que Henri s'eloignait le visage aussi calme etaussi riant que s'il n'eut pas senti au fond de son coeur qu'ilcourait danger de mort.Derriere lui, la petite chienne lachee par Catherine de Mediciss'elanca pour le rejoindre; mais la porte etait refermee, et ellene put que glisser son museau allonge sous la tapisserie enpoussant un hurlement lugubre et prolonge.-- Maintenant, Charlotte, dit Catherine a madame de Sauve, vachercher M. de Guise et Tavannes, qui sont dans mon oratoire, etreviens avec eux pour tenir compagnie a la duchesse de Lorrainequi a ses vapeurs.VIILa nuit du 24 aout 1572Lorsque La Mole et Coconnas eurent acheve leur maigre souper, carles volailles de l'hotellerie de la Belle-Etoile ne flambaient quesur l'enseigne, Coconnas fit pivoter sa chaise sur un de sesquatre pieds, etendit les jambes, appuya son coude sur la table,et degustant un dernier verre de vin:-- Est-ce que vous allez vous coucher incontinent, monsieur de laMole? demanda-t-il.-- Ma foi! j'en aurais grande envie, monsieur, car il est possiblequ'on vienne me reveiller dans la nuit.-- Et moi aussi, dit Coconnas; mais il me semble, en ce cas, qu'aulieu de nous coucher et de faire attendre ceux qui doivent nousenvoyer chercher, nous ferions mieux de demander des cartes et dejouer. Cela fait qu'on nous trouverait tout prepares.-- J'accepterais volontiers la proposition, monsieur; mais pourjouer je possede bien peu d'argent; a peine si j'ai cent ecus d'ordans ma valise; et encore, c'est tout mon tresor. Maintenant,c'est a moi de faire fortune avec cela.-- Cent ecus d'or! s'ecria Coconnas, et vous vous plaignez! Mordi!mais moi, monsieur, je n'en ai que six.-- Allons donc, reprit La Mole, je vous ai vu tirer de votre pocheune bourse qui m'a paru non seulement fort ronde, mais on pourraitmeme dire quelque peu boursouflee.-- Ah! ceci, dit Coconnas, c'est pour eteindre une ancienne detteque je suis oblige de payer a un vieil ami de mon pere que jesoupconne d'etre comme vous tant soit peu huguenot. Oui, il y a lacent nobles a la rose, continua Coconnas en frappant sur sa poche;mais ces cent nobles a la rose appartiennent a maitre Mercandon;quant a mon patrimoine personnel, il se borne, comme je vous l'aidit, a six ecus.-- Comment jouer, alors?-- Et c'est precisement a cause de cela que je voulais jouer.D'ailleurs, il m'etait venu une idee.-- Laquelle?-- Nous venons tous deux a Paris dans un meme but?-- Oui.-- Nous avons chacun un protecteur puissant?-- Oui.-- Vous comptez sur le votre comme je compte sur le mien?-- Oui.-- Eh bien, il m'etait venu dans la pensee de jouer d'abord notreargent, puis la premiere faveur qui nous arrivera, soit de lacour, soit de notre maitresse...-- En effet, c'est fort ingenieux! dit La Mole en souriant; maisj'avoue que je ne suis pas assez joueur pour risquer ma vie toutentiere sur un coup de cartes ou de des, car de la premiere faveurqui nous arrivera a vous et a moi decoulera probablement notre vietout entiere.-- Eh bien, laissons donc la la premiere faveur de la cour, etjouons la premiere faveur de notre maitresse.-- Je n'y vois qu'un inconvenient, dit La Mole.-- Lequel?-- C'est que je n'ai point de maitresse, moi.-- Ni moi non plus; mais je compte bien ne pas tarder a en avoirune! Dieu merci! on n'est point taille de facon a manquer defemmes.-- Aussi, comme vous dites, n'en manquerez-vous point, monsieur deCoconnas; mais, comme je n'ai point la meme confiance dans monetoile amoureuse, je crois que ce serait vous voler que de mettremon enjeu contre le votre. Jouons donc jusqu'a concurrence de vossix ecus, et, si vous les perdiez par malheur et que vousvoulussiez continuer le jeu, eh bien, vous etes gentilhomme, etvotre parole vaut de l'or.-- A la bonne heure! s'ecria Coconnas, et voila qui est parler;vous avez raison, monsieur, la parole d'un gentilhomme vaut del'or, surtout quand ce gentilhomme a du credit a la cour. Aussi,croyez que je ne me hasarderais pas trop en jouant contre vous lapremiere faveur que je devrais recevoir.-- Oui, sans doute, vous pouvez la perdre; mais moi, je nepourrais pas la gagner; car, etant au roi de Navarre, je ne puisrien tenir de M. le duc de Guise.-- Ah! parpaillot! murmura l'hote tout en fourbissant son vieuxcasque, je t'avais donc bien flaire. Et il s'interrompit pourfaire le signe de la croix.-- Ah ca, decidement, reprit Coconnas en battant les cartes quevenait de lui apporter le garcon, vous en etes donc?...-- De quoi?-- De la religion.-- Moi?-- Oui, vous.-- Eh bien! mettez que j'en sois! dit La Mole en souriant. Avez-vous quelque chose contre nous?-- Oh! Dieu merci, non; cela m'est bien egal. Je hais profondementla huguenoterie, mais je ne deteste pas les huguenots, et puisc'est la mode.-- Oui, repliqua La Mole en riant, temoin l'arquebusade deM. l'amiral! Jouerons-nous aussi des arquebusades?-- Comme vous voudrez, dit Coconnas; pourvu que je joue, peum'importe quoi.-- Jouons donc, dit La Mole en ramassant ses cartes et en lesrangeant dans sa main.-- Oui, jouez et jouez de confiance; car, dusse-je perdre centecus d'or comme les votres, j'aurai demain matin de quoi lespayer.-- La fortune vous viendra donc en dormant?-- Non, c'est moi qui irai la trouver.-- Ou cela, dites-moi? j'irai avec vous!-- Au Louvre.-- Vous y retournez cette nuit?-- Oui, cette nuit j'ai une audience particuliere du grand duc deGuise.Depuis que Coconnas avait parle d'aller chercher fortune auLouvre, La Huriere s'etait interrompu de fourbir sa salade ets'etait venu placer derriere la chaise de La Mole, de maniere queCoconnas seul le put voir, et de la il lui faisait des signes quele Piemontais, tout a son jeu et a sa conversation, ne remarquaitpas.-- Eh bien, voila qui est miraculeux! dit La Mole, et vous aviezraison de dire que nous etions nes sous une meme etoile. Moi aussij'ai rendez-vous au Louvre cette nuit; mais ce n'est pas avec leduc de Guise, moi, c'est avec le roi de Navarre.-- Avez-vous un mot d'ordre, vous?-- Oui.-- Un signe de ralliement?-- Non.-- Eh bien, j'en ai un, moi. Mon mot d'ordre est... A ces parolesdu Piemontais, La Huriere fit un geste si expressif, juste aumoment ou l'indiscret gentilhomme relevait la tete, que Coconnass'arreta petrifie bien plus de ce geste encore que du coup parlequel il venait de perdre trois ecus. En voyant l'etonnement quise peignait sur le visage de son _partner_, La Mole se retourna;mais il ne vit pas autre chose que son hote derriere lui, les brascroises et coiffe de la salade qu'il lui avait vu fourbirl'instant auparavant.-- Qu'avez-vous donc? dit La Mole a Coconnas. Coconnas regardaitl'hote et son compagnon sans repondre, car il ne comprenait rienaux gestes redoubles de maitre La Huriere. La Huriere vit qu'ildevait venir a son secours:-- C'est que, dit-il rapidement, j'aime beaucoup le jeu, moi, etcomme je m'etais approche pour voir le coup sur lequel vous venezde gagner, monsieur m'aura vu coiffe en guerre, et cela l'aurasurpris de la part d'un pauvre bourgeois.-- Bonne figure, en effet! s'ecria La Mole en eclatant de rire.-- Eh, monsieur! repliqua La Huriere avec une bonhomieadmirablement jouee et un mouvement d'epaule plein du sentiment deson inferiorite, nous ne sommes pas des vaillants, nous autres, etnous n'avons pas la tournure raffinee. C'est bon pour les bravesgentilshommes comme vous de faire reluire les casques dores et lesfines rapieres, et pourvu que nous montions exactement notregarde...-- Ah! ah! dit La Mole en battant les cartes a son tour, vousmontez votre garde?-- Eh! mon Dieu, oui, monsieur le comte; je suis sergent d'unecompagnie de milice bourgeoise.Et cela dit, tandis que La Mole etait occupe a donner les cartes,La Huriere se retira en posant un doigt sur ses levres pourrecommander la discretion a Coconnas, plus interdit que jamais.Cette precaution fut cause sans doute qu'il perdit le second couppresque aussi rapidement qu'il venait de perdre le premier.-- Eh bien, dit La Mole, voila qui fait juste vos six ecus!Voulez-vous votre revanche sur votre fortune future?-- Volontiers, dit Coconnas, volontiers.-- Mais avant de vous engager plus avant, ne me disiez-vous pasque vous aviez rendez-vous avec M. de Guise?Coconnas tourna ses regards vers la cuisine et vit les gros yeuxde La Huriere qui repetaient le meme avertissement.-- Oui, dit-il; mais il n'est pas encore l'heure. D'ailleurs,parlons un peu de vous, monsieur de la Mole.-- Nous ferions mieux, je crois, de parler du jeu, mon chermonsieur de Coconnas, car, ou je me trompe fort, ou me voilaencore en train de vous gagner six ecus.-- Mordi! c'est la verite... On me l'avait toujours dit, que leshuguenots avaient du bonheur au jeu. J'ai envie de me fairehuguenot, le diable m'emporte!Les yeux de La Huriere etincelerent comme deux charbons; maisCoconnas, tout a son jeu, ne les apercut pas.-- Faites, comte, faites, dit La Mole, et quoique la facon dont lavocation vous est venue soit singuliere, vous serez le bien recuparmi nous.Coconnas se gratta l'oreille.-- Si j'etais sur que votre bonheur vient de la, dit-il, je vousreponds bien... car, enfin, je ne tiens pas enormement a la messe,moi, et des que le roi n'y tient pas non plus...-- Et puis... c'est une si belle religion, dit La Mole, si simple,si pure!-- Et puis... elle est a la mode, dit Coconnas, et puis... elleporte bonheur au jeu, car, le diable m'emporte! il n'y a d'as quepour vous; et cependant je vous examine depuis que nous avons lescartes aux mains: vous jouez franc jeu, vous ne trichez pas... ilfaut que ce soit la religion...-- Vous me devez six ecus de plus, dit tranquillement La Mole.-- Ah! comme vous me tentez! dit Coconnas, et si cette nuit je nesuis pas content de M. de Guise...-- Eh bien?-- Eh bien, demain je vous demande de me presenter au roi deNavarre; et, soyez tranquille, si une fois je me fais huguenot, jeserai plus huguenot que Luther, que Calvin, que Melanchthon et quetous les reformistes de la terre.-- Chut! dit La Mole, vous allez vous brouiller avec notre hote.-- Oh! c'est vrai! dit Coconnas en tournant les yeux vers lacuisine. Mais non, il ne nous ecoute pas; il est trop occupe en cemoment.-- Que fait-il donc? dit La Mole, qui, de sa place, ne pouvaitl'apercevoir.-- Il cause avec... Le diable m'emporte! c'est lui!-- Qui, lui?-- Cette espece d'oiseau de nuit avec lequel il causait deja quandnous sommes arrives, l'homme au pourpoint jaune et au manteauamadou. Mordi! quel feu il y met! Eh! dites donc, maitre LaHuriere! est-ce que vous faites de la politique, par hasard?Mais cette fois la reponse de maitre La Huriere fut un geste sienergique et si imperieux, que, malgre son amour pour le cartonpeint, Coconnas se leva et alla a lui.-- Qu'avez-vous donc? demanda La Mole.-- Vous demandez du vin, mon gentilhomme? dit La Hurieresaisissant vivement la main de Coconnas, on va vous en donner.Gregoire! du vin a ces messieurs!Puis a l'oreille:-- Silence, lui glissa-t-il, silence, sur votre vie! et congediezvotre compagnon.La Huriere etait si pale, l'homme jaune si lugubre, que Coconnasressentit comme un frisson, et se retournant vers La Mole:-- Mon cher monsieur de la Mole, lui dit-il, je vous prie dem'excuser. Voila cinquante ecus que je perds en un tour de main.Je suis en malheur ce soir, et je craindrais de m'embarrasser.-- Fort bien, monsieur, fort bien, dit La Mole, a votre aise.D'ailleurs, je ne suis point fache de me jeter un instant sur monlit. Maitre La Huriere! ...-- Monsieur le comte?-- Si l'on venait me chercher de la part du roi de Navarre, vousme reveilleriez. Je serai tout habille, et par consequent vitepret.-- C'est comme moi, dit Coconnas; pour ne pas faire attendre SonAltesse un seul instant, je vais me preparer le signe. Maitre LaHuriere, donnez-moi des ciseaux et du papier blanc.-- Gregoire! cria La Huriere, du papier blanc pour ecrire unelettre, des ciseaux pour en tailler l'enveloppe!-- Ah ca, decidement, se dit a lui-meme le Piemontais, il se passeici quelque chose d'extraordinaire.-- Bonsoir, monsieur de Coconnas! dit La Mole. Et vous, mon hote,faites-moi l'amitie de me montrer le chemin de ma chambre. Bonnechance, notre ami!Et La Mole disparut dans l'escalier tournant, suivi de La Huriere.Alors l'homme mysterieux saisit a son tour le bras de Coconnas,et, l'attirant a lui, il lui dit avec volubilite:-- Monsieur, vous avez failli reveler cent fois un secret duqueldepend le sort du royaume. Dieu a voulu que votre bouche futfermee a temps. Un mot de plus, et j'allais vous abattre d'un coupd'arquebuse. Maintenant nous sommes seuls, heureusement, ecoutez.-- Mais qui etes-vous, pour me parler avec ce ton de commandement?demanda Coconnas.-- Avez-vous, par hasard, entendu parler du sire de Maurevel?-- Le meurtrier de l'amiral?-- Et du capitaine de Mouy.-- Oui, sans doute.-- Eh bien, le sire de Maurevel, c'est moi.-- Oh! oh! fit Coconnas.-- Ecoutez-moi donc.-- Mordi! Je crois bien que je vous ecoute.-- Chut! fit le sire de Maurevel en portant son doigt a sa bouche.Coconnas demeura l'oreille tendue.On entendit en ce moment l'hote refermer la porte d'une chambre,puis la porte du corridor, y mettre les verrous, et revenirprecipitamment du cote des deux interlocuteurs.Il offrit alors un siege a Coconnas, un siege a Maurevel, et enprenant un troisieme pour lui:-- Tout est bien clos, dit-il, monsieur de Maurevel, vous pouvezparler.Onze heures sonnaient en Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois. Maurevelcompta l'un apres l'autre chaque battement de marteau quiretentissait vibrant et lugubre dans la nuit, et quand le dernierse fut eteint dans l'espace:-- Monsieur, dit-il en se retournant vers Coconnas tout herisse al'aspect des precautions que prenaient les deux hommes, monsieur,etes-vous bon catholique?-- Mais je le crois, repondit Coconnas.-- Monsieur, continua Maurevel, etes-vous devoue au roi?-- De coeur et d'ame. Je crois meme que vous m'offensez, monsieur,en m'adressant une pareille question.-- Nous n'aurons pas de querelle la-dessus; seulement, vous alleznous suivre.-- Ou cela?-- Peu vous importe. Laissez-vous conduire. Il y va de votrefortune et peut-etre de votre vie.-- Je vous previens, monsieur, qu'a minuit j'ai affaire au Louvre.-- C'est justement la que nous allons.-- M. de Guise m'y attend.-- Nous aussi.-- Mais j'ai un mot de passe particulier, continua Coconnas un peumortifie de partager l'honneur de son audience avec le sire deMaurevel et maitre La Huriere.-- Nous aussi.-- Mais j'ai un signe de reconnaissance. Maurevel sourit, tira dedessous son pourpoint une poignee de croix en etoffe blanche, endonna une a La Huriere, une a Coconnas, et en prit une pour lui.La Huriere attacha la sienne a son casque, Maurevel en fit autantde la sienne a son chapeau.-- Oh ca! dit Coconnas stupefait, le rendez-vous, le mot d'ordre,le signe de ralliement, c'est donc pour tout le monde?-- Oui, monsieur; c'est-a-dire pour tous les bons catholiques.-- Il y a fete au Louvre alors, banquet royal, n'est-ce pas?s'ecria Coconnas, et l'on en veut exclure ces chiens dehuguenots?... Bon! bien! a merveille! Il y a assez longtempsqu'ils y paradent.-- Oui, il y a fete au Louvre, dit Maurevel, il y a banquet royal,et les huguenots y seront convies... Il y a plus, ils seront lesheros de la fete, ils paieront le banquet, et, si vous voulez bienetre des notres, nous allons commencer par aller inviter leurprincipal champion, leur Gedeon, comme ils disent.-- M. l'amiral? s'ecria Coconnas.-- Oui, le vieux Gaspard, que j'ai manque comme un imbecile,quoique j'aie tire sur lui avec l'arquebuse meme du roi.-- Et voila pourquoi, mon gentilhomme, je fourbissais ma salade,j'affilais mon epee et je repassais mes couteaux, dit d'une voixstridente maitre La Huriere travesti en guerre.A ces mots, Coconnas frissonna et devint fort pale, car ilcommencait a comprendre.-- Quoi, vraiment! s'ecria-t-il, cette fete, ce banquet...c'est... on va...-- Vous avez ete bien long a deviner, monsieur, dit Maurevel, etl'on voit bien que vous n'etes pas fatigue comme nous desinsolences de ces heretiques.-- Et vous prenez sur vous, dit-il, d'aller chez l'amiral, etde...? Maurevel sourit, et attirant Coconnas contre la fenetre:-- Regardez, dit-il; voyez-vous, sur la petite place, au bout dela rue, derriere l'eglise, cette troupe qui se rangesilencieusement dans l'ombre?-- Oui.-- Les hommes qui composent cette troupe ont, comme maitre LaHuriere, vous et moi, une croix au chapeau.-- Eh bien?-- Eh bien, ces hommes, c'est une compagnie de Suisses des petitscantons, commandes par Toquenot; vous savez que messieurs despetits cantons sont les comperes du roi.-- Oh! oh! fit Coconnas.-- Maintenant, voyez cette troupe de cavaliers qui passe sur lequai; reconnaissez-vous son chef?-- Comment voulez-vous que je le reconnaisse? dit Coconnas toutfremissant, je suis a Paris de ce soir seulement.-- Eh bien, c'est celui avec qui vous avez rendez-vous a minuit auLouvre. Voyez, il va vous y attendre.-- Le duc de Guise?-- Lui-meme. Ceux qui l'escortent sont Marcel, ex-prevot desmarchands, et J. Choron, prevot actuel. Les deux derniers vontmettre sur pied leurs compagnies de bourgeois; et tenez, voici lecapitaine du quartier qui entre dans la rue: regardez bien cequ'il va faire.-- Il heurte a chaque porte. Mais qu'y a-t-il donc sur les portesauxquelles il heurte?-- Une croix blanche, jeune homme; une croix pareille a celle quenous avons a nos chapeaux. Autrefois on laissait a Dieu le soin dedistinguer les siens; aujourd'hui nous sommes plus civilises, etnous lui epargnons cette besogne.-- Mais chaque maison a laquelle il frappe s'ouvre, et de chaquemaison sortent des bourgeois armes.-- Il frappera a la notre comme aux autres, et nous sortirons anotre tour.-- Mais, dit Coconnas, tout ce monde sur pied pour aller tuer unvieil huguenot! Mordi! c'est honteux! c'est une affaired'egorgeurs et non de soldats!-- Jeune homme, dit Maurevel, si les vieux vous repugnent, vouspourrez en choisir de jeunes. Il y en aura pour tous les gouts. Sivous meprisez les poignards, vous pourrez vous servir de l'epee;car les huguenots ne sont pas gens a se laisser egorger sans sedefendre, et, vous le savez, les huguenots, jeunes ou vieux, ontla vie dure.-- Mais on les tuera donc tous, alors? s'ecria Coconnas.-- Tous.-- Par ordre du roi?-- Par ordre du roi et de M. de Guise.-- Et quand cela?-- Quand vous entendrez la cloche de Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois.-- Ah! c'est donc pour cela que cet aimable Allemand, qui est aM. de Guise... comment l'appelez-vous donc?-- M. de Besme?-- Justement. C'est donc pour cela que M. de Besme me disaitd'accourir au premier coup de tocsin?-- Vous avez donc vu M. de Besme?-- Je l'ai vu et je lui ai parle.-- Ou cela?-- Au Louvre. C'est lui qui m'a fait entrer, qui m'a donne le motd'ordre, qui m'a...-- Regardez.-- Mordi! c'est lui-meme.-- Voulez-vous lui parler?-- Sur mon ame! je n'en serais pas fache.Maurevel ouvrit doucement la fenetre. Besme, en effet, passaitavec une vingtaine d'hommes.-- _Guise et Lorraine! _dit Maurevel.Besme se retourna, et, comprenant que c'etait a lui qu'on avaitaffaire, il s'approcha.-- Ah! ah! c'etre fous, monsir de Maurefel.-- Oui, c'est moi; que cherchez-vous?-- J'y cherche l'auperge de la Belle-Etoile, pour brevenir uncertain monsir Gogonnas.-- Me voici, monsieur de Besme! dit le jeune homme.-- Ah! pon, ah! pien... Vous etes bret?-- Oui. Que faut-il faire?-- Ce que vous tira monsir de Maurefel. C'etre un bon gatholique.-- Vous l'entendez? dit Maurevel.-- Oui, repondit Coconnas. Mais vous, monsieur de Besme, ou allez-vous?-- Moi?... dit de Besme en riant...-- Oui, vous?-- Moi, je fas tire un betit mot a l'amiral.-- Dites-lui-en deux, s'il le faut, dit Maurevel, et que cettefois, s'il se releve du premier, il ne se releve pas du second.-- Soyez dranguille, monsir de Maurefel, soyez dranguille, ettressez-moi pien ce cheune homme-la.-- Oui, oui, n'ayez pas de crainte, les Coconnas sont de finslimiers, et bons chiens chassent de race.-- Atieu!-- Allez.-- Et fous?-- Commencez toujours la chasse, nous arriverons pour la curee. DeBesme s'eloigna et Maurevel ferma la fenetre.-- Vous l'entendez, jeune homme? dit Maurevel; si vous avezquelque ennemi particulier, quand il ne serait pas tout a faithuguenot, mettez-le sur la liste, et il passera avec les autres.Coconnas, plus etourdi que jamais de tout ce qu'il voyait et detout ce qu'il entendait, regardait tour a tour l'hote, qui prenaitdes poses formidables, et Maurevel, qui tirait tranquillement unpapier de sa poche.-- Quant a moi, voila ma liste, dit-il; trois cents. Que chaquebon catholique fasse, cette nuit, la dixieme partie de la besogneque je ferai, et il n'y aura plus demain un seul heretique dans leroyaume!-- Chut! dit La Huriere.-- Quoi? repeterent ensemble Coconnas et Maurevel.On entendit vibrer le premier coup de beffroi a Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois.-- Le signal! s'ecria Maurevel. L'heure est donc avancee? Cen'etait que pour minuit, m'avait-on dit... Tant mieux! Quand ils'agit de la gloire de Dieu et du roi, mieux vaut les horloges quiavancent que celles qui retardent.En effet, on entendit tinter lugubrement la cloche de l'eglise.Bientot un premier coup de feu retentit, et presque aussitot lalueur de plusieurs flambeaux illumina comme un eclair la rue del'Arbre-Sec.Coconnas passa sur son front sa main humide de sueur.-- C'est commence, s'ecria Maurevel, en route!-- Un moment, un moment! dit l'hote; avant de nous mettre encampagne, assurons-nous du logis, comme on dit a la guerre. Je neveux pas qu'on egorge ma femme et mes enfants pendant que je seraidehors: il y a un huguenot ici.-- M. de La Mole? s'ecria Coconnas avec un soubresaut.-- Oui! le parpaillot s'est jete dans la gueule du loup.-- Comment! dit Coconnas, vous vous attaqueriez a votre hote?-- C'est a son intention surtout que j'ai repasse ma rapiere.-- Oh! oh! fit le Piemontais en froncant le sourcil.-- Je n'ai jamais tue personne que mes lapins, mes canards et mespoulets, repliqua le digne aubergiste; je ne sais donc tropcomment m'y prendre pour tuer un homme. Eh bien, je vais m'exercersur celui-la. Si je fais quelque gaucherie, au moins personne nesera la pour se moquer de moi.-- Mordi, c'est dur! objecta Coconnas. M. de La Mole est moncompagnon, M. de La Mole a soupe avec moi, M. de La Mole a joueavec moi.-- Oui, mais M. de La Mole est un heretique, dit Maurevel.M.de La Mole est condamne; et si nous ne le tuons pas, d'autres letueront.-- Sans compter, dit l'hote, qu'il vous a gagne cinquante ecus.-- C'est vrai, dit Coconnas, mais loyalement, j'en suis sur.-- Loyalement ou non, il vous faudra toujours le payer; tandisque, si je le tue, vous etes quitte.-- Allons, allons! depechons, messieurs, s'ecria Maurevel; unearquebusade, un coup de rapiere, un coup de marteau, un coup dechenet, un coup de ce que vous voudrez; mais finissons-en, si vousvoulez arriver a temps, comme nous avons promis, pour aiderM. de Guise chez l'amiral.Coconnas soupira.-- J'y cours! s'ecria La Huriere, attendez-moi.-- Mordi! s'ecria Coconnas, il va faire souffrir ce pauvre garcon,et le voler peut-etre. Je veux etre la pour l'achever, s'il estbesoin, et empecher qu'on ne touche a son argent.Et mu par cette heureuse idee, Coconnas monta l'escalier derrieremaitre La Huriere, qu'il eut bientot rejoint; car, a mesure qu'ilmontait, par un effet de la reflexion sans doute, La Huriereralentissait le pas.Au moment ou il arrivait a la porte, toujours suivi de Coconnas,plusieurs coups de feu retentirent dans la rue.Aussitot on entendit La Mole sauter de son lit et le planchercrier sous ses pas.-- Diable! murmura La Huriere un peu trouble, il est reveille, jecrois!-- Ca m'en a l'air, dit Coconnas.-- Et il va se defendre?-- Il en est capable. Dites donc, maitre La Huriere, s'il allaitvous tuer, ca serait drole.-- Hum! hum! fit l'hote. Mais, se sentant arme d'une bonnearquebuse, il se rassura et enfonca la porte d'un vigoureux coupde pied. On vit alors La Mole, sans chapeau, mais tout vetu,retranche derriere son lit, son epee entre ses dents et sespistolets a la main.-- Oh! oh! dit Coconnas en ouvrant les narines en veritable betefauve qui flaire le sang, voila qui devient interessant, maitre LaHuriere. Allons, allons! en avant!-- Ah! l'on veut m'assassiner, a ce qu'il parait! cria La Moledont les yeux flamboyaient, et c'est toi, miserable?Maitre La Huriere ne repondit a cette apostrophe qu'en abaissantson arquebuse et qu'en mettant le jeune homme en joue. Mais LaMole avait vu la demonstration, et, au moment ou le coup partit,il se jeta a genoux, et la balle passa pardessus sa tete.-- A moi! cria La Mole, a moi, monsieur de Coconnas!-- A moi! monsieur de Maurevel, a moi! cria La Huriere.-- Ma foi, monsieur de la Mole! dit Coconnas, tout ce que je puisdans cette affaire est de ne point me mettre contre vous. Ilparait qu'on tue cette nuit les huguenots au nom du roi. Tirez-vous de la comme vous pourrez.-- Ah! traitres! ah! assassins! c'est comme cela! eh bien,attendez.Et La Mole, visant a son tour, lacha la detente d'un de sespistolets. La Huriere, qui ne le perdait pas de vue, eut le tempsde se jeter de cote; mais Coconnas, qui ne s'attendait pas a cetteriposte, resta a la place ou il etait et la balle lui effleural'epaule.-- Mordi! cria-t-il en grincant des dents, j'en tiens; a nous deuxdonc! puisque tu le veux. Et, tirant sa rapiere, il s'elanca versLa Mole.Sans doute, s'il eut ete seul, La Mole l'eut attendu; maisCoconnas avait derriere lui maitre La Huriere qui rechargeait sonarquebuse, sans compter Maurevel qui, pour se rendre al'invitation de l'aubergiste, montait les escaliers quatre aquatre. La Mole se jeta donc dans un cabinet, et verrouilla laporte derriere lui.-- Ah! schelme! s'ecria Coconnas furieux, heurtant la porte dupommeau de sa rapiere, attends, attends. Je veux te trouer lecorps d'autant de coups d'epee que tu m'as gagne d'ecus ce soir!Ah! je viens pour t'empecher de souffrir! ah! je viens pour qu'onne te vole pas, et tu me recompenses en m'envoyant une balle dansl'epaule! attends! birbonne! attends!Sur ces entrefaites, maitre La Huriere s'approcha et d'un coup decrosse de son arquebuse fit voler la porte en eclats.Coconnas s'elanca dans le cabinet, mais il alla donner du nezcontre la muraille: le cabinet etait vide et la fenetre ouverte.-- Il se sera precipite, dit l'hote; et comme nous sommes auquatrieme, il est mort.-- Ou il se sera sauve par le toit de la maison voisine, ditCoconnas en enjambant la barre de la fenetre et en s'appretant ale suivre sur ce terrain glissant et escarpe.Mais Maurevel et La Huriere se precipiterent sur lui, et leramenant dans la chambre:-- Etes-vous fou? s'ecrierent-ils tous deux a la fois. Vous allezvous tuer.-- Bah, dit Coconnas, je suis montagnard, moi, et habitue a courirdans les glaciers. D'ailleurs, quand un homme m'a insulte unefois, je monterais avec lui jusqu'au ciel, ou je descendrais aveclui jusqu'en enfer, quelque chemin qu'il prit pour y arriver.Laissez-moi faire.-- Allons donc! dit Maurevel, ou il est mort, ou il est loinmaintenant. Venez avec nous; et si celui-la vous echappe, vous entrouverez mille autres a sa place.-- Vous avez raison, hurla Coconnas. Mort aux huguenots! J'aibesoin de me venger, et le plus tot sera le mieux.Et tous trois descendirent l'escalier comme une avalanche.-- Chez l'amiral! cria Maurevel.-- Chez l'amiral! repeta La Huriere.-- Chez l'amiral, donc! puisque vous le voulez, dit a son tourCoconnas.Et tous trois s'elancerent de l'hotel de la Belle-Etoile, laisseen garde a Gregoire et aux autres garcons, se dirigeant versl'hotel de l'amiral, situe rue de Bethisy; une flamme brillante etle bruit des arquebusades les guidaient de ce cote.-- Eh! qui vient la? s'ecria Coconnas. Un homme sans pourpoint etsans echarpe.-- C'en est un qui se sauve, dit Maurevel.-- A vous, a vous! a vous qui avez des arquebuses, s'ecriaCoconnas.-- Ma foi, non, dit Maurevel; je garde ma poudre pour meilleurgibier.-- A vous, La Huriere.-- Attendez, attendez, dit l'aubergiste en ajustant.-- Ah! oui, attendez, s'ecria Coconnas; et en attendant il va sesa