ing's _Field-Book of the War of 1812;_Coffin's _Building the Nation, _149-231.Home Readings.--Barnes's _Yankee Ships; _Roosevelt's _Naval War of1812; _Seawell's _Midshipman Paulding; _Holmes's _Old Ironsides;_Goodwin's _Dolly Madison._CHAPTER 25THE SECOND WAR OF INDEPENDENCE, 1812 1815[Sidenote: American plan of campaign, 1812.][Sidenote: Objections to it.]260. Plan of Campaign, 1812.--The American plan of campaign wasthat General Hull should invade Canada from Detroit. He could then marcheastward, north of Lake Erie, and meet another army which was to crossthe Niagara River. These two armies were to take up the eastward marchand join a third army from New York. The three armies then would captureMontreal and Quebec and generally all Canada. It was a splendid plan.But there were three things in the way of carrying it out: (i) there wasno trained American army; (2) there were no supplies for an army whengathered and trained; and (3) there was a small, well-trained andwell-supplied army in Canada.[Illustration: DETROIT, ABOUT 1815.][Sidenote: Hull's march to Detroit.][Sidenote: His misfortunes.][Sidenote: He surrenders Detroit, 1812.]261. Hull's Surrender of Detroit, 1812.--In those days Detroit wasseparated from the settled parts of Ohio by two hundred miles ofwilderness. To get his men and supplies to Detroit, Hull had first ofall to cut a road through the forest. The British learned of the actualdeclaration of war before Hull knew of it. They dashed down on hisscattered detachments and seized his provisions. Hull sent outexpedition after expedition to gather supplies and bring in thescattered settlers. Tecumthe and the other Indian allies of the Britishcaptured one expedition after another. The British advanced on Detroit,and Hull surrendered. By this disaster the British got control of theupper lakes. They even invaded Ohio.[Illustration: PERRY'S BATTLE FLAG.][Sidenote: Battle of Lake Erie 1813. McMaster, 234-235.][Sidenote: Battle of the Thames, 1813.]262. Perry's Victory on Lake Erie, 1813.--But the British triumphdid not last long. In the winter of 1812-13 Captain Oliver Hazard Perrybuilt a fleet of warships on Lake Erie. They were built of green timbercut for the purpose. They were poor vessels, but were as good as theBritish vessels. In September, 1813, Perry sailed in search of theBritish ships. Coming up with them, he hoisted at his masthead a largeblue flag with Lawrence's immortal words, "Don't give up the ship" (p.212), worked upon it. The battle was fiercely fought. Soon Perry'sflagship, the _Lawrence_, was disabled and only nine of her crew wereuninjured. Rowing to another ship, Perry continued the fight. In fifteenminutes more all the British ships surrendered. The control of Lake Eriewas now in American hands. The British retreated from the southern sideof the lake. General Harrison occupied Detroit. He then crossed intoCanada and defeated a British army on the banks of the river Thames(October, 1813).[Illustration: THE "CONSTITUTION." From an early painting of the escapeof the _Constitution_ from the British fleet. The men in the boat arepreparing to carry out a small anchor.][Sidenote: The _Constitution_.][Sidenote: Chased by a British fleet, 1812.][Sidenote: She escapes.]263. The Frigate _Constitution_.--One of the first vessels to getto sea was the _Constitution_, commanded by Isaac Hull. She sailed fromChesapeake Bay for New York, where she was to serve as a guard-ship. Onthe way she fell in with a British squadron. The _Constitution_ sailedon with the whole British fleet in pursuit. Soon the wind began to dieaway. The _Constitution's_ sails were soaked with water to make themhold the wind better. Then the wind gave out altogether, Captain Hulllowered his boats and the men began to tow the ship. But the Britishlowered their boats also. They set a great many boats to towing theirfastest ship, and she began to gain on the _Constitution_. Then CaptainHull found that he was sailing over shoal water, although out of sightof land, so he sent a small anchor ahead in a boat. The anchor wasdropped and men on the ship pulled in the anchor line. This was doneagain and again. The _Constitution _now began to gain on the Britishfleet. Then a sudden squall burst on the ships. Captain Hull saw itcoming and made every preparation to take advantage of it. When the raincleared away, the _Constitution_ was beyond fear of pursuit. But shecould not go to New York, so Captain Hull took her to Boston. Thegovernment at once ordered him to stay where he was; but, before theorders reached Boston, the _Constitution_ was far away.[Sidenote: _Constitution_ and _Guerriere_, 1812.][Sidenote: Reasons for the victory.]264. _Constitution_ and _Guerriere_, 1812.--For some time Hullcruised about in the Gulf of St. Lawrence. One day he sighted a Britishfrigate--the _Guerriere_--one of the ships that had chased the_Constitution_. But now that Hull found her alone, he steered straightfor her. In thirty minutes from the firing of the first gun the_Guerriere_ was a ruinous wreck. All of her masts and spars were shotaway and most of her crew were killed or wounded. The _Constitution_ wasonly slightly injured, and was soon ready to fight another Britishfrigate, had there been one to fight. Indeed, the surgeons of the_Constitution_ went on board of the _Guerriere_ to help dress the woundsof the British seamen. The _Guerriere_ was a little smaller than the_Constitution_ and had smaller guns. But the real reason for this greatvictory was that the American ship and the American guns were very muchbetter handled than were the British ship and the British guns.[Sidenote: _Wasp_ and the _Frolic_][Sidenote: Effect of these victories.]265. The _Wasp_ and the _Frolic_, 1812.--At almost the same timethe American ship _Wasp_ captured the British brig _Frolic_. The _Wasp_had three masts, and the _Frolic_ had only two masts. But the twovessels were really of about the same size, as the American ship wasonly five feet longer than her enemy, and had the lighter guns. In a fewminutes after the beginning of the fight the _Frolic_ was a shatteredhulk, with only one sound man on her deck. Soon after the conflict aBritish battleship came up and captured both the _Wasp_ and her prize.The effect of these victories of the _Constitution_ and the _Wasp_ wastremendous. Before the war British naval officers had called the_Constitution_ "a bundle of sticks." Now it was thought to be no longersafe for British frigates to sail the seas alone. They must go in pairsto protect each other from "Old Ironsides." Before long the_Constitution_, now commanded by Captain Bainbridge, had captured theBritish frigate _Java_, and the frigate _United States_, CaptainDecatur, had taken the British ship _Macedonian_. On the other hand, the_Chesapeake_ was captured by the _Shannon_. This victory gave greatsatisfaction to the British. But Captain Lawrence's last words, "Don'tgive up the ship," have always been a glorious inspiration toAmerican sailors.[Sidenote: Plan of campaign, 1814.][Sidenote: Battle of Lundy's Lane, 1814.]266. Brown's Invasion of Canada, 1814.--In the first two years ofthe war the American armies in New York had done nothing. But abler menwere now in command. Of these, General Jacob Brown, General Macomb,Colonel Winfield Scott, and Colonel Ripley deserve to be remembered.The American plan of campaign was that Brown, with Scott and Ripley,should cross the Niagara River and invade Canada. General Macomb, with anaval force under McDonough, was to hold the line of Lake Champlain. TheBritish plan was to invade New York by way of Lake Champlain. Browncrossed the Niagara River and fought two brilliant battles at Chippewaand Lundy's Lane. The latter battle was especially glorious because theAmericans captured British guns and held them against repeated attacksby British veterans. In the end, however, Brown was obliged to retire.[Sidenote: Invasion of New York.][Sidenote: Battle of Plattsburg, 1814.]267. McDonough's Victory at Plattsburg, 1814.--General Prevost,with a fine army of veterans, marched southward from Canada, while afleet sailed up Lake Champlain. At Plattsburg, on the western side ofthe lake, was General Macomb with a force of American soldiers. Anchoredbefore the town was McDonough's fleet. Prevost attacked Macomb's armyand was driven back. The British fleet attacked McDonough's vessels andwas destroyed. That put an end to Prevost's invasion. He retreated backto Canada as fast as he could go.[Illustration: FORT McHENRY.][Sidenote: Burning of Washington, 1814.][Sidenote: "The Star-Spangled Banner."]268. The British in the Chesapeake, 1814.--Besides their operationson the Canadian frontier, the British tried to capture New Orleans andthe cities on Chesapeake Bay. The British landed below Washington. Theymarched to the capital. They entered Washington. They burned theCapitol, the White House, and several other public buildings. They thenhurried away, leaving their wounded behind them. Later on the Britishattacked Baltimore and were beaten off with great loss. It was at thistime that Francis Scott Key wrote "The Star-Spangled Banner." He wasdetained on board one of the British warships during the fight. Eagerlyhe watched through the smoke for a glimpse of the flag over Fort McHenryat the harbor's mouth. In the morning the flag was still there. Thisdefeat closed the British operations on the Chesapeake.[Illustration: FLAG OF FORT McHENRY. Fifteen stars and fifteenstripes--one of each for each state.][Sidenote: Jackson's Creek campaign, 1814.]269. The Creek War.--The Creek Indians lived in Alabama. They sawwith dismay the spreading settlements of the whites. The Americans werenow at war. It would be a good chance to destroy them. So the Creeksfell upon the whites and murdered about four hundred. General AndrewJackson of Tennessee commanded the American army in the Southwest. Assoon as he knew that the Creeks were attacking the settlers, he gatheredsoldiers and followed the Indians to their stronghold. He stormed theirfort and killed most of the garrison.[Illustration: BATTLE OF NEW ORLEANS. From a sketch by one of Jackson'sstaff.][Sidenote: Battle of New Orleans, 1815.][Sidenote: _Hero Tales_, 139-147.]270. Jackson's Defense of New Orleans, 1814-15.--Jackson hadscarcely finished this work when he learned of the coming of a greatBritish expedition to the mouth of the Mississippi River. He at oncehastened to the defense of New Orleans. Below the city the countrygreatly favored the defender. For there was very little solid groundexcept along the river's bank. Picking out an especially narrow place,Jackson built a breastwork of cotton bales and rubbish. In front of thebreastwork he dug a deep ditch. The British rushed to the attack. Mostof their generals were killed or wounded, and the slaughter wasterrible. Later, they made another attack and were again beaten off.[Sidenote: Naval combats, 1814.]271. The War on the Sea, 1814.--It was only in the first year or soof the war that there was much fighting between American and Britishwarships. After that the American ships could not get to sea, for theBritish stationed whole fleets off the entrances to the principalharbors. But a few American vessels ran the blockade and did goodservice. For instance, Captain Charles Stewart in the _Constitution_captured two British ships at one time. But most of the warships thatgot to sea were captured sooner or later.[Sidenote: The privateers. _Hero Tales_, 129-136.]272. The Privateers.--No British fleets could keep the privateersfrom leaving port. They swarmed upon the ocean and captured hundreds ofBritish merchantmen, some of them within sight of the shores of GreatBritain. In all, they captured more than twenty-five hundred Britishships. They even fought the smaller warships of the enemy.[Sidenote: Treaty of peace, 1814.]273. Treaty of Ghent, 1814.--The war had hardly begun beforecommissioners to treat for peace were appointed by both the UnitedStates and Great Britain. But they did nothing until the failure of the1814 campaign showed the British government that there was no hope ofconquering any portion of the United States. Then the British were readyenough to make peace, and a treaty was signed at Ghent in December,1814. This was two weeks before the British disaster at New Orleansoccurred, and months before the news of it reached Europe. None of thethings about which the war was fought were even mentioned in the treaty.But this did not really make much difference. For the British hadrepealed their orders as to American ships before the news of thedeclaration of war reached London. As for impressment, the guns of the_Constitution_ had put an end to that.[Illustration: THE OLD STATE HOUSE. Where the Hartford Convention met.][Sidenote: New England Federalists.][Sidenote: Hartford Convention, 1814.]274. The Hartford Convention, 1814.--While the New commissionerswere talking over the treaty of peace, other debaters were discussingthe war, at Hartford, Connecticut. These were leading New EnglandFederalists. They thought that the government at Washington had donemany things that the Constitution of the United States did not permit itto do. They drew up a set of resolutions. Some of these read like thoseother resolutions drawn up by Jefferson and Madison in 1798 (p. 175).The Hartford debaters also thought that the national government had notdone enough to protect the coasts of New England from British attacks.They proposed, therefore, that the taxes collected by the nationalgovernment in New England should be handed over to the New Englandstates to use for their defense. Commissioners were actually atWashington to propose this division of the national revenue when newscame of Jackson's victory at New Orleans and of the signing of theTreaty of Ghent. The commissioners hastened home and the Republicanparty regained its popularity with the voters.[Illustration: A REPUBLICAN SQUIB ON THE HARTFORD CONVENTION.][Sidenote: Gains of the war.][Sidenote: The American nation.]275. Gains of the War.--The United States gained no territory afterall this fighting on sea and land. It did not even gain the abolition ofimpressment in so many words. But what was of far greater importance,the American people began to think of itself as a nation. Americans nolonger looked to France or to England as models to be followed. Theybecame Americans. The getting of this feeling of independence and ofnationality was a very great step forward. It is right, therefore, tospeak of this war as the Second War of Independence.[Illustration: JAMES MONROE.]CHAPTER 26THE ERA OF GOOD FEELING, 1815-1824[Sidenote: Monroe elected President, 1816, 1820.][Sidenote: Characteristics of the Era of Good Feeling. _McMaster_, 260.]276. The Era as a Whole.--The years 1815-24 have been called theEra of Good Feeling, because there was no hard political fighting in allthat time--at least not until the last year or two. In 1816 Monroe waselected President without much opposition. In 1820 he was reelectedPresident without any opposition whatever. Instead of fighting overpolitics, the people were busily employed in bringing vast regions ofthe West under cultivation and in founding great manufacturingindustries in the East. They were also making roads and canals toconnect the Western farms with the Eastern cities and factories. Thelater part of the era was a time of unbounded prosperity. Every now andthen some hard question would come up for discussion. Its settlementwould be put off, or the matter would be compromised. In these years theFederalist party disappeared, and the Republican party split intofactions. By 1824 the differences in the Republican party had become sogreat that there was a sudden ending to the Era of Good Feeling.[Sidenote: Hard times, 1816-18.][Sidenote: Emigration to the West, 1816-18. _McMaster_, 241, 266-273.][Sidenote: Four states admitted, 1816-1819][Sidenote: Maine and Missouri apply for admission.]277. Western Emigration.--During the first few years of this periodthe people of the older states on the seacoast felt very poor. Theshipowners could no longer make great profits. For there was now peacein Europe, and European vessels competed with American vessels. Greatquantities of British goods were sent to the United States and were soldat very low prices. The demand for American goods fell off. Mill ownersclosed their mills. Working men and women could find no work to do. Theresult was a great rush of emigrants from the older states on theseaboard to the new settlements in the West. In the West the emigrantscould buy land from the government at a very low rate, and by workinghard could support themselves and their families. This westward movementwas at its height in 1817. In the years 1816--19, four states wereadmitted to the Union. These were Indiana (1816), Mississippi (1817),Illinois (1818), and Alabama (1819). Some of the emigrants even crossedthe Mississippi River and settled in Missouri and in Arkansas. In 1819they asked to be admitted to the Union as the state of Missouri, orgiven a territorial government under the name of Arkansas. The people ofMaine also asked Congress to admit them to the Union as the stateof Maine.[Sidenote: Objections to the admission of Missouri.]278. Opposition to the Admission of Missouri.--Many people in theNorth opposed the admission of Missouri because the settlers of theproposed state were slaveholders. Missouri would be a slave state, andthese Northerners did not want any more slave states. Originally slaveryhad existed in all the old thirteen states. But every state north ofMaryland had before 1819 either put an end to slavery or hadadopted some plan by which slavery would gradually come to an end.Slavery had been excluded from the Northwest by the famous Ordinance of1787 (p. 135). In these ways slavery had ceased to be a vitalinstitution north of Maryland and Kentucky. Why should slavery beallowed west of the Mississippi River? Louisiana had been admitted as aslave state (1812). But the admission of Louisiana had been provided forin the treaty for the purchase of Louisiana from France. The Southernersfelt as strongly on the other side. They said that their slaves weretheir property, and that they had a perfect right to take theirproperty and settle on the land belonging to the nation. Having foundeda slave state, it was only right that the state should be admitted tothe Union.[Illustration: (Map) Missouri Compromise of 1820][Sidenote: This Missouri Compromise, 1820. _Higginson_, 254-256;_Eggleston_, 258-261.][Sidenote: Both states admitted, 1820. _McMaster_,274-276.]279. The Missouri Compromise, 1820.--When the question of theadmission of Maine and Missouri came before Congress, the Senate wasequally divided between the slave states and the free states. But themajority of the House of Representatives was from the free states. Thefree states were growing faster than were the slave states and wouldprobably keep on growing faster. The majority from the free states inthe House, therefore, would probably keep on increasing. If the freestates obtained a majority in the Senate also, the Southerners wouldlose all control of the government. For these reasons the Southernerswould not consent to the admission of Maine as a free state unless atthe same time Missouri was admitted as a slave state. After a longstruggle Maine and Missouri were both admitted--the one as a free state,the other as a slave state. But it was also agreed that all of theLouisiana purchase north of the southern boundary of Missouri, with thesingle exception of the state of Missouri, should be free soilforever. This arrangement was called the Missouri Compromise. It was thework of Henry Clay. It was an event of great importance, because it putoff for twenty-five years the inevitable conflict over slavery.[Illustration: THE UNITED STATES IN 1820][Sidenote: Reasons for the purchase of Florida.][Sidenote: Jackson invades Florida, 1818.][Sidenote: The Florida purchase, 1819.]280. The Florida Treaty, 1819.--While this contest was going on,the United States bought of Spain a large tract of land admirably suitedto negro slavery. This was Florida. It belonged to Spain and was arefuge for all sorts of people: runaway negroes, fugitive Indians,smugglers, and criminals of all kinds. Once in Florida, fugitivesgenerally were safe. But they were not always safe. For instance, in1818 General Jackson chased some fleeing Indians over the boundary. Theysought refuge in a Spanish fort, and Jackson was obliged to take thefort as well as the Indians. This exploit made the Spaniards morewilling to sell Florida. The price was five million dollars. But when itcame to giving up the province, the Spaniards found great difficulty inkeeping their promises. The treaty was made in 1819, but it was notuntil 1821 that Jackson, as governor of Florida, took possession of thenew territory. Even then the Spanish governor refused to hand over therecord books, and Jackson had to shut him up in prison until he becamemore reasonable.[Illustration: OLD HOUSES, ST. AUGUSTINE, FLORIDA.][Sidenote: Formation of the Holy Alliance.][Sidenote: It interferes in Spanish affairs.][Sidenote: The Spanish Americans colonists rebel against Spain.][Sidenote: Russian attempts at colonization.]281. The "Holy Alliance."--Most of the people of the other Spanishcolonies were rebelling against Spain, and there was a rebellion inSpain itself. There were rebellions in other European countries as wellas in Spain. In fact, there seemed to be a rebellious spirit nearlyeverywhere. This alarmed the European emperors and kings. With theexception of the British king, they joined together to put downrebellions. They called their union the Holy Alliance. They soon put theSpanish king back on his throne. They then thought that they would sendwarships and soldiers across the Atlantic Ocean to crush the rebellionsin the Spanish colonies. Now the people of the United States sympathizedwith the Spanish colonists in their desire for independence. They alsodisliked the idea of Europeans interfering in American affairs. "Americafor Americans," was the cry. It also happened that Englishmen desiredthe freedom of the Spanish colonists. As her subjects Spain would notlet them buy English goods. But if they were free, they could buy goodswherever they pleased. The British government therefore proposed thatthe United States and Great Britain should join in a declaration thatthe Spanish colonies were independent states. John Quincy Adams, son ofJohn Adams, was Monroe's Secretary of State. He thought that this wouldnot be a wise course to follow, because it might bring American affairswithin European control. He was all the more anxious to prevent thisentanglement, as the Czar of Russia was preparing to found colonies onthe western coast of North America and Adams wanted a free hand todeal with him.[Sidenote: The Monroe Doctrine, 1822. _McMaster_, 262-265][Sidenote: Action of Great Britain. End of European interference inAmerica.]282. The Monroe Doctrine, 1823.--It was under these circumstancesthat President Monroe sent a message to Congress. In it he stated thepolicy of the United States as follows: (1) America is closed tocolonization by any European power; (2) the United States have notinterfered and will not interfere in European affairs; (3) the UnitedStates regard the extension of the system of the Holy Alliance toAmerica as dangerous to the United States; and (4) the United Stateswould regard the interference of the Holy Alliance in American affairsas an "unfriendly act." This part of the message was written by Adams.He had had a long experience in diplomacy. He used the words "unfriendlyact" as diplomatists use them when they mean that such an "unfriendlyact" would be a cause for war. The British government also informed theHoly Allies that their interference in American affairs would beresented. The Holy Alliance gave over all idea of crushing the Spanishcolonists. And the Czar of Russia agreed to found no colonies south offifty-four degrees and forty minutes north latitude.[Sidenote: Meaning of the Monroe Doctrine.]283. Meaning of the Monroe Doctrine.--The ideas contained inMonroe's celebrated message to Congress are always spoken of as theMonroe Doctrine. Most of these ideas were not invented by Monroe or byAdams. Many of them may be found in Washington's NeutralityProclamation, in Washington's Farewell Address, in Jefferson's InauguralAddress, and in other documents. What was new in Monroe's message wasthe statement that European interference in American affairs would belooked upon by the United States as an "unfriendly act," leading to war.European kings might crush out liberty in Europe. They might divide Asiaand Africa among themselves. They must not interfere inAmerican affairs.CHAPTER 27NEW PARTIES AND NEW POLICIES, 1824-1829[Sidenote: End of Monroe's administrations.]284. End of the Era of Good Feeling.--The Era of Good Feeling cameto a sudden ending in 1824. Monroe's second term as President would endin 1825. He refused to be a candidate for reelection. In thus followingthe example set by Washington, Jefferson, and Madison, Monroe confirmedthe custom of limiting the presidential term to eight years. There wasno lack of candidates to succeed him in his high office.[Sidenote: J.Q. Adams]285. John Quincy Adams.--First and foremost was John Quincy Adamsof Massachusetts. He was Monroe's Secretary of State, and this officehad been a kind of stepping-stone to the presidency. Monroe had beenMadison's Secretary of State; Madison had been Jefferson's Secretary ofState; and Jefferson had been Washington's Secretary of State, althoughhe was Vice-President when he was chosen to the first place. John QuincyAdams was a statesman of great experience and of ability. He was a manof the highest honor and intelligence. He was nominated by thelegislatures of Massachusetts and of the other New England states.[Illustration: John C. Calhoun.][Sidenote: W.H. Crawford.][Sidenote: Tenure of Office Act.][Sidenote: The Crawford machine.]286. William H. Crawford.--Besides Adams, two other members ofMonroe's cabinet wished to succeed their chief. These were John C.Calhoun and William H. Crawford. Calhoun soon withdrew from the contestto accept the nomination of all the factions to the place ofVice-President. Crawford was from Georgia and was Secretary of theTreasury. As the head of that great department, he controlled moreappointments than all the other members of the cabinet put together. Thehabit of using public offices to reward political friends had begun inPennsylvania. Washington, in his second term, Adams, and Jefferson hadappointed to office only members of their own party. Jefferson had alsoremoved from office a few political opponents (p. 187). But there weregreat difficulties in the way of making removals. Crawford hit upon theplan of appointing officers for four years only. Congress at once fellin with the idea and passed the Tenure of Office Act, limitingappointments to four years. Crawford promptly used this new power tobuild up a strong political machine in the Treasury Department, devotedto his personal advancement. He was nominated for the presidency by aCongressional caucus and became the "regular" candidate.[Sidenote: Henry Clay.][Sidenote: Andrew Jackson.]287. Clay and Jackson.--Two men outside of the cabinet were alsoput forward for Monroe's high office. These were Andrew Jackson ofTennessee and Henry Clay of Kentucky. Clay and Calhoun had enteredpolitics at about the same time. They had then believed in the samepolicy. Calhoun had abandoned his early ideas. But Clay held fast tothe policy of "nationalization." He still favored internal improvementsat the national expense. He still favored the protective system. He wasthe great "peacemaker" and tried by means of compromises to unite allparts of the Union (p. 222). He loved his country and had unboundedfaith in the American people. The legislatures of Kentucky and otherstates nominated him for the presidency. The strongest man of all thecandidates was Andrew Jackson, the "Hero of New Orleans." He had neverbeen prominent in politics. But his warlike deeds had made his name andhis strength familiar to the voters, especially to those of the West. Hewas a man of the people, as none of his rivals were. He stood fordemocracy and the Union. The legislatures of Tennessee and other statesnominated Jackson for the presidency.[Sidenote: The election of 1824.][Sidenote: It goes to the House of Representatives.][Sidenote: The House chooses Adams.]288. Adams chosen President, 1824.--The election was held. Thepresidential electors met in their several states and cast their votesfor President and Vice-President. The ballots were brought to Washingtonand were counted. No candidate for the presidency had received amajority of all the votes cast. Jackson had more votes than any othercandidate, next came Adams, then Crawford, and last of all Clay. TheHouse of Representatives, voting by states, must choose one of the firstthree President. Clay, therefore, was out of the race. Clay and hisfriends believed in the same things that Adams and his friends believedin, and had slight sympathy with the views of Jackson or of Crawford.So they joined the Adams men and chose Adams President. The Jackson menwere furious. They declared that the Representatives had defeated the"will of the people."[Illustration: JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.][Sidenote: Adams appoints Clay Secretary of State.][Sidenote: Charges of a bargain.][Sidenote: Weakness of Adams's administration.]289. Misfortunes of Adams's Administration.--Adams's first mistakewas the appointment of Clay as Secretary of State. It was a mistake,because it gave the Jackson men a chance to assert that there had been a"deal" between Adams and Clay. They called Clay the "Judas of the West."They said that the "will of the people" had been defeated by a "corruptbargain." These charges were repeated over and over again until manypeople really began to think that there must be some reason for them.The Jackson men also most unjustly accused Adams of stealing thenation's money. The British government seized the opportunity of Adams'sweak administration to close the West India ports to American shipping.[Sidenote: Early tariff laws.][Sidenote: The tariff of 1816.][Sidenote: Tariff of 1824.]290. Early Tariffs.--Ever since 1789 manufactures had beenprotected (p. 155). The first tariff rates were very low. But theEmbargo Act, the non-intercourse law, and the War of 1812 put an end tothe importation of foreign goods. Capitalists invested large amounts ofmoney in cotton mills, woolen mills, and iron mills. With the return ofpeace in 1815, British merchants flooded the American markets with cheapgoods (p. 220). The manufacturers appealed to Congress for moreprotection, and Congress promptly passed a new tariff act (1816). Thisincreased the duties over the earlier laws. But it did not give themanufacturers all the protection that they desired. In 1824 another lawwas drawn up. It raised the duties still higher. The Southerners opposedthe passage of this last law. For they clearly saw that protection didthem no good. But the Northerners and the Westerners were heartily infavor of the increased duties, and the law was passed.[Sidenote: Agitation for more protection, 1828.][Sidenote: Scheme of the Jackson men.][Sidenote: Tariff of 1828.]291. The Tariff of Abominations, 1828.--In 1828 anotherpresidential election was to be held. The manufacturers thought thatthis would be a good time to ask for even higher protective duties,because the politicians would not dare to oppose the passage of the lawfor fear of losing votes. The Jackson men hit upon a plan by which theywould seem to favor higher duties while at the same time they werereally opposing them. They therefore proposed high duties onmanufactured goods. This would please the Northern manufacturers. Theyproposed high duties on raw materials. This would please the Westernproducers. But they thought that the manufacturers would oppose thefinal passage of the bill because the high duties on raw materials wouldinjure them very much. The bill would fail to pass, and this wouldplease the Southern cotton growers. It was a very shrewd little plan.But it did not work. The manufacturers thought that it would be well atall events to have the high duties on manufactured goods--perhaps theymight before long secure the repeal of the duties on raw materials. TheNorthern members of Congress voted for the bill, and it passed.[Sidenote: Election of 1828.][Sidenote: Jackson elected President. _McMaster_, 301.]292. Jackson elected President, 1828.--In the midst of all thisdiscouragement as to foreign affairs and this contest over the tariff,the presidential campaign of 1828 was held. Adams and Jackson were theonly two candidates. Jackson was elected by a large majority ofelectoral votes. But Adams received only one vote less than he hadreceived in 1824. The contest was very close in the two large states ofPennsylvania and New York. Had a few thousand more voters in thosestates cast their votes for Adams, the electoral votes of those stateswould have been given to him, and he would have been elected. It wasfortunate that Jackson was chosen. For a great contest between thestates and the national government was coming on. It was well that a manof Jackson's commanding strength and great popularity should be at thehead of the government.QUESTIONS AND TOPICSCHAPTER 25Sec.Sec. 260-262.--_a_. Explain by a map the American plan of campaign andshow its advantages and disadvantages._b_. Describe Perry's victory. How did this turn the scale of war?Sec.Sec. 263-265.--_a_. Describe the escape of the _Constitution_ from theBritish fleet. Describe the destruction of the _Guerriere_ and of the_Frolic_. What was the reason for the American successes?_b_. Why was the effect of these victories so great?_c_. Why did the capture of the _Chesapeake_ cause so much delight inEngland? Why are Lawrence's words so inspiring?Sec.Sec. 266, 267.--_a_. Compare the second plan for the invasion of Canadawith the earlier one._b_. Discuss the events of Brown's campaign and its results._c_. Compare Prevost's campaign with Burgoyne's. Why was itunsuccessful?_d_. What do Perry's and McDonough's victories show?Sec.Sec. 268.--_a_. Why were the British attacks directed against these threeportions of the country?_b_. Describe the attack on Washington. Was the burning of the publicbuildings justifiable?_c_. Read the "Star-Spangled Banner" and explain the allusions.Sec.Sec. 269, 270.--_a_. Describe Jackson's plans for the defense of NewOrleans. Why were they so successful?_b._ Why did not this success of the Americans have more effect on thepeace negotiations?Sec.Sec. 271, 272.--_a._ Why were most of the naval conflicts during the firstyear of the war? What is a blockade? What is a privateer?_b._ What work did the privateers do?Sec. 273.--_a._ Why was so little advance made at first toward a treaty ofpeace?_b._ Why was the news of the treaty so long in reaching Washington?_c._ What was settled by the war?Sec. 274.--_a._ Were the Federalists or the Republicans more truly thenational party?_b._ What propositions were made by the Hartford Convention? If suchproposals were carried out, what would be the effect on the Union?_c._ Compare the principles underneath these resolutions with those ofthe Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions.Sec.275.--_a._ Note carefully the effect of this war._b._ Why is it called the Second War of Independence?CHAPTER 26Sec.Sec. 276, 277.--_a._ What is meant by the Era of Good Feeling? Is thisperiod more important or less important than the period of war whichpreceded it? Why?_b._ What matters occupied the attention of the people?_c._ What shows the sudden increase in Western migration?Sec.Sec. 278, 279.--_a._ State carefully the objections to the admission ofMissouri on the part of the Northerners. Why did the Southerners objectto the admission of Maine?_b._ Trace on a map the line between the free states and the slavestates. Why was slavery no longer of importance north of this line? Whywas it important south of this line?_c._ Why were the free states gaining faster than the slave states?_d._ Explain the Missouri Compromise. How did the Compromise postponethe conflict over slavery?Sec. 280.--_a._ Why was Florida a danger to the United States?_b._ What people in the United States would welcome the purchase ofFlorida?_c._ What does this section show you as to Jackson's character?Sec. 281.--_a_. Why was the Holy Alliance formed? What did the alliespropose as to America?_b_. How was this proposal regarded by Americans? Why?_c_. How was it regarded by Englishmen? Why?Sec.Sec. 282, 283.--_a_. Explain carefully the four points of Monroe'smessage._b_. Were these ideas new? What is an "unfriendly act"?_c_. What action did Great Britain take? What was the result of thedeclarations of the United States and Great Britain._d_. What was the new point in Monroe's message?_e_. Do we still keep to the Monroe Doctrine in all respects?CHAPTER 27Sec.Sec. 284-288.--_a_. Who were the candidates for President in 1824?Describe the qualities and careers of each of them. For whom would youhave voted had you had the right to vote in 1824?_b_. How were these candidates nominated? What is a caucus?_c_. Describe the Tenure of Office Act. Should a man be given an officesimply because he has helped his party?_d_. In what respects was Jackson unlike the early Presidents?_e_. What was the result of the election? Who was finally chosen? Why?If you had been a Representative in 1824, for whom would you have voted?voted? Why?_f_. What is a majority? A plurality?Sec. 289.--_a_. Why was the appointment of Clay a mistake?_b_. What charges were made against Adams?_c_. Describe the misfortunes of Adams's administration.Sec.Sec. 290, 291.--_a_. How are manufactures protected?_b_. Why were the protective tariffs of no benefit to the Southerners?_c_. Why was an attempt for a higher tariff made in 1828?_d_. Explain the plan of the Jackson men. Why did the plan fail?Sec. 292.--_a_. Describe the election of 1828._b_. How was Jackson fitted to meet difficulties?GENERAL QUESTIONS_a_. Why was the navy better prepared for war than the army?_b_. Why did slaveholders feel the need of more slave territory in theUnion?_c_. Jackson has been called "a man of the people." Explain this title.TOPICS FOR SPECIAL WORK_a_. Early life of Andrew Jackson (to 1828)._b_. A battle of the War of 1812, e.g. Lake Erie, Lundy's Lane,Plattsburg, New Orleans, or a naval combat._c_. The frigate _Constitution_._d_. The career of Clay, of Calhoun, of J.Q. Adams, or of Monroe.SUGGESTIONSThe results of the War of 1812 should be carefully studied and comparedwith the proposals of the Hartford Convention. These last can be taughtby comparison with the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions.To the Missouri Compromise much time and careful explanation should begiven. Touch upon the economic side of slavery, and explain how thecontinued supremacy of the slave power was threatened.The Monroe Doctrine is another difficult topic; but it can be explainedby recent history.The election of 1824 can be carefully employed to elucidate the mode ofelecting President, and the struggle over the tariffs can be illustratedby recent tariff contests.[Illustration: FLAG ADOPTED IN 1818. A star for each state and a stripefor each of the original states.][Illustration: UNITED STATES IN 1830]XTHE NATIONAL DEMOCRACY,1829-1844Books for Study and ReadingReferences.--Scribner's _Popular History_, IV; Lodge's _Webster_;Coffin's _Building the Nation_, 251-313.Home Readings.--Roosevelt's _Winning of the West_; Hale's _Storiesof Inventions_; Wright's _Stories of American Progress_.CHAPTER 28THE AMERICAN PEOPLE IN 1830[Sidenote: Changes in conditions.]293. A New Race.--Between the election of President Jefferson andthe election of President Jackson great changes had taken place. The oldRevolutionary statesmen had gone. New men had taken their places. Theold sleepy life had gone. Everywhere now was bustle and hurry. In 1800the Federalists favored the British, and the Republicans favored theFrench. Now no one seemed to care for either the British or the French.At last the people had become Americans. The Federalist party haddisappeared. Every one now was either a National Republican and votedfor Adams, or a Democratic Republican and voted for Jackson.[Sidenote: Population, 1830.][Sidenote: Area, 1830.][Sidenote: Growth of the cities.][Sidenote: Settlement of the West.]294. Numbers and Area.--In 1800 there were only five and one-halfmillion people in the whole United States. Now there were nearlythirteen million people. And they had a very much larger country to livein. In 1800 the area of the United States was about eight hundredthousand square miles. But Louisiana and Florida had been bought sincethen. Now (1830) the area of the United States was about two millionsquare miles. The population of the old states had greatly increased.Especially the cities had grown. In 1800 New York City held about sixtythousand people; it now held two hundred thousand people. But it was inthe West that the greatest growth had taken place. Since 1800 Ohio,Indiana, Illinois, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Missouri had allbeen admitted to the Union.[Sidenote: Difficulties of transport over the Alleghanies. _McMaster_,252, 280-282.][Sidenote: The Cumberland Road.]295. National Roads.--Steamboats were now running on the GreatLakes and on all the important rivers of the West. The first result ofthis new mode of transport was the separation of the West from the East.Steamboats could carry passengers and goods up and down the Mississippiand its branches more cheaply and more comfortably than people and goodscould be carried over the Alleghanies. Many persons therefore advisedthe building of a good wagon road to connect the Potomac with the Ohio.The eastern end of this great road was at Cumberland on the Potomac inMaryland. It is generally called, therefore, the Cumberland Road. It wasbegun at the national expense in 1811. By 1820 the road was built as faras Wheeling on the Ohio River. From that point steamboats could steam toPittsburg, Cincinnati, St. Louis, or New Orleans. Later on, the road wasbuilt farther west, as far as Illinois. Then the coming of the railroadmade further building unnecessary.[Sidenote: The Erie Canal, 1825. _McMaster_, 282-284.][Sidenote: De Witt Clinton.][Sidenote: Results of the building of the Erie Canal.]296. The Erie Canal.--The best way to connect one steamboat routewith another was to dig a canal. The most famous of all these canals wasthe one connecting the Hudson River with Lake Erie, and called the ErieCanal. It was begun in 1817 and was completed so that a boat could passthrough it in 1825. It was De Witt Clinton who argued that such a canalwould benefit New York City by bringing to it the produce of theNorthwest and of western New York. At the same time it would benefit thefarmers of those regions by bringing their produce to tide water cheaperthan it could be brought by road through Pennsylvania. It would stillfurther benefit the farmers by enabling them to buy their goods muchcheaper, as the rates of freight would be so much lower by canal thanthey were by road. People who did not see these things as clearly as DeWitt Clinton saw them, spoke of the enterprise most sneeringly andcalled the canal "Clinton's big ditch." It very soon appeared thatClinton was right. In one year the cost of carrying a ton of grain fromLake Erie to the Hudson River fell from one hundred dollars to fifteendollars. New York City soon outstripped all its rivals and became thecenter of trade and money in the United States. Other canals, as theChesapeake and Ohio Canal, were marvels of skill. But they were not sofavorably situated as the Erie Canal and could not compete with itsuccessfully.[Illustration: CONESTOGA WAGON AND TEAM.][Sidenote: The first railroads. _McMaster_, 285-289.]297. Early Railroads.--The best stone and gravel roads were alwaysrough in places. It occurred to some one that it would be better to laydown wooden rails, and then to place a rim or flange on the wagon wheelsto keep them on the rails. The first road of this kind in America wasbuilt at Boston in 1807. It was a very rude affair and was only used tocarry dirt from the top of a hill to the harbor. The wooden rails soonwore out, so the next step was to nail strips of iron on top of them.Long lines of railroads of this kind were soon built. Both passengersand goods could be carried on them. Some of them were built by privatepersons or by companies. Others were built by a town or a state. Any onehaving horses and wagons with flanged wheels could use the railway onthe payment of a small sum of money. This was the condition of affairswhen the steam locomotive was invented.[Illustration: AN EARLY LOCOMOTIVE.][Sidenote: Invention of the locomotive, 1830.][Sidenote: Hardships of early railroad travel.]298. The Steam Locomotive.--Steam was used to drive boats throughthe water. Why should not steam be used to haul wagons over a railroad?This was a very easy question to ask, and a very hard one to answer.Year after year inventors worked on the problem. Suddenly, about 1830,it was solved in several places and by several men at nearly the sametime. It was some years, however, before the locomotive came intogeneral use. The early railroad trains were rude affairs. The cars werehardly more than stagecoaches with flanged wheels. They were fastenedtogether with chains, and when the engine started or stopped, there wasa terrible bumping and jolting. The smoke pipe of the engine was verytall and was hinged so that it could be let down when coming to a lowbridge or a tunnel. Then the smoke and cinders poured straight into thepassengers' faces. But these trains went faster than canal boats orsteamboats. Soon the railroad began to take the first place as a meansof transport.[Illustration: A LOCOMOTIVE OF TO-DAY.][Sidenote: Use of hard coal.][Sidenote: Growth of the cities.]299. Other Inventions.--The coming of the steam locomotive hastenedthe changes which one saw on every side in 1830. For some time men hadknown that there was plenty of hard coal or anthracite in Pennsylvania.But it was so hard that it would not burn in the old-fashioned stovesand fireplaces. Now a stove was invented that would burn anthracite, andthe whole matter of house warming was completely changed. Then meanswere found to make iron from ore with anthracite. The whole ironindustry awoke to new life. Next the use of gas made from coal becamecommon in cities. The great increase in manufacturing, and the greatchanges in modes of transport, led people to crowd together in citiesand towns. These inventions made it possible to feed and warm largenumbers of persons gathered into small areas. The cities began to growso fast that people could no longer live near their work or the shops.Lines of stagecoaches were established, and the coaches were soonfollowed by horse cars, which ran on iron tracks laid in the streets.[Illustration: AN EARLY HORSE CAR.][Sidenote: Growth of the school system.][Sidenote: Webster's "Dictionary."][Sidenote: American men of letters.][Sidenote: American men of science.]300. Progress in Letters.--There was also great progress inlearning. The school system was constantly improved. Especially was thisthe case in the West, where the government devoted one thirty-sixth partof the public lands to education. High schools were founded, and soonnormal schools were added to them. Even the colleges awoke from theirlong sleep. More students went to them, and the methods of teaching wereimproved. Some slight attention, too, was given to teaching thesciences. In 1828 Noah Webster published the first edition of his greatdictionary. Unfortunately he tried to change the spelling of many words.But in other ways his dictionary was a great improvement. He definedwords so that they could be understood, and he gave the American meaningof many words, as "congress." American writers now began to make greatreputations. Cooper, Irving, and Bryant were already well known. Theywere soon joined by a wonderful set of men, who speedily made Americafamous. These were Emerson, Lowell, Longfellow, Holmes, Hawthorne,Prescott, Motley, Bancroft, and Sparks. In science, also, men of markwere beginning their labors, as Pierce, Gray, Silliman, and Dana. LouisAgassiz before long began his wonderful lectures, which did much to makescience popular. In short, Jackson's administration marks the time whenAmerican life began to take on its modern form.[Illustration: NOAH WEBSTER.]CHAPTER 29THE REIGN OF ANDREW JACKSON, 1829-1837[Sidenote: Jackson's early career.][Sidenote: His "kitchen cabinet".]301. General Jackson.--Born in the backwoods of Carolina, Jacksonhad early crossed the Alleghanies and settled in Tennessee. Whenevertrouble came to the Western people, whenever there was need of a stoutheart and an iron will, Jackson was at the front. He always did hisduty. He always did his duty well. Honest and sincere, he believed inhimself and he believed in the American people. As President he led thepeople in one of the stormiest periods in our history. Able men gatheredabout him. But he relied chiefly on the advice of a few friends whosmoked their pipes with him and formed his "kitchen cabinet." He seldomcalled a regular cabinet meeting. When he did call one, it was oftenmerely to tell the members what he had decided to do.[Sidenote: Party machines.][Sidenote: The Spoils System.]302. The Spoils System.--Among the able men who had fought theelection for Jackson were Van Buren and Marcy of New York and Buchananof Pennsylvania. They had built up strong party machines in theirstates. For they "saw nothing wrong in the principle that to the victorsbelong the spoils of victory." So they rewarded their party workers withoffices--when they won. The Spoils System was now begun in the nationalgovernment. Those who had worked for Jackson rushed to Washington. Thehotels and boarding-houses could not hold them. Some of them camped outin the parks and public squares of the capital. Removals now wentmerrily on. Rotation in office was the cry. Before long Jackson removednearly one thousand officeholders and appointed political partisans intheir places.[Sidenote: The North and the South. _McMaster_, 301-304.]303. The North and the South.--The South was now a greatcotton-producing region. This cotton was grown by negro slaves. TheNorth was now a great manufacturing and commercial region. It was also agreat agricultural region. But the labor in the mills, fields, and shipsof the North was all free white labor. So the United States was reallysplit into two sections: one devoted to slavery and to a few greatstaples, as cotton; the other devoted to free white labor and toindustries of many kinds.[Sidenote: The South and the tariff, 1829.][Sidenote: Calhoun's "Exposition."]304. The Political Situation, 1829.--The South was growing richerall the time; but the North was growing richer a great deal faster thanwas the South. Calhoun and other Southern men thought that thisdifference in the rate of progress was due to the protective system. In1828 Congress had passed a tariff that was so bad that it was called theTariff of Abominations (p. 231). The Southerners could not prevent itspassage. But Calhoun wrote an "Exposition" of the constitutionaldoctrines in the case. This paper was adopted by the legislature ofSouth Carolina as giving its ideas. In this paper Calhoun declared thatthe Constitution of the United States was a compact. Each state was asovereign state and could annul any law passed by Congress. Theprotective system was unjust and unequal in operation. It would bring"poverty and utter desolation to the South." The tariff act should beannulled by South Carolina and by other Southern states.[Illustration: DANIEL WEBSTER, 1833.][Sidenote: Hayne's speech, 1830.][Sidenote: Webster's reply to Hayne.]305. Webster and Hayne, 1830.--Calhoun was Vice-President andpresided over the debates of the Senate. So it fell to Senator Hayne ofSouth Carolina to state Calhoun's ideas. This he did in a very ablespeech. To him Daniel Webster of Massachusetts replied in the mostbrilliant speeches ever delivered in Congress. The Constitution, Websterdeclared, was "the people's constitution, the people's government; madeby the people and answerable to the people. The people have declaredthat this constitution ... shall be the supreme law." The Supreme Courtof the United States alone could declare a national law to beunconstitutional; no state could do that. He ended this great speechwith the memorable words, "Liberty and Union, now and forever, one andinseparable."[Sidenote: Tariff of 1832.][Sidenote: "Nullified" by South Carolina, 1833.][Sidenote: Jackson's warning.][Sidenote: He prepares to enforce the law.][Sidenote: The Force Bill, 1833.]306. Nullification, 1832-33.--In 1832 Congress passed a new tariffact. The South Carolinians decided to try Calhoun's weapon ofnullification. They held a convention, declared the act null and void,and forbade South Carolinians to obey the law. They probably thoughtthat Jackson would not oppose them. But they should have had no doubtson that subject. For Jackson already had proposed his famous toast onJefferson's birthday, "Our federal Union, it must be preserved." He nowtold the Carolinians that he would enforce the laws, and he set aboutdoing it with all his old-time energy. He sent ships and soldiers toCharleston and ordered the collector of that port to collect the duties.He then asked Congress to give him greater power. And Congress passedthe Force Bill, giving him the power he asked for. The SouthCarolinians, on their part, suspended the nullification ordinance andthus avoided an armed conflict with "Old Hickory," as his admirerscalled Jackson.[Sidenote: Tariff of 1833.]307. The Compromise Tariff, 1833.--The nullifiers really gained apart of the battle, for the tariff law of 1832 was repealed. In itsplace Congress passed what was called the Compromise Tariff. Thiscompromise was the work of Henry Clay, the peacemaker. Under it theduties were to be gradually lowered until, in 1842, they would be as lowas they were by the Tariff Act of 1816 (p. 231).[Sidenote: Second United States Bank, 1816.][Sidenote: Jackson's dislike of the bank.]308. The Second United States Bank.--Nowadays any one with enoughmoney can open a national bank under the protection of the government atWashington. At this time, however, there was one great United StatesBank. Its headquarters were at Philadelphia and it had branches all overthe country. Jackson, like Jefferson (p. 163), had very grave doubts asto the power of the national government to establish such a bank. Itssize and its prosperity alarmed him. Moreover, the stockholders andmanagers, for the most part, were his political opponents. The UnitedStates Bank also interfered seriously with the operations of the statebanks--some of which were managed by Jackson's friends. The latter urgedhim on to destroy the United States Bank, and he determined todestroy it.[Sidenote: Jackson, Clay, and the bank charter.][Sidenote: Constitution, Art. I, sec. 7, par. 3.][Sidenote: Reelection of Jackson, 1832.]309. Struggle over the Bank Charter.--The charter of the bank wouldnot come to an end until 1836, while the term for which Jackson had beenelected in 1828 would come to an end in 1833. But in his first messageto Congress Jackson gave notice that he would not give his consent to anew charter. Clay and his friends at once took up the challenge. Theypassed a bill rechartering the bank. Jackson vetoed the bill. The Claymen could not get enough votes to pass it over his veto. The bankquestion, therefore, became one of the issues of the election of 1832.Jackson was reflected by a large majority over Clay.The people were clearly on his side, and he at once set to work todestroy the bank.[Sidenote: The bank and the government.][Sidenote: Removal of the deposits, 1833. _McMaster_, 305-308.]310. Removal of the Deposits.--In those days there was no UnitedStates Treasury building at Washington, with great vaults for thestoring of gold, silver, and paper money. There were no sub-treasuriesin the important commercial cities. The United States Bank and itsbranches received the government's money on deposit and paid it out onchecks signed by the proper government official. In 1833 the UnitedStates Bank had in its vaults about nine million dollars belonging tothe government. Jackson directed that this money should be drawn out asrequired, to pay the government's expenses, and that no more governmentmoney should be deposited in the bank. In the future it should bedeposited in certain state banks. The banks selected were controlled byJackson's political friends and were called the "pet banks."[Illustration: ANDREW JACKSON, 1815. "Our Federal union, it must bepreserved."--Jackson's toast at the Jefferson dinner.][Sidenote: Speculation in Western lands. _McMaster_, 309.][Sidenote: The specie circular, 1836.]311. Jackson's Specie Circular, 1836.--The first result of theremoval of the deposits was very different from what Jackson hadexpected. At this time there was active speculation in Western lands.Men who had a little spare money bought Western lands. Those who had nomoney in hand, borrowed money from the banks and with it bought Westernlands. Now it happened that many of the "pet banks" were in the West.The government's money, deposited with them, tempted their managers tolend money more freely. This, in turn, increased the ease with whichpeople could speculate. Jackson saw that unless something were done torestrain this speculation, disaster would surely come. So he issued acircular to the United States land officers. This circular was calledthe Specie Circular, because in it the President forbade the landofficers to receive anything except gold and silver and certaincertificates in payment for the public lands.[Illustration: A SETTLER'S CABIN.][Sidenote: Payment of the national debt. _McMaster_, 309-310.]312. Payment of the Debt, 1837.--The national debt had now all beenpaid. The government was collecting more money than it could use fornational purposes. And it was compelled to keep on collecting more moneythan it could use, because the Compromise Tariff (p. 248) made itimpossible to reduce duties any faster than a certain amount each year.No one dared to disturb the Compromise Tariff, because to do so wouldbring on a most bitter political fight. The government had more money inthe "pet banks" than was really safe. It could not deposit morewith them.[Sidenote: Distribution of the surplus.][Sidenote: Van Buren elected President, 1836.]313. Distribution of the Surplus, 1837.--A curious plan was now hitupon. It was to loan the surplus revenues to the states in proportion totheir electoral votes. Three payments were made to the states. Then thePanic of 1837 came, and the government had to borrow money to pay itsown necessary expenses. Before this occurred, however, Jackson was nolonger President. In his place was Martin Van Buren, his Secretary ofState, who had been chosen President in November, 1836.CHAPTER 30DEMOCRATS AND WHIGS, 1837-1844[Sidenote: Causes of the Panic.][Sidenote: Hard times, 1837-39.]314. The Panic of 1837.--The Panic was due directly to Jackson'sinterference with the banks, to his Specie Circular, and to thedistribution of the surplus. It happened in this way. When the SpecieCircular was issued, people who held paper money at once went to thebanks to get gold and silver in exchange for it to pay for the landsbought of the government. The government on its part drew out money fromthe banks to pay the states their share of the surplus. The banks wereobliged to sell their property and to demand payment of money due them.People who owed money to the banks were obliged to sell their propertyto pay the banks. So every one wanted to sell, and few wanted to buy.Prices of everything went down with a rush. People felt so poor thatthey would not even buy new clothes. The mills and mines were closed,and the banks suspended payments. Thousands of working men and womenwere thrown out of work. They could not even buy food for themselves ortheir families. Terrible bread riots took place. After a time peoplebegan to pluck up their courage. But it was a long time before "goodtimes" came again.[Sidenote: The national finances.][Sidenote: The Sub-Treasury plan.][Sidenote: Independent Treasury Act, 1840.]315. The Independent Treasury System.--What should be done with thegovernment's money? No one could think of depositing it with the statebanks. Clay and his friends thought the best thing to do would be toestablish a new United States Bank. But Van Buren was opposed to that.His plan, in short, was to build vaults for storing money in Washingtonand in the leading cities. The main storehouse or Treasury was to be inWashington, subordinate storehouses or sub-treasuries were to beestablished in the other cities. To these sub-treasuries the collectorsof customs would pay the money collected by them. In this way thegovernment would become independent of the general business affairs ofthe country. In 1840 Congress passed an act for putting this plan intoeffect. But before it was in working order, Van Buren was no longerPresident.[Sidenote: New parties.][Sidenote: The Democrats.][Sidenote: The Whigs.]316. Democrats and Whigs.--In the Era of Good Feeling there was butone party--the Republican party. In the confused times of 1824 theseveral sections of the party took the names of their party leaders: theAdams men, the Jackson men, the Clay men, and so on. Soon the Adams menand the Clay men began to act together and to call themselves NationalRepublicans. This they did because they wished to build up the nation'sresources at the expense of the nation. The Jackson men calledthemselves Democratic Republicans, because they upheld the rights of thepeople. Before long they dropped the word "Republican" and calledthemselves simply Democrats. The National Republicans dropped the wholeof their name and took that of the great English liberal party--theWhigs. This they did because they favored reform.[Illustration: Log Cabin Song Book.][Sidenote: "A campaign of humor." _Higginson_, 269; _McMaster_,315-316.][Sidenote: Harrison and Tyler elected, 1840.]317. Election of 1840.--General William Henry Harrison was the sonof Benjamin Harrison of Virginia, one of the signers of the Declarationof Independence. General Harrison had moved to the West and had wondistinction at Tippecanoe, and also in the War of 1812 (pp. 202, 209).The Whigs nominated him in 1836, but he was beaten. They now renominatedhim for President, with John Tyler of Virginia as candidate forVice-President. Van Buren had made a good President, but his term ofoffice was associated with panic and hard times. He was a rich man andgave great parties. Plainly he was not a "man of the people," as wasHarrison. A Democratic orator sneered at Harrison, and said that all hewanted was a log cabin of his own and a jug of cider. The Whigs eagerlyseized on this description. They built log cabins at the street cornersand dragged through the streets log cabins on great wagons. They heldimmense open-air meetings at which people sang songs of "Tippecanoe andTyler Too." Harrison and Tyler received nearly all the electoral votesand were chosen President and Vice-President.[Sidenote: Death of Harrison, 1841.]318. Death of Harrison, 1841.--The people's President wasinaugurated on March 4, 1841. For the first time since the establishmentof the Spoils System a new party came into control of the government.Thousands of office-seekers thronged to Washington. They even slept inout-of-the-way corners of the White House. Day after day, from morningtill night, they pressed their claims on Harrison. One morning early,before the office-seekers were astir, he went out for a walk. He caughtcold and died suddenly, just one month after his inauguration. JohnTyler at once became President.[Sidenote: President Tyler.][Sidenote: His contest with the Whigs.]319. Tyler and the Whigs.--President Tyler was not a Whig likeHarrison or Clay, nor was he a Democrat like Jackson. He was a Democratwho did not like Jackson ideas. As President, he proved to be anythingbut a Whig. He was willing to sign a bill to repeal the IndependentTreasury Act, for that was a Democratic measure he had not liked; but herefused to sign a bill to establish a new Bank of the United States.Without either a bank or a treasury, it was well-nigh impossible tocarry on the business of the government. But it was carried on in oneway or another. Tyler was willing to sign a new tariff act, and one waspassed in 1842. This was possible, as the Compromise Tariff (p. 248)came to an end in that year.[Sidenote: Northeastern boundary dispute.][Sidenote: The Ashburton Treaty, 1842.]320. Treaty with Great Britain, 1842.--Perhaps the most importantevent of Tyler's administration was the signing of the Treaty of 1842with Great Britain. Ever since the Treaty of Peace of 1783, there hadbeen a dispute over the northeastern boundary of Maine. If the boundaryhad been run according to the plain meaning of the Treaty of Peace, thepeople of Upper Canada would have found it almost impossible to reachNew Brunswick or Nova Scotia in winter. At that time of the year the St.Lawrence is frozen over, and the true northern boundary of Maine ran sonear to the St. Lawrence that it was difficult to build a road whichwould be wholly in British territory. So the British had tried in everyway to avoid settling the matter. It was now arranged that the UnitedStates should have a little piece of Canada north of Vermont and NewYork and should give up the extreme northeastern corner of Maine. It wasalso agreed that criminals escaping from one country to the other shouldbe returned. A still further agreement was made for checking the slavetrade from the coast of western Africa.[Illustration: JOHN TYLER.][Illustration: THE FIRST MORSE INSTRUMENT.][Sidenote: The Morse code.][Sidenote: First telegraph line, 1844.][Sidenote: Usefulness of the telegraph, _McMaster_, 372.]321. The Electric Telegraph.--Benjamin Franklin and Joseph Henrymade great discoveries in electricity. But Samuel F. B. Morse was thefirst to use electricity in a practical way. Morse found out that if aman at one end of a line of wire pressed down a key, electricity couldbe made at the same moment to press down another key at the other end ofthe line of wire. Moreover, the key at the farther end of the line couldbe so arranged as to make an impression on a piece of paper that wasslowly drawn under it by clockwork. Now if the man at one end of theline held his key down for only an instant, this impression would looklike a dot. If he held it down longer, it would look like a short dash.Morse combined these dots and dashes into an alphabet. For instance, onedash meant the letter "t," and so on. For a time people only laughed atMorse. But at length Congress gave him enough money to build a line fromBaltimore to Washington. It was opened in 1844, and proved to be asuccess from the beginning. Other lines were soon built, and the Morsesystem, greatly improved, is still in use. The telegraph made itpossible to operate long lines of railroad, as all the trains could bemanaged from one office so that they would not run into one another. Italso made it possible to communicate with people afar off and get ananswer in an hour or so. For both these reasons the telegraph was veryimportant and with the railroads did much to unite the people of thedifferent portions of the country.[Illustration: THE FIRST MCCORMICK REAPER.][Sidenote: Problems of what growing.][Sidenote: The McCormick reaper, 1831. _McMaster_, 31-372.][Sidenote: Results of this invention.]322. The McCormick Reaper.--Every great staple depends for itsproduction on some particular tool. For instance, cotton was of slightimportance until the invention of the cotton gin (p. 185) made itpossible cheaply to separate the seed from the fiber. The success ofwheat growing depended upon the ability quickly to harvest the crop.Wheat must be allowed to stand until it is fully ripened. Then it mustbe quickly reaped and stored away out of the reach of the rain and wet.For a few weeks in each year there was a great demand for labor on thewheat farms. And there was little labor to be had. Cyrus H. McCormicksolved this problem for the wheat growers by inventing a horse reaper.The invention was made in 1831, but it was not until 1845 that thereaper came into general use. By 1855 the use of the horse reaper wasadding every year fifty-five million dollars to the wealth of thecountry. Each year its use moved the fringe of civilization fifty milesfarther west. Without harvesting machinery the rapid settlement of theWest would have been impossible. And had not the West been rapidlysettled by free whites, the whole history of the country between 1845and 1865 would have been very different from what it has been. Theinfluence of the horse reaper on our political history, therefore, is asimportant as the influence of the steam locomotive or of the cotton gin.[Illustration: MODERN HARVESTER.]QUESTIONS AND TOPICSCHAPTER 28Sec.Sec. 293, 294.--Compare the condition of the United States in 1830 and1800 as to (1) extent, (2) population, (3) interests and occupation ofthe people. Illustrate these changes by maps, diagrams, or tables.Sec.Sec. 295, 296.--_a_. How had the use of steamboats increased?_b_. Why had this led to the separation of the West and the East? Howwas it proposed to overcome this difficulty?_c_. Do you think that roads should be built at national expense? Giveyour reasons._d_. Mark on a map the Erie Canal, and show why it was so important.Describe the effects of its use.Sec.Sec. 297, 298.--_a_. Do you think that railroads should be carried on bythe state or by individuals? Why?_b_. What influence has the railroad had upon the Union? Upon people'sminds? Upon the growth of cities? (Take your own city or town and thinkof it without railroads anywhere.)Sec.Sec. 299, 300.--_a_. Explain how one discovery or invention affected otherindustries (as shown, for instance, in the use of anthracite coal)._b_. How did these inventions make large cities possible?_c_. Why is the education of our people so important?_d_. What were the advantages of Webster's "Dictionary"?CHAPTER 29Sec.Sec. 301, 302.--_a_. Why is this chapter called the "Reign of AndrewJackson"? Do you think that a President should "reign"?_b_. In what respects was Jackson fitted for President?_c_. What is meant by his "kitchen cabinet"?_d_. What is a "party machine"? How was it connected with the "spoilssystem"?_e_. Did the "spoils system" originate with Jackson?Sec.Sec. 303, 304.--_a_. Compare carefully the North and the South. Why wasthe North growing rich faster than the South?_b_. Where have you already found the ideas expressed in Calhoun's_Exposition_? Why was this doctrine so dangerous? Are the states"sovereign states"?Sec. 305.--_a_. What view did Webster take? How does his speech show theincrease of the love of the Union?_b_. What is the "supreme law of the land"? Whose business is it todecide on the constitutionality of a law? Is this wise?Sec.Sec. 306, 307.--_a_. How did South Carolina oppose the Act of 1832?_b_. How did Jackson oppose the South Carolinians?_c_. Would a state be likely to nullify an act of Congress now? Giveyour reasons.Sec.Sec. 308, 309.--_a_. Was the United States Bank like the national banks ofthe present day?_b_. Why did Jackson dislike and distrust the United States Bank?_c_. If a bill is vetoed by the President, how can it still be made alaw?Sec.Sec. 310.--_a_. Where did the United States government keep its money?_b_. How did Jackson try to ruin the United States Bank?Sec.Sec. 311-313.--_a_. Why did people wish to buy Western lands? How did thefavoring the "pet banks" increase speculation?_b_. What was done with the surplus? What was the effect of thismeasure?_c_. How did Jackson try to stop speculation?CHAPTER 30Sec.Sec. 314, 315.--_a_. Why did "prices go down with a rush"?_b_. Describe the Independent Treasury plan. Where is the nation's moneykept to-day?Sec.Sec. 316, 317.--_a_. State briefly the reasons for the split in theRepublican party. Had you lived in 1840, for whom would you have voted?voted? Why?_b_. Give an account of the early life of Harrison._c_. Describe the campaign of 1840, and compare it with the lastpresidential campaign.Sec.Sec. 318, 319.--_a_. What party came into power in 1841? Under the spoilssystem what would naturally follow?_b_. To what party did Tyler belong?_c_. Why was it difficult for the government to carry on its businesswithout a bank or a treasury?Sec.Sec. 320.--_a_. What dispute had long existed with Great Britain?_b_. Why did the British object to the boundary line laid down in theTreaty of 1783? Show on a map how the matter was finally settled.Sec.Sec. 321, 322.--_a_. Explain carefully the application of electricity madeby Morse. Of what advantage has the telegraph been to the United States?_b_. How did the McCormick reaper solve the difficulty in wheat growing?What were the results of this invention?_c_. Compare its influence upon our history with that of the cotton gin.GENERAL QUESTIONS_a_. Why is the period covered by this division so important?_b_. Give the principal events since the Revolution which made Westernexpansion possible._c_. Explain, using a chart, the changes in parties since 1789._d_. What were the good points in Jackson's administration? Themistakes?TOPICS FOR SPECIAL WORK_a_. Select some one invention between 1790 and 1835, describe it,explain the need for it, and the results which have followed from it._b_. The Erie Canal._c_. The career of Webster, Clay, or Calhoun._d_. Life and works of any one of the literary men of this period._e_. The Ashburton Treaty, with a map.SUGGESTIONS TO THE TEACHERThe personality of Andrew Jackson, representing as he does a new elementin social and political life, deserves a careful study. The financialpolicy of his administration is too difficult for children. With briefcomparisons with present-day conditions the study of this subject can beconfined to what is given in the text. Jackson's action at the time ofthe nullification episode may well be compared with Buchanan's inactionin 1860-61. The constitutional portions of Webster's great speeches aretoo hard for children, but his burning words of patriotism may well belearned by the whole class. The spoils system may be lightly treatedhere. It can best be studied in detail later in connection with civilservice reform.[Illustration: THE UNITED STATES IN 1859.]XISLAVERY IN THE TERRITORIES,1844-1859Books for Study and ReadingReferences.--Scribner's _Popular History_, IV; _McMaster's_ _Withthe Fathers_, Coffin's _Building the Nation_, 314-324.Home Readings.--Wright's _Stories of American Progress_; Bolton's_Famous Americans_; Brooks's _Boy Settlers_; Stowe's _Uncle Tom'sCabin_; Lodge's _Webster_.CHAPTER 31BEGINNING OF THE ANTISLAVERY AGITATION[Sidenote: Antislavery sentiments of the Virginians.][Sidenote: Slavery in the far South.][Sidenote: _Source-book_, 244-248, 251-260.]323. Growth of Slavery in the South.--South of Pennsylvania and ofthe Ohio River slavery had increased greatly since 1787 (p. 136).Washington, Jefferson, Henry, and other great Virginians were opposed tothe slave system. But they could find no way to end it, even inVirginia. The South Carolinians and Georgians fought every propositionto limit slavery. They even refused to come into the Union unless theywere given representation in Congress for a portion at least of theirslaves. And in the first Congress under the Constitution they opposedbitterly every proposal to limit slavery. Then came Whitney's inventionof the cotton gin. That at once made slave labor vastly more profitablein the cotton states and put an end to all hopes of peacefulemancipation in the South.[Sidenote: Proposal to end slavery with compensation.][Sidenote: The _Liberator_.]324. Rise of the Abolitionists.--About 1830 a new movement in favorof the negroes began. Some persons in the North, as, for example,William Ellery Channing, proposed that slaves should be set free, andtheir owners paid for their loss. They suggested that the money receivedfrom the sale of the public lands might be used in this way. But nothingcame of these suggestions. Soon, however, William Lloyd Garrison beganat Boston the publication of a paper called the _Liberator_. He wishedfor complete abolition without payment. For a time he labored almostalone. Then slowly others came to his aid, and the Antislavery Societywas founded.[Sidenote: Anti-abolitionist sentiment in the North. _Higginson_, 268.][Sidenote: Disunion sentiment of abolitionists.][Sidenote: The Garrison riot, 1835. _Source-Book_, 248-251.]325. Opposition to the Abolitionists.--It must not be thought thatthe abolitionists were not opposed. They were most vigorously opposed.Very few Northern men wished to have slavery reestablished in the North.But very many Northern men objected to the antislavery agitationbecause they thought it would injure business. Some persons even arguedthat the antislavery movement would bring about the destruction of theUnion. In this idea there was a good deal of truth. For Garrison grewmore and more outspoken. He condemned the Union with slaveholders andwished to break down the Constitution, because it permitted slavery.There were anti-abolitionist riots in New York, New Jersey, and NewHampshire. In Boston the rioters seized Garrison and dragged him aboutthe streets (1835).[Sidenote: Nat Turner's Rebellion, 1831.][Sidenote: Incendiary publications in the mails. _McMaster_, 313-314.]326. Slave Rebellion in Virginia, 1831.--At about the time thatGarrison established the _Liberator_ at Boston, a slave rebellion brokeout in Virginia. The rebels were led by a slave named Nat Turner, andthe rebellion is often called "Nat Turner's Rebellion." It was a smallaffair and was easily put down. But the Southerners were alarmed,because they felt that the Northern antislavery agitation would surelylead to more rebellions. They called upon the government to forbid thesending of the _Liberator_ and similar "incendiary publications" throughthe mails.[Sidenote: Right of petition.][Sidenote: J.Q. Adams and antislavery petitions, 1836. _Hero Tales_,151-159.][Sidenote: The "gag-resolutions." _McMaster_, 314-315.]327. The Right of Petition.--One of the most sacred rights offreemen is the right to petition for redress of grievances. In the oldcolonial days the British Parliament had refused even to listen topetitions presented by the colonists. But the First Amendment to theConstitution forbade Congress to make any law to prevent citizens of theUnited States from petitioning. John Quincy Adams, once President, wasnow a member of the House of Representatives. In 1836 he presentedpetition after petition, praying Congress to forbid slavery in theDistrict of Columbia. Southerners, like Calhoun, thought these petitionswere insulting to Southern slaveholders. Congress could not prevent theantislavery people petitioning. They could prevent the petitions beingread when presented. This they did by passing "gag-resolutions." Adamsprotested against these resolutions as an infringement on the rights ofhis constituents. But the resolutions were passed. Petitions now camepouring into Congress. Adams even presented one from some negro slaves.[Sidenote: Growth of antislavery feeling in the North.]328. Change in Northern Sentiment.--All these happenings broughtabout a great change of sentiment in the North. Many people, who caredlittle about negro slaves, cared a great deal about the freedom of thepress and the right of petition. Many of these did not sympathize withthe abolitionists, but they wished that some limit might be set to theextension of slavery. At the same time the Southerners were uniting toresist all attempts to interfere with slavery. They were even determinedto add new slave territory to the United States.CHAPTER 32THE MEXICAN WAR[Sidenote: The Mexican Republic, 1821.][Sidenote: Texas secedes from Mexico, 1836, _McMaster_, 320-322; _HeroTales_, 173-181.]329. The Republic of Texas.--The Mexicans won their independencefrom Spain in 1821 and founded the Mexican Republic. Soon immigrantsfrom the United States settled in the northeastern part of the newrepublic. This region was called Texas. The Mexican government gavethese settlers large tracts of land, and for a time everything went onhappily. Then war broke out between the Mexicans and the Texans. Led bySamuel Houston, a settler from Tennessee, the Texans won the battle ofSan Jacinto and captured General Santa Anna, the president of theMexican Republic. The Texans then established the Republic of Texas(1836) and asked to be admitted to the Union as one of theUnited States.[Sidenote: Question of the admission of Texas to the Union.]330. The Southerners and Texas.--The application of Texas foradmission to the Union came as a pleasant surprise to many Southerners.As a part of the Mexican Republic Texas had been free soil. But Texaswas well suited to the needs of the cotton plant. If it were admitted tothe Union, it would surely be a slave state or, perhaps, several slavestates. The question of admitting Texas first came before Jackson. Hesaw that the admission of Texas would be strongly opposed in the North.So he put the whole matter to one side and would have nothing to do withit. Tyler acted very differently. Under his direction a treaty was madewith Texas. This treaty provided for the admission of Texas to theUnion. But the Senate refused to ratify the treaty. The matter,therefore, became the most important question in the presidentialelection of 1844.[Illustration: JAMES K. POLK.][Sidenote: Candidates for the presidency, 1844.][Sidenote: The Liberty party.][Sidenote: Polk elected.]331. Election of 1844.--President Tyler would have been glad of asecond term. But neither of the great parties wanted him as a leader.The Democrats would have gladly nominated Van Buren had he not opposedthe acquisition of Texas. Instead they nominated James K. Polk ofTennessee, an outspoken favorer of the admission of Texas. The Whigsnominated Henry Clay, who had no decided views on the Texas question. Hesaid one thing one day, another thing another day. The result was thatthe opponents of slavery and of Texas formed a new party. They called itthe Liberty party and nominated a candidate for President. The Libertymen did not gain many votes. But they gained enough votes to make Clay'selection impossible and Polk was chosen President.[Sidenote: Texas admitted by joint resolution, 1845. _McMaster_, 325.]332. Acquisition of Texas, 1845.--Tyler now pressed the admissionof Texas upon Congress. The two houses passed a joint resolution. Thisresolution provided for the admission of Texas, and for the formationfrom the territory included in Texas of four states, in addition to thestate of Texas, and with the consent of that state. Before Texas wasactually admitted Tyler had ceased to be President. But Polk carried outhis policy, and on July 4, 1845, Texas became one of the United States.[Sidenote: Southern boundary of Texas.][Sidenote: Taylor on the Rio Grande.][Sidenote: War declared, 1846. Lowell in _Source-Book_, 271-276.]333. Beginning of the Mexican War, 1846.--The Mexicans had neveracknowledged the independence of Texas. They now protested against itsadmission to the United States. Disputes also arose as to the southernboundary of Texas. As no agreement could be reached on this point,President Polk ordered General Zachary Taylor to march to the Rio Grandeand occupy the disputed territory. Taylor did as he was ordered, and theMexicans attacked him. Polk reported these facts to Congress, andCongress authorized the President to push on the fighting on the groundthat "war exists, and exists by the act of Mexico herself."[Sidenote: The three parts of the Mexican War.][Sidenote: Taylor's campaign. _McMaster_, 326-327.][Sidenote: Battle of Buena Vista, 1847.]334. Taylor's Campaigns.--The Mexican War easily divides itselfinto three parts: (1) Taylor's forward movement across the Rio Grande;(2) Scott's campaign, which ended in the capture of the City of Mexico;and (3) the seizure of California. Taylor's object was to maintain theline of the Rio Grande, then to advance into Mexico and injure theMexicans as much as possible. The battles of Palo Alto and Resaca de laPalma (May 8, 9, 1846) were fought before the actual declaration of war.These victories made Taylor master of the Rio Grande. In September hecrossed the Rio Grande. So far all had gone well. But in the wintermany of Taylor's soldiers were withdrawn to take part in Scott'scampaign. This seemed to be the Mexicans' time. They attacked Taylorwith four times as many men as he had in his army. This battle wasfought at Buena Vista, February, 1847. Taylor beat back the Mexicanswith terrible slaughter. This was the last battle of Taylor's campaign.[Sidenote: Scott's campaign. _Eggleston_, 284-286; _McMaster_, 327-328.][Sidenote: He captures City of Mexico, 1847.]335. Scott's Invasion of Mexico.--The plan of Scott's campaign wasthat he should land at Vera Cruz, march to the city of Mexico,--twohundred miles away,--capture that city, and force the Mexicans to makepeace. Everything fell out precisely as it was planned. With the help ofthe navy Scott captured Vera Cruz. He had only about one-quarter as manymen as the Mexicans. But he overthrew them at Cerro Gordo, where theroad to the City of Mexico crosses the coast mountains (April, 1847).With the greatest care and skill he pressed on and at length came withinsight of the City of Mexico. The capital of the Mexican Republic stoodin the midst of marshes, and could be reached only over narrow causewayswhich joined it to the solid land. August 20, 1847, Scott beat theMexicans in three pitched battles, and on September 14 he entered thecity with his army, now numbering only six thousand men fit foractive service.[Illustration: THE BEAR FLAG.][Sidenote: California.][Sidenote: The "Bear Republic," 1846.][Sidenote: California seized by American soldiers.]336. Seizure of California.--California was the name given to theMexican possessions on the Pacific coast north of Mexico itself. Therewere now many American settlers there, especially at Monterey. Hearingof the outbreak of the Mexican War, they Set up a republic of their own.Their flag had a figure of a grizzly bear painted on it, and hence theirrepublic is often spoken of as the Bear Republic. Commodore Stocktonwith a small fleet was on the Pacific coast. He and John C. Fremontassisted the Bear Republicans until soldiers under Colonel Kearneyreached them from the United States by way of Santa Fe.[Illustration: JOHN C. FREMONT.][Sidenote: Mexican cessions, 1848.][Sidenote: The Gadsden Purchase, 1853. _McMaster_, 334.]337. Treaty of Peace, 1848.--The direct cause of the Mexican Warwas Mexico's unwillingness to give up Texas without a struggle. But theMexicans had treated many Americans very unjustly and owed them largesums of money. A treaty of peace was made in 1848. Mexico agreed toabandon her claims to Texas, California, New Mexico, Nevada, Utah, andColorado. The United States agreed to withdraw its armies from Mexico,to pay Mexico fifteen million dollars, and to pay the claims of Americancitizens on Mexico. These claims proved to amount to three and one-halfmillion dollars, In the end, therefore, the United States paid eighteenand one-half million dollars for this enormous and exceedingly valuableaddition to its territory. When the time came to run the boundary line,the American and Mexican commissioners could not agree. So the UnitedStates paid ten million dollars more and received an additional strip ofland between the Rio Grande and the Colorado rivers. This gave theUnited States its present southern boundary. This agreement was made in1853 by James Gadsden for the United States, and the land bought isusually called the Gadsden Purchase.[Sidenote: Oregon.][Sidenote: Joint occupation by United States and Great Britain.]338. The Oregon Question.--It was not only in the Southwest thatboundaries were disputed; in the Northwest also there was a longcontroversy which was settled while Polk was President. Oregon was thename given to the whole region, between Spanish and Mexican Californiaand the Russian Alaska. The United States and Great Britain eachclaimed to have the best right to Oregon. As they could not agree as totheir claims, they decided to occupy the region jointly. As time went onAmerican settlers and missionaries began to go over the mountains toOregon. In 1847 seven thousand Americans were living in the Northwest.[Sidenote: "All Oregon or none."][Sidenote: Division of Oregon, 1846.]339. The Oregon Treaty, 1846.--The matter was now taken up inearnest. "All Oregon or none," "Fifty-four forty or fight," becamepopular cries. The United States gave notice of the ending of the jointoccupation. The British government suggested that Oregon should bedivided between the two nations. In 1818 he boundary between the UnitedStates and British North America had been fixed as the forty-ninthparallel from the Lake of the Woods to the Rocky Mountains. It was nowproposed to continue this line to the Pacific. The British government,however, insisted that the western end of the line should follow thechannel between Vancouver's Island and the mainland so as to make thatisland entirely British. The Mexican War was now coming on. It wouldhardly do to have two wars at one time. So the United States gave wayand a treaty was signed in 1846. Instead of "all Oregon," the UnitedStates received about one-half. But it was a splendid region andincluded not merely the present state of Oregon, but all the territorywest of the Rocky Mountains between the forty-second and the forty-ninthparallels of latitude.CHAPTER 33THE COMPROMISE OF 1850[Sidenote: Should Oregon and Mexican cessions be free soil?][Sidenote: The Wilmot Proviso. _McMaster_, 324.]340. The Wilmot Proviso, 1846.--What should be done with Oregon andwith the immense territory received from Mexico? Should it be free soilor should it be slave soil? To understand the history of the disputewhich arose out of this question we must go back a bit and study theWilmot Proviso. Even before the Mexican War was fairly begun, thisquestion came before Congress. Every one admitted that Texas must be aslave state. Most people were agreed that Oregon would be free soil. Forit was too far north for negroes to thrive. But what should be done withCalifornia and with New Mexico? David Wilmot of Pennsylvania thoughtthat they should be free soil. He was a member of the House ofRepresentatives. In 1846 he moved to add to a bill giving the Presidentmoney to purchase land from Mexico a proviso that none of the territoryto be acquired at the national expense should be open to slavery. Thisproviso was finally defeated. But the matter was one on which peopleheld very strong opinions, and the question became the most importantissue in the election of 1848.[Illustration: ZACHARY TAYLOR.][Sidenote: Candidates for the presidency, 1848.][Sidenote: "Squatter sovereignty."][Sidenote: Free Soil party. _McMaster_, 334-335.][Sidenote: Taylor and Fillmore elected.]341. Taylor elected President, 1848.--Three candidates contestedthe election of 1848. First there was Lewis Cass of Michigan, theDemocratic candidate. He was in favor of "squatter sovereignty," thatis, allowing the people of each territory to have slavery or not as theychose. The Whig candidate was General Taylor, the victor of Buena Vista.The Whigs put forth no statement of principles. The third candidate wasMartin Van Buren, already once President. Although a Democrat, he didnot favor the extension of slavery. He was nominated by Democrats whodid not believe in "squatter sovereignty," and by a new party whichcalled itself the Free Soil party. The abolitionists or Liberty partyalso nominated a candidate, but he withdrew in favor of Van Buren. TheWhigs had nominated Millard Fillmore of New York for Vice-President. Heattracted to the Whig ticket a good many votes in New York. Van Burenalso drew a good many votes from the Democrats. In this way New York wascarried for Taylor and Fillmore. This decided the election, and the Whigcandidates were chosen.[Illustration: THE SITE OF SAN FRANCISCO IN 1847. From an originaldrawing.][Sidenote: Discovery of gold in California, 1848.][Sidenote: The "rush" to California, 1849. _McMaster_, 337-338;_Source-Book_, 276-279.]342. California.--Before the treaty of peace with Mexico wasratified, even before it was signed, gold was discovered in California.Reports of the discovery soon reached the towns on the western seacoast.At once men left whatever they were doing and hastened to the hills todig for gold. Months later rumors of this discovery began to reach theeastern part of the United States. At first people paid little attentionto them. But when President Polk said that gold had been found, peoplebegan to think that it must be true. Soon hundreds of gold-seekersstarted for California. Then thousands became eager to go. These firstcomers were called the Forty-Niners, because most of them came in theyear 1849. By the end of that year there were eighty thousand immigrantsin California.[Sidenote: California constitutional convention, 1849.][Sidenote: Slavery forbidden.]343. California seeks Admission to the Union.--There were eightythousand white people in California, and they had almost no governmentof any kind. So in November, 1849, they held a convention, drew up aconstitution, and demanded admission the Union as a state. The peculiarthing about this constitution was that it forbade slavery in California.Many of the Forty-Niners were Southerners. But even they did not wantslavery. The reason was that they wished to dig in the earth and wingold. They would not allow slave holders to work their mining claimswith slave labor, for free white laborers had never been able to workalongside of negro slaves. So they did not want slavery in California.[Sidenote: Divisions on the question of the extension of slavery._McMaster_, 335-336.]344. A Divided Country.--This action of the people of California atonce brought the question of slavery before the people. Many Southernerswere eager to found a slave confederacy apart from the Union. Manyabolitionists were eager to found a free republic in the North. ManyNortherners, who loved the Union, thought that slavery should beconfined to the states where it existed. They thought that slaveryshould not be permitted in the territories, which belonged to the peopleof the United States as a whole. They argued that if the territoriescould be kept free, the people of those territories, when they came toform state constitutions, would forbid slavery as the people ofCalifornia had just done. They were probably right, and for this veryreason the Southerners wished to have slavery in the territories. Sostrong was the feeling over these points that it seemed as if the Unionwould split into pieces.[Sidenote: Taylor's policy.][Sidenote: California demands admission.]345. President Taylor's Policy.--General Taylor was now President.He was alarmed by the growing excitement. He determined to settle thematter at once before people could get any more excited. So he sentagents to California and to New Mexico to urge the people to demandadmission to the Union at once. When Congress met in 1850, he statedthat California demanded admission as a free state. The Southerners wereangry. For they had thought that California would surely be aslave state.[Sidenote: Clay's compromise scheme, 1850. _McMaster_, 339-341;_Source-Book_, 279-281.]346. Clay's Compromise Plan.--Henry Clay now stepped forward tobring about a "union of hearts." His plan was to end all disputesbetween Northerners and Southerners by having the people of each sectiongive way to the people of the other section. For example, theSoutherners were to permit the admission of California as a free state,and to consent to the abolition of the slave trade in the District ofColumbia. In return, the Northerners were to give way to the Southernerson all other points. They were to allow slavery in the District ofColumbia. They were to consent to the organization of New Mexico andUtah as territories without any provision for or against slavery. Texasclaimed that a part of the proposed Territory of New Mexico belonged toher. So Clay suggested that the United States should pay Texas for thisland. Finally Clay proposed that Congress should pass a severe FugitiveSlave Act. It is easily seen that Clay's plan as a whole was distinctlyfavorable to the South. Few persons favored the passage of the wholescheme. But when votes were taken on each part separately, they allpassed. In the midst of the excitement over this compromise PresidentTaylor died, and Millard Fillmore, the Vice-President, became President.[Illustration: MILLARD FILLMORE.][Sidenote: Art. IV, sec. 2.][Sidenote: Fugitive Slave Act of 1793.][Sidenote: Fugitive Slave Act of 1850. _McMaster_, 341-343.][Sidenote: Results of passage of this act. _Higginson_, 281;_Source-Book_, 282-284.][Sidenote: The "Underground Railway." _Source-Book_, 260-263.]347. The Fugitive Slave Act.--The Constitution provides thatpersons held to service in one state escaping into another state shallbe delivered up upon claim of the person to whom such service may bedue. Congress, in 1793, had passed an act to carry out this provision ofthe Constitution. But this law had seldom been enforced, because itsenforcement had been left to the states, and public opinion in the Northwas opposed to the return of fugitive slaves. The law of 1850 gave theenforcement of the act to United States officials. The agents of slaveowners claimed many persons as fugitives. But few were returned to theSouth. The important result of these attempts to enforce the law was tostrengthen Northern public opinion against slavery. It led to redoubledefforts to help runaway slaves through the Northern states to Canada. Aregular system was established. This was called the "UndergroundRailway." In short, instead of bringing about "a union of hearts," theCompromise of 1850 increased the ill feeling between the people of thetwo sections of the country.[Sidenote: "Uncle Tom's Cabin."][Sidenote: Effects of this book.]348. "Uncle Tom's Cabin."--It was at this time that Mrs. HarrietBeecher Stowe wrote "Uncle Tom's Cabin." In this story she set forth thepleasant side of slavery--the light-heartedness and kind-heartedness ofthe negroes. In it she also set forth the unpleasant side ofslavery--the whipping of human beings, the selling of human beings, thehunting of human beings. Of course, there never was such a slave asUncle Tom. The story is simply a wonderful picture of slavery as itappeared to a brilliant woman of the North. Hundreds of thousands ofcopies of this book were sold in the South as well as in the North.Plays founded on the book were acted on the stage. Southern people whenreading "Uncle Tom" thought little of the unpleasant things in it: theyliked the pleasant things in it. Northern people laughed at the prettypictures of plantation life: they were moved to tears by the tales ofcruelty. "Uncle Tom's Cabin" and the Fugitive Slave Law convinced thepeople of the North that bounds must be set to the extension of slavery.CHAPTER 34THE STRUGGLE FOR KANSAS[Sidenote: Campaign of 1852.][Sidenote: Pierce elected President.]349. Pierce elected President, 1852.--It was now Campaign time fora new election. The Whigs had been successful with two old soldiers, sothey thought they would try again with another soldier and nominatedGeneral Winfield Scott, the conqueror of Mexico. The Democrats alsonominated a soldier, Franklin Pierce of New Hampshire, who had been innorthern Mexico with Taylor. The Democrats and Whigs both said that theywould stand by the Compromise of 1850. But many voters thought thatthere would be less danger of excitement with a Democrat in the WhiteHouse and voted for Pierce for that reason. They soon found that theywere terribly mistaken in their belief.[Sidenote: The Nebraska bill, 1854. _Source-Book, 284-287._][Sidenote: Douglas asserts Compromise of 1820 to be repealed.]350. Douglas's Nebraska Bill.--President Pierce began his term ofoffice quietly enough. But in 1854 Senator Douglas of Illinois broughtin a bill to organize the Territory of Nebraska. It will be rememberedthat in 1820 Missouri had been admitted to the Union as a slave state.In 1848 Iowa had been admitted as a free state. North of Iowa was thefree Territory of Minnesota. Westward from Missouri, Iowa, and Minnesotawas an immense region without any government of any kind. It all laynorth of the compromise line of 1820 (p. 222), and had been foreverdevoted to freedom by that compromise. But Douglas said that theCompromise of 1820 had been repealed by the Compromise of 1850. So heproposed that the settlers of Nebraska should say whether that territoryshould be free soil or slave soil, precisely as if the Compromise of1820 had never been passed. Instantly there was a tremendous uproar.[Illustration: FRANKLIN PIERCE.][Sidenote: The Kansas-Nebraska Act, 1854.][Sidenote: Antislavery senators attack the bill.][Sidenote: The Independent Democrats.]351. The Kansas-Nebraska Act, 1854.--Douglas now changed his billso as to provide for the formation of two territories. One of these henamed Kansas. It had nearly the same boundaries as the present state ofKansas, except that it extended westward to the Rocky Mountains. Theother territory was named Nebraska. It included all the land north ofKansas and between the Missouri River and the Rocky Mountains. Theantislavery leaders in the North attacked the bill with great fury.Chase of Ohio said that it was a violation of faith. Sumner ofMassachusetts rejoiced in the fight, for he said men must now take sidesfor freedom or for slavery. Some, independent Democrats published "AnAppeal." They asked their fellow-citizens to take their maps and seewhat an immense region Douglas had proposed to open to slavery. Theydenied that the Missouri Compromise had been repealed. Nevertheless, thebill passed Congress and was signed by President Pierce.[Illustration: Territory opened to slavery.][Sidenote: Abraham Lincoln, _Hero Tales_, 325-335.][Sidenote: Aroused by the Kansas-Nebraska Act.]352. Abraham Lincoln.--Born in Kentucky, Abraham Lincoln went withhis parents to Indiana and then to Illinois. As a boy he was very poorand had to work hard. But he lost no opportunity to read and to study.At the plow or in the long evenings at home by the firelight he was everthinking and studying. Growing to manhood he became a lawyer and servedone term in Congress. The passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act arousedhis indignation as nothing had ever aroused it before. He denied thatany man had the right to govern another man, be he white or be he black,without that man's consent. He thought that blood would surely be shedbefore the slavery question would be settled in Kansas, and the firstshedding of blood would be the beginning of the end of the Union.[Sidenote: Seward's challenge to the Southerners. _McMaster_, 347-351.][Sidenote: The Sons of the South.][Sidenote: Fraudulent election. _Source-Book_, 287-289.]353. Settlement of Kansas.--In the debate on the Kansas-Nebraskabill Senator Seward of New York said to the Southerners: "Come on,then.... We will engage in competition for the soil of Kansas, and Godgive the victory to the side that is strong in numbers as it is inright." Seward spoke truly. The victory came to those opposed to theextension of slavery. But it was a long time in coming. As soon as theact was passed, armed "Sons of the South" crossed the frontier ofMissouri and founded the town of Atchison. Then came large bands ofarmed settlers from the North and the East. They founded the towns ofLawrence and Topeka. An election was held. Hundreds of men poured overthe boundary of Missouri, outvoted the free-soil settlers in Kansas, andthen went home. The territorial legislature, chosen in this way, adoptedthe laws of Missouri, slave code and all, as the laws of Kansas. Itseemed as if Kansas were lost to freedom.[Sidenote: Free-state constitution.][Sidenote: The Senate refuses to admit Kansas.]354. The Topeka Convention.--The free-state voters now held aconvention at Topeka. They drew up a constitution and applied toCongress for admission to the Union as the free state of Kansas. Thefree-state men and the slave-state men each elected a Delegate toCongress. The House of Representatives now took the matter up andappointed a committee of investigation. The committee reported in favorof the free-state men, and the House voted to admit Kansas as a freestate. But the Senate would not consent to anything of the kind. Thecontest in Kansas went on and became more bitter every month.[Sidenote: Origin of the Republican party. _McMaster_, 352-355.][Sidenote: Anti-Nebraska men.]355. The Republican Party.--The most important result of theKansas-Nebraska fight was the formation of the Republican party. It wasmade up of men from all the other parties who agreed in opposingDouglas's Kansas-Nebraska policy. Slowly they began to think ofthemselves as a party and to adopt the name of the old party ofJefferson, Madison, and Monroe--Republican.[Sidenote: Presidential candidates, 1856.][Sidenote: Buchanan.][Sidenote: Fremont.]356. Buchanan elected President, 1856.--The Whigs and theKnow-Nothings nominated Millard Fillmore for President and said nothingabout slavery. The Democrats nominated James Buchanan of Pennsylvaniafor President and John C. Breckinridge of Kentucky for Vice-President.They declared their approval of the Kansas-Nebraska Act and favored astrict construction of the Constitution. The Republicans nominated JohnC. Fremont. They protested against the extension of slavery and declaredfor a policy of internal improvements at the expense of the nation. TheDemocrats won; but the Republicans carried all the Northern statessave four.[Sidenote: Dred Scott decision, 1857. _McMaster_, 355-357;_Source-Book_, 290-291][Sidenote: Opinions of the judges.]357. The Dred Scott Decision, 1857.--The Supreme Court of theUnited States now gave a decision in the Dred Scott case that put an endto all hope of compromise on the slavery question. Dred Scott had beenborn a slave. The majority of the judges declared that a person once aslave could never become a citizen of the United States and bring suitin the United States courts. They also declared that the MissouriCompromise was unlawful. Slave owners had a clear right to carry theirproperty, including slaves, into the territories, and Congress could notstop them.[Sidenote: Lincoln's policy.][Sidenote: His debates with Douglas. _McMaster_, 388-389; _Source-Book_,290-294.]358. The Lincoln and Douglas Debates, 1858.--The question of thereelection of Douglas to the Senate now came before the people ofIllinois. Abraham Lincoln stepped forward to contest the election withhim. "A house divided against itself cannot stand," said Lincoln. "Thisgovernment cannot endure half slave and half free.... It will become allone thing or all the other." He challenged Douglas to debate the issueswith him before the people, and Douglas accepted the challenge. Sevenjoint debates were held in the presence of immense crowds. Lincolnforced Douglas to defend the doctrine of "popular sovereignty." ThisDouglas did by declaring that the legislatures of the territories couldmake laws hostile to slavery. This idea, of course, was opposed to theDred Scott decision. Douglas won the election and was returned to theSenate. But Lincoln had made a national reputation.[Illustration: HARPER'S FERRY.][Sidenote: Civil war in Kansas. _McMaster_, 357.][Sidenote: John Brown.][Sidenote: The slave constitution.][Sidenote: Douglas opposes Buchanan.]359. "Bleeding Kansas."--Meantime civil war had broken out inKansas, Slavery men attacked Lawrence, killed a few free-state settlers,and burned several buildings. Led by John Brown, an immigrant from NewYork, free-state men attacked a party of slave-state men and killed fiveof them. By 1857 the free-state voters had become so numerous that itwas no longer possible to outvote them by bringing men from Missouri,and they chose a free-state legislature. But the fraudulent slave-statelegislature had already provided for holding a constitutional conventionat Lecompton. This convention was controlled by the slave-state men andadopted a constitution providing for slavery. President Buchanan sentthis constitution to Congress and asked to have Kansas admitted as aslave state. But Douglas could not bear to see the wishes of thesettlers of Kansas outraged. He opposed the proposition vigorously andit was defeated. It was not until 1861 that Kansas was admitted to theUnion as a free state.[Sidenote: John Brown's Raid, 1859. _Higginson_, 286-289;_Source-Book_, 294-296.][Sidenote: He seizes Harper's Ferry.][Sidenote: His execution, 1859.]360. John Brown's Raid, 1859.--While in Kansas John Brown hadconceived a bold plan. It was to seize a strong place in the mountainsof the South, and there protect any slaves who should run away fromtheir masters. In this way he expected to break slavery in pieces withintwo years. With only nineteen men he seized Harper's Ferry, in Virginia,and secured the United States arsenal at that place. But he and most ofhis men were immediately captured. He was executed by the Virginianauthorities as a traitor and murderer. The Republican leaders denouncedhis act as "the gravest of crimes." But the Southern leaders wereconvinced that now the time had come to secede from the Union and toestablish a Southern Confederacy.QUESTIONS AND TOPICSCHAPTER 31Sec. 323.--_a_. Why were the people of South Carolina so opposed to anylimitation of slavery? How did they show their opposition?_b_. Had slavery disappeared in the North because people thought that itwas wrong?Sec.Sec. 324, 325.--_a_. What suggestions were made by some in the North forthe ending of slavery? What do you think of these suggestions?_b_. For what did Garrison contend, and how did he make his views known?Why were these views opposed in the North?Sec. 326.--_a_. Why were the Southerners so alarmed by Nat Turner'sRebellion?_b_. What power had Congress over the mails? How would you have voted onthis question?Sec.Sec. 327, 328.--_a_. Why is the right of petition so important? How isthis right secured to citizens of the United States?_b_. Why should these petitions be considered as insulting toslaveholders?_c_. Why were the Southerners so afraid of any discussion of slavery?CHAPTER 32Sec.Sec. 329, 330.--_a_. Show by the map the extent of the Mexican Republic._b_. Why did Texas wish to join the United States? What attitude hadMexico taken on slavery?Sec.Sec. 331, 332.--_a_. Explain carefully how the Texas question influencedthe election of 1844._b_. What was the Liberty party? How did its formation make the electionof Polk possible?_c_. What is a "joint resolution"?Sec. 333.--How did the Mexicans regard the admission of Texas? What disputewith Mexico arose? Did Mexico begin the war?Sec.Sec. 334, 335.--_a_. What was the plan of Taylor's campaign? Of Scott'scampaign?_b_. Mention the leading battles of Taylor's campaign. Of Scott'scampaign.Sec.Sec. 336, 337.--_a_. What action did the American settlers in Californiatake? With what result?_b_. Explain by a map the Mexican cessions of 1848 and 1853.Sec.Sec. 338, 339.--_a_. What was the extent of Oregon in 1845?_b_. How was the dispute finally settled? Explain by a map._c_. What was the extent of Oregon in 1847? Is it the same to-day?_d_. Of what value was this region to the United States?CHAPTER 33Sec.Sec. 340, 341.--_a_. Why was there little question whether Oregon would beslave or free?_b_. Explain carefully Wilmot's suggestion. What would be the argumentsin Congress for and against this "proviso"?_c_. What is meant by "squatter sovereignty"? What do you think of thewisdom and justice of such a plan?Sec.Sec. 342, 343.--_a_. Describe the discovery of gold in California and therush thither. What difference did _one year_ make in the population ofCalifornia?_b_. What attitude did California take on the slavery question? Why?Sec.Sec. 344, 345.--_a_. How had the question of slavery already divided thecountry?_b_. What extreme parties were there in the North and the South?_c_. Why was the question about the territories so important?_d_. What action did President Taylor take? Why? What do you think ofthe wisdom of this policy?Sec.Sec. 346, 347.--_a_. State the provisions of Clay's compromise plan. Whichof these favored the North? The South?_b_. What law had been made as to fugitive slaves? Why had it not beenenforced? Why was the change made in 1850 so important?_c_. How would you have acted had you been a United States officercalled to carry out the Fugitive Slave Law?Sec. 348.--_a_. Who was Mrs. Stowe? What view did she take of slavery?_b_. Were there any good points in the slave system?_c_. Why is this book so important?CHAPTER 34Sec.Sec. 349-351.--_a_. Who were the candidates in 1852? Who was chosen? Why?_b_. What doctrine did Douglas apply to Kansas and Nebraska?_c_. Why did Chase call this bill "a violation of faith"?_d_. Was Douglas a patriot? Chase? Sumner? Pierce?Sec. 352.--_a_. Give an account of the early life and training of AbrahamLincoln._b_. What did he think of the Kansas-Nebraska Act?Sec.Sec. 353, 354.--_a_. What effect did the Kansas-Nebraska Act have on thesettlement of Kansas?_b_. Describe the election. Do you think that laws made by a legislatureso elected were binding?_d_. Explain the difference in the attitude of the Senate and House onthe Kansas question.Sec.Sec. 355, 356.--_a_. How was the Republican party formed? _b_. Were itsprinciples like or unlike those of the Republican party of Jefferson'stime? Give your reasons.Sec. 357.--_a_. What rights did the Supreme Court declare a slave could notpossess? Was a slave a person or a thing?_b_. What power does the Constitution give Congress over a territory?(Art. IV, Sec. 3.)Sec. 358.--_a_. Explain carefully the quotations from Lincoln's speeches._b_. Was the doctrine of popular sovereignty necessarily favorable toslavery? Give illustrations to support your reasons._c_. Was Douglas's declaration in harmony with the decision of theSupreme Court?Sec.Sec. 359, 360.--_a_. Compare the attitude of Douglas and Buchanan upon theadmission of Kansas._b_. Describe John Brown's raid. Was he a traitor?GENERAL QUESTIONS_a_. Give, with dates, the important laws as to slavery since 1783._b_. What were the arguments in favor of the extension of slavery?Against it?_c_. Find and learn a poem against slavery by Whittier, Lowell, orLongfellow._d_. Make a table of elections since 1788, with the leading parties,candidates, and principal issues. Underline the name of thecandidate elected.TOPICS FOR SPECIAL WORK_a_. John Brown in Kansas or at Harper's Ferry._b_. The career, to this time, of any man mentioned in Chapters 33 and34._c_. Any one fugitive slave case: Jerry McHenry in Syracuse (A.J. May's_Antislavery Conflicts_), Shadrach, Anthony Burns.SUGGESTIONSPreparation is especially important in teaching this period. The teacherwill find references to larger books in Channing's _Students' History._Show how the question of slavery was really at the basis of the MexicanWar. Geographical conditions and the settlement of the Western countryshould be carefully noted. A limited use of the writings and speeches ofprominent men and writers is especially valuable at this point.Have a large map of the United States in the class room, cut out andfasten upon this map pieces of white and black paper to illustrate theeffects of legislation under discussion, and also to illustrate thevarious elections.The horrors of slavery should be but lightly touched. Emphasizeespecially the fact that slavery prevented rather than aided thedevelopment of the South, and was an evil economically as wellas socially.[Illustration: THE UNITED STATES IN 1860.]XIISECESSION, 1860-1861Books for Study and ReadingReferences.--Scribner's _Popular History_, IV, 432-445; McMaster's_School History_, chap. xxvi (industrial progress, 1840-60).Home Readings.--Page's _The Old South_.CHAPTER 35THE UNITED STATES IN 1860[Sidenote: Area of the United States, 1860.][Sidenote: Population, 1860.]361. Growth of the Country.--The United States was now three timesas large as it was at Jefferson's election. It contained over threemillion square miles of land. About one-third of this great area wassettled. In the sixty years of the century the population had increasedeven faster than the area had increased. In 1800 there were five and ahalf million people living in the United States. In 1860 there were overthirty-one million people within its borders. Of these nearly fivemillions were white immigrants. More than half of these immigrants hadcome in the last ten years, and they had practically all of them settledin the free states of the North. Of the whole population of thirty-onemillions only twelve millions lived in the slave states, and of thesemore than four millions were negro slaves.[Sidenote: New states. _McMaster_, 365-368.]362. Change of Political Power.--The control of Congress had nowpassed into the hands of the free states of the North. The majority ofthe Representatives had long been from the free states. Now moreSenators came from the North than from the South. This was due to theadmission of new states. Texas (1845) was the last slave state to beadmitted to the Union. Two years later the admission of Wisconsin gavethe free states as many votes in the Senate as the slave states had. In1850 the admission of California gave the free states a majority of twovotes in the Senate. This majority was increased to four by theadmission of Minnesota in 1858, and to six by the admission of Oregon in1859. The control of Congress had slipped forever from the grasp of theslave states.[Sidenote: The cities.][Sidenote: New York.][Sidenote: Chicago.]363. The Cities.--The tremendous increase in manufacturing, infarming, and in trading brought about a great increase in foreigncommerce. This in turn led to the building up of great cities in theNorth and the West. These were New York and Chicago; and they grewrapidly because they formed the two ends of the line of communicationbetween the East and the West by the Mohawk Valley (p. 239). New Yorknow contained over eight hundred thousand inhabitants. It had morepeople within its limits than lived in the whole state of SouthCarolina. The most rapid growth was seen in the case of Chicago. In1840 there were only five thousand people in that city; it now containedone hundred and nine thousand inhabitants. Cincinnati and St. Louis,each with one hundred and sixty thousand, were still the largest citiesof the West, and St. Louis was the largest city in any slave state. NewOrleans, with nearly as many people as St. Louis, was the only largecity in the South.[Sidenote: The North and the South.][Sidenote: Growth of the Northwest.][Sidenote: Density of population, 1860.]364. The States.--As it was with the cities so it was with thestates--the North had grown beyond the South. In 1790 Virginia had asmany inhabitants as the states of New York and Pennsylvania puttogether. In 1860 Virginia had only about one-quarter as manyinhabitants as these two states. Indeed, in 1860 New York had nearlyfour million inhabitants, or nearly as many inhabitants as the wholeUnited States in 1791 (p. 156). But the growth of the states of theNorthwest had been even more remarkable. Ohio now had a million morepeople than Virginia and stood third in population among the states ofthe Union. Illinois was the fourth state and Indiana the sixth. Evenmore interesting are the facts brought out by a study of the map showingthe density of population or the number of people to the square mile inthe several states. It appears that in 1860 Ohio, Pennsylvania,Maryland, Delaware, New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island, andMassachusetts each had over forty-five inhabitants to the square mile,while not a single Southern state had as many as forty-five inhabitantsto the square mile. This shows us at once that although the Southernstates were larger in extent than the Northern states, they were muchless powerful.[Illustration: DENSITY OF POPULATION IN 1860.][Sidenote: Improvements in living.]365. City Life.--In the old days the large towns were just like thesmall towns except that they were larger. Life in them was just aboutthe same as in the smaller places. Now, however, there was a greatdifference. In the first place the city could afford to have a greatmany things the smaller town could not pay for. In the second place itmust have certain things or its people would die of disease or be killedas they walked the streets. For these reasons the streets of theNorthern cities were paved and lighted and were guarded by policemen.Then, too, great sewers carried away the refuse of the city, andenormous iron pipes brought fresh water to every one within its limits.Horse-cars and omnibuses carried its inhabitants from one part of thecity to another, and the railroads brought them food from thesurrounding country.[Illustration: AN OMNIBUS][Sidenote: Growth of the railroad systems.]366. Transportation.--Between 1849 and 1858 twenty-one thousandmiles of railroad were built in the United States, In 1860 there weremore than thirty thousand miles of railroad in actual operation. In 1850one could not go from New York to Albany without leaving the railroadand going on board a steamboat. In 1860 one continuous line of rails ranfrom New York City to the Mississippi River. Traveling was stilluncomfortable according to our ideas. The cars were rudely made andjolted horribly. One train ran only a comparatively short distance. Thenthe traveler had to alight, get something to eat, and see his baggageplaced on another train. Still, with all its discomforts, traveling inthe worst of cars was better than traveling in the old stagecoaches.Many more steamboats were used, especially on the Great Lakes and theWestern rivers.[Illustration: HORACE GREELEY][Sidenote: Schools.][Sidenote: Newspapers.][Sidenote: Horace Greeley.]367. Education.--The last thirty years had also been years ofprogress in learning. Many colleges were founded, especially in theNorthwest. There was still no institution which deserved the name ofuniversity. But more attention was being paid to the sciences and to theeducation of men for the professions of law and medicine. The newspapersalso took on their modern form. The _New York Herald_, founded in 1835,was the first real newspaper. But the _New York Tribune_, edited byHorace Greeley, had more influence than any other paper in the country.Greeley was odd in many ways, but he was one of the ablest men of thetime. He called for a liberal policy in the distribution of the publiclands and was forever saying, "Go West, young man, go West." Themagazines were now very much better than in former years, and America'sforemost writers were doing some of their best work.[Illustration: THE FIRST SEWING MACHINE.][Sidenote: The telegraph.][Sidenote: The Howe sewing machine.][Sidenote: Agriculture machinery.][Sidenote: Stagnation in the South.]368. Progress of Invention.--The electric telegraph was now incommon use. It enabled the newspapers to tell the people what was goingon as they never had done before. Perhaps the invention that did as muchas any one thing to make life easier was the sewing machine. Elias Howewas the first man to make a really practicable sewing machine. Otherinventors improved upon it, and also made machines to sew other thingsthan cloth, as leather. Agricultural machinery was now in common use.The horse reaper had been much improved, and countless machines had beeninvented to make agricultural labor more easy and economical. Hundredsof homely articles, as friction matches and rubber shoes, came into usein these years. In short, the thirty years from Jackson's inaugurationto the secession of the Southern states were years of great progress.But this progress was confined almost wholly to the North. In the South,living in 1860 was about the same as it had been in 1830, or even in1800. As a Southern orator said of the South, "The rush and whirl ofmodern civilization passed her by."CHAPTER 36SECESSION, 1860-1861[Illustration: WILLIAM H. SEWARD.][Sidenote: Candidates for the Republican nomination 1860.][Sidenote: Lincoln nominated. The platform.]369. The Republican Nomination, 1860.--Four names were especiallymentioned in connection with the Republican nomination for President.These were Seward, Chase, Cameron, and Lincoln. Seward was the bestknown of them all. In the debates on the Compromise of 1850 he haddeclared that there was "a higher law" than the Constitution, namely,"the law of nature in men's hearts." In another speech he had termed theslavery contest "the irrepressible conflict." These phrases endeared himto the antislavery men. But they made it impossible for many moderateRepublicans to follow him. Senator Chase of Ohio had also been veryoutspoken in his condemnation of slavery. Senator Cameron ofPennsylvania was an able political leader. But all of these men were"too conspicuous to make a good candidate." They had made many enemies.Lincoln had spoken freely. But he had never been prominent in nationalpolitics. He was more likely to attract the votes of moderate men thaneither of the other candidates. After a fierce contest he was nominated.The Republican platform stated that there was no intention to interferewith slavery in the states where it existed; but it declared the party'sopposition to the extension of slavery. The platform favored internalimprovements at the national expense. It also approved theprotective system.[Sidenote: The Charleston convention, 1860. _McMaster_, 360-361.][Sidenote: The Douglas Democrats.][Sidenote: The Breckinridge Democrats.]370. The Democratic Nominations.--The Democratic convention met atCharleston, South Carolina. It was soon evident that the NorthernDemocrats and the Southern Democrats could not agree. The Northernerswere willing to accept the Dred Scott decision and to carry it out. Butthe Southerners demanded that the platform should pledge the partyactively to protect slavery in the territories. To this the Northernerswould not agree. So the convention broke up to meet again at Baltimore.But there the delegates could come to no agreement. In the end twocandidates were named. The Northerners nominated Douglas on a platformadvocating "popular sovereignty." The Southerners nominated John C.Breckinridge of Kentucky. In their platform they advocated states'rights, and the protection of slavery in the territories by the federalgovernment.[Sidenote: The Constitutional Union party.]371. The Constitutional Union Party.--Besides these threecandidates, cautious and timid men of all parties united to form theConstitutional Union party. They nominated Governor John Bell ofTennessee for President. In their platform they declared for themaintenance of the Constitution and the Union, regardless of slavery.[Illustration: LINCOLN'S SURVEYING INSTRUMENTS AND SADDLEBAG.][Sidenote: The campaign of 1860.][Sidenote: Lincoln elected.]372. Lincoln elected President, 1860.--With four candidates in thefield and the Democratic party hopelessly divided, there could be littledoubt of Lincoln's election. He carried every Northern state exceptMissouri and New Jersey. He received one hundred and eighty electoralnotes. Breckenridge carried every Southern state except the "borderstates" of Virginia, Kentucky, and Tennessee, and received seventy-twoelectoral votes. Bell carried the three "border" Southern states andDouglas carried Missouri and New Jersey. There was no doubt as toLincoln's election. He had received a great majority of the electoralvotes. But his opponents had received more popular votes than he hadreceived. He was therefore elected by a minority of the voters.[Illustration: LINCOLN'S BOOKCASE. From the Keyes-Lincoln MemorialCollection, Chicago.][Sidenote: Weakness of the Republicans.][Sidenote: Southern fears.]373. The North and the South.--Lincoln had been elected by aminority of the people. He had been elected by the people of onesection. Other Presidents had been chosen by minorities. But Lincolnwas the first man to be chosen President by the people of one section.The Republicans, moreover, had not elected a majority of the members ofthe House of Representatives, and the Senate was still in the hands ofthe Democrats. For two years at least the Republicans could not carryout their ideas. They could not repeal the Kansas-Nebraska Act. Theycould not admit Kansas to the Union as a free state. They could notcarry out one bit of their policy. In their platform they had declaredthat they had no intention to interfere with slavery in the states.Lincoln had said over and over again that Congress had no right tomeddle with slavery in the states. The Southern leaders knew all thesethings. But they made up their minds that now the time had come tosecede from the Union and to establish a Southern Confederacy. For thefirst time all the southernmost states were united. No matter whatLincoln and the Republicans might say, the Southern slaveholdersbelieved that slavery was in danger. In advising secession, many of themthought that by this means they could force the Northerners to accepttheir terms as the price of a restored Union. Never were politicalleaders more mistaken.[Sidenote: Southern conventions.]374. Threats of Secession, November, 1860.--The Constitutionpermits each state to choose presidential electors as it sees fit. Atthe outset these electors had generally been chosen by the statelegislatures. But, in the course of time, all the states save one hadcome to choose them by popular vote. The one state that held to the oldway was South Carolina. Its legislature still chose the state'spresidential electors. In 1860 the South Carolina legislature did thisduty and then remained in session to see which way the election wouldgo. When Lincoln's election was certain, it called a state convention toconsider the question of seceding from the United States. In otherSouthern states there was some opposition to secession. In Georgia,especially, Alexander H. Stephens led the opposition. He said thatsecession "was the height of madness." Nevertheless he moved aresolution for a convention. Indeed, all the southernmost statesfollowed the example of South Carolina and summoned conventions.[Sidenote: Buchanan's compromise plan.][Crittenden's plan of compromise. _McMaster_, 380-381.][Sidenote: It fails to pass Congress.]375. The Crittenden Compromise Plan.--Many men hoped that even nowsecession might be stopped by some compromise. President Buchanansuggested an amendment to the Constitution, securing slavery in thestates and territories. It was unlikely that the Republicans wouldagree to this suggestion. The most hopeful plan was brought forward inCongress by Senator Crittenden of Kentucky. He proposed that amendmentsto the Constitution should be adopted: (1) to carry out the principle ofthe Missouri Compromise (p. 222);(2) to provide that states should befree or slave as their people should determine; and (3) to pay the slaveowners the value of runaway slaves. This plan was carefully consideredby Congress, and was finally rejected only two days before Lincoln'sinauguration.[Sidenote: South Carolina secedes, 1860. _Eggleston_, 304-305.][Sidenote: Six other states secede.]376. Secession of Seven States, 1860-61.--The South Carolinaconvention met in Secession Hall, Charleston, on December 17, 1860.Three days later it adopted a declaration "that the union now subsistingbetween South Carolina and other states, under the name of the UnitedStates of America, is hereby dissolved." Six other states soon joinedSouth Carolina. These were Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia,Louisiana, and Texas.[Sidenote: Confederate states constitution][Sidenote: Views of Jefferson Davis.]377. The "Confederate States of America."--The next step was forthese states to join together to form a confederation. This work wasdone by a convention of delegates chosen by the conventions of the sevenseceding states. These delegates met at Montgomery, Alabama. Their newconstitution closely resembled the Constitution of the United States.But great care was taken to make it perfectly clear that each member ofthe Confederacy was a sovereign state. Exceeding care was also takenthat slavery should be protected in every way. Jefferson Davis ofMississippi was chosen provisional president, and Alexander H. Stephensprovisional vice-president.[Illustration: CHARLESTON MERCURY EXTRA: The UNION is DISSOLVED!][Sidenote: Views of Jefferson Davis.][Sidenote: Views of Alexander H. Stephens. _Source-Book_, 296-299.]378. Views of Davis and Stephens.--Davis declared that Lincoln had"made a distinct declaration of war upon our (Southern) institutions."His election was "upon the basis of sectional hostility." If "war mustcome, it must be on Northern and not on Southern soil.... We will carrywar ... where food for the sword and torch awaits our armies in thedensely populated cities" of the North. For his part, Stephens said thenew government's "foundations are laid, its cornerstone rests, upon thegreat truth that the negro is not equal to the white man."[Sidenote: "Let the erring sisters" go in peace.][Sidenote: Greeley's opinions.][Sidenote: Buchanan's opinions.]379. Hesitation in the North.--At first it seemed as if Davis wasright when he said the Northerners would not fight. General Scott,commanding the army, suggested that the "erring sisters" should beallowed to "depart in peace," and Seward seemed to think the same way.The Abolitionists welcomed the secession of the slave states. HoraceGreeley, for instance, wrote that if those states chose to form anindependent nation, "they had a clear moral right so to do." For hispart, President Buchanan thought that no state could constitutionallysecede. But if a state should secede, he saw no way to compel it to comeback to the Union. So he sat patiently by and did nothing.QUESTIONS AND TOPICSCHAPTER 35Sec.Sec. 361, 362.--_a_. Compare the area and population of the United Statesin 1800 and in 1860._b_. Compare the white population of the North and the South. Were allthe Southern whites slave owners?_c_. Why had the control of the House passed to the free states? Did awhite man in the North and in the South have proportionally the samerepresentation in the House? Why?_d_. What change in the control of the Senate had taken place? Why? Whywas this change so important?Sec.Sec. 363, 364.--_a_. What had caused the growth of the Northern cities?Why were there so few large cities in the slave states?_b_. How had the population of the states changed since 1790? What hadcaused the growth of the Northwest?_c_. Where was there the greatest density of population? Why?Sec.Sec. 365, 366.--_a_. Describe the change of life in the cities. Whatarrangements were made for the comfort and health of the people?_b_. How had railroads increased, and what improvements had been made?Sec.Sec. 367, 368.--_a_. Of what use are newspapers? How do they influencethe opinions of the people? What policy did Horace Greeley uphold? Why?_b_. Who were some of the important writers? Mention two works of each._c_. What influence did the telegraph have? Was this important?_d_. Describe some of the other inventions._e_. Why had this progress been confined mainly to the North?CHAPTER 36Sec. 369.--_a_. Who were the leading Republican candidates?_b_. Why was Lincoln nominated? What is the meaning of the phrase "tooconspicuous"?_c_. What did Seward mean by saying that there was a "higher law" thanthe Constitution? Why was the slavery contest "irrepressible"?_d_. What declaration was made by the Republican party as to slavery?Compare this policy with the Wilmot Proviso.Sec.Sec. 370, 371.--_a_. What divisions took place in the Democratic party?Why?_b_. What candidates were named? What policy did each uphold?_c_. How had the demands of the Southerners concerning slaveryincreased?_d_. What third party was formed? By whom? What does the name show?Sec.Sec. 372, 373.--_a_. What was the result of the election?_b_. What was there peculiar in Lincoln's election?_c_. Were the Southern states in any particular danger?_d_. Why should the Southerners have felt so strongly about thiselection? What was their hope in threatening secession?Sec.Sec.374, 375.--_a_ Give arguments for and against secession. In what otherquestion similar to this had South Carolina led?_b_. Were the people of the South generally in favor of secession?_c_. What compromise did Buchanan suggest? What do you think of thewisdom of the plan?_d_. Explain carefully the points in Crittenden's plan. Discuss itsvalue.Sec.Sec. 376, 377.--_a_ Could one state dissolve the Union? _b_. What otherstates followed South Carolina?_c_. What government was formed by them? What two points wereespecially emphasized in their constitution? Why these?Sec.Sec. 378, 379.--_a_. What statement did Davis make as to Lincoln? Was ittrue or false? Give your reasons._b_. Why did Davis advocate war on Northern soil?_c_. Why was there such hesitation in the North? State the opinions ofScott, Greeley, and Buchanan._d_. What would Jackson probably have done had he been President?GENERAL QUESTIONS_a_. Was the South justified in thinking that the North would yield?Give illustrations to support your view._b_. Were the years 1857-61 more or less "critical" than the years1783-87? Why?_c_. How was the South dependent upon the North?TOPICS FOR SPECIAL WORK_a_. Comparison between the North and the South._b_. Any invention mentioned in this part._c_. Some writer of this period._d_. The condition of your own state (or town or city) in 1860.SUGGESTIONS TO THE TEACHERThe first chapter of this part should be taught very slowly, and at eachpoint the contrast between the North and the South should bepointed out.In Chapter 36 the changed attitude of the Southern politicians should benoted and their demands clearly set forth. The fact that the slaveowners while a minority in the South dominated public opinion should bepointed out.In considering the question of secession it will be well to review theKentucky and Virginia Resolutions, the Hartford Convention, and theNullification episode. The weakness of Pierce and Buchanan may becontrasted with the strength of Jackson, and will serve as anintroduction to the study of Lincoln's character.XIIITHE WAR FOR THE UNION,1861-1865Books for Study and ReadingReferences.--Dodge's _Bird's-Eye View_; Scribner's _PopularHistory_, IV and V; McMaster's _School History_. chap, xxix (the cost ofthe war); Lincoln's _Inaugurals_ and _Gettysburg Address_.Home Readings.--_Battles and Leaders of the Civil War_ (composedlargely of articles that had previously appeared in the _CenturyMagazine_; Whittier's _Barbara Frietchie; _Coffin's _Winning his Way_and other stories; Soley's _Sailor Boys of '61_; Trowbridge's _DrummerBoy_ and other stories; Read's _Sheridan's Ride_; Champlin's _YoungFolks' History of the War for the Union_).CHAPTER 37THE RISING OF THE PEOPLES, 1861[Sidenote: Lincoln's inaugural address, March 4, 1861.]380. Lincoln's Inauguration.--On March 4, 1861, President Lincolnmade his first inaugural address. In it he declared: "The Union is mucholder than the Constitution.... No state upon its own motion canlawfully get out of the Union.... In view of the Constitution and thelaws the Union is unbroken ... I shall take care that the laws of theUnion be faithfully executed in all the states." As to slavery, he had"no purpose ... to interfere with the institution of slavery in thestates where it exists." He even saw no objection to adopt an amendmentof the Constitution to prohibit the Federal government from interferingwith slavery in the states. But he was resolved to preserve, protect,and defend the Constitution of the United States.[Illustration: SLAVERY AND SECESSION.][Illustration: "OLD GLORY" AS USED IN THE CIVIL WAR.][Sidenote: Fort Sumter. _Source-Book_, 299-302.][Sidenote: The call to arms, April 15, 1861.]381. Fall of Fort Sumter, April, 1861.--The strength of Lincoln'sresolve was soon tested. When South Carolina seceded, Major Anderson,commanding the United States forces at Charleston, withdrew from theland forts to Fort Sumter, built on a shoal in the harbor. He had withhim only eighty fighting men and was sorely in need of food andammunition. Buchanan sent a steamer, the _Star of the West, _toCharleston with supplies and soldiers. But the Confederates fired onher, and she steamed away without landing the soldiers or the supplies.Lincoln waited a month, hoping that the secessionists would come back tothe Union of their own accord. Then he decided to send supplies to MajorAnderson and told the governor of South Carolina of his decision.Immediately (April 12) the Confederates opened fire on Fort Sumter. OnApril 14 Anderson surrendered. The next day President Lincoln issued aproclamation calling for seventy-five thousand volunteers.[Sidenote: The Northern volunteers. _McMaster_, 386-387; _Source-Book_,303-305.][Sidenote: Douglas, Buchanan, and Pierce][Sidenote: Progress of secession.]382. Rising of the North.--There was no longer a question ofletting the "erring sisters" depart in peace. The Southerners had firedon "Old Glory." There was no longer a dispute over the extension ofslavery. The question was now whether the Union should perish or shouldlive. Douglas at once came out for the Union and so did the formerPresidents, Buchanan and Franklin Pierce. In the Mississippi Valleyhundreds of thousands of men either sympathized with the slaveholders orcared nothing about the slavery dispute. But the moment the Confederatesattacked the Union, they rose in defense of their country andtheir flag.[Sidenote: West Virginia.]383. More Seceders.--The Southerners flocked to the standards ofthe Confederacy, and four more states joined the ranks of secession.These were Arkansas, Tennessee, North Carolina, and Virginia. InVirginia the people were sharply divided on the question of secession.Finally Virginia seceded, but the western Virginians, in their turn,seceded from Virginia and two years later were admitted to the Union asthe state of West Virginia. Four "border states" had seceded; but fourother "border states" were still within the Union. These were Delaware,Maryland, Kentucky, and Missouri.[Sidenote: Kentucky and Maryland saved to the Union.][Sidenote: Missouri saved to the Union. _Eggleston_, 310.]384. The Border States.--The people of Maryland and of Kentuckywere evenly divided on the question of secession. They even tried to setup as neutral states. But their neutrality would have been so greatly tothe advantage of the seceders that this could not be allowed. Lincoln'sfirm moderation and the patriotism of many wise leaders in Kentuckysaved that state to the Union. But Maryland was so important to thedefense of Washington that more energetic means had to be used. InMissouri, a large and active party wished to join the Confederacy. Buttwo Union men, Frank P. Blair and Nathaniel Lyon, held the mostimportant portions of the state for the Union. It was not until a yearlater, however, that Missouri was safe on the Northern side.[Sidenote: Southern sentiment in Washington.][Sidenote: Southern Unionists.][Sidenote: First bloodshed, April 19, 1861.]385. To the Defense of Washington.--The national capital was reallya Southern town, for most of the permanent residents were Southerners,and the offices were filled with Southern men. In the army and navy,too, were very many Southerners. Most of them, as Robert E. Lee, feltthat their duty to their state was greater than their duty to theirflag. But many Southern officers felt differently. Among these were twomen whose names should be held in grateful remembrance, Captain David G.Farragut and Colonel George H. Thomas. The first soldiers to arrive inWashington were from Pennsylvania; but they came unarmed. Soon they werefollowed by the Sixth Massachusetts. In passing through Baltimore thisregiment was attacked. Several men were killed, others were wounded.This was on April 19, 1861,--the anniversary of the battles ofLexington and Concord. It was the first bloodshed of the war.CHAPTER 38BULL RUN TO MURFREESBORO', 1861-1862[Illustration: RAILROADS AND RIVERS OF THE SOUTH.][Sidenote: The field of war.]386. Nature of the Conflict.--The overthrow of the Confederatestates proved to be very difficult. The Alleghany Mountains cut theSouth into two great fields of war. Deep and rapid rivers flowed fromthe mountains into the Atlantic or into the Mississippi. Each of theserivers was a natural line of defense. The first line was the Potomac andthe Ohio. But when the Confederates were driven from this line, theysoon found another equally good a little farther south. Then again theSouth was only partly settled. Good roads were rare, but there were manypoor roads. The maps gave only the good roads. By these the Northernsoldiers had to march while the Southern armies were often guidedthrough paths unknown to the Northerners, and thus were able to marchshorter distances between two battlefields or between twoimportant points.[Sidenote: Plan of campaign.][Sidenote: Disaster at Bull Run, July, 1861. _Source-Book_, 305-308.]387. The Bull Run Campaign, July, 1861.--Northern soldiers crossedthe Potomac into Virginia and found the Confederates posted at Bull Runnear Manassas Junction. Other Northern soldiers pressed into theShenandoah Valley from Harper's Ferry. They, too, found a Confederatearmy in front of them. The plan of the Union campaign is now clear:General McDowell was to attack the Confederates at Bull Run, whileGeneral Patterson attacked the Confederates in the Valley, and kept themso busy that they could not go to the help of their comrades at BullRun. It fell out otherwise, for Patterson retreated and left theConfederate general, Johnston, free to go to the aid of the sorelypressed Confederates at Bull Run. McDowell attacked vigorously and brokethe Confederate line; but he could not maintain his position. The Uniontroops at first retreated slowly. Then they became frightened and fled,in all haste, back to Washington. The first campaign ended in disaster.[Illustration: GENERAL MCCLELLAN.][Sidenote: The Army of the Potomac, 1862.]388. The Army of the Potomac.--While the Bull Run campaign wasgoing on in eastern Virginia, Union soldiers had been winning victoriesin western Virginia. These were led by General George B. McClellan. Henow came to Washington and took command of the troops operating in frontof the capital. During the autumn, winter, and spring he drilled his menwith great skill and care. In March, 1862, the Army of the Potomac leftits camps a splendidly drilled body of soldiers.[Sidenote: Southern preparations. _Source-Book_, 308-311.][Sidenote: Richmond.][Sidenote: Army of Northern Virginia.]389. The Army of Northern Virginia.--Meantime the government of theConfederacy had gathered great masses of soldiers. There were not nearlyas many white men of fighting age in the South as there were in theNorth. But what men there were could be placed in the fighting line,because the negro slaves could produce the food needed by the armies anddo the hard labor of making forts. The capital of the Confederacy wasnow established at Richmond, on the James River, in Virginia. The armydefending this capital was called the Army of Northern Virginia. It wascommanded by Joseph E. Johnston; but its ablest officers were Robert E.Lee and Thomas J. Jackson (Stonewall Jackson).[Sidenote: McClellan's plan of campaign, 1862.][Sidenote: Objections to it.]390. Plan of the Peninsular Campaign.--The country between thePotomac and the James was cut up by rivers, as the Rappahannock, theMattapony, and Pamunkey, and part of it was a wilderness. McClellanplanned to carry his troops by water to the peninsula between the Jamesand the York and Pamunkey rivers. He would then have a clear road toRichmond, with no great rivers to dispute with the enemy. Johnston wouldbe obliged to leave his camp at Bull Run and march southward to thedefense of Richmond. The great objection to the plan was that Johnstonmight attack Washington instead of going to face McClellan. GeneralJackson also was in the Shenandoah Valley. He might march down theValley, cross the Potomac, and seize Washington. So the government keptseventy-five thousand of McClellan's men for the defense of theFederal capital.[Illustration: THE "MONITOR."][Sidenote: The _Monitor_ and the _Merrimac_. _Hero Tales_, 183, 195.]391. The _Monitor_ and the _Merrimac_.--On March 8 a queer-lookingcraft steamed out from Norfolk, Virginia, and attacked the Union fleetat anchor near Fortress Monroe. She destroyed two wooden frigates, the_Cumberland_ and the _Congress_, and began the destruction of the_Minnesota_. She then steamed back to Norfolk. This formidable vesselwas the old frigate _Merrimac_. Upon her decks the Confederates hadbuilt an iron house. From these iron sides the balls of the Unionfrigates rolled harmlessly away. But that night an even stranger-lookingship appeared at Fortress Monroe. This was the _Monitor_, a floatingfort, built of iron. She was designed by John Ericsson, a Swedishimmigrant. When the _Merrimac_ came back to finish the destruction ofthe _Minnesota_, the _Monitor_ steamed directly to her. These twoironclads fought and fought. At last the _Merrimac_ steamed away andnever renewed the fight.[Sidenote: Battle of Fair Oaks, May, 1862.][Sidenote: The Seven Days.][Sidenote: Malvern Hill.]392. The Peninsular Campaign, 1862.--By the end of May McClellanhad gained a position within ten miles of Richmond. Meantime, Jacksonfought so vigorously in the Shenandoah Valley that the Washingtongovernment refused to send more men to McClellan, although Johnston hadgone with his army to the defense of Richmond. On May 31 the Army of thePotomac and the Army of Northern Virginia fought a hard battle at FairOaks. Johnston was wounded, and Lee took the chief command. He summonedJackson from the Valley and attacked McClellan day after day, June 26to July 2, 1862. These terrible battles of the Seven Days forcedMcClellan to change his base to the James, where he would be near thefleet. At Malvern Hill Lee and Jackson once more attacked him and werebeaten off with fearful loss.[Sidenote: Lee's plan of campaign.][Sidenote: Second battle of Bull Run, August, 1862.]393. Second Bull Run Campaign.--The Army of the Potomac was stilluncomfortably near Richmond. It occurred to Lee that if he should strikea hard blow at the army in front of Washington, Lincoln would recallMcClellan. Suddenly, without any warning, Jackson appeared at ManassasJunction (p. 317). McClellan was at once ordered to transport his armyby water to the Potomac, and place it under the orders of General JohnPope, commanding the forces in front of Washington. McClellan did as hewas ordered. But Lee moved faster than he could move. Before the Army ofthe Potomac was thoroughly in Pope's grasp, Lee attacked the Unionforces near Bull Run. He defeated them, drove them off the field andback into the forts defending Washington (August, 1862).[Sidenote: Lee invades Maryland.][Sidenote: Antietam, September, 1862. _Hero Tales_, 199-209.]394. The Antietam Campaign, 1862.--Lee now crossed the Potomac intoMaryland. But he found more resistance than he had looked for. McClellanwas again given chief command. Gathering his forces firmly together, hekept between Lee and Washington, and threatened Lee's communicationswith Virginia. The Confederates drew back. McClellan found them stronglyposted near the Antietam and attacked them. The Union soldiers foughtsplendidly. But military writers say that McClellan's attacks were notwell planned. At all events, the Army of the Potomac lost more thantwelve thousand men to less than ten thousand on the Confederate side,and Lee made good his retreat to Virginia. McClellan was now removedfrom command, and Ambrose E. Burnside became chief of the Army ofthe Potomac.[Illustration: ANTIETAM (A WAR-TIME SKETCH).][Sidenote: Battle of Fredericksburg, December, 1862.]395. Fredericksburg, December, 1862.--Burnside found Lee stronglyposted on Marye's Heights, which rise sharply behind the little town ofFredericksburg on the southern bank of the Rappahannock River. Burnsideattacked in front. His soldiers had to cross the river and assault thehill in face of a murderous fire--and in vain. He lost thirteen thousandmen to only four thousand of the Confederates. "Fighting Joe" Hooker nowsucceeded Burnside as commander of the Army of the Potomac. We must nowturn to the West, and see what had been doing there in 1861-62.[Sidenote: General Grant.][Sidenote: He seizes Cairo.][Sidenote: Battle of Mill Springs, January, 1862.]396. Grant and Thomas.--In Illinois there appeared a trainedsoldier of fierce energy and invincible will, Ulysses Simpson Grant. Hehad been educated at West Point and had served in the Mexican War. InSeptember, 1861, he seized Cairo at the junction of the Ohio and theMississippi. In January, 1862, General George H. Thomas defeated aConfederate force at Mill Springs, in the upper valley of the CumberlandRiver. In this way Grant and Thomas secured the line of the Ohio andeastern Kentucky for the Union.[Illustration: THE BRIDGE AT ANTIETAM. Burnside's soldiers charged overthe bridge from the middle foreground.][Sidenote: Capture of Fort Henry, February, 1862.][Sidenote: Fort Donelson.]397. Forts Henry and Donelson, February, 1862.--In February, 1862,General Grant and Commodore Foote attacked two forts which theConfederates had built to keep the Federal gunboats from penetrating thewestern part of the Confederacy. Fort Henry yielded almost at once, butthe Union forces besieged Fort Donelson for a longer time. Soon theConfederate defense became hopeless, and General Buckner asked for theterms of surrender. "Unconditional surrender," replied Grant, andBuckner surrendered. The lower Tennessee and the lower Cumberland werenow open to the Union forces.[Sidenote: The lower Mississippi.][Sidenote: Admiral Farragut.]398. Importance of New Orleans.--New Orleans and the lowerMississippi were of great importance to both sides, for the possessionof this region gave the Southerners access to Texas, and through Texasto Mexico. Union fleets were blockading every important Southern port.But as long as commerce overland with Mexico could be maintained, theSouth could struggle on. The Mississippi, too, has so many mouths thatit was difficult to keep vessels from running in and out. For thesereasons the Federal government determined to seize New Orleans and thelower Mississippi. The command of the expedition was given to Farragut,who had passed his boyhood in Louisiana. He was given as good a fleet ascould be provided, and a force of soldiers was sent to help him.[Illustration: A RIVER GUNBOAT.][Sidenote: Capture of New Orleans, April, 1862. _Higginson_, 303-304;_Source-Book_, 313-315.]399. New Orleans captured, April, 1862.--Farragut carried his fleetinto the Mississippi, but found his way upstream barred by two forts onthe river's bank. A great chain stretched across the river below theforts, and a fleet of river gunboats with an ironclad or two was inwaiting above the forts. Chain, forts, and gunboats all gave way beforeFarragut's forceful will. At night he passed the forts amid a terrificcannonade. Once above them New Orleans was at his mercy. It surrendered,and with the forts was soon occupied by the Union army. The lowerMississippi was lost to the Confederacy.[Illustration: A WAR-TIME ENVELOPE.][Sidenote: Shiloh, April, 1862.][Sidenote: Corinth, May, 1862.]400. Shiloh and Corinth, April, May, 1862.--General Halleck nowdirected the operations of the Union armies in the West. He orderedGrant to take his men up the Tennessee to Pittsburg Landing and thereawait the arrival of Buell with a strong force overland from Nashville.Grant encamped with his troops on the western bank of the Tennesseebetween Shiloh Church and Pittsburg Landing. Albert Sidney Johnston, theConfederate commander in the West, attacked him suddenly and with greatfury. Soon the Union army was pushed back to the river. In his placemany a leader would have withdrawn. But Grant, with amazing courage,held on. In the afternoon Buell's leading regiments reached the otherside of the river. In the night they were ferried across, and Grant'soutlying commands were brought to the front. The next morning Grantattacked in his turn and slowly but surely pushed the Confederates offthe field. Halleck then united Grant's, Buell's, and Pope's armies andcaptured Corinth.[Sidenote: General Bragg invades Kentucky.][Sidenote: Battle of Perryville, October, 1862.][Sidenote: Murfreesboro', December, 1862. _Eggleston_, 331.]401. Bragg in Tennessee and Kentucky.--General Braxton Bragg nowtook a large part of the Confederate army, which had fought at Shilohand Corinth, to Chattanooga. He then marched rapidly across Tennesseeand Kentucky to the neighborhood of Louisville on the Ohio River. Buellwas sent after him, and the two armies fought an indecisive battle atPerryville. Then Bragg retreated to Chattanooga. In a few months he wasagain on the march. Rosecrans had now succeeded Buell. He attacked Braggat Murfreesboro'. For a long time the contest was equal. In the end,however, the Confederates were beaten and retired from the field.CHAPTER 39THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION[Sidenote: The blockade.]402. The Blockade.--On the fall of Fort Sumter President Lincolnordered a blockade of the Confederate seaports. There were fewmanufacturing industries in the South. Cotton and tobacco were thegreat staples of export. If her ports were blockaded the South couldneither bring in arms and military supplies from Europe, nor send cottonand tobacco to Europe to be sold for money. So her power of resistingthe Union armies would be greatly lessened. The Union government boughtall kinds of vessels, even harbor ferryboats, armed them, and stationedthem off the blockaded harbors. In a surprisingly short time theblockade was established. The Union forces also began to occupy theSouthern seacoast, and thus the region that had to be blockaded steadilygrew less.[Sidenote: Effect of the blockade.]403. Effects of the Blockade.--As months and years went by, and theblockade became stricter and stricter, the sufferings of the Southernpeople became ever greater. As they could not send their products toEurope to exchange for goods, they had to pay gold and silver forwhatever the blockade runners brought in. Soon there was no more goldand silver in the Confederacy, and paper money took its place. Then thesupplies of manufactured goods, as clothing and paper, of things notproduced in the South, as coffee and salt, gave out. Toward the end ofthe war there were absolutely no medicines for the Southern soldiers,and guns were so scarce that it was proposed to arm one regiment withpikes. Nothing did more to break down Southern resistance thanthe blockade.[Sidenote: Hopes of the Southerners.]404. The Confederacy, Great Britain, and France.--From thebeginning of the contest the Confederate leaders believed that theBritish and the French would interfere to aid them. "Cotton is king,"they said. Unless there were a regular supply of cotton, the mills ofEngland and of France must stop. Thousands of mill hands--men, women,and children--would soon be starving. The French and the Britishgovernments would raise the blockade. Perhaps they would even force theUnited States to acknowledge the independence of the Confederate states.There was a good deal of truth in this belief. For the British andFrench governments dreaded the growing power of the American republicand would gladly have seen it broken to pieces. But events fell out farotherwise than the Southern leaders had calculated. Before the supply ofAmerican cotton in England was used up, new supplies began to come infrom India and from Egypt. The Union armies occupied portions of thecotton belt early in 1862, and American cotton was again exported. Butmore than all else, the English mill operatives, in all their hardships,would not ask their government to interfere. They saw clearly enoughthat the North was fighting for the rights of free labor. At times itseemed, however, as if Great Britain or France would interfere.[Sidenote: Southern agents sent to Europe.][Sidenote: Removed from the _Trent_.][Sidenote: Lincoln's opinion.][Sidenote: Action of Great Britain.]405. The Trent Affair, 1861.--As soon as the blockade wasestablished, the British and French governments gave the Confederatesthe same rights in their ports as the United States had. The Southernersthen sent two agents, Mason and Slidell, to Europe to ask the foreigngovernments to recognize the independence of the Confederate states.Captain Wilkes of the United States ship _San Jacinto_ took these agentsfrom the British steamer _Trent_. But Lincoln at once said that Wilkeshad done to the British the very thing which we had fought the War of1812 to prevent the British doing to us. "We must stick to Americanprinciples," said the President, "and restore the prisoners." They weregiven up. But the British government, without waiting to see whatLincoln would do, had gone actively to work to prepare for war. Thisseemed so little friendly that the people of the United States weregreatly irritated.[Sidenote: The war powers of the President.][Sidenote: Lincoln follows Northern sentiment.]406. Lincoln and Slavery.--It will be remembered that theRepublican party had denied again and again that it had any intention tointerfere with slavery in the states. As long as peace lasted theFederal government could not interfere with slavery in the states. Butwhen war broke out, the President, as commander-in-chief, could doanything to distress and weaken the enemy. If freeing the slaves in theseceded states would injure the secessionists, he had a perfect right todo it. But Lincoln knew that public opinion in the North would notapprove this action. He would follow Northern sentiment in this matter,and not force it.[Sidenote: The contrabands.]407. Contrabands of War.--he war had scarcely begun before slavesescaped into the Union lines. One day a Confederate officer came toFortress Monroe and demanded his runaway slaves under the Fugitive SlaveAct (p. 281). General Butler refused to give them up on the ground thatthey were "contraband of war." By that phrase he meant that theirrestoration would be illegal as their services would be useful to theenemy. President Lincoln approved this decision of General Butler, andescaping slaves soon came to be called "Contrabands."[Illustration: A WAR-TIME ENVELOPE.][Sidenote: Abolition with compensation.]408. First Steps toward Emancipation, 1862.--Lincoln and theRepublican party thought that Congress could not interfere with slaveryin the states. It might, however, buy slaves and set them free or helpthe states to do this. So Congress passed a law offering aid to anystate which should abolish slavery within its borders. Congress itselfabolished slavery in the District of Columbia with compensation to theowners. It abolished slavery in the territories without compensation.Lincoln had gladly helped to make these laws. Moreover, by August, 1862,he had made up his mind that to free the slaves in the seceded stateswould help "to save the Union" and would therefore be right as a "warmeasure." For every negro taken away from forced labor would weaken theproducing power of the South and so make the conquest of theSouth easier.[Sidenote: Lincoln's warning, September, 1862.][Sidenote: Emancipation Proclamation, January 1, 1863. _Higginson_,304-305; _Source-Book_, 315-318, 327-329.]409. The Emancipation Proclamation, 1863.--On September 23, 1862,Lincoln issued a proclamation stating that on the first day of the newyear he would declare free all slaves in any portion of the UnitedStates then in rebellion. On January 1, 1863, he issued the EmancipationProclamation. This proclamation could be enforced only in those portionsof the seceded states which were held by the Union armies. It did notfree slaves in loyal states and did not abolish the institution ofslavery anywhere. Slavery was abolished by the states of West Virginia,Missouri, and Maryland between 1862 and 1864. Finally, in 1865, it wasabolished throughout the United States by the adoption of the ThirteenthAmendment (p. 361).[Sidenote: Northern friends of secession.][Sidenote: Suspension of _habeas corpus._]410. Northern Opposition to the War.--Many persons in the Norththought that the Southerners had a perfect right to secede if theywished. Some of these persons sympathized so strongly with theSoutherners that they gave them important information and did all theycould to prevent the success of the Union forces. It was hard to proveanything against these Southern sympathizers, but it was dangerous toleave them at liberty. So Lincoln ordered many of them to be arrestedand locked up. Now the Constitution provides that every citizen shallhave a speedy trial. This is brought about by the issuing a writ of_habeas corpus_, compelling the jailer to bring his prisoner into courtand show cause why he should not be set at liberty. Lincoln nowsuspended the operation of the writ of _habeas corpus_. This actionangered many persons who were quite willing that the Southerners shouldbe compelled to obey the law, but did not like to have their neighborsarrested and locked up without trial.[Illustration: THE DRAFT.][Sidenote: The draft.][Sidenote: Riots in the North.]411. The Draft Riots.--At the outset both armies were made up ofvolunteers; soon there were not enough volunteers. Both governments thendrafted men for their armies; that is, they picked out by lot certainmen and compelled them to become soldiers. The draft was bitterlyresisted in some parts of the North, especially in New York City.CHAPTER 40THE YEAR 1863[Sidenote: Position of the armies.]412. Position of the Armies, January, 1863.--The Army of thePotomac, now under Hooker, and the Army of Northern Virginia were faceto face at Fredericksburg on the Rappahannock. In the West Rosecrans wasat Murfreesboro', and Bragg on the way back to Chattanooga. In theMississippi Valley Grant and Sherman had already begun the Vicksburgcampaign. But as yet they had had no success.[Sidenote: Grant's Vicksburg Campaign, 1863. _Hero Tales_, 239-248.]413. Beginnings of the Vicksburg Campaign.--Vicksburg stood on thetop of a high bluff directly on the river. Batteries erected at thenorthern end of the town commanded the river, which at that point randirectly toward the bluff. The best way to attack this formidable placewas to proceed overland from Corinth. This Grant tried to do. But theConfederates forced him back.[Sidenote: Siege of Vicksburg. _Source-Book_, 320-323.][Sidenote: Surrender of Vicksburg, July 4, 1863.]414. Fall of Vicksburg, July 4, 1863.--Grant now carried his wholearmy down the Mississippi. For months he tried plan after plan, andevery time he failed. Finally he marched his army down on the westernside of the river, crossed the river below Vicksburg, and approached thefortress from the south and east. In this movement he was greatly aidedby the Union fleet under Porter, which protected the army while crossingthe river. Pemberton, the Confederate commander, at once came out fromVicksburg. But Grant drove him back and began the siege of the town fromthe land side. The Confederates made a gallant defense. But slowly andsurely they were starved into submission. On July 4, 1863, Pembertonsurrendered the fortress and thirty-seven thousand men.[Sidenote: Port Hudson surrendered.][Sidenote: Opening of the Mississippi.]415. Opening of the Mississippi.--Port Hudson, between Vicksburgand New Orleans, was now the only important Confederate position on theMississippi. On July 8 it surrendered. A few days later the freightsteamer _Imperial_ from St. Louis reached New Orleans. The Mississippiat last "flowed unvexed to the sea." The Confederacy was cut in twain.[Sidenote: Chancellorsville, May, 1863. _Hero Tales_, 213-223.][Sidenote: Lee invades Pennsylvania.][Sidenote: Meade in command.]416. Lee's Second Invasion, 1863.--"Fighting Joe Hooker" was now incommand of the Army of the Potomac. Outwitting Lee, he gained the rearof the Confederate lines on Marye's Heights, But Lee fiercely attackedhim at Chancellorsville and drove him back across the Rappahannock. ThenLee again crossed the Potomac and invaded the North. This time hepenetrated to the heart of Pennsylvania. Hooker moved on parallel lines,always keeping between Lee and the city of Washington. At length, in themidst of the campaign, Hooker asked to be relieved, and George G. Meadebecame the fifth and last chief of the Army of the Potomac.[Illustration: BATTLEFIELD OF GETTYSBURG, LOOKING SOUTH FROM ROUND TOP.][Sidenote: Lee retires.][Sidenote: Gettysburg, July 1-3, 1863.]417. Gettysburg, July 1, 1863.--Meade now moved the Union armytoward Lee's line of communication with Virginia. Lee at once drewback. Both armies moved toward Gettysburg, where the roads leadingsouthward came together. In this way the two armies came into contact onJuly i, 1863. The Southerners were in stronger force at the moment anddrove the Union soldiers back through the town to the high land calledCemetery Ridge. This was a remarkably strong position, with Culp's Hillat one end of the line and the Round Tops at the other end. Meadedetermined to fight the battle at that spot and hurried up allhis forces.[Illustration: MAP: Battle of Gettysburg.][Sidenote: The second day.]418. Gettysburg, July 2, 1863.--At first matters seemed to go badlywith the Union army. Its left flank extended forward from Little RoundTop into the fields at the foot of the ridge. The Confederates droveback this part of the Union line. But they could not seize Little RoundTop. On this day also the Confederates gained a foothold on Culp's Hill.[Sidenote: The third day. _Source-Book_, 323-327.][Sidenote: Pickett's charge. _Hero Tales_, 227-236.][Sidenote: It fails.][Sidenote: Lee retreats, July 4, 1863.]419. Gettysburg, July 3, 1863.--Early on this morning the Unionsoldiers drove the Confederates away from Culp's Hill and held the wholeridge. Now again, as at Malvern Hill (p. 321), Lee had fought the Armyof the Potomac to a standstill. But he would not admit failure. Led byPickett of Virginia, thirteen thousand men charged across the valleybetween the two armies directly at the Union center. Some of them evenpenetrated the Union lines. But there the line stopped. Slowly it beganto waver. Then back the Confederates went--all who escaped. The battleof Gettysburg was won. Lee faced the Army of the Potomac for another dayand then retreated. In this tremendous conflict the Confederates losttwenty-two thousand five hundred men killed and wounded and fivethousand taken prisoners by the Northerners--a total loss oftwenty-eight thousand out of eighty thousand in the battle. The Unionarmy numbered ninety-three thousand men and lost twenty-three thousand,killed and wounded. Vicksburg and Gettysburg cost the South sixty-fivethousand fighting men--a loss that could not be made good. We must nowturn to eastern Tennessee.[Sidenote: Rosecrans and Bragg, 1863.][Sidenote: Chickamauga, September, 1863.][Sidenote: Thomas and Sheridan.][Sidenote: Grant in command in the West.]420. Chickamauga, September, 1863.--For six months afterMurfreesboro' (p. 326) Rosecrans and Bragg remained in their camps. Inthe summer of 1863 Rosecrans, by a series of skillful marchings, forcedBragg to abandon Chattanooga. But Bragg was now greatly strengthened bysoldiers from the Mississippi and by Longstreet's division from Lee'sarmy in Virginia. He turned on Rosecrans, and attacked him atChickamauga Creek. The right wing of the Union army was driven from thefield. But Thomas, "the Rock of Chickamauga," with his men stood fast.Bragg attacked him again and again, and failed every time, although hehad double Thomas's numbers. Rosecrans, believing the battle to belost, had ridden off to Chattanooga, but Sheridan aided Thomas as wellas he could. The third day Thomas and Bragg kept their positions, andthen the Union soldiers retired unpursued to Chattanooga. The command ofthe whole army at Chattanooga was now given to Thomas, and Grant wasplaced in control of all the Western armies.[Illustration: GENERAL THOMAS.][Sidenote: Sherman's attack.][Sidenote: Hooker's attack.][Sidenote: Thomas's attack.][Sidenote: Rout of the Confederates, November, 1863.]421. Chattanooga, November, 1863.--The Union soldiers atChattanooga were in great danger. For the Confederates were all aboutthem and they could get no food. But help was at hand. Hooker, withfifteen thousand men from the Army of the Potomac, arrived and opened aroad by which food could reach Chattanooga. Then Grant came withSherman's corps from Vicksburg. He at once sent Sherman to assailBragg's right flank and ordered Hooker to attack his left flank. Shermanand his men advanced until he was stopped by a deep ravine. At theother end of the line Hooker fought right up the side of LookoutMountain, until the battle raged above the clouds. In the center wereThomas's men. Eager to avenge the slaughter of Chickamauga, they carriedthe first Confederate line of defenses. Then, without orders, theyrushed up the hillside over the inner lines. They drove the Southernersfrom their guns and seized their works. Bragg retreated as well as hecould. Longstreet was besieging Knoxville. He escaped through themountains to Lee's army in Virginia.CHAPTER 41THE END OF THE WAR, 1864-1865[Sidenote: Grant in chief command.][Sidenote: Sherman commands in the West.]422. Grant in Command of all the Armies.--The Vicksburg andChattanooga campaigns marked out Grant for the chief command. Hithertothe Union forces had acted on no well-thought-out plan. Now Grant wasappointed Lieutenant General and placed in command of all the armies ofthe United States (March, 1864). He decided to carry on the war inVirginia in person. Western operations he intrusted to Sherman, withThomas in command of the Army of the Cumberland. Sheridan came withGrant to Virginia and led the cavalry of the Army of the Potomac. Wewill first follow Sherman and Thomas and the Western armies.[Illustration: GENERAL SHERMAN.][Sidenote: Sherman's army.][Sidenote: The march to Atlanta.][Sidenote: Hood attacks Sherman.]423. The Atlanta Campaign, 1864.--Sherman had one hundred thousandveterans, led by Thomas, McPherson, and Schofield. Joseph E. Johnston,who succeeded Bragg, had fewer men, but he occupied strongly fortifiedpositions. Yet week by week Sherman forced him back till, after twomonths of steady fighting, Johnston found himself in the vicinity ofAtlanta. This was the most important manufacturing center in the South.The Confederates must keep Atlanta if they possibly could. Johnstonplainly could not stop Sherman. So Hood was appointed in his place, inthe expectation that he would fight. Hood fought his best. Again andagain he attacked Sherman only to be beaten off with heavy loss. He thenabandoned Atlanta to save his army. From May to September Sherman losttwenty-two thousand men, but the Confederates lost thirty-five thousandmen and Atlanta too.[Sidenote: Problems of war.][Sidenote: Plan of the March to the Sea.]424. Plans of Campaign.--Hood now led his army northward toTennessee. But Sherman, instead of following him, sent only Thomas andSchofield. Sherman knew that the Confederacy was a mere shell. Its hearthad been destroyed. What would be the result of a grand march throughGeorgia to the seacoast, and then northward through the Carolinas toVirginia? Would not this unopposed march show the people of the North,of the South, and of Europe that further resistance was useless? Shermanthought that it would, and that once in Virginia he could help Grantcrush Lee. Grant agreed with Sherman and told him to carry out hisplans. But first we must see what happened to Thomas and Hood.[Sidenote: Hood in Tennessee.][Sidenote: Battle of Franklin, November, 1864.][Sidenote: Thomas destroys Hood's army, December, 1864.]425. Thomas and Hood, 1864.--Never dreaming that Sherman was not inpursuit, Hood marched rapidly northward until he had crossed theTennessee. He then spent three weeks in resting his tired soldiers andin gathering supplies. This delay gave Thomas time to draw in recruits.At last Hood attacked Schofield at Franklin on November 30, 1864.Schofield retreated to Nashville, where Thomas was with the bulk of hisarmy, and Hood followed. Thomas took all the time he needed to completehis preparations. Grant felt anxious at his delay and ordered him tofight. But Thomas would not fight until he was ready. At length, onDecember 15, he struck the blow, and in two days of fighting destroyedHood's whole army. This was the last great battle in the West.[Sidenote: The March to the Sea, 1864.][Sidenote: Fall of Savannah, December, 1864.]426. Marching through Georgia.--Destroying the mills and factoriesof Atlanta, Sherman set out for the seashore. He had sixty thousand menwith him. They were all veterans and marched along as if on a holidayexcursion. Spreading out over a line of sixty miles, they gatheredeverything eatable within reach. Every now and then they would stop anddestroy a railroad. This they did by taking up the rails, heating themin the middle on fires of burning sleepers, and then twisting themaround the nearest trees. In this way they cut a gap sixty miles long inthe railroad communication between the half-starved army of northernVirginia and the storehouses of southern Georgia. On December 10, 1864,Sherman reached the sea. Ten days later he captured Savannah andpresented it to the nation as a Christmas gift. Sherman and Thomasbetween them had struck a fearful blow at the Confederacy. How had itfared with Grant?[Sidenote: Grant's plan of campaign, 1864.][Sidenote: Objections to it.]427. Grant in Virginia, 1864.--Grant had with him in Virginia theArmy of the Potomac under Meade, the Ninth Corps under Burnside, and agreat cavalry force under Sheridan. In addition General Butler was onthe James River with some thirty thousand men. Lee had under his ordersabout one-half as many soldiers as had Grant. In every other respect theadvantage was on his side. Grant's plan of campaign was to move by hisleft from the Rappahannock southeastwardly. He expected to push Leesouthward and hoped to destroy his army. Butler, on his part, was tomove up the James. By this plan Grant could always be near navigablewater and could in this way easily supply his army with food andmilitary stores. The great objection to this scheme of invasion was thatit gave Lee shorter lines of march to all important points. This factand their superior knowledge of the country gave the Confederates anadvantage which largely made up for their lack in numbers.[Sidenote: Battle of the Wilderness, May, 1864.]428. The Wilderness, May, 1864.--On May 4 and 5 the Union armycrossed the Rapidan and marched southward through the Wilderness. Itsoon found itself very near the scene of the disastrous battle ofChancellorsville (p. 335). The woods were thick and full of underbrush.Clearings were few, and the roads were fewer still. On ground like thisLee attacked the Union army. Everything was in favor of the attacker,for it was impossible to foresee his blows, or to get men quickly to anythreatened spot. Nevertheless Grant fought four days. Then he skillfullyremoved the army and marched by his left to Spotsylvania Court House.[Illustration: GENERAL GRANT. From a photograph taken in the field,March, 1865. "Strong, simple, silent, ... such was he Who helped us inour need."--LOWELL.][Sidenote: Spotsylvania, May, 1864.]429. Spotsylvania, May, 1864.--Lee reached Spotsylvania first andfortified his position. For days fearful combats went on. One point inthe Confederate line, called the Salient, was taken and retaken over andover again. The loss of life was awful, and Grant could not push Leeback. So on May 20 he again set out on his march by the left anddirected his army to the North Anna. But Lee was again before him andheld such a strong position that it was useless to attack him.[Sidenote: Cold Harbor.][Sidenote: Blockade of Petersburg.]430. To the James, June, 1864.--Grant again withdrew his army andresumed his southward march. But when he reached Cold Harbor, Lee wasagain strongly fortified. Both armies were now on the ground of thePeninsular Campaign. For two weeks Grant attacked again and again. Thenon June 11 he took up his march for the last time. On June 15 the Unionsoldiers reached the banks of the James River below the junction of theAppomattox. But, owing to some misunderstanding, Petersburg had not beenseized. So Lee established himself there, and the campaign took on theform of a siege. In these campaigns from the Rapidan to the James, Grantlost in killed, wounded, and missing sixty thousand men. Lee's loss wasmuch less--how much less is not known.[Illustration: A BOMB PROOF AT PETERSBURG AS IT APPEARS TO-DAY WITH THETREES GROWING ON THE BREASTWORKS.][Sidenote: Importance of Petersburg.]431. Petersburg, June-December, 1864.--Petersburg guarded the roadsleading from Richmond to the South. It was in reality a part of thedefenses of Richmond. For if these roads passed out of Confederatecontrol, the Confederate capital would have to be abandoned. It wasnecessary for Lee to keep Petersburg. Grant, on the other hand, wishedto gain the roads south of Petersburg. He lengthened his line; but eachextension was met by a similar extension of the Confederate line. Thisprocess could not go on forever. The Confederacy was getting worn out.No more men could be sent to Lee. Sooner or later his line would becomeso weak that Grant could break through. Then Petersburg and Richmondmust be abandoned. Two years before, when Richmond was threatened byMcClellan, Lee had secured the removal of the Army of the Potomac by asudden movement toward Washington (p. 321). He now detached Jubal Earlywith a formidable force and sent him through the Shenandoah Valley toWashington.[Illustration: GENERAL SHERIDAN.][Sidenote: Confederate attack on Washington, 1864.][Sidenote: Sheridan in the Valley. _Hero Tales_, 263-290.][Sidenote: Confederate disaster, October, 1864.][Sidenote: Lincoln reelected, November, 1864. _McMaster_, 425-426.]432. Sheridan's Valley Campaigns, 1864.--The conditions now werevery unlike the conditions of 1862. Now, Grant was in command instead ofMcClellan or Pope. He controlled the movements of all the armies withoutinterference from Washington, and he had many more men than Lee.Without letting go his hold on Petersburg, Grant sent two army corps bywater to Washington. Early was an able and active soldier, but hedelayed his attack on Washington until soldiers came from the James. Hethen withdrew to the Shenandoah Valley. Grant now gave Sheridan fortythousand infantry and fifteen thousand cavalry, and sent him to theValley with orders to drive Early out and to destroy all supplies inthe Valley which could be used by another Southern army. SplendidlySheridan did his work. At one time, when he was away, the Confederatessurprised the Union army. But, hearing the roar of the battle, Sheridanrode rapidly to the front. As he rode along, the fugitives turned back.The Confederates, surprised in their turn, were swept from the field andsent whirling up the Valley in wild confusion (October 19, 1864). ThenSheridan destroyed everything that could be of service to anotherinvading army and rejoined Grant at Petersburg. In the Novemberfollowing this great feat of arms, Lincoln was reelected President.[Sidenote: Mobile Bay, 1864. _Hero Tales_, 303-322.][Sidenote: _Kearsarge_ and _Alabama_.]433. The Blockade and the Cruisers, 1863-64.--The blockade had nowbecome stricter than ever. For by August, 1864, Farragut had carried hisfleet into Mobile Bay and had closed it to commerce. Sherman had takenSavannah. Early in 1865 Charleston was abandoned, for Sherman had it athis mercy, and Terry captured Wilmington. The South was now absolutelydependent on its own resources, and the end could not be far off. On theopen sea, with England's aid a few vessels flew the Confederate flag.The best known of these vessels was the _Alabama._ She was built inEngland, armed with English guns, and largely manned by Englishmen. OnJune 19, 1864, the United States ship _Kearsarge_ sank her offCherbourg, France. Englishmen were also building two ironcladbattleships for the Confederates. But the American minister at London,Mr. Charles Francis Adams, said that if they were allowed to sail, itwould be "war." The English government thereupon bought the vessels.[Illustration: ADMIRAL FARRAGUT.][Sidenote: Sherman's northern march, 1865.]434. Sherman's March through the Carolinas, 1865.--Early in 1865Sherman set out on the worst part of his great march. He now directedhis steps northward from Savannah toward Virginia. The Confederatesprepared to meet him. But Sherman set out before they expected him, andthus gained a clear path for the first part of his journey. Joseph E.Johnston now took command of the forces opposed to Sherman and dideverything he could to stop him. At one moment it seemed as if he mightsucceed. He almost crushed the forward end of Sherman's army before therest of the soldiers could be brought to its rescue. But Sherman'sveterans were too old soldiers to be easily defeated. They first beatback the enemy in front, and when another force appeared in the rearthey jumped to the other side of their field breastworks and defeatedthat force also. Night then put an end to the combat, and by morning theUnion force was too strong to be attacked. Pressing on, Sherman reachedGoldsboro' in North Carolina. There he was joined by Terry fromWilmington and by Schofield from Tennessee. Sherman now was strongenough to beat any Confederate army. He moved to Raleigh and completelycut Lee's communications with South Carolina and Georgia, April, 1865.[Sidenote: Condition of Lee's army.][Sidenote: _Higginson_, 317.][Sidenote: Surrender of the Southern armies, April 1865. _Source-book_,329-333].435. Appomattox, April, 1865.--The end of the Confederacy was nowplainly in sight. Lee's men were starving. They were constantlydeserting either to go to the aid of their perishing families or toobtain food from the Union army. As soon as the roads were fit formarching, Grant set his one hundred and twenty thousand men once more inmotion. His object was to gain the rear of Lee's army and to force himto abandon Petersburg. A last despairing attack on the Union center onlyincreased Grant's vigor. On April 1 Sheridan with his cavalry and aninfantry corps seized Five Forks in the rear of Petersburg and could notbe driven away. Petersburg and Richmond were abandoned. Lee tried toescape to the mountains. But now the Union soldiers marched faster thanthe starving Southerners. Sheridan, outstripping them, placed his menacross their path at Appomattox Court House. There was nothing left savesurrender. The soldiers of the Army of Northern Virginia, now onlythirty-seven thousand strong, laid down their arms, April 9, 1865. SoonJohnston surrendered, and the remaining small isolated bands ofConfederates were run down and captured.[Sidenote: Murder of Lincoln, April 14, 1865. _Higginson_, 322-323;_Source-book_, 333-335.]436. Lincoln murdered, April 14, 1865.--The national armies werevictorious. President Lincoln, never grander or wiser than in the momentof victory, alone stood between the Southern people and the Northernextremists clamoring for vengeance. On the night of April 14 he wasmurdered by a sympathizer with slavery and secession. No one old enoughto remember the morning of April 15, 1865, will ever forget the horroraroused in the North by this unholy murder. In the beginning Lincolnhad been a party leader. In the end the simple grandeur of his naturehad won for him a place in the hearts of the American people that noother man has ever gained. He was indeed the greatest because the mosttypical of Americans. Vice-President Andrew Johnson, a war Democrat fromTennessee, became President. The vanquished secessionists were soon totaste the bitter dregs of the cup of defeat.[Illustration: MAYOR'S OFFICE, APRIL 15th, 1865, Death notice ofAbraham Lincoln]QUESTIONS AND TOPICS[Use maps constantly while studying this period. The maps provided inDodge's _Bird's-Eye View _are admirably adapted to this purpose.]CHAPTER 37Sec. 380.--_a_. What did Lincoln say about the Union? What did he say aboutslavery? What oath did Lincoln take?_b_. Was his inaugural conciliatory to the South?Sec.Sec. 381, 382.--_a_. What was the result of Buchanan's attempt to sendsupplies to Fort Sumter?_b_. Why did Lincoln inform the governor of South Carolina of hisdetermination to succor Fort Sumter?_c_. What was the effect on Northern opinion of the attack on FortSumter?_d_. Could the Southerners have done otherwise than fire on the flag?Sec.Sec. 383-385.--_a_. Why were the Virginians so divided? What resulted fromthis division?_b_. What were the "border states"? Could these states have beenneutral?_c_. Describe the especial importance of Maryland._d_. What oath had the officers of the United States army and navytaken? Did Lee and other officers who resigned necessarily believe inthe right of secession? Give your reasons.CHAPTER 38Sec.Sec. 386, 387.--_a_. State the advantages of the Southerners from thegeographical point of view._b_. Explain how rivers were lines of defense._c_. Describe carefully the plan of the Bull Run campaign._d_. Why was the Shenandoah Valley so important?Sec.Sec. 388-390.--_a_. Why was McClellan placed in command of the Army of thePotomac?_b_. Of what advantage to the South were the negroes?_c_. Describe the plan of the Peninsular Campaign. What was the greatobjection to it?Sec. 391.--_a_. Describe the _Merrimac_, the _Monitor_. Compare them withthe _Congress_._b_. What effect did the _Monitor-Merrimac_ fight have on McClellan'scampaign?Sec.Sec. 392, 393.--_a_ Describe the Peninsular Campaign. Why were not moresoldiers sent to McClellan?_b_. What is meant by the phrase "change of base"?_c_. How did Lee secure the removal of McClellan's army from the James?Sec.Sec. 394, 395.--_a_ Why did Lee invade Maryland? _b_. Describe the battleof Antietam, of Fredericksburg. What was the result of each ofthese battles?Sec.Sec. 396, 397.--_a_. Give an account of the early life and training ofGrant and of Thomas._b_. Why were the seizures of Cairo and Paducah and the battle of MillSprings important?_c_. What is meant by the phrase "unconditional surrender"?Sec.Sec. 398, 399.--_a_. Explain carefully the importance to the South of NewOrleans and the lower Mississippi._b_. Give an account of Farragut's early life. How did it fit him forthis work?_c_. Describe the operations against New Orleans.Sec. 400.--_a_. Explain carefully the plan of the campaign to Corinth Whywas Corinth important?_b_. What quality in Grant was conspicuous at Shiloh?Sec. 401.--_a_. What was Bragg's object in invading Kentucky? How far didhe succeed? Why was Chattanooga important?CHAPTER 39Sec.Sec. 402, 403.--_a_. What is a blockade? What was the effect of theblockade on the South?_b_. Had sea power been in Southern hands, could the Union have beensaved?_c_. Why was Charleston so difficult to capture? (Compare with theRevolutionary War.)Sec.Sec. 405, 406.--_a_. What help did the Southerners hope to obtain fromGreat Britain and France? Why? How were their hopes disappointed?_b_. What do you think of the action of the English mill operatives?_c_. Describe the Trent Affair. What do you think of Lincoln's action?Did the British government act wisely?Sec.Sec. 406, 407.--_a_. What had the Republican party declared about slaveryin the states? What had Lincoln said in his inaugural?_b_. How had the war altered Lincoln's power as President?_c_. Why was it necessary for Lincoln to follow Northern sentiment?_d_. What is contraband of war? How were the slaves contraband?Sec.Sec. 408, 409.--_a_. What steps had already been taken by Congress towardfreeing the slaves?_b_. How was the Emancipation Proclamation justified? Upon what wouldits enforcement depend?_c_. What slave states were not affected by this proclamation?_d_. How was slavery as an institution abolished throughout the UnitedStates?Sec.Sec. 410, 411.--_a_. Why was not the North united upon this war?_b_. What is the force of the writ of _habeas corpus_? Why is it soimportant?_c_. What was the "draft," and why was it necessary?CHAPTER 40Sec.Sec. 412-415.--_a_. Explain the position of the armies at the beginning of1863._b_. Why was the conquest of Vicksburg so difficult? How was it finallycaptured?_c_. What effect did the control of the Mississippi have upon theConfederacy?Sec. 416.--_a_. What was Lee's object in invading Pennsylvania?_b_. What position did the Union army keep as regards the Confederates?Sec.Sec. 417-419.--_a_. Describe the battle-field of Gettysburg. Why was thebattle so important?_b_. Describe in detail the principal events of each day of the battle._c_. Learn Lincoln's "Gettysburg Address." How was this groundhallowed? What was the great task before the people?Sec.Sec. 420, 421.--_a_. Describe the battle of Chickamauga. Review Thomas'sservices up to this time._b_. Describe the three parts of the battle of Chattanooga.CHAPTER 41Sec.Sec. 422, 423.--_a_. How had Grant shown his fitness for high command? Wasit wise to have one man in command of all the armies? Why?_b_. Review Sherman's career up to this time. Why did Grant impose trustin him?_c_. What was the result of Hood's attacks?Sec.Sec. 424-426.--_a_. What was the real object of Sherman's march to thesea?_b_. Describe the destruction of Hood's army. What does it show as toThomas's ability?_c_. What did Sherman's army accomplish on its way to the sea?Sec.Sec. 427-430.--_a_. Compare the conditions of the two armies in Virginia.Explain the advantages of the Confederates._b_. Describe the battle of the Wilderness, noting the conditionsfavorable to the Confederates._c_. Describe the movement to the James. What advantages had Grant notpossessed by McClellan?Sec.Sec. 431, 432.--_a_. Why was Petersburg important?_b_. How did Lee try to compel the withdrawal of Grant? Why did he notsucceed?_c_. Describe Sheridan's work in the Shenandoah Valley. Read a shortaccount of Sheridan's career to 1865, and state his services to theUnion cause.Sec.Sec. 433.--_a_. How had Sherman's victories affected the blockade?_b_. What aid had Great Britain given to the Confederates? Why did shenot give more assistance?Sec.Sec. 434, 435.--_a_. How did Sherman's occupation of Raleigh affect Lee?_b_. Describe the condition of Lee's army. How was its captureaccomplished?Sec. 436.--_a_. Why was Lincoln's death a terrible loss to the South?_b_. Why is he the greatest of all Americans?GENERAL QUESTIONS_a_. Review the steps which led to the war for the Union._b_. What were Lincoln's personal views as to slavery? Why could he notcarry them out?_c_. What were Lincoln's leading characteristics? Give illustrations tosupport your view._d_. Study Grant's military career and try to find out why he succeededwhere others failed._e_. Arrange a table of the leading campaigns, giving dates, leaders,end to be attained, important battles, and result._f_. Give the two most important battles of the war. Why do you selectthese?TOPICS FOR SPECIAL WORK._a_. Life in Southern prisons._b_. The Shenandoah Valley in the war._c_. Any important battle or naval action, or leading general, or navalcommander._d_. The part played by your own state or town in the war, or thehistory of one of your state regiments.SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERSA few days spent upon a study of the field of war will save a great dealof time. Channing's _Students' History_ will enable the teacher toindicate the most important strategic points. Maps have been sparinglyprovided in this book, as the simple plans in Dodge's _Bird's-eye View_can easily be reproduced on the blackboard. In general, campaigns shouldbe studied rather than battles.Pictures relating to this period are easily obtainable and may be freelyused. It is an excellent plan to ask some veteran to describe hisexperiences, and the local post of the Grand Army of the Republic willoften lend material aid in making the war real to the pupils. Grant'scareer should be especially studied, and the reasons for his successescarefully noted.Indeed, the study of this period may well center around Lincoln andGrant. Lincoln's inaugurals are too difficult to be studied thoroughly.But the teacher can easily select portions, as the last paragraph of thesecond inaugural. Lincoln's Gettysburg Address should be learned byevery pupil, and his letter to Greeley _(Students' History, _p. 539)will throw a flood of light on Lincoln's character. In studying thisperiod, as well as other periods, it is better to dwell on thepatriotism and heroism of our soldiers, sailors, and statesmen than topoint out their mistakes and personal faults.Literature is so rich in reference to this time that nothing more thanthe mention of the works of Lowell, Whittier, Holmes, and Longfellowis needed.[Illustration: THE PRESENT FLAG, 1900.]XIVRECONSTRUCTION AND REUNION,1865-1888Books for Study and ReadingReferences.--Scribner's _Popular History_, V; McMaster's _SchoolHistory_, chs. xxx-xxxiii; Andrews's _Last Quarter-Century._Home Readings.--Hale's _Mr. Merriam's Scholars._CHAPTER 42PRESIDENT JOHNSON AND RECONSTRUCTION, 1861-1869[Sidenote: Position of the seceded states.][Sidenote: Lincoln's policy of reconstruction. _McMaster_, 427-428.]437. Lincoln's Reconstruction Policy.--The great question nowbefore the country was what should be done with the Southern states andpeople. And what should be done with the freedmen? On these questionspeople were not agreed. Some people thought that the states were"indestructible"; that they could not secede or get out of the Union.Others thought that the Southern states had been conquered and should betreated as a part of the national domain. Lincoln thought that it wasuseless to go into these questions. The Southern states were out of the"proper practical relations with the Union." That was clear enough. Thething to do, therefore, was to restore "proper practical relations" asquickly and as quietly as possible. In December, 1863, Lincoln hadoffered a pardon to all persons, with some exceptions, who should takethe oath of allegiance to the United States, and should promise tosupport the Constitution and the Emancipation Proclamation. Wheneverone-tenth of the voters in any of the Confederate states should do thesethings, and should set up a republican form of government, Lincolnpromised to recognize that government as the state government. But theadmission to Congress of Senators and Representatives from such areconstructed state would rest with Congress. Several states werereconstructed on this plan. But public opinion was opposed to this quietreorganization of the seceded states. The people trusted Lincoln,however, and had he lived he might have induced them to accept his plan.[Sidenote: Andrew Johnson President, 1865.][Sidenote: His ideas on reconstruction. _McMaster_, 428.]438. President Johnson's Reconstruction Plan.--Johnson was an ableman and a patriot. But he had none of Lincoln's wise patience. He hadnone of Lincoln's tact and humor in dealing with men. On the contrary,he always lost his temper when opposed. Although he was a Southerner, hehated slavery and slave owners. On the other hand, he had a Southerner'scontempt for the negroes. He practically adopted Lincoln'sreconstruction policy and tried to bring about the reorganization of theseceded states by presidential action.[Sidenote: Force of Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation.][Sidenote: Abolition of slavery, 1865.]439. The Thirteenth Amendment, 1865.--President Lincoln'sEmancipation Proclamation (p. 331) had freed the slaves in those statesand parts of states which were in rebellion against the nationalgovernment. It had not freed the slaves in the loyal states. It had notdestroyed slavery as an institution. Any state could reestablish slaverywhenever it chose. Slavery could be prohibited only by an amendment ofthe Constitution. So the Thirteenth Amendment was adopted, December,1865. This amendment declares that "neither slavery nor involuntaryservitude, except as a punishment for crime, ... shall exist within theUnited States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction." In this wayslavery came to an end throughout the United States.[Illustration: HORSE CAR.][Sidenote: Forced labor in the South. _McMaster_, 429.][Sidenote: The Freedmen's Bureau. _Source-book_, 339-342.]440. Congress and the President, 1865-66.--Unhappily many of theold slave states had passed laws to compel the negroes to work. They hadintroduced a system of forced labor which was about the same thing asslavery. In December, 1865, the new Congress met. The Republicans werein the majority. They refused to admit the Senators and Representativesfrom the reorganized Southern states and at once set to work to passlaws for the protection of the negroes. In March, 1865, while the warwas still going on, and while Lincoln was alive, Congress hadestablished the Freedmen's Bureau to look after the interests of thenegroes. Congress now (February, 1866) passed a bill to continue theBureau and to give it much more power. Johnson promptly vetoed the bill.In the following July Congress passed another bill to continue theFreedmen's Bureau. In this bill the officers of the Bureau were givengreatly enlarged powers, the education of the blacks was provided for,and the army might be used to compel obedience to the law. Johnsonvetoed this bill also.[Sidenote: Civil Rights Bill, 1866.][Sidenote: It is passed over Johnson's veto.][Sidenote: The Fourteenth Amendment, 1866.]441. The Fourteenth Amendment.--While this contest over theFreedmen's Bureau was going on, Congress passed the Civil Rights Bill toprotect the freedmen. This bill provided that cases concerning the civilrights of the freedmen should be heard in the United States courtsinstead of in the state courts. Johnson thought that Congress had nopower to do this. He vetoed the bill, and Congress passed it over hisveto. Congress then drew up the Fourteenth Amendment. This forbade thestates to abridge the rights of the citizens, white or black. It furtherprovided that the representation of any state in Congress should bediminished whenever it denied the franchise to any one except for takingpart in rebellion. Finally it guaranteed the debt of the United States,and declared all debts incurred in support of rebellion null and void.Every Southern state except Tennessee refused to accept this amendment.[Illustration: ANDREW JOHNSON.][Sidenote: Elections of 1866.][Sidenote: Tenure of Office Act, 1867.][Sidenote: The Reconstruction Acts, 1867.][Sidenote: Process of reconstruction. _Source-Book_, 344-346.]442. The Reconstruction Acts, 1867.--The Congressional elections ofNovember, 1866, were greatly in favor of the Republicans. The Republicanmembers of Congress felt that this showed that the North was with themin their policy as to reconstruction. Congress met in December, 1866,and at once set to work to carry out this policy. First of all it passedthe Tenure of Office Act to prevent Johnson dismissing Republicans fromoffice. Then it passed the Reconstruction Act. Johnson vetoed both ofthese measures, and Congress passed them both over his veto. TheReconstruction Act was later amended and strengthened. It will be wellto describe here the process of reconstruction in its final form. Firstof all the seceded states, with the exception of Tennessee, were formedinto military districts. Each district was ruled by a military officerwho had soldiers to carry out his directions. Tennessee was not includedin this arrangement, because it had accepted the Fourteenth Amendment.But all the other states, which had been reconstructed by Lincoln or byJohnson, were to be reconstructed over again. The franchise was given toall men, white or black, who had lived in any state for oneyear--excepting criminals and persons who had taken part in rebellion.This exception took the franchise away from the old rulers of the South.These new voters could form a state constitution and elect a legislaturewhich should ratify the Fourteenth Amendment. When all this had beendone, Senators and Representatives from the reconstructed state might beadmitted to Congress.[Sidenote: Charges against Johnson.][Sidenote: He is impeached.][Sidenote: But not convicted.]443. Impeachment of Johnson, 1868.--President Johnson had vetoedall these bills. He had declared that the Congress was a Congress ofonly a part of the states, because Representatives from the statesreconstructed according to his ideas were not admitted. He had usedlanguage toward his opponents that was fairly described as indecent andunbecoming the chief officer of a great nation. Especially he hadrefused to be bound by the Tenure of Office Act. Ever since theformation of the government the Presidents had removed officers whenthey saw fit. The Tenure of Office Act required the consent of theSenate to removals as well as to appointments. Among the members ofLincoln's cabinet who were still in office was Edwin M. Stanton. Johnsonremoved him, and this brought on the crisis. The House impeached thePresident. The Senate, presided over by Chief Justice Chase, heard theimpeachment. The Constitution requires the votes of two-thirds of theSenators to convict. Seven Republicans voted with the Democrats againstconviction, and the President was acquitted by one vote.[Sidenote: Napoleon's plans.][Sidenote: Action of the United States.][Sidenote: Withdrawal of the French, 1868.]444. The French in Mexico.--Napoleon III, Emperor of the French,seized the occasion of the Civil War to set the Monroe Doctrine atdefiance and to refound a French colonial empire in America. At onetime, indeed, he seemed to be on the point of interfering, to compel theUnion government to withdraw its armies from the Confederate states.Then Napoleon had an idea that perhaps Texas might secede from theConfederacy and set up for itself under French protection. This failing,he began the establishment of an empire in Mexico with the Austrianprince, Maximilian, as Emperor. The ending of the Civil War made itpossible for the United States to interfere. Grant and Sheridan wouldgladly have marched troops into Mexico and turned out the French, butSeward said that the French would have to leave before long anyway. Hehastened their going by telling the French government that the soonerthey left the better. They were withdrawn in 1868. Maximilian insistedon staying. He was captured by the Mexicans and shot. The MexicanRepublic was reestablished.[Sidenote: Purchase of Alaska, 1867.][Sidenote: The fur seals.][Sidenote: Boundary controversy.]445. The Purchase of Alaska, 1867.--In 1867 President Johnson sentto the Senate, for ratification, a treaty with Russia for the purchaseof Russia's American possessions. These were called Alaska, andincluded an immense tract of land in the extreme Northwest. The price tobe paid was seven million dollars. The history of this purchase is stilllittle known. The Senate was completely taken by surprise, but itratified the treaty. Until recent years the only important product ofAlaska has been the skins of the fur seals. To preserve the seal herdsfrom extinction, the United States made rules limiting the number ofseals to be killed in any one year. The Canadians were not bound bythese rules, and the herds have been nearly destroyed. In recent yearslarge deposits of gold have been found in Alaska and in neighboringportions of Canada. But the Canadian deposits are hard to reach withoutfirst going through Alaska. This fact has made it more difficult toagree with Great Britain as to the boundary between Alaska and Canada.[Sidenote: Grant nominated for the presidency.][Sidenote: The Democrats.][Sidenote: Grant elected, 1868.]446. Grant elected President, 1868.--The excitement overreconstruction and the bitter contest between the Republicans inCongress and the President had brought about great confusion inpolitics. The Democrats nominated General F. P. Blair, a gallantsoldier, for Vice-President. For President they nominated HoratioSeymour of New York. He was a Peace Democrat. As governor of New Yorkduring the war he had refused to support the national government. TheRepublicans nominated General Grant.He received three hundred thousand more votes than Seymour. Of the twohundred and ninety-four electoral votes, Grant received two hundredand fifteen.CHAPTER 43FROM GRANT TO CLEVELAND, 1869-1889[Sidenote: The Fifteenth Amendment, 1870.]447. The Fifteenth Amendment.--In February, 1869, just beforeGrant's inauguration, Congress proposed still another amendment,providing that neither the United States nor any state could abridge therights of citizens of the United States on account of race, color, orprevious condition of servitude. The state legislatures hastened toaccept this amendment, and it was declared in force in March, 1870.[Sidenote: Progress of reconstruction.][Sidenote: Reunion, 1870.]448. End of Reconstruction.--Three states only were stillunreconstructed. These were Virginia, Texas, and Mississippi. In 1869Congress added to the conditions on which they could be readmitted tothe Union the acceptance of the Fifteenth Amendment. Early in 1870 theyall complied with the conditions and were readmitted. The Union was nowagain complete. Since 1860 four states had been added to the Union.These were Kansas, West Virginia, Nevada, and Nebraska. There were nowthirty-seven states in all.[Sidenote: The carpetbaggers. _McMaster_, 439-414.][Sidenote: The Ku-Klux-Klan.][Sidenote: The Force Acts.]449. The Southerners and the Negroes.--The first result of theCongressional plan of reconstruction was to give the control of theSouthern states to the freedmen and their white allies. Some of thesewhite friends of the freedmen were men of character and ability, butmost of them were adventurers who came from the North to make theirfortunes. They were called the "carpetbaggers," because they usuallycarried their luggage in their hands. The few Southern whites whobefriended the negroes were called "scalawags" by their white neighbors.Secret societies sprang into being. The most famous was theKu-Klux-Klan. The object of these societies was to terrorize thefreedmen and their white friends and to prevent their voting. This ledto the passage of the Force Acts. These laws provided severe penaltiesfor crimes of intimidation. They also provided that these cases shouldbe tried in United States courts. Federal soldiers, stationed in theSouth, could be used to compel obedience to the law.[Sidenote: Relations with Great Britain.][Sidenote: Treaty of Washington, 1871. _Source-Book_, 355-358.][Sidenote: The Geneva Award.]450. The Alabama Claims.--During the Civil War vessels built inBritish shipyards, or refitted and supplied with coal at British ports,had preyed upon American commerce. The most famous of these vessels wasthe _Alabama_. The claims for losses caused by these vessels which theUnited States presented to Great Britain were therefore called the"Alabama Claims." There also were disputes with Great Britain over thefisheries and over the western end of the Oregon boundary. In 1871 theUnited States and Great Britain made an arrangement called the Treaty ofWashington. By this treaty all these points of dispute were referred toarbitration. The Oregon boundary was decided in favor of the UnitedStates, but the fishery dispute was decided in favor of Great Britain.The "Alabama Claims" were settled by five arbitrators who sat at Genevain Switzerland. They decided that Great Britain had not used "duediligence" to prevent the abuse of her ports by the Confederates. Theycondemned her to pay fifteen and one-half million dollars damages to theUnited States.[Sidenote: The Chicago fire, 1871.]451. The Chicago Fire, 1871.--Early one morning in October, 1871, aChicago woman went to the barn to milk her cow. She carried a lightedkerosene lamp, for it was still dark. The cow kicked over the lamp. Thebarn was soon ablaze. A furious gale carried the burning sparks from onehouse to another. And so the fire went on spreading all that day andnight and the next day. Nearly two hundred million dollars' worth ofproperty was destroyed. The homes of nearly one hundred thousand personswere burned down. In a surprisingly short time the burnt district wasrebuilt, and Chicago grew more rapidly than ever before.[Sidenote: Rings. _Source-Book_, 352-355.][Sidenote: Bribery.]452. Corruption in Politics.--New York City had no two hundredmillion dollar fire. But a "ring" of city officers stole more than onehundred and fifty million dollars of the city's money. In other citiesalso there was great corruption. Nor were the state governments freefrom bribery and thieving. Many officers in the national government werebelieved to be mixed up in schemes to defraud the people. The truth ofthe matter was that the Civil War had left behind it the habit ofspending money freely. A desire to grow suddenly rich possessed thepeople. Men did not look closely to see where their money came from.[Illustration: CHICAGO IN 1832.][Sidenote: Objections to Grant.][Sidenote: Liberal Republicans.][Sidenote: Horace Greeley.][Sidenote: Grant reelected, 1872.]453. Election of 1872.--In fact, this condition of the publicservice made many persons doubtful of the wisdom of reelecting PresidentGrant. There was not the slightest doubt as to Grant's personal honesty.There were grave doubts as to his judgment in making appointments.Reconstruction, too, did not seem to be restoring peace and prosperityto the South. For these reasons many voters left the Republican party.They called themselves Liberal Republicans and nominated Horace Greeleyfor President. He had been one of the most outspoken opponents ofslavery. The Democrats could find no better candidate, so they, too,nominated Greeley. But many Democrats could not bring themselves to votefor him. They left their party for the moment and nominated a thirdcandidate. The result of all this confusion was the reelection ofGrant. But the Democrats elected a majority of the House ofRepresentatives.[Illustration: THE HEART OF MODERN CHICAGO.][Sidenote: Rebellion in Cuba, 1867.][Sidenote: Spanish cruelty.][Sidenote: The _Virginius_ affair.][Sidenote: Spanish promises end rebellion, 1877.]454. The Cuban Rebellion, 1867-77.--When the other Spanish-Americancolonies won their independence (p. 223), Cuba remained true to Spain.But by 1867 the Cubans could no longer bear the hardships of Spanishrule. They rebelled and for ten years fought for freedom. The Spaniardsburned whole villages because they thought the inhabitants favored therebels. They even threatened to kill all Cuban men found away from theirhomes. This cruelty aroused the sympathy of the Americans. Expeditionssailed from the United States to help the Cubans, although thegovernment did everything it could to prevent their departure. One ofthese vessels carrying aid to the Cubans was named the _Virginius_. TheSpaniards captured her, carried her to Santiago, and killed forty-six ofher crew. There came near being a war with Spain over this affair. Butthe Spaniards apologized and saluted the American flag. In 1877President Grant made up his mind that the war had lasted long enough. Headopted a severe tone toward Spain. The Spanish government made termswith the rebels, and the rebellion came to an end.[Sidenote: The Credit Mobilier.][Sidenote: The Whiskey Ring.]455. Scandals in Political Life.--In 1872 the House ofRepresentatives made a searching inquiry into the charges of bribery inconnection with the building of the Pacific railroads. Oakes Ames ofMassachusetts was the head of a company called the "Credit Mobilier."This company had been formed to build the Union Pacific Railway. Fearingthat Congress would pass laws that might hurt the enterprise, Ames gavestock in the company to members of Congress. But nothing definite couldbe proved against any members, and the matter dropped. Soon after thebeginning of Grant's second term, many evil things came to light. One ofthese was the Whiskey Ring, which defrauded the government of large sumsof money with the aid of the government officials. Grant wished to havea thorough investigation, and said, "Let no guilty man escape." Theworst case of all, perhaps, was that of W. W. Belknap, Secretary ofWar. But he escaped punishment by resigning.[Illustration: A MISSISSIPPI RIVER COTTON STEAMER.][Sidenote: Failure of reconstruction. _Source-Book_, 349-351.]456. Anarchy in the South.--Meantime reconstruction was not workingwell in the South. This was especially true of Louisiana, Arkansas, andSouth Carolina. In Louisiana, and in Arkansas also, there were two setsof governors and legislatures, and civil war on a small scale was goingon. In South Carolina the carpetbaggers and the negroes had gainedcontrol. They stole right and left. In other Southern states there werecontinued outrages on the negroes. President Grant was greatly troubled."Let us have peace," was his heartfelt wish. But he felt it necessary tokeep Federal soldiers in the South, although he knew that public opinionin the North was turning against their employment. It was under thesecircumstances that the election of 1876 was held.[Sidenote: Election of 1876. _Higginson_, 331-334.][Sidenote: The electoral commission.][Sidenote: Hayes inaugurated, 1877.]457. Election of 1876.--The Republican candidate was Rutherford B.Hayes of Ohio. He was a gallant soldier of the Civil War, and was a manof the highest personal character. His Democratic opponent was Samuel J.Tilden of New York--a shrewd lawyer who had won distinction as governorof the Empire State. When the electoral returns were brought in, thereappeared two sets of returns from each of three Southern states, and thevote of Oregon was doubtful. The Senate was Republican, and the Housewas Democratic. As the two houses could not agree as to how thesereturns should be counted, they referred the whole matter to anelectoral commission. This commission was made up of five Senators, fiveRepresentatives, and five justices of the Supreme Court. Eight of themwere Republicans and seven were Democrats. They decided by eight seventhat Hayes was elected, and he was inaugurated President on March4, 1877.[Sidenote: Southern politics _Higginson_, 334-335.][Sidenote: Troops withdrawn.]458. Withdrawal of the Soldiers from the South.--The People of theNorth were weary of the ceaseless political agitation in the South. Theold Southern leaders had regained control of nearly all the Southernstates. They could not be turned out except by a new civil war, and theNorthern people were not willing to go to war again. The only otherthing that could be done was to withdraw the Federal soldiers and letthe Southern people work out their own salvation as well as they could.President Hayes recalled the troops, and all the Southern states at oncepassed into the control of the Democrats.[Illustration: THE RUINS AFTER THE PITTSBURGH RIOTS.][Sidenote: Panic and hard times.][Sidenote: The Pittsburgh riots, 1877.]459. Strikes and Riots, 1877.--The extravagance and speculation ofthe Civil War, and the years following its close, ended in a great panicin 1873. After the panic came the "hard times." Production fell off. Thedemand for labor diminished. Wages were everywhere reduced. Strikesbecame frequent, and riots followed the strikes. At Pittsburg, inwestern Pennsylvania, the rioters seized the railroad. They burnedhundreds of railroad cars and locomotives. They destroyed the railroadbuildings. At last the riot came to an end, but not until millions ofdollars' worth of property had been destroyed.[Sidenote: The Stalwart Republicans.][Sidenote: Garfield elected President, 1880.]460. Election of 1880.--At the beginning of his administrationHayes had declared that he would not be a candidate for reelection. Whoshould be the Republican standard bearer? Grant's friends proposed tonominate him for a third term. The politicians who advocated a thirdterm for Grant were opposed to the candidacy of James G. Blaine. Theywere called the Stalwart Republicans. In the convention they votedsteadily and solidly for Grant. Finally their opponents, with the cry of"Anything to beat Grant," suddenly turned to an entirely new man, whosename had been little mentioned. This was James A. Garfield of Ohio. Hehad won distinction in the Civil War and had served with credit inCongress. For Vice-President the Republicans nominated Chester A.Arthur, a New York banker. The Democrats, on their part, nominated oneof the most brilliant and popular soldiers of the Army of the Potomac,General Winfield Scott Hancock. The campaign was very hotly contested.In the end Garfield won.[Sidenote: Garfield murdered, 1881.][Sidenote: President Arthur.][Sidenote: Civil Service Reform. _Source-Book_, 363-365.]461. Garfield murdered; Civil Service Reform.--President Garfieldtook the oath of office on March 4, 1881. On July 2 he was shot in theback by a disappointed office-seeker. Week after week he enduredterrible agony. At length, on September 19, the martyred President died.Now at last the evils of the "Spoils System" were brought to theattention of the American people. Vice-President Arthur became Presidentand entered heartily into projects of reform. A beginning was soon made.But it was found to be a very difficult thing to bring about any lastingreform. The Constitution gives the President the appointment ofofficers, subject to the confirmation of the Senate. No act of Congresscan diminish the constitutional powers of the President except so far ashe consents, and one President cannot bind succeeding Presidents. Anyscheme of reform also costs money, which must be voted annually byCongress. It follows, therefore, that the consent of every President andof both Houses of every Congress is necessary to make the reform of thecivil service permanent. Nevertheless the reform has made steadyprogress until now by far the greater part of the civil service isorganized on the merit system.[Sidenote: J.G. Blaine][Sidenote: The Mugwumps.][Sidenote: Grover Cleveland.][Sidenote: Cleveland elected President, 1884.][Sidenote: Tariff reform.]462. Election of 1884.--In 1884 the Republicans nominated James G.Blaine of Maine for President. He was a man of magnetic address and hadmade many friends, but he also had made many enemies. Especially manyRepublican voters distrusted him. They felt that he had used hisposition for private gain, although nothing was proved against him.These Republicans were called "Mugwumps." They "bolted" the nominationand supported the Democratic candidate, Grover Cleveland. As mayor ofBuffalo, Cleveland had done very well. He had then been elected governorof New York by a very large majority. The campaign of 1884 was conductedon lines of personal abuse that recall the campaigns of 1800 and of1828. Cleveland carried four large Northern states and the "solid South"and was elected.[Illustration: GROVER CLEVELAND.]463. Cleveland's Administration, 1885-89.--The great contest ofCleveland's first term was a fierce struggle over the tariff. Thegovernment's need of money during the Civil War had compelled Congressto raise large sums by means of internal revenue taxes. These taxes inturn had brought about a great increase in the tariff rates on goodsimported from foreign countries. The internal revenue taxes had beenalmost entirely removed, but the war tariff substantially remained inforce. In 1887 Cleveland laid the whole question before Congress. For atime it seemed probable that something would be done. But the oppositionin Congress was very active and very strong. It fell out, therefore,that nothing important was done. The real significance of Cleveland'sfirst administration lay in the fact that the Southerners were onceagain admitted to a share in the government of the nation. It marked,therefore, the reunion of the American people.QUESTIONS AND TOPICSCHAPTER 42Sec.Sec.437, 438.--_a_. Explain carefully Lincoln's plan for reconstruction.How was it affected by his death?_b_. What was Johnson's attitude toward reconstruction? Precisely whatis meant by "reconstruction"?Sec.Sec.439-441.--_a_. What was the force of the Emancipation Proclamation?How was the institution of slavery abolished?_b_. Explain the reasons for the establishment of the freedmen's bureau.What do you think of the provision relating to the use of the army?_c_. How was Congress able to pass a bill over the President's veto?_d_. Explain carefully the Fourteenth Amendment. What do you think ofthe provision as to debts?Sec.Sec.442, 443.--_a_. Why were the elections of 1866 important?_b_. What was the force of the Tenure of Office Act, and why was itpassed?_c_. Describe the actual process of reconstruction._d_. Why was Johnson impeached? Why did the impeachment fail?Sec.Sec.444, 445.--_a_. How did this act of Napoleon's set the Monroe Doctrineat defiance?_b_. What action did the government take? With what result?_c_. What advantage has Alaska been to the United States?Sec.446.--_a_. What were the issues in the campaign of 1868?_b_. What had Blair done for the Union?_c_. What did the election of Grant show?CHAPTER 43Sec.Sec.447-449.--_a_. What were the provisions of the Fifteenth Amendment?_b_. Under what conditions were the remaining seceded states readmitted?_c_. What was the Force Act? Why was it passed?Sec.450.--_a_. How was the injury to our shipping during the Civil Warconnected with Great Britain?_b_. What is meant by "arbitration"? Is it better to settle disputes byarbitration or by war?Sec.Sec.451-452.--_a_. Describe the Chicago fire and its results._b_. Why was there so much bribery and corruption at this time?_c_. Should city governments be conducted as business enterprises?Sec.453.--_a_. Why was there so much opposition to Grant's reelection?_b_. Why did the Democrats nominate Greeley? What was the result of theelection?Sec.454.--_a_. What trouble broke out in Cuba? Why?_b_. Describe the _Virginius_ affair. How did the Cuban rebellion cometo an end?Sec.Sec.455, 456.--_a_. What scandal arose in connection with the UnionPacific Railway?_b_. What was the "Whiskey Ring"? What was Grant's wish?_c_. What troubles arose in the South? Could they have been avoided?Sec.Sec.457, 458.--_a_. Why was there a dispute about the election of 1876?How was it settled?_b_. Was it wise to let the Southerners work out their questions forthemselves or not? Why?Sec.Sec.459, 460.--_a_. Compare the panic of 1873 with that of 1877 explainingthe likenesses and differences._b_. Why was opposition to the nomination of Grant so strong?_c_. Who were nominated? Who was elected?Sec.Sec.461.--_a_. What was the cause of Garfield's murder?_b_. Why is Civil Service Reform so difficult?_c_. What is meant by the "Merit System"? Do you consider such a systembetter or worse than the Spoils System? Why?Sec.Sec.462, 463.--_a_. Why was Blaine so strongly opposed? Who were the"Mugwumps"? How did their action influence the election?_b_. What is the difference between internal revenue taxes and customsduties?_c_. What was the real significance of Cleveland's first election?GENERAL QUESTIONS_a_. Give all the treaties with Great Britain, with dates, reason forthe treaty, and results._b_. Why were there no executions for treason at the close of the CivilWar?_c_. What two methods does the Constitution provide for its amendment?Which method has always been followed?_d_. What were the chief difficulties in the way of reconstruction?_e_. What are the important duties of citizens? Why do you select these?TOPICS FOR SPECIAL WORK_a_. Impeachment of Johnson._b_. The Chicago fire._c_. Civil Service Reform._d_. Industrial activity in the South.SUGGESTIONSThe importance of the topics treated in Part XIV can hardly beoverestimated. The opportunities to impress the pupils with their publicduties are many and important. Reconstruction should be broadly treatedand not discussed in a partisan spirit. It is better to dwell on ourduties to the negroes than to seek out Northern blunders and Southernmistakes. In connection with the amendments the whole question of thesuffrage can be discussed in the responsibility devolving upon the voterfully set forth. Questions of municipal organizations also arise and canbe illustrated by local experience.XVNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT,1889-1900Books for Study and ReadingReferences.--Scribner's _Popular History_, V, 579-659;McMaster's _School History_, chs. xxxiv, xxxv.Home Readings.--Any short, attractive account of the SpanishWar.CHAPTER 44CONFUSION IN POLITICS[Sidenote: Benjamin Harrison elected President, 1888.]464. Benjamin Harrison elected President, 1888.--In 1888 theDemocrats put forward Cleveland as their candidate for President. TheRepublicans nominated Benjamin Harrison of Indiana. Like Hayes andGarfield, he had won renown in the Civil War and was a man of thehighest honor and of proved ability. The prominence of the old Southernleaders in the Democratic administration, and the neglect of thebusiness interests of the North, compelled many Northern Republicans whohad voted for Cleveland to return to the Republican party. The resultwas the election of Harrison and of a Republican majority in the Houseof Representatives.[Sidenote: The McKinley tariff, 1890.][Sidenote: Reciprocity.]465. The McKinley Tariff, 1890.--One of the questions mostdiscussed in the campaign of 1888 was the reform of the tariff. Thereseem to have been two sets of tariff reformers. One set of reformersproposed to reform the tariff by doing away with as much of it aspossible. The other set of reformers proposed to readjust the tariffduties so as to make the protective system more consistent and moreperfect. Led by William McKinley, the Republicans set to work to reformthe tariff in this latter sense. This they did by generally raising theduties on protected goods. The McKinley Tariff Act also offeredreciprocity to countries which would favor American goods. This offerwas in effect to lower certain duties on goods imported from Argentina,for instance, if the Argentine government would admit certain Americangoods to Argentina on better terms than similar goods imported fromother countries.[Illustration: THE CAPITOL AT WASHINGTON.][Sidenote: Gold and Silver][Sidenote: Sherman Silver Law.]466. The Sherman Silver Law, 1890.--In the Civil War gold andsilver had disappeared from circulation. But after the close of the wara gradual return was made to specie payments. In the colonial days thedemand for silver, as compared with the demand for gold, outran thesupply. The consequence was that silver was constantly becoming worthmore in comparison with gold. In the nineteenth century the supply ofsilver has greatly outstripped the demand, with the result that silverhas greatly declined in value as compared with gold. In 1871 thegovernment decided to use silver for small coins only, and not to allowsilver to be offered in payment of a larger sum than five dollars. Thiswas called the "demonetization of silver." In 1878 a small but earnestband of advocates of the free coinage of silver secured the passage ofan act of Congress for the coinage of two million silver dollars eachmonth. The silver in each one of these dollars was only worth in goldfrom ninety to sixty cents. In 1890, Senator John Sherman of Ohiobrought in a bill to increase the coinage of these silver dollars which,in 1894, were worth only forty nine cents on the dollar in gold.[Sidenote: Business depression.][Sidenote: Cleveland elected President, 1892.]467. Election of 1892.--One result of this great increase in thesilver coinage was to alarm business men throughout the country.Business constantly declined. Every one who could lessened his expensesas much as possible. Mill owners and railroad managers discharged theirworkers or reduced their wages. Harrison and Cleveland were again theRepublican and Democratic candidates for the presidency. As is alwaysthe case, the party in power was held to be responsible for the hardtimes. Enough voters turned to Cleveland to elect him, and he wasinaugurated President for the second time (March 4, 1893).[Sidenote: Scarcity of money.][Sidenote: Repeal of the Sherman Law.][Sidenote: Wilson tariff.]468. Silver and the Tariff.--In the summer of 1893 there was agreat scarcity of money. Thousands of people withdrew all the money theycould from the banks and locked it up in places of security. ButCongress repealed the Sherman Silver Law and put an end to thecompulsory purchase of silver and the coinage of silver dollars. Thistended to restore confidence. The Democrats once more overhauled thetariff. Under the lead of Representative Wilson of West Virginia theypassed a tariff act, lowering some duties and placing many articles onthe free list.[Sidenote: Chicago Exhibition, 1893.]469. The Chicago Exhibition, 1893.--The four hundredth anniversaryof the Columbian discovery of America occurred in October, 1892.Preparations were made for holding a great commemorative exhibition atChicago. But it took so long to get everything ready that the exhibitionwas not held until the summer of 1893. Beautiful buildings were erectedof a cheap but satisfactory material. They were designed with thegreatest taste, and were filled with splendid exhibits that showed theskill and resources of Americans, and also with the products of foreigncountries. Hundreds of thousands of persons from all parts of thecountry visited the exhibition with pleasure and great profit. No morebeautiful or successful exhibition has ever been held.[Illustration: THE FISHERIES BUILDING, WORLD'S FAIR, CHICAGO.][Sidenote: William McKinley.][Sidenote: W.J. Bryan.][Sidenote: McKinley elected President, 1896.]470. Election of 1896.--In 1896 the Republicans held theirconvention at St. Louis and nominated William McKinley of Ohio forPresident. They declared in favor of the gold standard, unless somearrangement with other nations for a standard of gold and silver couldbe made. They also declared for protection to home industries. TheDemocrats held their convention at Chicago. The men who had stood byCleveland found themselves in a helpless minority. William JenningsBryan of Nebraska was nominated for President on a platform advocatingthe free coinage of silver and many changes in the laws in thedirection of socialism. The Populists and the Silver Republicans alsoadopted Bryan as their candidate. Now, at last, the question of the goldstandard or the silver standard was fairly before the voters. Theyresponded by electing McKinley and a Republican House ofRepresentatives.[Illustration: WILLIAM MCKINLEY.][Sidenote: The Dingley tariff, 1897.]471. The Dingley Tariff, 1897.--The Republicans, once more incontrol of the government, set to work to reform the tariff in favor ofhigh protection. Representative Dingley of Maine was chairman of thecommittee of the House that drew up the new bill, and the act as finallypassed goes by his name. It raised the duties on some classes of goodsand taxed many things that hitherto had come in free. Especially wereduties increased on certain raw materials for manufactures, with a viewto encourage the production of such materials in the United States. Thereciprocity features of the McKinley tariff (P. 383) were also restored.CHAPTER 45THE SPANISH WAR, 1898[Sidenote: The Cubans rebel, 1894.][Sidenote: Spanish cruelties, _Source-book_, 374-379.]472. The Cuban Rebellion, 1894-98.--The Cubans laid down their armsin 1877 (p. 372) because they relied on the promises of bettergovernment made by the Spaniards. But these promises were never carriedout. Year after year the Cuban people bore with their oppression. But atlast their patience was worn out. In 1894 they again rebelled. TheSpaniards sent over an army to subdue them. Soon tales of cruelty on thepart of the Spaniards reached the United States. Finally the Spanishgovernor, General Weyler, adopted the cruel measure of driving the oldmen, the women, and the children from the country villages and huddlingthem together in the seaboard towns. Without money, without food, withscant shelter, these poor people endured every hardship. They died bythousands. The American people sent relief, but little could be done tohelp them. The Cubans also fitted out expeditions in American ports tocarry arms and supplies to the rebels. The government did everything inits power to stop these expeditions, but the coast line of the UnitedStates is so long that it was impossible to stop them all, especially aslarge numbers of the American people heartily sympathized with theCubans. Constant disputes with Spain over the Cuban question naturallycame up and gave rise to irritation in the United States and in Spain.[Illustration: THE "MAINE."][Sidenote: Destruction of the _Maine_, 1898.][Sidenote: Cuban independence recognized.]473. The Declaration of War, 1898.--On January 5, 1898, theAmerican battleship _Maine_ anchored in Havana harbor. On February 15she was destroyed by an explosion and sank with two hundred andfifty-three of her crew. A most competent Court of Inquiry wasappointed. It reported that the _Maine_ had been blown up from theoutside. The report of the Court of Inquiry was communicated to theSpanish government in the hope that some kind of apology and reparationmight be made. But all the Spanish government did was to propose thatthe matter should be referred to arbitration. The condition of theCubans was now dreadful. Several Senators and Representatives visitedCuba. They reported that the condition of the Cubans was shocking. ThePresident laid the whole matter before Congress for its determination.On April 19, 1898, Congress recognized the independence of the Cubanpeople and demanded the withdrawal of the Spaniards from the island.Congress also authorized the President to compel Spain's withdrawal andstated that the United States did not intend to annex Cuba, but to leavethe government of the island to its inhabitants. Before these termscould be formally laid before the Spanish government, it ordered theAmerican minister to leave Spain.[Illustration: THE "OLYMPIA." From a photograph by Irving Underhill.][Sidenote: Battle of Manila Bay, May 1, 1898.]474. The Destruction of the Spanish Pacific Fleet.--Admiral Dewey,commanding the American squadron on the Asiatic station, hadconcentrated all his vessels at Hong Kong, in the belief that war was athand. Of course he could not stay at Hong Kong after the declaration ofwar. The only thing that he could do was to destroy the Spanish fleetand use Spanish ports as a naval base. The Spanish fleet was in ManilaBay. Thither sailed Dewey. In the darkness of the early morning of May1, Dewey passed the Spanish forts at the entrance of the bay. The fleetwas at anchor near the naval arsenal, a few miles from the city ofManila. As soon as it was light Dewey opened fire on the Spaniards. Soonone Spanish ship caught fire, then another, and another. Dewey drew offout of range for a time while his men rested and ate their breakfasts.He then steamed in again and completed the destruction of the enemy'sfleet. Not an American ship was seriously injured. Not one Americansailor was killed. This victory gave the Americans the control of thePacific Ocean and the Asiatic waters, as far as Spain was concerned. Itrelieved the Pacific seacoast of the United States of all fear ofattack. It made it possible to send soldiers and supplies to Manila,without fear of attack while on the way. And it was necessary to sendsoldiers because Dewey, while he was supreme on the water and couldeasily compel the surrender of Manila, could not properly police thetown after its capture.[Sidenote: Defense of the Atlantic seaboard.][Sidenote: Blockade of Cuba.]475. The Atlantic Seacoast and the Blockade.--No sooner did warseem probable than the people on the Atlantic seacoast were seized withan unreasoning fear of the Spanish fleets. For the Spaniards had a fewnew fast ships. The mouths of the principal harbors were blocked withmines and torpedoes. The government bought merchant vessels of all kindsand established a patrol along the coast. It also blockaded the moreimportant Cuban seaports. But the Cuban coast was so long that it wasimpossible to blockade it all. As it was, great suffering was inflictedon the principal Spanish armies in Cuba.[Sidenote: The Spanish-Atlantic fleet.][Sidenote: The American fleet.]476. The Atlantic Fleets.--Before long a Spanish fleet of four new,fast armored cruisers and three large sea-going torpedo-boat destroyersappeared in the West Indies. The Spanish admiral did not seem to knowexactly where to go. But after sailing around the Caribbean Sea for atime, he anchored in Santiago harbor--on the southern coast of Cuba. Inthe American navy there were only two fast armored cruisers, the _NewYork _and the _Brooklyn_. These with five battleships--the _Oregon,Iowa, Indiana, Massachusetts_, and _Texas_--and a number of smallervessels were placed under the command of Admiral Sampson and sent toSantiago. Another fleet of sea-going monitors and unarmored cruisersmaintained the Cuban blockade.[Sidenote: The _Oregon's_ voyage.]477. The Oregon's Great Voyage.--When the _Maine_ was destroyed,the _Oregon_ was at Puget Sound on the northwest coast. She was at onceordered to sail to the Atlantic coast at her utmost speed. Steadily thegreat battleship sped southward along the Pacific coast of NorthAmerica, Central America, and South America. She passed through MagellanStraits and made her way up the eastern coast of South America. As sheapproached the West Indies, it was feared that she might meet the wholeSpanish fleet. But she never sighted them. She reached Florida insplendid condition and at once joined Sampson's squadron.[Sidenote: Santiago.][Sidenote: Sinking of the _Merrimac_]478. The Blockade of the Spanish Fleet.--Santiago harbor seemed tohave been designed as a place of refuge for a hard-pressed fleet. Itsnarrow winding entrance was guarded by huge mountains stronglyfortified. The channel between these mountains was filled with mines andtorpedoes. The American fleet could not go in. The Spanish fleet mustnot be allowed to come out unseen. Lieutenant Hobson was ordered to takethe collier _Merrimac_ into the narrow entrance and sink her across thechannel at the narrowest part. He made the most careful preparations.But the _Merrimac_ was disabled and drifted by the narrowest part of thechannel before she sank. The Spanish admiral was so impressed by theheroism of this attempt that he sent a boat off to the American squadronto assure them that Hobson and his six brave companions were safe.[Sidenote: Destruction of the Spanish Fleet.][Sidenote: Lessons of the victory.]479. Destruction of the Spanish Fleet.--As the American vesselscould not enter Santiago harbor to sink the Spanish ships at theiranchors, it became necessary to send an army to Santiago. But theSpaniards did not wait for the soldiers to capture the city. On Sundaymorning, July 3, the Spanish fleet suddenly appeared steaming out of theharbor. The _Massachusetts_ was away at the time, getting a supply ofcoal, and the _New York_ was steaming away to take Admiral Sampson to aconference with General Shafter. But there were enough vessels left. Oncame the Spaniards. The American ships rushed toward them. The Spaniardsturned westward and tried to escape along the coast. Soon one of themwas set on fire by the American shells. She was run on shore to preventher sinking. Then another followed her, and then a third. Thetorpedo-boat destroyers were sunk off the entrance to the harbor. Butone ship now remained afloat. Speedily, she, too, was overtaken andsurrendered. In a few hours the whole Spanish fleet was destroyed;hundreds of Spanish seamen were killed, wounded, or drowned, and sixteenhundred Spanish sailors captured. The American loss was one man killedand two wounded. The American ships were practically ready to destroyanother Spanish fleet had one been within reach. At Manila Bay and offSantiago the American fleets were superior to the enemy's fleets. Butthe astounding results of their actions were due mainly to the splendidmanner in which the American ships had been cared for and, above all,to the magnificent training and courage of the men behind the guns.Years of peace had not in any way dimmed the splendid qualities of theAmerican sea-fighters.[Sidenote: Military preparations.][Sidenote: The volunteers.]480. The American Army.--Meantime the American soldiers on shore atSantiago were doing their work under great discouragement, but with avalor and stubbornness that will always compel admiration. While thenavy was silently and efficiently increased to be a well-ordered force,the army was not so well managed at first. Soldiers there were inplenty. From all parts of the Union, from the South and from the North,from the West and from the East, from the cattle ranches of the plainsand the classrooms of the great universities, patriots offered theirlives at their country's call. But there was great lack of order in themanagement of the army. Sickness broke out among the soldiers. Volunteerregiments were supplied with old-fashioned rifles. It seemed to bedifficult to move one regiment from one place to another without direconfusion. When the Spanish fleet was shut up in Santiago harbor, aforce of fifteen thousand soldiers under General Shafter was sent tocapture Santiago itself and make the harbor unsafe for the ships.[Illustration: SAN JUAN BLOCKHOUSE SHOWING MARKS OF SHOT.][Sidenote: The landing.][Sidenote: La Guasimas. _Source-Book_, 380-382.][Sidenote: San Juan and Caney.][Sidenote: Fall of Santiago.]481. The Santiago Expedition.--On June 22 and 23 the expeditionlanded not far to the east of the entrance to Santiago harbor. Steep andhigh mountains guard this part of the coast. But no attempt was made toprevent the landing of the Americans. Dismounted cavalrymen of theregular army and Roosevelt's Rough Riders, also on foot, at once pushedon toward Santiago. At La Guasimas the Spaniards tried to stop them. Butthe regulars and the Rough Riders drove them away, and the army pushedon. By June 28 it had reached a point within a few miles of the city.The Spaniards occupied two very strong positions at San Juan (San Huan)and Caney. On July 1 they were driven from them. The regulars and thevolunteers showed the greatest courage and heroism. They crossed longopen spaces in the face of a terrible fire from the Spaniards, who werearmed with modern rifles. The rains now set in, and the sufferings ofthe troops became terrible. On July 3 the Spanish fleet sailed out ofthe harbor to meet its doom from the guns of the American warships.Reinforcements were sent to Shafter, and heavy guns were dragged overthe mountain roads and placed in positions commanding the enemy'slines. The Spaniards surrendered, and on July 17 the Americans enteredthe captured city.[Illustration: TAKING WOUNDED TO THE DIVISION HOSPITAL AFTER THE FIGHTON SAN JUAN HILL.][Sidenote: The Porto Rico expedition.]482. The Porto Rico Campaign.--The only other important colonystill remaining to Spain in America was Porto Rico. General Nelson A.Miles led a strong force to its conquest. Instead of landing on thenorthern coast near San Juan, the only strongly fortified position onthe seacoast, General Miles landed his men on the southern coast nearPonce (Pon-tha). The inhabitants received the Americans with theheartiest welcome. This was on August 1. The American army then set outto cross the island. But before they had gone very far news came of theending of the hostilities.[Sidenote: Fall of Manila.]483. Fall of Manila.--When the news of Dewey's victory (p. 390)reached the United States, soldiers were sent to his aid. But this tooktime, for it was a very long way from San Francisco to the Philippinesand vessels suitable for transports were not easily procured on thePacific coast. General Wesley Merritt was given command of the landforces. Meantime, for months Dewey with his fleet blockaded Manila fromthe water side, while Philippine insurgents blockaded it from the landside. Foreign vessels, especially the German vessels, jealously watchedthe operations of the American fleet and severely taxed Dewey'spatience. On August 17 Merritt felt strong enough to attack the city. Itwas at once surrendered to him.[Illustration: THE UNITED STATES IN 1900.][Illustration: DEPENDENCIES OF THE UNITED STATES. All on same scale asUnited States, 1900.][Sidenote: Treaty of Peace, 1898.][Sidenote: Hawaii.]484. End of the War.--The destruction of the Spanish Atlantic fleetand the fall of Santiago convinced the Spaniards that further resistancewas useless. So it was agreed that the fighting should be stopped. Thiswas in July, 1898. But the actual treaty of peace was not madeuntil the following December. The conditions were that Spain shouldabandon Cuba, should cede to the United States Porto Rico, thePhilippines, and some smaller islands, and should receive from theUnited States twenty million dollars. For many years Americanmissionaries, merchants, and planters had been interested in theHawaiian Islands. The war showed the importance of these islands to theUnited States as a military and naval station, and they were annexed.485. Prosperity.--The years 1898-1900 have been a period ofunbounded prosperity for the American people. Foreign trade hasincreased enormously, and the manufactures of the United States arefinding a ready market in other countries. A rebellion has been going onin the Philippines, but it seems to be slowly dying out(February, 1900).QUESTIONS AND TOPICSCHAPTER 44Sec.Sec. 464, 465.--_a_. Why was Harrison chosen President?_b_. What is "tariff reform"? What is "reciprocity"? Do you considersuch a method wise or not? Why?Sec.Sec. 466, 467.--_a_. Why was silver demonetized? What is meant by the word"demonetization"?_b_. What was the Sherman Silver Law? What effect did it have uponbusiness?_c_. Was there any reason for the fear on the part of business men?_d_. Why was Harrison defeated in 1892?Sec.Sec. 468, 469.--_a_. Why did money become scarce in the summer of 1893?_b_. How did the repeal of the Sherman Law affect confidence in thefuture of business?_c_. Describe the Chicago Exhibition. What is the advantage of such anexhibition?Sec.Sec. 470, 471.--_a_. Who were the leading candidates for the presidency in1896? What principles did they stand for?_b_. Explain the provisions of the Dingley Tariff._c_. Ask some business man what he thinks of the wisdom of changing thetariff very often.CHAPTER 45Sec.Sec. 472, 473.--_a_. What promises had the Spaniards made to the Cubansand how had they kept them?_b_. What do you think of Weyler's policy?_c_. Could the Spanish war have been avoided?Sec. 474.--_a_. Why could not Admiral Dewey remain at Hong Kong?_b_. Describe the battle of Manila Bay. What were the results of thisaction?Sec.Sec. 475-477.--_a_. Why were the American people on the Atlantic seacoastalarmed? Were the harbors well defended?_b_. Compare the American and the Spanish Atlantic fleets. Why was thevoyage of the _Oregon_ important?Sec.Sec. 478, 479.--_a_. Describe the harbor of Santiago. What advantages didit possess for the Spaniards?_b_. How did Hobson try to prevent the escape of the Spanish fleet?_c_. Describe the encounter between the two fleets._d_. To what was this great success due?Sec.Sec. 480-482.--_a_. From what parts of the country did the volunteerscome?_b_. Why was there so much confusion in the army?_c_. Describe the Santiago campaign and the suffering of the soldiers._d_. Describe the Porto Rico expedition. Why did General Miles land onthe southern coast?Sec.Sec. 483-485.--_a_. Why were the soldiers needed after Dewey's victory?_b_. Give the conditions of peace. Exactly what was the condition as toCuba?_c_. Why are the Hawaiian Islands important to the United States?GENERAL QUESTIONS_a_. What are the advantages and disadvantages of a tariff?_b_. What important matters have been definitely settled during the pastone hundred years?_c_. What are some of the problems now before the American people?_d_. Should the United States be a "world power"?TOPICS FOR SPECIAL WORK_a_. Present condition of any part of the United States or dependentterritories._b_. Any campaign or battle of the Spanish War._c_. Present political parties and their principles.SUGGESTIONS TO THE TEACHERInteresting constitutional questions will inevitably arise in teachingthis section, but the events are too recent to admit of dogmatizing onlines of policy. The Spanish War and the Philippine trouble are too nearto be properly judged, and the facts only should be taught. The dutiesand responsibilities resting upon the United States through its closerconnection with all parts of the world can, however, be emphasizedwithout the display of partisan spirit. Furthermore, the causes ofpresent prosperity and the industrial advantages of the United Statesmay well demand attention. Throughout every part of this section, also,the importance of good citizenship, in the broadest sense of the word,should receive special emphasis.CONSTITUTIONOF THEUNITED STATES OF AMERICA[1]WE THE PEOPLE of the United States, in Order to form a more perfectUnion, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for thecommon defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessingsof Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establishthis CONSTITUTION for the United States of America.ARTICLE. I.SECTION. 1. All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in aCongress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and Houseof Representatives.SECTION. 2. The House of Representatives shall be composed of Memberschosen every second Year by the People of the several States, and theElectors in each State shall have the Qualifications requisite forElectors of the most numerous Branch of the State Legislature.No Person shall be a Representative who shall not have attained to theAge of twenty five Years, and been seven Years a Citizen of the UnitedStates, and who shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that Statein which he shall be chosen.Representatives and direct Taxes shall be apportioned among the severalStates which may be included within this Union, according to theirrespective numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the wholeNumber of free Persons, including those bound to Service for a Term ofYears, and excluding Indians not taxed, three fifths of all otherPersons. The actual Enumeration shall be made within three Years afterthe first Meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within everysubsequent Term of ten Years, in such Manner as they shall by Lawdirect. The number of Representatives shall not exceed one for everythirty Thousand, but each State shall have at Least one Representative;and until such enumeration shall be made, the State of New Hampshireshall be entitled to chuse three, Massachusetts eight, Rhode Island andProvidence Plantations one, Connecticut five, New-York six, New Jerseyfour, Pennsylvania eight, Delaware one, Maryland six, Virginia ten,North Carolina five, South Carolina five, and Georgia three.When vacancies happen in the Representation from any State, theExecutive Authority thereof shall issue Writs of Election to fill suchVacancies.The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker and otherOfficers; and shall have the sole Power of Impeachment.SECTION. 3. The Senate of the United States shall be composed of twoSenators from each State, chosen by the Legislature thereof, for sixYears; and each Senator shall have one Vote.Immediately after they shall be assembled in Consequence of the firstElection, they shall be divided as equally as may be into three Classes.The Seats of the Senators of the first Class shall be vacated at theExpiration of the second Year, of the second Class at the Expiration ofthe fourth Year, and of the third Class at the Expiration of the sixthYear, so that one third may be chosen every second Year; and ifVacancies happen by Resignation, or otherwise, during the Recess of theLegislature of any State, the Executive thereof may make temporaryAppointments until the next Meeting of the Legislature, which shall thenfill such Vacancies.No Person shall be a Senator who shall not have attained to the Age ofthirty Years, and been nine Years a Citizen of the United States, andwho shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State for which heshall be chosen.The Vice President of the United States shall be President of theSenate, but shall have no Vote, unless they be equally divided.The Senate shall chuse their other Officers, and also a President protempore, in the Absence of the Vice President, or when he shall exercisethe Office of President of the United States.The Senate shall have the sole Power to try all Impeachments. Whensitting for that Purpose, they shall be on Oath or Affirmation. When thePresident of the United States is tried, the Chief Justice shallpreside: And no Person shall be convicted without the Concurrence of twothirds of the Members present.Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than toremoval from Office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any Officeof honor, Trust or Profit under the United States: but the Partyconvicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to Indictment, Trial,Judgment and Punishment, according to Law.SECTION. 4. The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections forSenators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by theLegislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by Law make oralter such Regulations, except as to the Places of chusing Senators.The Congress shall assemble at least once in every Year, and suchMeeting shall be on the first Monday in December, unless they shall byLaw appoint a different Day.SECTION. 5. Each House shall be the Judge of the Elections, Returns andQualifications of its own Members, and a Majority of each shallconstitute a Quorum to do Business; but a smaller Number may adjournfrom day to day, and may be authorized to compel the Attendance ofabsent Members, in such Manner, and under such Penalties as each Housemay provide.Each House may determine the Rules of its Proceedings, punish itsMembers for disorderly Behaviour, and, with the Concurrence of twothirds, expel a member.Each House shall keep a Journal of its Proceedings, and from time totime publish the same, excepting such Parts as may in their Judgmentrequire Secrecy; and the Yeas and Nays of the Members of either House onany question shall, at the Desire of one fifth of those Present, beentered on the Journal.Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall, without theConsent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any otherPlace than that in which the two Houses shall be sitting.SECTION. 6. The Senators and Representatives shall receive aCompensation for their Services, to be ascertained by Law, and paid outof the Treasury of the United States. They shall in all Cases, exceptTreason, Felony and Breach of the Peace, be privileged from Arrestduring their Attendance at the Session of their respective Houses, andin going to and returning from the same; and for any Speech or Debate ineither House, they shall not be questioned in any other Place.No Senator or Representative shall, during the Time for which he waselected, be appointed to any civil Office under the Authority of theUnited States, which shall have been created, or the Emoluments whereofshall have been encreased during such time; and no Person holding anyOffice under the United States, shall be a Member of either House duringhis Continuance in Office.SECTION. 7. All Bills for raising Revenue shall originate in the Houseof Representatives; but the Senate may propose or concur with Amendmentsas on other Bills.Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and theSenate, shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the President ofthe United States; If he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shallreturn it, with his Objections, to that House in which it shall haveoriginated, who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal,and proceed to reconsider it. If after such Reconsideration two thirdsof that House shall agree to pass the Bill, it shall be sent, togetherwith the Objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise bereconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that House, it shallbecome a Law. But in all such Cases the Votes of both Houses shall bedetermined by yeas and Nays, and the Names of the Persons voting for andagainst the Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each Houserespectively. If any Bill shall not be returned by the President withinten Days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to him,the same shall be a Law, in like Manner as if he had signed it, unlessthe Congress by their Adjournment prevent its Return, in which Case itshall not be a Law.Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to which the Concurrence of the Senateand House of Representatives may be necessary (except on a question ofAdjournment) shall be presented to the President of the United States;and before the Same shall take Effect, shall be approved by him, orbeing disapproved by him, shall be repassed by two thirds of the Senateand House of Representatives, according to the Rules and Limitationsprescribed in the Case of a Bill.SECTION. 8. The Congress shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes,Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the commonDefence and general Welfare of the United States; but all Duties,Imposts and Excises shall be uniform throughout the United States;To borrow Money on the credit of the United States;To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States,and with the Indian Tribes;To establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization, and uniform Laws on thesubject of Bankruptcies throughout the United States;To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin, and fixthe Standard of Weights and Measures;To provide for the Punishment of counterfeiting the Securities andcurrent Coin of the United States;To establish Post Offices and post Roads;To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing forlimited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to theirrespective Writings and Discoveries;To constitute Tribunals inferior to the supreme Court;To define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on the high Seas,and Offences against the Law of Nations;To declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, and make Rulesconcerning Captures on Land and Water;To raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation of Money to that Useshall be for a longer Term than two Years;To provide and maintain a Navy;To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and navalForces;To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of theUnion, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions;To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, the Militia, andfor governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of theUnited States, reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment ofthe Officers, and the Authority of training the Militia according to thediscipline prescribed by Congress;To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over suchDistrict (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession ofparticular States, and the Acceptance of Congress, become the Seat ofthe Government of the United States, and to exercise like Authority overall Places purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the State inwhich the same shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals,dock-Yards, and other needful Buildings;--And To make all Laws whichshall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoingPowers, and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in theGovernment of the United States, or in any Department orOfficer thereof.SECTION. 9. The Migration or Importation of such Persons as any of theStates now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibitedby the Congress prior to the Year one thousand eight hundred and eight,but a Tax or duty may be imposed on such Importation, not exceeding tendollars for each Person.The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended,unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety mayrequire it.No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed.No Capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid, unless in Proportionto the Census or Enumeration herein before directed to be taken.No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State.No Preference shall be given by any Regulation of Commerce or Revenue tothe Ports of one State over those of another: nor shall Vessels boundto, or from, one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay Dutiesin another.No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence ofAppropriations made by Law; and a regular Statement and Account of theReceipts and Expenditures of all public Money shall be published fromtime to time.No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States: And noPerson holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them, shall, withoutthe Consent of the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office,or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.SECTION. 10. No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, orConfederation; grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal; coin Money; emitBills of Credit; make any Thing but gold and silver Coin a Tender inPayment of Debts; pass any Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law, or Lawimpairing the Obligation of Contracts, or grant any Title of Nobility.No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Imposts orDuties on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessaryfor executing its inspection Laws: and the net Produce of all Duties andImposts, laid by any State on Imports or Exports, shall be for the Useof the Treasury of the United States; and all such Laws shall be subjectto the Revision and Controul of the Congress.No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any Duty ofTonnage, keep Troops, or Ships of War in time of Peace, enter into anyAgreement or Compact with another State, or with a foreign Power, orengage in War, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent Danger aswill not admit of delay.ARTICLE. II.SECTION, 1. The executive Power shall be vested in a President of theUnited States of America. He shall hold his Office during the Term offour Years, and, together with the Vice President, chosen for the sameTerm, be elected, as follows Each State shall appoint, in such Manner asthe Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors, equal to thewhole Number of Senators and Representatives to which the State may beentitled in the Congress: but no Senator or Representative, or Personholding an Office of Trust or Profit under the United States, shall beappointed an Elector.The Electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by Ballotfor two Persons, of whom one at least shall not be an Inhabitant of thesame State with themselves. And they shall make a List of all thePersons voted for, and of the Number of Votes for each; which List theyshall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the Seat of theGovernment of the United States, directed to the President of theSenate. The President of the Senate shall, in the Presence of the Senateand House of Representatives, open all the Certificates, and the Votesshall then be counted. The Person having the greatest Number of Votesshall be the President, if such Number be a Majority of the whole Numberof Electors appointed; and if there be more than one who have suchMajority, and have an equal Number of Votes, then the House ofRepresentatives shall immediately chuse by Ballot one of them forPresident; and if no Person have a Majority, then from the five higheston the List the said House shall in like Manner chuse the President. Butin chusing the President, the Votes shall be taken by States, theRepresentation from each State having one Vote; A quorum for thisPurpose shall consist of a Member or Members from two thirds of theStates, and a Majority of all the States shall be necessary to a Choice.In every Case, after the Choice of the President, the Person having thegreatest Number of Votes of the Electors shall be the Vice President.But if there should remain two or more who have equal Votes, the Senateshall chuse from them by Ballot the Vice President.The Congress may determine the Time of chusing the Electors, and the Dayon which they shall give their Votes; which Day shall be the samethroughout the United States.No Person except a natural born Citizen, or a Citizen of the UnitedStates, at the time of the Adoption of this Constitution, shall beeligible to the Office of President; neither shall any Person beeligible to that Office who shall not have attained to the Age of thirtyfive Years, and been fourteen Years a Resident within the United States.In Case of the Removal of the President from Office, or of his Death,Resignation, or Inability to discharge the Powers and Duties of the saidOffice, the Same shall devolve on the Vice President, and the Congressmay by Law provide for the Case of Removal, Death, Resignation orInability, both of the President and Vice President, declaring whatOfficer shall then act as President, and such Officer shall actaccordingly, until the Disability be removed, or a President shallbe elected.The President shall, at stated Times, receive for his Services, aCompensation, which shall neither be encreased nor diminished during thePeriod for which he shall have been elected, and he shall not receivewithin that Period any other Emolument from the United States, or anyof them.Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he shall take thefollowing Oath or Affirmation:--"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute theOffice of President of the United States, and will to the best of myAbility, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of theUnited States."SECTION. 2. The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army andNavy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States,when called into the actual Service of the United States; he may requirethe Opinion, in writing, of the principal Officer in each of theexecutive Departments, upon any Subject relating to the Duties of theirrespective Offices, and he shall have Power to grant Reprieves andPardons for Offences against the United States, except in Cases ofImpeachment.He shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate,to make Treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur;and he shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of theSenate, shall appoint Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls,Judges of the supreme Court, and all other Officers of the UnitedStates, whose Appointments are not herein otherwise provided for, andwhich shall be established by Law: but the Congress may by Law vest theAppointment of such inferior Officers, as they think proper, in thePresident alone, in the Courts of Law, or in the Heads of Departments.The President shall have Power to fill up all Vacancies that may happenduring the Recess of the Senate, by granting Commissions which shallexpire at the End of their next Session.SECTION. 3. He shall from time to time give to the Congress Informationof the State of the Union, and recommend to their Consideration suchMeasures as he shall judge necessary and expedient; he may, onextraordinary Occasions, convene both Houses, or either of them, and inCase of Disagreement between them, with Respect to the Time ofAdjournment, he may adjourn them to such Time as he shall think proper;he shall receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers; he shall takeCare that the Laws be faithfully executed, and shall Commission all theOfficers of the United States.SECTION. 4. The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of theUnited States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, andConviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.ARTICLE III.SECTION. 1. The judicial Power of the United States, shall be vested inone supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may fromtime to time ordain and establish. The Judges, both of the supreme andinferior Courts, shall hold their Offices during good Behaviour, andshall, at stated Times, receive for their Services, a Compensation,which shall not be diminished during their continuance in Office.SECTION. 2. The judicial Power shall extend to all Cases, in Law andEquity, arising under this Constitution, the Laws of the United States,and Treaties made, or which shall be made, under their Authority;--toall Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls;--toall Cases of admiralty and maritime Jurisdiction;--to Controversies towhich the United States shall be a Party;--to Controversies between twoor more States;--between a State and Citizens of anotherState;--between Citizens of different States,--between Citizens of thesame State claiming Lands under Grants of different States, and betweena State, or the Citizens thereof, and foreign States, Citizensor Subjects.In all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls,and those in which a State shall be Party, the supreme Court shall haveoriginal Jurisdiction. In all the other Cases before mentioned, thesupreme Court shall have appellate Jurisdiction, both as to Law andFact, with such Exceptions, and under such regulations as the Congressshall make.The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be byJury; and such Trial shall be held in the State where the said Crimesshall have been committed; but when not committed within any State, theTrial shall be at such Place or Places as the Congress may by Lawhave directed.SECTION. 3. Treason against the United States, shall consist only inlevying War against them, or in adhering to their Enemies, giving themAid and Comfort. No Person shall be convicted of Treason unless on theTestimony of two Witnesses to the same overt Act, or on Confession inopen Court.The Congress shall have Power to declare the Punishment of Treason, butno Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption of Blood, or Forfeitureexcept during the Life of the Person attainted.ARTICLE. IV.SECTION. 1. Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to thepublic Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State. Andthe Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which suchActs, Records and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof.SECTION. 2. The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to allPrivileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States.A Person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or other Crime, whoshall flee from Justice, and be found in another State, shall on Demandof the executive Authority of the State from which he fled, be deliveredup, to be removed to the State having Jurisdiction of the Crime.No Person held to Service or Labour in one State, under the Lawsthereof, escaping into another, shall, in Consequence of any Law orRegulation therein, be discharged from such Service or Labour, but shallbe delivered up on Claim of the Party to whom such Service or Labourmay be due.SECTION. 3. New States may be admitted by the Congress into this Union;but no new State shall be formed or erected within the Jurisdiction ofany other State; nor any State be formed by the Junction of two or moreStates, or Parts of States, without the Consent of the Legislatures ofthe States concerned as well as of the Congress.The Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make all needful Rulesand Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging tothe United States; and nothing in this Constitution shall be soconstrued as to Prejudice any Claims of the United States, or of anyparticular State.SECTION. 4. The United States shall guarantee to every State in thisUnion a Republican Form of Government, and shall protect each of themagainst Invasion; and on Application of the Legislature, or of theExecutive (when the Legislature cannot be convened) againstdomestic Violence.ARTICLE. V.The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem itnecessary, shall propose Amendments to this Constitution, or, on theApplication of the Legislatures of two thirds of the several States,shall call a Convention for proposing Amendments, which, in either Case,shall be valid to all Intents and Purposes, as Part of thisConstitution, when ratified by the Legislatures of three fourths of theseveral States, or by Conventions in three fourths thereof, as the oneor the other Mode of Ratification may be proposed by the Congress;Provided that no Amendment which may be made prior to the Year Onethousand eight hundred and eight shall in any Manner affect the firstand fourth Clauses in the Ninth Section of the first Article; and thatno State, without its Consent, shall be deprived of its equal Suffragein the Senate.ARTICLE. VI.All Debts contracted and Engagements entered into, before the Adoptionof this Constitution, shall be as valid against the United States underthis Constitution, as under the Confederation.This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be madein Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be made,under the Authority of the United States, shall be the supreme Law ofthe Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, anyThing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrarynotwithstanding.The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and the Members ofthe several State Legislatures, and all executive and judicial Officers,both of the United States and of the several States, shall be bound byOath or Affirmation, to support this Constitution; but no religious Testshall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trustunder the United States.ARTICLE. VII.The Ratification of the Conventions of nine States, shall be sufficientfor the Establishment of this Constitution between the States soratifying the Same.THE AMENDMENTS.I.Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, orprohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom ofspeech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably toassemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.II.A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a freeState, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not beinfringed.III.No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, withoutthe consent of the Owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to beprescribed by law.IV.The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers,and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not beviolated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause,supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the placeto be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.V.No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamouscrime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except incases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the Militia, when inactual service in time of War or public danger; nor shall any person besubject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life orlimb; nor shall be compelled in any Criminal Case to be witness againsthimself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without dueprocess of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use,without just compensation.VI.In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to aspeedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and districtwherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall havebeen previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature andcause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses againsthim; to have compulsory process for obtaining Witnesses in his favor,and to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defence.VII.In suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceedtwenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and nofact tried by a jury shall be otherwise re-examined in any Court of theUnited States, than according to the rules of the common law.VIII.Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, norcruel and unusual punishments inflicted.IX.The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not beconstrued to deny or disparage others retained by the people.X.The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, norprohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively,or to the people.XI.The Judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extendto any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of theUnited States by Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjectsof any Foreign State.XII.The Electors shall meet in their respective states, and vote by ballotfor President and Vice President, one of whom, at least, shall not be aninhabitant of the same state with themselves; they shall name in theirballots the person voted for as President, and in distinct ballots theperson voted for as Vice-President, and they shall make distinct listsof all persons voted for as President, and of all persons voted for asVice-President, and of the number of votes for each, which lists theyshall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the seat of thegovernment of the United States, directed to the President of theSenate;--The President of the Senate shall, in the presence of theSenate and House of Representatives, open all the certificates and thevotes shall then be counted;--The person having the greatest number ofvotes for President, shall be the President, if such number be amajority of the whole number of Electors appointed; and if no personhave such majority, then from the persons having the highest numbers notexceeding three on the list of those voted for as President, the Houseof Representatives shall choose immediately, by ballot, the President.But in choosing the President, the votes shall be taken by states, therepresentation from each state having one vote; a quorum for thispurpose shall consist of a member or members from two-thirds of thestates, and a majority of all the states shall be necessary to a choice.And if the House of Representatives shall not choose a Presidentwhenever the right of choice shall devolve upon them, before the fourthday of March next following, then the Vice-President shall act asPresident, as in the case of the death or other constitutionaldisability of the President. The person having the greatest number ofvotes as Vice-President, shall be the Vice-President, if such number bea majority of the whole number of Electors appointed, and if no personhave a majority, then from the two highest numbers on the list, theSenate shall choose the Vice-President; a quorum for the purpose shallconsist of two-thirds of the whole number of Senators, and a majority ofthe whole number shall be necessary to a choice. But no personconstitutionally ineligible to the office of President shall be eligibleto that of Vice-President of the United States.XIII.SECTION 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as apunishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted,shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to theirjurisdiction.SECTION 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article byappropriate legislation.XIV.SECTION 1. All persons born or naturalized in the United States, andsubject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United Statesand of the State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforceany law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens ofthe United States: nor shall any State deprive any person of life,liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any personwithin its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.SECTION 2. Representatives shall be apportioned among the several Statesaccording to their respective numbers, counting the whole number ofpersons in each State, excluding Indians not taxed. But when the rightto vote at any election for the choice of electors for President andVice President of the United States, Representatives in Congress, theExecutive and Judicial officers of a State, or the members of theLegislature thereof, is denied to any of the male inhabitants of suchState, being twenty-one years of age, and citizens of the United States,or in any way abridged, except for participation in rebellion, or othercrime, the basis of representation therein shall be reduced in theproportion which the number of such male citizens shall bear to thewhole number of male citizens twenty-one years of age in such State.SECTION 3. No person shall be a Senator or Representative in Congress,or elector of President and Vice President, or hold any office, civil ormilitary, under the United States, or under any State, who, havingpreviously taken an oath, as a member of Congress, or as an officer ofthe United States, or as a member of any State legislature, or as anexecutive or judicial officer of any State, to support the Constitutionof the United States, shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellionagainst the same, or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof. ButCongress may by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove suchdisability.SECTION 4. The validity of the public debt of the United States,authorized by law, including debts incurred for payment of pensions andbounties for services in suppressing insurrection or rebellion, shallnot be questioned. But neither the United States nor any State shallassume or pay any debt or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection orrebellion against the United States, or any claim for the loss oremancipation of any slave; but all such debts, obligations and claimsshall be held illegal and void.SECTION 5. The Congress shall have power to enforce, by appropriatelegislation, the provisions of this article.XV.SECTION 1. The right citizens of the United States to vote shall not bedenied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account ofrace, color, or previous condition of servitude.SECTION 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article byappropriate legislation.[1] Reprinted from the text issued by the State Department.INDEXAbolitionists.Acadia.Adams, John; Vice-President; President; his administration.Adams, John Quincy, portrait; and the Monroe Doctrine; President,  his administration; and the right of petition.Adams, Samuel.Alabama claims.Alaska, purchase of; map of.Albany Congress.Algerine War.Alien and Sedition Acts.Allen, Ethan.America, discovery of; naming of.American Association.Americus Vespucius, see Vespucius.Andre, Major.Andros, Sir Edmund.Antietam, battle of.Antislavery agitation.Appomattox, surrender at.Arnold, Benedict, at Quebec; in Burgoyne's campaign; treason of.Arthur, C.A., Vice-President; President.Articles of Confederation.Atlanta Campaign.Bacon's Rebellion.Balboa discovers Pacific Ocean.Baltimore, Lord.Bank of the United States, the First; the Second.Bennington, battle of.Blaine, J.G., candidate for the Presidency.Blair, F.P.Blockade of Confederate seaports."Border States" in Civil War.Boston, founded; massacre at; destruction of tea at; closing of the  port of; siege of; map of siege.Braddock, British general.Bragg, Confederate general.Brandy wine, battle of.Breckinridge, John C., Vice-President; defeated for Presidency.Brown, General Jacob, invades Canada.Brown, John, in Kansas; at Harper's Ferry; executed.Buchanan, James, President; comes out for the Union.Buell, General.Bull Run, battles of.Bunker Hill, battle of.Burgoyne's campaign.Burnside, General A.E.Cabot, John, discovers North America.Calhoun, John C., portrait; in Congress; Vice-President;  his _Exposition_.California, Drake on the coast of; seized by Americans;  discovery of gold in; seeks admission to the Union.Camden, battle of.Canada, conquest of; invasion of 1775; in War of 1812.Carolina, settlement of; rebellion in 1719;  separated into two provinces.Cartier (kar'tia').Cass, Lewis, defeated for the Presidency.Cathay.Champlain, Samuel de.Champlain, Lake.Chancellorsville, battle of.Charles II, his colonial policy.Charleston, S.C., attacked; captured; in Civil War.Chattanooga, battle of."Chesapeake," outrage on the.Chicago, growth of; great fire at.Columbian Exhibition.Chickamauga, battle of.Cipango.Civil Service under Washington and Adams; under Jefferson;  "Spoils System" in the; reform of the.Clark, General G.R., conquers the Northwest.Clay, Henry, portrait; in Congress; and the Missouri Compromise;  defeated for the Presidency; and the Compromise of 1850.Cleveland, Grover, portrait; President; reelected President.Clinton, British general.Columbus discovers America.Committees of Correspondence.Compromises of the Constitution; of 1820; of 1850.Concord, battle of.Confederate States.Confederation of New England.Confederation of the United States, Articles of.Connecticut, settlement of; charter of.Constitution, formation of the; facsimile of first lines;  first ten amendments; text of, Appendix."Constitution," the frigate, chased by a British fleet;  and the "Guerriere."Constitutional Union Party.Continental Congress, first; second.Coronade, in the Southwest.Cotton gin.Cowpens, battle of.Crawford, William H., defeated for the Presidency.Creek War.Critical Period.Crittenden Compromise.Cromwell, Oliver, and the colonies.Cuba, rebellions in (1867-77); (1894-98).Dale, Sir Thomas.Davis, Jefferson.Decatur, Stephen, portrait; in Algerine War.Declaration of Independence.Declaratory Act.Democratic Party.Detroit, surrender of.Dewey, Admiral.Dickinson, John.Douglas, Stephen A., Kansas-Nebraska Act; debate with Lincoln;  defeated for Presidency; comes out for the Union.Draft Riots.Drake, Sir Francis, his great voyage.Dred Scott Decision.Duquesne, Fort.Dutch Colonies.Elections, presidential, of 1800; of 1824; of 1840; of 1844;  of 1848; of 1852; of 1856; of 1860; of 1868; of 1872;  of 1876; of 1880; of 1884; of 1888; of 1892; of 1896.Electoral Commission.Embargo, Jefferson's.Era of Good Feeling.Ericson, Leif (Life er'ik-son).Ericsson, John.Erie Canal.Farragut, Admiral D.G., portrait; at New Orleans.Federal Ratio.Federalist Party.Fifteenth Amendment.Fillmore, Millard, portrait; chosen Vice-President; becomes President.Florida, discovered; settled; purchased.Fourteenth Amendment.France, explorers and colonists of; colonists conquered by British;  recognizes independence of the United States;  influence of revolution in, on America; controversy.Franklin, Benjamin, portrait; early life of; examined by House of  Commons; Minister to France; in Federal Convention.Fredericksburg, battle of.Free Soil Party.Freeman's Farm, battles of.Fremont, John C.; portrait; in California; defeated for the Presidency.Fugitive Slave Act.Fulton, Robert.Gadsden Purchase.Gag Resolutions.Gage, British general.Gama, da (dae gae'mae).Garfield, J. A.; elected President; murdered.Garrison, W. L.Gates, General; in Burgoyne's campaign; defeated at Camden.Genet, French Minister.Georgia, settlement of.Gettysburg, battle of.Ghent, Treaty of.Grant, General U.S.; portrait; seizes Cairo; captures Fort Donelson;  at Shiloh; captures Vicksburg; at Chattanooga; Lieutenant-General;  his Virginia Campaign; elected President; reelected President.Great Britain; Treaty of 1783; Jay's Treaty; Treaty of Ghent;  Treaty of 1842; Oregon Treaty; Alabama claims.Greeley, Horace; portrait; on secession; defeated for Presidency.Greene, General, his Southern Campaigns.Grenville, George.Guilford, battle of.Hamilton, Alexander; Secretary of the Treasury; his financial policy;  his constitutional ideas; intrigues against Adams.Harrison, Benjamin, elected President.Harrison, General W.H.; at Tippecanoe; elected President; his death.Hartford Convention.Harvester, the.Hawaii annexed.Hawkins, Sir John.Hayes, R.B., elected President.Henry, Patrick; portrait; Parson's Cause; his Stamp Act Resolutions;  in Continental Congress; opposes Constitution.Hood, Confederate general.Hooker, General Joseph.Hudson, Henry.Impressment.Iroquois.Jackson, General Andrew; portrait; a Creek War; defends New Orleans;  candidate for Presidency; elected President; his administration.Jamestown, founded.Jay, John.Jay's Treaty.Jefferson, Thomas; portrait; writes Declaration of Independence;  Secretary of State; his constitutional ideas; Vice-President;  writes Kentucky Resolutions; elected President; his administrations.Johnson, Andrew; portrait; President; his reconstruction policy;  impeached.Johnston, Confederate general.Judiciary Act of 1801.Kansas, struggle for.Kansas-Nebraska Act.Kentucky Resolutions.Kieft, Dutch governor.King Philip's War.King's Mountain, battle of.Lake Erie, battle of.La Salle, his explorations.Lee, R. E., Confederate general.Lee, R. H.Leon, Ponce de.Lewis and Clark.Lexington, battle of."Liberty," the, seized.Lincoln, Abraham; portrait; early life; Debate with Douglas;  elected President; first inaugural; Emancipation Proclamation;  murdered; reconstruction policy.Livingston, R. R.; portrait; negotiates Louisiana Purchase.Locomotive invented.Louisiana; settlement of; ceded to Spain; returned to France;  purchased by United States.Loyalists.Lundy's Lane, battle of.Madison, James; portrait; in Federal convention;  writes Virginia Resolutions; President; his war message.Magellan, his great voyage."Maine," destruction of the.Manhattan Island.Manila Bay, battle of.Manila, captured.Maryland Toleration Act.Mason and Dixon's Line.Massachusetts Circular Letter.Mayflower compact.McClellan, General G.B.; portrait; Peninsular Campaign; at Antietam.McCormick, C.H., invents horse reaper.McKinley, William; portrait; President.Meade, General G.G.Menendez (mae-nen'deth).Mexico; War with; the French in.Missouri Compromise."Monitor" and "Merrimac."Monmouth, battle of.Monroe Doctrine.Monroe, James; portrait; negotiates Louisiana Purchase; President.Morgan, General D..Morse, S.F.B.Moultrie, General.Murfreesboro', battle of.Nashville, battle of.National debt; origin of; Jefferson and the.Neutral commerce.Neutrality Proclamation.New Amsterdam.New England colonies, settlement of.New England Confederation.New Jersey.New Netherland.New Orleans; defended by Jackson; captured by Farragut.New Sweden.New York City; in 1800; in 1830; in 1860.Non-Conformists.Non-Importation agreements.Non-Intercourse Act.North Carolina.Nullification.Oglethorpe, General.Ordinance of 1787.Oregon; claims to; divided.Oriskany, battle of.Otis, James.Pacific Ocean, discovered.Panic; of 1837; of 1873.Paris; Peace of (1763); (1783).Parson's cause.Parties, political, formation of.Peninsular Campaign.Penn, William.Pennsylvania, settlement of.Pequod War.Perry, Commodore.Petersburg, blockade of.Petition, right of.Philadelphia.Pierce, Franklin; portrait; President; comes out for the Union.Pilgrims.Pitt, William.Plattsburg, battle of.Plymouth, settlement of.Polk, James K.; portrait; President.Polo, Marco.Pope, General John.Porto Rico, occupied.President, how chosen.Princeton, battle of.Proclamation of 1763.Providence, founded.Puritans, the.Quakers.Quebec Act.Quebec; founded; captured.Railroads, growth of.Ralegh, Sir Walter.Reaper, the horse.Reconstruction Acts.Religion.Republican Party; of Jefferson; of Lincoln.Revolutionary War, campaigns of.Rhode Island, settlement of.Ribault (re'bo'), French explorer.Rockingham Ministry.Rosecrans, General.St. Augustine, founded.Sampson, Admiral.Sandys, Sir Edwin.Santiago.Saratoga, Burgoyne's surrender at.Schuyler. General.Scott, General Winfield; his Mexican campaign; defeated for Presidency;  views on secession.Secession.Separatists.Seward, W.H.; portrait; on Kansas.Shays's Rebellion.Sheridan, General Philip; portrait; at Chickamauga; in Virginia;  his Valley Campaigns.Sherman, General W.T.; portrait; at Chattanooga; captures Atlanta;  the march through Georgia; the march through the Carolinas.Shiloh, battle of.Slavery; in Virginia; compromises; Missouri Compromise;  petitions in Congress; Compromise of 1850; abolished.Soto, de (dae so'to) in the Southeast.South Carolina; settlement of; nullification in; secession of.Spain; pioneers of; Treaty with (1795); War with.Spotsylvania, battle of."Squatter Sovereignty."Stamp Act.Stamp Act Congress.Stark, General.Steamboat, the.Stephen, A. H.Steuben, Baron.Stowe, Mrs. H.B.Stuart Tyranny in the colonies.Stuyvesant, Dutch governor.Sumter, fall of Fort.Tariffs; 1789; of 1816, 1824, 1828; the Compromise; McKinley; Dingley.Taylor, General Zachary; portrait; his Mexican Campaign; President;  death.Tea Tax.Tecumseh or Tecumthe.Telegraph, the.Tenure of Office Acts; Crawford's; of 1867.Texas; Republic of; admitted to the Union.Thirteenth Amendment.Thomas, General George H.; portrait; his services.Ticonderoga.Tippecanoe, battle of.Townshend Acts, the.Treaties; 1778 (with France); 1783 (with Great Britain); Jay's Treaty;  1795 (with Spain); 1800 (with France); Louisiana Purchase; of Ghent;  Florida Purchase; 1842 (with Great Britain); Oregon Treaty;  1848 (with Mexico); Gadsden Purchase; 1898 (with Spain).Trent Affair.Trenton, battle of.Twelfth Amendment.Tyler, John; portrait; Vice-President; President.United States, area and population of; in 1800; in 1830; in 1860.Van Buren, Martin; President; defeated for Presidency.Verrazano (ver-rae-tsae'no).Vespucius, Americus; portrait; his voyages.Vicksburg, Campaign of.Vinland.Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions.Virginia Resolves of 1769.Virginia, settlement of.War of 1812.Washington, George; portrait; his early life; first campaign;  on the Boston Post Act; in Continental Congress;  in Revolutionary War; in Federal Convention; President;  his neutrality proclamation; farewell address; death.Washington City.Webster, Daniel; portrait; his reply to Hayne.Webster, Noah, portrait; his Dictionary.Whig Party, the.Whiskey Insurrection.Whitney.Wilderness, battle of the.Williams, Roger.Wilmot Proviso.Wolfe, General.Writs of Assistance.X.Y.Z. Affair.Yorktown, capture of.DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE_In Congress, July 4, 1776_,THE UNANIMOUS DECLARATION OF THE THIRTEEN UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary for one peopleto dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another,and to assume among the Powers of the earth, the separate and equalstation to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them, adecent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they shoulddeclare the causes which impel them to the separation.We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal,that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights,that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. That tosecure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, derivingtheir just powers from the consent of the governed, That whenever anyForm of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right ofthe People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government,laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers insuch form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety andHappiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that Governments longestablished should not be changed for light and transient causes; andaccordingly all experience hath shown, that mankind are more disposed tosuffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves byabolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. But when a long trainof abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same Object evinces adesign to reduce them under absolute Despotism, it is their right, it istheir duty, to throw off such Government, and to provide new Guards fortheir future security.--Such has been the patient sufferance of theseColonies; and such is now the necessity which constrains them to altertheir former Systems of Government. The history of the present King ofGreat Britain is a history of repeated injuries and usurpations, allhaving in direct object the establishment of an absolute Tyranny overthese States. To prove this, let Facts be submitted to a candid world.He has refused his Assent to Laws, the most wholesome and necessary forthe public good.He has forbidden his Governors to pass Laws of immediate and pressingimportance, unless suspended in their operation till his Assent shouldbe obtained; and when so suspended, he has utterly neglected toattend to them.He has refused to pass other Laws for the accommodation of largedistricts of people, unless those people would relinquish the right ofRepresentation in the Legislature, a right inestimable to them andformidable to tyrants only.He has called together legislative bodies at places unusual,uncomfortable, and distant from the depository of their Public Records,for the sole purpose of fatiguing them into compliance withhis measures.He has dissolved Representative Houses repeatedly, for opposing withmanly firmness his invasions on the rights of the people.He has refused for a long time, after such dissolutions, to cause othersto be elected; whereby the Legislative Powers, incapable ofAnnihilation, have returned to the People at large for their exercise;the State remaining in the mean time exposed to all the dangers ofinvasion from without, and convulsions within.He has endeavoured to prevent the population of these States; for thatpurpose obstructing the Laws of Naturalization of Foreigners; refusingto pass others to encourage their migration hither, and raising theconditions of new Appropriations of Lands.He has obstructed the Administration of Justice, by refusing his Assentto Laws for establishing Judiciary Powers.He has made Judges dependent on his Will alone, for the tenure of theiroffices, and the amount and payment of their salaries.He has erected a multitude of New Offices, and sent hither swarms ofOfficers to harass our People, and eat out their substance.He has kept among us, in times of peace, Standing Armies without theConsent of our legislature.He has affected to render the Military independent of and superior tothe Civil Power.He has combined with others to subject us to a jurisdiction foreign toour constitution, and unacknowledged by our laws; giving his Assent totheir acts of pretended legislation:For quartering large bodies of armed troops among us:For protecting them, by a mock Trial, from Punishment for any Murderswhich they should commit on the Inhabitants of these States:For cutting off our Trade with all parts of the world:For imposing taxes on us without our Consent:For depriving us in many cases, of the benefits of Trial by Jury:For transporting us beyond Seas to be tried for pretended offences:For abolishing the free System of English Laws in a neighbouringProvince, establishing therein an Arbitrary government, and enlargingits Boundaries so as to render it at once an example and fit instrumentfor introducing the same absolute rule into these Colonies:For taking away our Charters, abolishing our most valuable Laws, andaltering fundamentally the Forms of our Governments:For suspending our own Legislature, and declaring themselves investedwith Power to legislate for us in all cases whatsoever.He has abdicated Government here, by declaring us out of his Protectionand waging War against us.He has plundered our seas, ravaged our Coasts, burnt our towns, anddestroyed the lives of our people.He is at this time transporting large armies of foreign mercenaries tocompleat the works of death, desolation and tyranny, already begun withcircumstances of Cruelty & perfidy scarcely paralleled in the mostbarbarous ages, and totally unworthy the Head of a civilized nation.He has constrained our fellow Citizens taken Captive on the high Seas tobear Arms against their Country, to become the executioners of theirfriends and Brethren, or to fall themselves by their Hands.He has excited domestic insurrections amongst us, and has endeavoured tobring on the inhabitants of our frontiers, the merciless Indian Savages,whose known rule of warfare, is an undistinguished destruction of allages, sexes and conditions.In every stage of these Oppressions We have Petitioned for Redress inthe most humble terms: Our repeated Petitions have been answered only byrepeated injury. A Prince, whose character is thus marked by every actwhich may define a Tyrant, is unfit to be the ruler of a free People.Nor have We been wanting in attention to our Brittish brethren. We havewarned them from time to time of attempts by their legislature to extendan unwarrantable jurisdiction over us. We have reminded them of thecircumstances of our emigration and settlement here. We have appealed totheir native justice and magnanimity, and we have conjured them by theties of our common kindred to disavow these usurpations, which, wouldinevitably interrupt our connections and correspondence. They too havebeen deaf to the voice of justice and of consanguinity. We must,therefore, acquiesce in the necessity, which denounces our Separation,and hold them, as we hold the rest of mankind, Enemies in War, inPeace Friends.We, therefore, the Representatives of the united States of America, inGeneral Congress, Assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the worldfor the rectitude of our intentions, do in the Name, and by Authorityof the good People of these Colonies, solemnly publish and declare, Thatthese United Colonies are, and of Right ought to be Free and IndependentStates; that they are Absolved from all Allegiance to the British Crown,and that all political connection between them and the State of GreatBritain, is and ought to be totally dissolved; and that as Free andIndependent States, they have full Power to levy War, conclude Peace,contract Alliances, establish Commerce, and to do all other Acts andThings which Independent States may of right do. And for the support ofthis Declaration, with a firm reliance on the Protection of DivineProvidence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes andour sacred Honor.JOHN HANCOCK._New Hampshire_--JOSIAH BARTLETT, WM. WHIPPLE, MATTHEW THORNTON._Massachusetts Bay_--SAML. ADAMS, JOHN ADAMS, ROBT. TREAT PAINE,ELBRIDGE GERRY._Rhode Island_--STEP. HOPKINS, WILLIAM ELLERY._Connecticut_--ROGER SHERMAN, SAM'EL HUNTINGTON, WM. WILLIAMS, OLIVERWOLCOTT._New York_--WM. FLOYD, PHIL. LIVINGSTON, FRANS. LEWIS, LEWIS MORRIS._New Jersey_--RICHD. STOCKTON, JNO. WITHERSPOON, FRAS. HOPKINSON, JOHNHART, ABRA. CLARK._Pennsylvania_--ROBT. MORRIS, BENJAMIN RUSH, BENJA. FRANKLIN, JOHNMORTON, GEO. CLYMER, JAS. SMITH, GEO. TAYLOR, JAMES WILSON, GEO. ROSS._Delaware_-CAESAR RODNEY, GEO. READ, THO. M'KEAN._Maryland_--SAMUEL CHASE, WM. PACA, THOS. STONE, CHARLES CARROLL ofCarrollton._Virginia_--GEORGE WYTHE, RICHARD HENRY LEE, TH. JEFFERSON, BENJA.HARRISON, THOS. NELSON, jr., FRANCIS LIGHTFOOT LEE, CARTER BRAXTON._North Carolina_--WM. HOOPER, JOSEPH HEWES, JOHN PENN._South Carolina_--EDWARD RUTLEDGE, THOS. HEYWARD, Junr., THOMAS LYNCH,Junr., ARTHUR MIDDLETON._Georgia_--BUTTON GWINNETT, LYMAN HALL, GEO. WALTON.[2][2] This arrangement of the names is made for convenience. The Statesare not mentioned in the original.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Short History of the United Statesby Edward Channing*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HISTORY OF THE U.S. ******** This file should be named 12423.txt or 12423.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/2/4/2/12423/Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Keren Vergon, Charlie Kirschner andthe Online Distributed Proofreading Team.Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALLThe Project Gutenberg EBook of Rousseau, by John MorleyThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: Rousseau       Volumes I. and II.Author: John MorleyRelease Date: January 25, 2006 [EBook #14052]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ROUSSEAU ***Produced by Paul Murray, Charlie Kirschner (Vol. 1), LindaCantoni (Vol. 2), and the Online Distributed ProofreadingTeam at http://www.pgdp.netROUSSEAUBYJOHN MORLEYVOLUMES I. and II.LondonMACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITEDNEW YORK: THE MACMILLAN COMPANY1905_All rights reserved__First printed in this form 1886__Reprinted 1888, 1891, 1896, 1900, 1905_VOL. I.NOTE TO THE FIRST EDITION.This work differs from its companion volume in offering something morelike a continuous personal history than was necessary in the case ofsuch a man as Voltaire, the story of whose life may be found in morethan one English book of repute. Of Rousseau there is, I believe, nofull biographical account in our literature, and even France has nothingmore complete under this head than Musset-Pathay's _Histoire de la Vieet des Ouvrages de J.J. Rousseau_ (1821). This, though a meritoriouspiece of labour, is extremely crude and formless in composition andarrangement, and the interpreting portions are devoid of interest.The edition of Rousseau's works to which the references have been madeis that by M. Auguis, in twenty-seven volumes, published in 1825 byDalibon. In 1865 M. Streckeisen-Moultou published from the originals,which had been deposited in the library of Neuchatel by Du Peyrou, theletters addressed to Rousseau by various correspondents. These twointeresting volumes, which are entitled _Rousseau, ses Amis et sesEnnemis_, are mostly referred to under the name of their editor._February_, 1873.       *       *       *       *       *The second edition in 1878 was revised; some portions were considerablyshortened, and a few additional footnotes inserted. No further changeshave been made in the present edition._January_, 1886.CONTENTS OF VOL. I.CHAPTER I.PRELIMINARY.                                                           PAGEThe Revolution                                                1Rousseau its most direct speculative precursor                2His distinction among revolutionists                          4His personality                                               5CHAPTER II.YOUTH.Birth and descent                                             8Predispositions                                              10First lessons                                                11At M. Lambercier's                                           15Early disclosure of sensitive temperament                    19Return to Geneva                                             20Two apprenticeships                                          26Flight from Geneva                                           30Savoyard proselytisers                                       31Rousseau sent to Anncey, and thence to Turin                 34Conversion to Catholicism                                    35Takes service with Madame de Vercellis                       39Then with the Count de Gouvon                                42Returns to vagabondage                                       43And to Madame de Warens                                      45CHAPTER III.SAVOY.Influence of women upon Rousseau                             46Account of Madame de Warens                                  48Rousseau takes up his abode with her                         54His delight in life with her                                 54The seminarists                                              57To Lyons                                                     58Wanderings to Freiburg, Neuchatel, and elsewhere             60Through the east of France                                   62Influence of these wanderings upon him                       67Chamberi                                                     69Household of Madame de Warens                                70Les Charmettes                                               73Account of his feeling for nature                            79His intellectual incapacity at this time                     83Temperament                                                  84Literary interests, and method                               85Joyful days with his benefactress                            90To Montpellier: end of an episode                            92Dates                                                        94CHAPTER IV.THERESA LE VASSEUR.Tutorship at Lyons                                           95Goes to Paris in search of fortune                           97His appearance at this time                                  98Made secretary to the ambassador at Venice                  100His journey thither and life there                          103Return to Paris                                             106Theresa Le Vasseur                                          107Character of their union                                    110Rousseau's conduct towards her                              113Their later estrangements                                   115Rousseau's scanty means                                     119Puts away his five children                                 120His apologies for the crime                                 122Their futility                                              126Attempts to recover the children                            128Rousseau never married to Theresa                           129Contrast between outer and inner life                       130CHAPTER V.THE DISCOURSES.Local academies in France                                   132Circumstances of the composition of the first Discourse     133How far the paradox was original                            135His visions for thirteen years                              136Summary of the first Discourse                          138-145Obligations to Montaigne                                    145And to the Greeks                                           145Semi-Socratic manner                                        147Objections to the Discourse                                 148Ways of stating its positive side                           149Dangers of exaggerating this positive side                  151Its excess                                                  152Second Discourse                                            154Ideas of the time upon the state of nature                  155Their influence upon Rousseau                               156Morelly, as his predecessor                                 156Summary of the second Discourse                         159-170Criticism of its method                                     171Objection from its want of evidence                         172Other objections to its account of primitive nature         173Takes uniformity of process for granted                     176In what the importance of the second Discourse consisted    177Its protest against the mockery of civilisation             179The equality of man, how true, and how false                180This doctrine in France, and in America                     182Rousseau's Discourses, a reaction against the historic    method                                                  183Mably, and socialism                                        184CHAPTER VI.PARIS.Influence of Geneva upon Rousseau                           187Two sides of his temperament                                191Uncongenial characteristics of Parisian society             191His associates                                              195Circumstances of a sudden moral reform                      196Arising from his violent repugnance for the manners of    the time                                                202His assumption of a seeming cynicism                        207Protests against atheism                                    209The Village Soothsayer at Fontainebleau                     212Two anedotes of his moral singularity                       214Revisits Geneva                                             216End of Madame de Warens                                     217Rousseau's re-conversion to Protestantism                   220The religious opinions then current in Geneva               223Turretini and other rationalisers                           226Effect upon Rousseau                                        227Thinks of taking up his abode in Geneva                     227Madame d'Epinay offers him the Hermitage                    229Retires thither against the protests of his friends         231CHAPTER VII.THE HERMITAGE.Distinction between the old and the new anchorite           234Rousseau's first days at the Hermitage                      235Rural delirium                                              237Dislike of society                                          242Meditates work on Sensitive Morality                        243Arranges the papers of the Abbe de Saint Pierre             244His remarks on them                                         246Violent mental crisis                                       247First conception of the New Heloisa                         250A scene of high morals                                      254Madame d'Houdetot                                           255Erotic mania becomes intensified                            256Interviews with Madame d'Houdetot                           258Saint Lambert interposes                                    262Rousseau's letter to Saint Lambert                          264Its profound falsity                                        265Saint Lambert's reply                                       267Final relations with him and with Madame d'Houdetot         268Sources of Rousseau's irritability                          270Relations with Diderot                                      273With Madame d'Epinay                                        276With Grimm                                                  279Grimm's natural want of sympathy with Rousseau              282Madame d'Epinay's journey to Geneva                         284Occasion of Rousseau's breach with Grimm                    285And with Madame d'Epinay                                    288Leaves the Hermitage                                        289CHAPTER VIII.MUSIC.General character of Rousseau's aim in music                291As composer                                                 292Contest on the comparative merits of French and Italian    music                                                   293Rousseau's Letter on French Music                           293His scheme of musical notation                              296Its chief element                                           298Its practical value                                         299His mistake                                                 300Two minor objections                                        300CHAPTER IX.VOLTAIRE AND D'ALEMBERT.Position of Voltaire                                        302General differences between him and Rousseau                303Rousseau not the profounder of the two                      305But he had a spiritual element                              305Their early relations                                       308Voltaire's poem on the Earthquake of Lisbon                 309Rousseau's wonder that he should have written it            310His letter to Voltaire upon it                              311Points to the advantages of the savage state                312Reproduces Pope's general position                          313Not an answer to the position taken by Voltaire             314Confesses the question insoluble, but still argues          316Curious close of the letter                                 318Their subsequent relations                                  319D'Alembert's article on Geneva                              321The church and the theatre                                  322Jeremy Collier: Bossuet                                     323Rousseau's contention on stage plays                        324Rude handling of commonplace                                325The true answer to Rousseau as to theory of dramatic    morality                                                326His arguments relatively to Geneva                          327Their meaning                                               328Criticism on the Misanthrope                                328Rousseau's contrast between Paris and an imaginary Geneva   329Attack on love as a poetic theme                            332This letter, the mark of his schism from the party of the    philosophers                                            336JEAN JACQUES ROUSSEAUBorn                                                     1712Fled from Geneva                           _March_, 1728Changes religion at Turin                  _April_,  "With Madame de Warens, including various    intervals, until                       _April_, 1740Goes to Paris with musical schemes                       1741Secretary at Venice                       _Spring_, 1743Paris, first as secretary to M. Francueil, then  {       1744    as composer, and copyist                     {        to                                                 {       1756The Hermitage                            _April 9_, 1756Montmorency                              _Dec. 15_, 1757Yverdun                                  _June 14_, 1762Motiers-Travers                          _July 10_, 1762Isle of St. Peter                          _Sept._, 1765Strasburg                                   _Nov._,  "Paris                                   _December_,  "Arrives in England                       _Jan. 13_, 1766Leaves Dover                              _May 22_, 1767Fleury                                      _June_,  "Trye                                        _July_,  "Dauphiny                                    _Aug._, 1768Paris                                       _June_, 1770Death                                     _July 2_, 1778PRINCIPAL WRITINGS.Discourse on the Influence of Learning and    Art                                           PUBLISHED 1750Discourse on Inequality                               "     1754Letter to D'Alembert                                  "     1758New Heloisa (began 1757, finished in winter    of 1759-60)                                       "     1761Social Contract                                       "     1762Emilius                                               "     1762Letters from the Mountain                             "     1764Confessions (written 1766-70)                     {  Pt. I  1781                                                  {  Pt. II 1788Reveries (written 1777-78).     _Comme dans les etangs assoupis sous les bois,     Dans plus d'une ame on voit deux choses a la fois:     Le ciel, qui teint les eaux a peine remuees     Avec tous ses rayons et toutes ses nuees;     Et la vase, fond morne, affreux, sombre et dormant,     Ou des reptiles noirs fourmillent vaguement._                                                 HUGO.ROUSSEAU.CHAPTER I.PRELIMINARY.Christianity is the name for a great variety of changes which took placeduring the first centuries of our era, in men's ways of thinking andfeeling about their spiritual relations to unseen powers, about theirmoral relations to one another, about the basis and type of socialunion. So the Revolution is now the accepted name for a set of changeswhich began faintly to take a definite practical shape first in America,and then in France, towards the end of the eighteenth century; they hadbeen directly prepared by a small number of energetic thinkers, whosespeculations represented, as always, the prolongation of some old linesof thought in obedience to the impulse of new social and intellectualconditions. While one movement supplied the energy and the principleswhich extricated civilisation from the ruins of the Roman empire, theother supplies the energy and the principles which already once, betweenthe Seven Years' War and the assembly of the States General, savedhuman progress in face of the political fatuity of England and thepolitical nullity of France; and they are now, amid the distraction ofthe various representatives of an obsolete ordering, the only forces tobe trusted at once for multiplying the achievements of humanintelligence stimulated by human sympathy, and for diffusing theirbeneficent results with an ampler hand and more far-scattering arm.Faith in a divine power, devout obedience to its supposed will, hope ofecstatic, unspeakable reward, these were the springs of the oldmovement. Undivided love of our fellows, steadfast faith in humannature, steadfast search after justice, firm aspiration towardsimprovement, and generous contentment in the hope that others may reapwhatever reward may be, these are the springs of the new.There is no given set of practical maxims agreed to by all members ofthe revolutionary schools for achieving the work of release from thepressure of an antiquated social condition, any more than there is oneset of doctrines and one kind of discipline accepted by all Protestants.Voltaire was a revolutionist in one sense, Diderot in another, andRousseau in a third, just as in the practical order, Lafayette, Danton,Robespierre, represented three different aspirations and as manymethods. Rousseau was the most directly revolutionary of all thespeculative precursors, and he was the first to apply his mind boldly tothose of the social conditions which the revolution is concerned by onesolution or another to modify. How far his direct influence wasdisastrous in consequence of a mischievous method, we shall have toexamine. It was so various that no single answer can comprehend anexhaustive judgment. His writings produced that glow of enthusiasticfeeling in France, which led to the all-important assistance rendered bythat country to the American colonists in a struggle so momentous formankind. It was from his writings that the Americans took the ideas andthe phrases of their great charter, thus uniting the native principlesof their own direct Protestantism with principles that were strictlyderivative from the Protestantism of Geneva. Again, it was his work morethan that of any other one man, that France arose from the deadly decaywhich had laid hold of her whole social and political system, and foundthat irresistible energy which warded off dissolution within andpartition from without. We shall see, further, that besides being thefirst immediately revolutionary thinker in politics, he was the moststirring of reactionists in religion. His influence formed not onlyRobespierre and Paine, but Chateaubriand, not only Jacobinism, but theCatholicism of the Restoration. Thus he did more than any one else atonce to give direction to the first episodes of revolution, and force tothe first episode of reaction.There are some teachers whose distinction is neither correct thought,nor an eye for the exigencies of practical organisation, but simplydepth and fervour of the moral sentiment, bringing with it theindefinable gift of touching many hearts with love of virtue and thethings of the spirit. The Christian organisations which saved westernsociety from dissolution owe all to St. Paul, Hildebrand, Luther,Calvin; but the spiritual life of the west during all these generationshas burnt with the pure flame first lighted by the sublime mystic of theGalilean hills. Aristotle acquired for men much knowledge and manyinstruments for gaining more; but it is Plato, his master, who moves thesoul with love of truth and enthusiasm for excellence. There is peril inall such leaders of souls, inasmuch as they incline men to substitutewarmth for light, and to be content with aspiration where they needdirection. Yet no movement goes far which does not count one of them inthe number of its chiefs. Rousseau took this place among those whoprepared the first act of that revolutionary drama, whose fifth act isstill dark to us.At the heart of the Revolution, like a torrid stream flowingundiscernible amid the waters of a tumbling sea, is a new way ofunderstanding life. The social changes desired by the various assailantsof the old order are only the expression of a deeper change in moralidea, and the drift of the new moral idea is to make life simpler. Thisin a sense is at the bottom of all great religious and moral movements,and the Revolution emphatically belongs to the latter class. Like suchmovements in the breast of the individual, those which stir an epochhave their principle in the same craving for disentanglement of life.This impulse to shake off intricacies is the mark of revolutionarygenerations, and it was the starting-point of all Rousseau's mentalhabits, and of the work in which they expressed themselves. His mindmoved outwards from this centre, and hence the fact that he dealtprincipally with government and education, the two great agencies which,in an old civilisation with a thousand roots and feelers, surroundexternal life and internal character with complexity. Simplification ofreligion by clearing away the overgrowth of errors, simplification ofsocial relations by equality, of literature and art by constant returnto nature, of manners by industrious homeliness and thrift,--this is therevolutionary process and ideal, and this is the secret of Rousseau'shold over a generation that was lost amid the broken maze offallen systems.       *       *       *       *       *The personality of Rousseau has most equivocal and repulsive sides. Ithas deservedly fared ill in the esteem of the saner and more rational ofthose who have judged him, and there is none in the history of famousmen and our spiritual fathers that begat us, who make more constantdemands on the patience or pity of those who study his life. Yet in noother instance is the common eagerness to condense all predication abouta character into a single unqualified proposition so fatally inadequate.If it is indispensable that we should be for ever describing, naming,classifying, at least it is well, in speaking of such a nature as his,to enlarge the vocabulary beyond the pedantic formulas of unreal ethics,and to be as sure as we know how to make ourselves, that each of thesympathies and faculties which together compose our power of spiritualobservation, is in a condition of free and patient energy. Any less openand liberal method, which limits our sentiments to absolute approval ordisapproval, and fixes the standard either at the balance of commonqualities which constitutes mediocrity, or at the balance of uncommonqualities which is divinity as in a Shakespeare, must leave in a cloudof blank incomprehensibleness those singular spirits who come from timeto time to quicken the germs of strange thought and shake the quietnessof the earth.We may forget much in our story that is grievous or hateful, inreflecting that if any man now deems a day basely passed in which he hasgiven no thought to the hard life of garret and hovel, to the forlornchildren and trampled women of wide squalid wildernesses in cities, itwas Rousseau who first in our modern time sounded a new trumpet note forone more of the great battles of humanity. He makes the poor very proud,it was truly said. Some of his contemporaries followed the same vein ofthought, as we shall see, and he was only continuing work which othershad prepared. But he alone had the gift of the golden mouth. It was inRousseau that polite Europe first hearkened to strange voices and faintreverberation from out of the vague and cavernous shadow in which thecommon people move. Science has to feel the way towards light andsolution, to prepare, to organise. But the race owes something to onewho helped to state the problem, writing up in letters of flame at thebrutal feast of kings and the rich that civilisation is as yet only amockery, and did furthermore inspire a generation of men and women withthe stern resolve that they would rather perish than live on in a worldwhere such things can be.CHAPTER II.YOUTH.Jean Jacques Rousseau was born at Geneva, June 28, 1712. He was of oldFrench stock. His ancestors had removed from Paris to the famous city ofrefuge as far back as 1529, a little while before Farel came thither toestablish the principles of the Reformation, and seven years before thefirst visit of the more extraordinary man who made Geneva the mothercity of a new interpretation of Christianity, as Rome was the mothercity of the old. Three generations in a direct line separated JeanJacques from Didier Rousseau, the son of a Paris bookseller, and thefirst emigrant.[1] Thus Protestant tradition in the Rousseau familydates from the appearance of Protestantism in Europe, and seems to haveexerted the same kind of influence upon them as it did, in conjunctionwith the rest of the surrounding circumstances, upon the other citizensof the ideal state of the Reformation. It is computed by the historiansthat out of three thousand families who composed the population ofGeneva towards the end of the seventeenth century, there were hardlyfifty who before the Reformation had acquired the position ofburgess-ship. The curious set of conditions which thus planted a colonyof foreigners in the midst of a free polity, with a new doctrine andnewer discipline, introduced into Europe a fresh type of character andmanners. People declared they could recognise in the men of Genevaneither French vivacity, nor Italian subtlety and clearness, nor Swissgravity. They had a zeal for religion, a vigorous energy in government,a passion for freedom, a devotion to ingenious industries, which markedthem with a stamp unlike that of any other community.[2] Towards theclose of the seventeenth century some of the old austerity and rudenesswas sensibly modified under the influence of the great neighbouringmonarchy. One striking illustration of this tendency was the rapiddecline of the Savoyard patois in popular use. The movement had not gonefar enough when Rousseau was born, to take away from the manners andspirit of his country their special quality and individual note.The mother of Jean Jacques, who seems to have been a simple, cheerful,and tender woman, was the daughter of a Genevan minister; her maidenname, Bernard. The birth of her son was fatal to her, and the mosttouching and pathetic of all the many shapes of death was the fitbeginning of a life preappointed to nearly unlifting cloud. "I cost mymother her life," he wrote, "and my birth was the first of my woes."[3]Destiny thus touches us with magical finger, long before consciousnessawakens to the forces that have been set to work in our personality,launching us into the universe with country, forefathers, and physicalpredispositions, all fixed without choice of ours. Rousseau was borndying, and though he survived this first crisis by the affectionate careof one of his father's sisters, yet his constitution remained infirm anddisordered.Inborn tendencies, as we perceive on every side, are far from havingunlimited irresistible mastery, if they meet early encounter from somewise and patient external will. The father of Rousseau was unfortunatelycast in the same mould as his mother, and the child's own morbidsensibility was stimulated and deepened by the excessive sensibility ofhis first companion. Isaac Rousseau, in many of his traits, was areversion to an old French type. In all the Genevese there was anunderlying tendency of this kind. "Under a phlegmatic and cool air,"wrote Rousseau, when warning his countrymen against the inflammatoryeffects of the drama, "the Genevese hide an ardent and sensitivecharacter, that is more easily moved than controlled."[4] And some ofthe episodes in their history during the eighteenth century might betaken for scenes from the turbulent dramas of Paris. But IsaacRousseau's restlessness, his eager emotion, his quick and punctilioussense of personal dignity, his heedlessness of ordered affairs, were notcommon in Geneva, fortunately for the stability of her society and theprosperity of her citizens. This disorder of spirit descended inmodified form to the son; it was inevitable that he should be indirectlyaffected by it. Before he was seven years old he had learnt from hisfather to indulge a passion for the reading of romances. The child andthe man passed whole nights in a fictitious world, reading to oneanother in turn, absorbed by vivid interest in imaginary situations,until the morning note of the birds recalled them to a sense of theconditions of more actual life, and made the elder cry out in confusionthat he was the more childish of the two.The effect of this was to raise passion to a premature exaltation in theyoung brain. "I had no idea of real things," he said, "though all thesentiments were already familiar to me. Nothing had come to me byconception, everything by sensation. These confused emotions, strikingme one after another, did not warp a reason that I did not yet possess,but they gradually shaped in me a reason of another cast and temper,and gave me bizarre and romantic ideas of human life, of which neitherreflection nor experience has ever been able wholly to cure me."[5] Thusthese first lessons, which have such tremendous influence over all thatfollow, had the direct and fatal effect in Rousseau's case of deadeningthat sense of the actual relations of things to one another in theobjective world, which is the master-key and prime law of sanity.In time the library of romances came to an end (1719), and Jean Jacquesand his father fell back on the more solid and moderated fiction ofhistory and biography. The romances had been the possession of themother; the more serious books were inherited from the old minister, herfather. Such books as Nani's History of Venice, and Le Sueur's Historyof the Church and the Empire, made less impression on the young Rousseauthan the admirable Plutarch; and he used to read to his father duringthe hours of work, and read over again to himself during all hours,those stories of free and indomitable souls which are so proper tokindle the glow of generous fire. Plutarch was dear to him to the end ofhis life; he read him in the late days when he had almost ceased toread, and he always declared Plutarch to be nearly the only author towhom he had never gone without profit."[6] "I think I see my father now,"he wrote when he had begun to make his mark in Paris, "living by thework of his hands, and nourishing his soul on the sublimest truths. Isee Tacitus, Plutarch, and Grotius, lying before him along with thetools of his craft. I see at his side a cherished son receivinginstruction from the best of fathers, alas, with but too littlefruit."[7] This did little to implant the needed impressions of theactual world. Rousseau's first training continued to be in an excessivedegree the exact reverse of our common method; this stirs theimagination too little, and shuts the young too narrowly within thestrait pen of present and visible reality. The reader of Plutarch at theage of ten actually conceived himself a Greek or a Roman, and became thepersonage whose strokes of constancy and intrepidity transported himwith sympathetic ecstasy, made his eyes sparkle, and raised his voice toheroic pitch. Listeners were even alarmed one day as he told the tale ofScaevola at table, to see him imitatively thrust forth his arm over ahot chafing-dish.[8]Rousseau had one brother, on whom the spirit of the father came down inample measure, just as the sensibility of the mother descended upon JeanJacques. He passed through a boyhood of revolt, and finally ran awayinto Germany, where he was lost from sight and knowledge of his kinsmenfor ever. Jean Jacques was thus left virtually an only child,[9] and hecommemorates the homely tenderness and care with which his early yearswere surrounded. Except in the hours which he passed in reading by theside of his father, he was always with his aunt, in the self-satisfyingcuriosity of childhood watching her at work with the needle and busyabout affairs of the house, or else listening to her with contentedinterest, as she sang the simple airs of the common people. Theimpression of this kind and cheerful figure was stamped on his memory tothe end; her tone of voice, her dress, the quaint fashion of her hair.The constant recollection of her shows, among many other signs, how hecherished that conception of the true unity of a man's life, whichplaces it in a closely-linked chain of active memories, and which mostof us lose in wasteful dispersion of sentiment and poor fragmentarinessof days. When the years came in which he might well say, I have nopleasure in them, and after a manhood of distress and suspicion anddiseased sorrows had come to dim those blameless times, he could stilloften surprise himself unconsciously humming the tune of one of hisaunt's old songs, with many tears in his eyes.[10]This affectionate schooling came suddenly to an end. Isaac Rousseau inthe course of a quarrel in which he had involved himself, believed thathe saw unfairness in the operation of the law, for the offender hadkinsfolk in the Great Council. He resolved to leave his country ratherthan give way, in circumstances which compromised his personal honourand the free justice of the republic. So his house was broken up, andhis son was sent to school at the neighbouring village of Bossey (1722),under the care of a minister, "there to learn along with Latin all themedley of sorry stuff with which, under the name of education, theyaccompany Latin."[11] Rousseau tells us nothing of the course of hisintellectual instruction here, but he marks his two years' sojourn underthe roof of M. Lambercier by two forward steps in that fatefulacquaintance with good and evil, which is so much more important thanliterary knowledge. Upon one of these fruits of the tree of nascentexperience, men usually keep strict silence. Rousseau is the only personthat ever lived who proclaimed to the whole world as a part of his ownbiography the ignoble circumstances of the birth of sensuality inboyhood. Nobody else ever asked us to listen while he told of theplaymate with which unwarned youth takes its heedless pleasure, whichwaxes and strengthens with years, until the man suddenly awakens to findthe playmate grown into a master, grotesque and foul, whose unclean gripis not to be shaken off, and who poisons the air with the goatish fumeof the satyr. It is on this side that the unspoken plays so decisive apart, that most of the spoken seems but as dust in the balance; it ishere that the flesh spreads gross clouds over the firmament of thespirit. Thinking of it, we flee from talk about the high matters of willand conscience, of purity of heart and the diviner mind, and hurry tothe physician. Manhood commonly saves itself by its own innatehealthiness, though the decent apron bequeathed to us in the old legendof the fall, the thick veil of a more than legendary reserve, preventsus from really measuring the actual waste of delicacy and the finerforces. Rousseau, most unhappily for himself, lacked this innatehealthiness; he never shook off the demon which would be so ridiculous,if it did not hide such terrible power. With a moral courage, that itneeds hardly less moral courage in the critic firmly to refrain fromcalling cynical or shameless, he has told the whole story of thislifelong depravation. In the present state of knowledge, which in theregion of the human character the false shamefacedness of science, aidedand abetted by the mutilating hand of religious asceticism, has keptcrude and imperfect, there is nothing very profitable to be said on allthis. When the great art of life has been more systematically conceivedin the long processes of time and endeavour, and when more bold,ffective, and far-reaching advance has been made in defining thosepathological manifestations which deserve to be seriously studied, asdistinguished from those of a minor sort which are barely worthregistering, then we should know better how to speak, or how to besilent, in the present most unwelcome instance. As it is, we perhaps dobest in chronicling the fact and passing on. The harmless young areallowed to play without monition or watching among the deep open gravesof temperament; and Rousseau, telling the tale of his inmost experience,unlike the physician and the moralist who love decorous surfaces ofthings, did not spare himself nor others a glimpse of the ignominies towhich the body condemns its high tenant, the soul.[12]The second piece of experience which he acquired at Bossey was theknowledge of injustice and wrongful suffering as things actual andexistent. Circumstances brought him under suspicion of having broken theteeth of a comb which did not belong to him. He was innocent, and noteven the most terrible punishment could wring from him an untrueconfession of guilt. The root of his constancy was not in an abhorrenceof falsehood, which is exceptional in youth, and for which he takes nocredit, but in a furious and invincible resentment against the violentpressure that was unjustly put upon him. "Picture a character, timid anddocile in ordinary life, but ardent, impetuous, indomitable in itspassions; a child always governed by the voice of reason, always treatedwith equity, gentleness, and consideration, who had not even the idea ofinjustice, and who for the first time experiences an injustice soterrible, from the very people whom he most cherishes and respects! Whata confusion of ideas, what disorder of sentiments, what revolution inheart, in brain, in every part of his moral and intellectual being!" Hehad not learnt, any more than other children, either to put himself inthe place of his elders, or to consider the strength of the apparentcase against him. All that he felt was the rigour of a frightfulchastisement for an offence of which he was innocent. And theassociation of ideas was permanent. "This first sentiment of violenceand injustice has remained so deeply engraved in my soul, that all theideas relating to it bring my first emotion back to me; and thissentiment, though only relative to myself in its origin, has taken suchconsistency, and become so disengaged from all personal interest, thatmy heart is inflamed at the sight or story of any wrongful action, justas much as if its effect fell on my own person. When I read of thecruelties of some ferocious tyrant, or the subtle atrocities of somevillain of a priest, I would fain start on the instant to poniard suchwretches, though I were to perish a hundred times for the deed.... Thismovement may be natural to me, and I believe it is so; but the profoundrecollection of the first injustice I suffered was too long and too fastbound up with it, not to have strengthened it enormously."[13]To men who belong to the silent and phlegmatic races like our own, allthis may possibly strike on the ear like a false or strained note. Yet atranquil appeal to the real history of one's own strongest impressionsmay disclose their roots in facts of childish experience, whichremoteness of time has gradually emptied of the burning colour they oncehad. This childish discovery of the existence in his own world of thatinjustice which he had only seen through a glass very darkly in theimaginary world of his reading, was for Rousseau the angry dismissalfrom the primitive Eden, which in one shape and at one time or anotherovertakes all men. "Here," he says, "was the term of the serenity of mychildish days. From this moment I ceased to enjoy a pure happiness, andI feel even at this day that the reminiscence of the delights of myinfancy here comes to an end.... Even the country lost in our eyes thatcharm of sweetness and simplicity which goes to the heart; it seemedsombre and deserted, and was as if covered by a veil, hiding itsbeauties from our sight. We no longer tended our little gardens, ourplants, our flowers. We went no more lightly to scratch the earth,shouting for joy as we discovered the germ of the seed we had sown."Whatever may be the degree of literal truth in the Confessions, thewhole course of Rousseau's life forbids us to pass this passionatedescription by as overcharged or exaggerated. We are conscious in it ofa constitutional infirmity. We perceive an absence of healthy power ofreaction against moral shock. Such shocks are experienced in manyunavoidable forms by all save the dullest natures, when they first comeinto contact with the sharp tooth of outer circumstance. Indeed, a manmust be either miraculously happy in his experiences, or exceptionallyobtuse in observing and feeling, or else be the creature of base andcynical ideals, if life does not to the end continue to bring many arepetition of that first day of incredulous bewilderment. But the urgentdemands for material activity quickly recall the mass of men to normalrelations with their fellows and the outer world. A vehement objectivetemperament, like Voltaire's, is instantly roused by one of thesepenetrative stimuli into angry and tenacious resistance. A proud andcollected soul, like Goethe's, loftily follows its own inner aims,without taking any heed of the perturbations that arise from want ofself-collection in a world still spelling its rudiments. A sensitive anddepressed spirit, like Rousseau's or Cowper's, finds itself without anyof these reacting kinds of force, and the first stroke of cruelty oroppression is the going out of a divine light.Leaving Bossey, Rousseau returned to Geneva, and passed two or threeyears with his uncle, losing his time for the most part, but learningsomething of drawing and something of Euclid, for the former of which heshowed special inclination.[14] It was a question whether he was to bemade a watchmaker, a lawyer, or a minister. His own preference, as hisafter-life might have led us to suppose, was in favour of the last ofthe three; "for I thought it a fine thing," he says, "to preach." Theuncle was a man of pleasure, and as often happens in suchcircumstances, his love of pleasure had the effect of turning his wifeinto a pietist. Their son was Rousseau's constant comrade. "Ourfriendship filled our hearts so amply, that if we were only together,the simplest amusements were a delight." They made kites, cages, bowsand arrows, drums, houses; they spoiled the tools of their grandfather,in trying to make watches like him. In the same cheerful imitativespirit, which is the main feature in childhood when it is not disturbedby excess of literary teaching, after Geneva had been visited by anItalian showman with a troop of marionettes, they made puppets andcomposed comedies for them; and when one day the uncle read aloud anelegant sermon, they abandoned their comedies, and turned with blitheenergy to exhortation. They had glimpses of the rougher side of life inthe biting mockeries of some schoolboys of the neighbourhood. Theseended in appeal to the god of youthful war, who pronounced so plainlyfor the bigger battalions, that the release of their enemies from schoolwas the signal for the quick retreat of our pair within doors. All thisis an old story in every biography written or unwritten. It seldom failsto touch us, either in the way of sympathetic reminiscence, or if lifeshould have gone somewhat too hardly with a man, then in the way ofirony, which is not less real and poetic than the eironeia of a Greekdramatist, for being concerned with more unheroic creatures.And this rough play of the streets always seemed to Rousseau a manlierschooling than the effeminate tendencies which he thought he noticed inGenevese youth in after years. "In my time," he says admiringly,"children were brought up in rustic fashion and had no complexion tokeep.... Timid and modest before the old, they were bold, haughty,combative among themselves; they had no curled locks to be careful of;they defied one another at wrestling, running, boxing. They returnedhome sweating, out of breath, torn; they were true blackguards, if youwill, but they made men who have zeal in their heart to serve theircountry and blood to shed for her. May we be able to say as much one dayof our fine little gentlemen, and may these men at fifteen not turn outchildren at thirty."[15]Two incidents of this period remain to us, described in Rousseau's ownwords, and as they reveal a certain sweetness in which his lifeunhappily did not afterwards greatly abound, it may help our equitablebalance of impressions about him to reproduce them. Every Sunday he usedto spend the day at Paquis at Mr. Fazy's, who had married one of hisaunts, and who carried on the production of printed calicoes. "One day Iwas in the drying-room, watching the rollers of the hot press; theirbrightness pleased my eye; I was tempted to lay my fingers on them, andI was moving them up and down with much satisfaction along the smoothcylinder, when young Fazy placed himself in the wheel and gave it ahalf-quarter turn so adroitly, that I had just the ends of my twolongest fingers caught, but this was enough to crush the tips and tearthe nails. I raised a piercing cry; Fazy instantly turned back thewheel, and the blood gushed from my fingers. In the extremity ofconsternation he hastened to me, embraced me, and besought me to ceasemy cries, or he would be undone. In the height of my own pain, I wastouched by his; I instantly fell silent, we ran to the pond, where hehelped me to wash my fingers and to staunch the blood with moss. Heentreated me with tears not to accuse him; I promised him that I wouldnot, and I kept my word so well that twenty years after no one knew theorigin of the scar. I was kept in bed for more than three weeks, and formore than two months was unable to use my hand. But I persisted that alarge stone had fallen and crushed my fingers."[16]The other story is of the same tenour, though there is a new touch ofsensibility in its concluding words. "I was playing at ball at PlainPalais, with one of my comrades named Plince. We began to quarrel overthe game; we fought, and in the fight he dealt me on my bare head astroke so well directed, that with a stronger arm it would have dashedmy brains out. I fell to the ground, and there never was agitation likethat of this poor lad, as he saw the blood in my hair. He thought he hadkilled me. He threw himself upon me, and clasped me eagerly in his arms,while his tears poured down his cheeks, and he uttered shrill cries. Ireturned his embrace with all my force, weeping like him, in a state ofconfused emotion which was not without a kind of sweetness. Then hetried to stop the blood which kept flowing, and seeing that our twohandkerchiefs were not enough, he dragged me off to his mother's; shehad a small garden hard by. The good woman nearly fell sick at sight ofme in this condition; she kept strength enough to dress my wound, andafter bathing it well, she applied flower-de-luce macerated in brandy,an excellent remedy much used in our country. Her tears and those of herson, went to my very heart, so that I looked upon them for a long whileas my mother and my brother."[17]If it were enough that our early instincts should be thus amiable andeasy, then doubtless the dismal sloughs in which men and women liefloundering would occupy a very much more insignificant space in thefield of human experience. The problem, as we know, lies in thediscipline of this primitive goodness. For character in a state ofsociety is not a tree that grows into uprightness by the law of its ownstrength, though an adorable instance here and there of rectitude andmoral loveliness that seem intuitive may sometimes tempt us into amoment's belief in a contrary doctrine. In Rousseau's case this seriousproblem was never solved; there was no deliberate preparation of hisimpulses, prepossessions, notions; no foresight on the part of elders,and no gradual acclimatisation of a sensitive and ardent nature in thefixed principles which are essential to right conduct in the frigid zoneof our relations with other people. It was one of the most elementary ofRousseau's many perverse and mischievous contentions, that it is theireducation by the older which ruins or wastes the abundant capacity forvirtue that subsists naturally in the young. His mind seems never tohave sought much more deeply for proof of this, than the fact that hehimself was innocent and happy so long as he was allowed to followwithout disturbance the easy simple proclivities of his own temperament.Circumstances were not indulgent enough to leave the experiment tocomplete itself within these very rudimentary conditions.Rousseau had been surrounded, as he is always careful to protest, with areligious atmosphere. His father, though a man of pleasure, waspossessed also not only of probity but of religion as well. His threeaunts were all in their degrees gracious and devout. M. Lambercier atBossey, "although Churchman and preacher," was still a sincere believerand nearly as good in act as in word. His inculcation of religion was sohearty, so discreet, so reasonable, that his pupils, far from beingwearied by the sermon, never came away without being touched inwardlyand stirred to make virtuous resolutions. With his Aunt Bernard devotionwas rather more tiresome, because she made a business of it.[18] Itwould be a distinct error to suppose that all this counted for nothing,for let us remember that we are now engaged with the youth of the onegreat religious writer of France in the eighteenth century. When aftermany years Rousseau's character hardened, the influences which hadsurrounded his boyhood came out in their full force and the historian ofopinion soon notices in his spirit and work a something which had nocounterpart in the spirit and work of men who had been trained in Jesuitcolleges. At the first outset, however, every trace of religioussentiment was obliterated from sight, and he was left unprotectedagainst the shocks of the world and the flesh.At the age of eleven Jean Jacques was sent into a notary's office, butthat respectable calling struck him in the same repulsive andinsufferable way in which it has struck many other boys of genius in allcountries. Contrary to the usual rule, he did not rebel, but wasignominiously dismissed by his master[19] for dulness and inaptitude;his fellow-clerks pronounced him stupid and incompetent past hope. Hewas next apprenticed to an engraver,[20] a rough and violent man, whoseems to have instantly plunged the boy into a demoralised stupefaction.The reality of contact with this coarse nature benumbed as by touch oftorpedo the whole being of a youth who had hitherto lived on puresensations and among those ideas which are nearest to sensations. Therewere no longer heroic Romans in Rousseau's universe. "The vilesttastes, the meanest bits of rascality, succeeded to my simpleamusements, without even leaving the least idea behind. I must, in spiteof the worthiest education, have had a strong tendency to degenerate."The truth was that he had never had any education in its veritablesense, as the process, on its negative side, of counteracting theinborn. There are two kinds, or perhaps we should more correctly say twodegrees, of the constitution in which the reflective part is weak. Thereare the men who live on sensation, but who do so lustily, with a certainfulness of blood and active energy of muscle. There are others who do sopassively, not searching for excitement, but acquiescing. The former bytheir sheer force and plenitude of vitality may, even in a world wherereflection is a first condition, still go far. The latter succumb, andas reflection does nothing for them, and as their sensations in such aworld bring them few blandishments, they are tolerably early surroundedwith a self-diffusing atmosphere of misery. Rousseau had none of thisenergy which makes oppression bracing. For a time he sank.It would be a mistake to let the story of the Confessions carry us intoexaggerations. The brutality of his master and the harshness of his lifeled him to nothing very criminal, but only to wrong acts which aredespicable by their meanness, rather than in any sense atrocious. Hetold lies as readily as the truth. He pilfered things to eat. Hecunningly found a means of opening his master's private cabinet, and ofusing his master's best instruments by stealth. He wasted his time inidle and capricious tasks. When the man, with all the ravity of an adultmoralist, describes these misdeeds of the boy, they assume a certainugliness of mien, and excites a strong disgust which, when the misdeedsthemselves are before us in actual life, we experience in a far moreconsiderate form. The effect of calm, retrospective avowal is to createa kind of feeling which is essentially unlike our feeling at what isactually avowed. Still it is clear that his unlucky career as apprenticebrought out in Rousseau slyness, greediness, slovenliness,untruthfulness, and the whole ragged regiment of the squalider vices.The evil of his temperament now and always was of the dull smoulderingkind, seldom breaking out into active flame. There is a certainsordidness in the scene. You may complain that the details whichRousseau gives of his youthful days are insipid. Yet such things are theweb and stuff of life, and these days of transition from childhood tofull manhood in every case mark a crisis. These insipidities test theeducation of home and family, and they presage definitely what is tocome. The roots of character, good or bad, are shown for this shortspace, and they remain unchanged, though most people learn from theirfellows the decent and useful art of covering them over with a littledust, in the shape of accepted phrases and routine customs and a silencewhich is not oblivion.After a time the character of Jean Jacques was absolutely broken down.He says little of the blows with which his offences were punished by hismaster, but he says enough to enable us to discern that they wereterrible to him. This cowardice, if we choose to give the name to anovermastering physical horror, at length brought his apprentice days toan end. He was now in his sixteenth year. He was dragged by his comradesinto sports for which he had little inclination, though he admits thatonce engaged in them he displayed an impetuosity that carried him beyondthe others. Such pastimes naturally led them beyond the city walls, andon two occasions Rousseau found the gates closed on his return. Hismaster when he presented himself in the morning gave him such greetingas we may imagine, and held out things beyond imagining as penalty for asecond sin in this kind. The occasion came, as, alas, it nearly alwaysdoes. "Half a league from the town," says Rousseau, "I hear the retreatsounded, and redouble my pace; I hear the drum beat, and run at the topof my speed: I arrive out of breath, bathed in sweat; my heart beatsviolently, I see from a distance the soldiers at their post, and callout with choking voice. It was too late. Twenty paces from the outpostsentinel, I saw the first bridge rising. I shuddered, as I watched thoseterrible horns, sinister and fatal augury of the inevitable lot whichthat moment was opening for me."[21]In manhood when we have the resource of our own will to fall back upon,we underestimate the unsurpassed horror and anguish of such moments asthis in youth, when we know only the will of others, and that this willis inexorable against us. Rousseau dared not expose himself to thefulfilment of his master's menace, and he ran away (1728). But for this,wrote the unhappy man long years after, "I should have passed, in thebosom of my religion, of my native land, of my family, and my friends, amild and peaceful life, such as my character required, in the uniformityof work which suited my taste, and of a society after my heart. I shouldhave been a good Christian, good citizen, good father of a family, goodfriend, good craftsman, good man in all. I should have been happy in mycondition, perhaps I might have honoured it; and after living a lifeobscure and simple, but even and gentle, I should have died peacefullyin the midst of my own people. Soon forgotten, I should at any rate havebeen regretted as long as any memory of me was left."[22]As a man knows nothing about the secrets of his own individualorganisation, this illusory mapping out of a supposed Possible needseldom be suspected of the smallest insincerity. The poor madman whodeclares that he is a king kept out of his rights only moves our pity,and we perhaps owe pity no less to those in all the various stages ofaberration uncertificated by surgeons, down to the very edge of mostrespectable sanity, who accuse the injustice of men of keeping them outof this or that kingdom, of which in truth their own compositionfinally disinherited them at the moment when they were conceived in amother's womb. The first of the famous Five Propositions of Jansen,which were a stumbling-block to popes and to the philosophy of theeighteenth-century foolishness, put this clear and permanent truth intoa mystic and perishable formula, to the effect that there are somecommandments of God which righteous and good men are absolutely unableto obey, though ever so disposed to do them, and God does not give themso much grace that they are able to observe them.If Rousseau's sensations in the evening were those of terror, the dayand its prospect of boundless adventures soon turned them into entiredelight. The whole world was before him, and all the old conceptions ofromance were instantly revived by the supposed nearness of theirrealisation. He roamed for two or three days among the villages in theneighbourhood of Geneva, finding such hospitality as he needed in thecottages of friendly peasants. Before long his wanderings brought him tothe end of the territory of the little republic. Here he found himselfin the domain of Savoy, where dukes and lords had for ages been thetraditional foes of the freedom and the faith of Geneva, Rousseau cameto the village of Confignon, and the name of the priest of Confignonrecalled one of the most embittered incidents of the old feud. This feudhad come to take new forms; instead of midnight expeditions to scale thecity walls, the descendants of the Savoyard marauders of the sixteenthcentury were now intent with equivocal good will on rescuing the soulsof the descendants of their old enemies from deadly heresy. At this timea systematic struggle was going on between the priests of Savoy and theministers of Geneva, the former using every effort to procure theconversion of any Protestant on whom they could lay hands.[23] As ithappened, the priest of Confignon was one of the most active in thisgood work.[24] He made the young Rousseau welcome, spoke to him of theheresies of Geneva and of the authority of the holy Church, and gave himsome dinner. He could hardly have had a more easy convert, for thenature with which he had to deal was now swept and garnished, ready forthe entrance of all devils or gods. The dinner went for much. "I was toogood a guest," writes Rousseau in one of his few passages of humour, "tobe a good theologian, and his Frangi wine, which struck me as excellent,was such a triumphant argument on his side, that I should have blushedto oppose so capital a host."[25] So it was agreed that he should be putin a way to be further instructed of these matters. We may acceptRousseau's assurance that he was not exactly a hypocrite in this rapidcomplaisance. He admits that any one who should have seen the artificesto which he resorted, might have thought him very false. But, heargues, "flattery, or rather concession, is not always a vice; it isoftener a virtue, especially in the young. The kindness with which a manreceives us, attaches us to him; it is not to make a fool of him that wegive way, but to avoid displeasing him, and not to return him evil forgood." He never really meant to change his religion; his fault was likethe coquetting of decent women, who sometimes, to gain their ends,without permitting anything or promising anything, lead men to hope morethan they mean to hold good.[26] Thereupon follow some austerereflections on the priest, who ought to have sent him back to hisfriends; and there are strictures even upon the ministers of alldogmatic religions, in which the essential thing is not to do but tobelieve; their priests therefore, provided that they can convert a manto their faith, are wholly indifferent alike as to his worth and hisworldly interests. All this is most just; the occasion for such a strainof remark, though so apposite on one side, is hardly well chosen toimpress us. We wonder, as we watch the boy complacently hoodwinking hisentertainer, what has become of the Roman severity of a few months back.This nervous eagerness to please, however, was the complementary elementof a character of vague ambition, and it was backed by a stealthyconsciousness of intellectual superiority, which perhaps did something,though poorly enough, to make such ignominy less deeply degrading.The die was cast. M. Pontverre despatched his brand plucked from theburning to a certain Madame de Warens, a lady living at Annecy, andcounted zealous for the cause of the Church. In an interview whoseminutest circumstances remained for ever stamped in his mind (March 21,1728), Rousseau exchanged his first words with this singular personage,whose name and character he has covered with doubtful renown. Heexpected to find some gray and wrinkled woman, saving a little remnantof days in good works. Instead of this, there turned round upon him aperson not more than eight-and-twenty years old, with gentle caressingair, a fascinating smile, a tender eye. Madame de Warens read theletters he brought, and entertained their bearer cheerfully. It wasdecided after consultation that the heretic should be sent to amonastery at Turin, where he might be brought over in form to the trueChurch. At the monastery not only would the spiritual question of faithand the soul be dealt with, but at the same time the material problem ofshelter and subsistence for the body would be solved likewise. Elatedwith vanity at the thought of seeing before any of his comrades thegreat land of promise beyond the mountains, heedless of those whom hehad left, and heedless of the future before him and the object which hewas about, the young outcast made his journey over the Alps in allpossible lightness of heart. "Seeing country is an allurement whichhardly any Genevese can ever resist. Everything that met my eye seemedthe guarantee of my approaching happiness. In the houses I imaginedrustic festivals; in the fields, joyful sports; along the streams,bathing and fishing; on the trees, delicious fruits; under their shade,voluptuous interviews; on the mountains, pails of milk and cream, acharming idleness, peace, simplicity, the delight of going forwardwithout knowing whither."[27] He might justly choose out this intervalas more perfectly free from care or anxiety than any other of his life.It was the first of the too rare occasions when his usually passivesensuousness was stung by novelty and hope into an active energy.The seven or eight days of the journey came to an end, and the youthfound himself at Turin without money or clothes, an inmate of a drearymonastery, among some of the very basest and foulest of mankind, whopass their time in going from one monastery to another through Spain andItaly, professing themselves Jews or Moors for the sake of beingsupported while the process of their conversion was going slowlyforward. At the Hospice of the Catechumens the work of his conversionwas begun in such earnest as the insincerity of at least one of theparties to it might allow. It is needless to enter into thecircumstances of Rousseau's conversion to Catholicism. The mischievouszeal for theological proselytising has led to thousands of such hollowand degrading performances, but it may safely be said that none of themwas ever hollower than this. Rousseau avows that he had been brought upin the heartiest abhorrence of the older church, and that he never lostthis abhorrence. He fully explains that he accepted the arguments withwhich he was not very energetically plied, simply because he could notbear the idea of returning to Geneva, and he saw no other way out of hispresent destitute condition. "I could not dissemble from myself that theholy deed I was about to do, was at the bottom the action of a bandit.""The sophism which destroyed me," he says in one of those eloquentpieces of moralising, which bring ignoble action into a relief thatexaggerates our condemnation, "is that of most men, who complain of lackof strength when it is already too late for them to use it. It is onlythrough our own fault that virtue costs us anything; if we could bealways sage, we should rarely feel the need of being virtuous. Butinclinations that might be easily overcome, drag us on withoutresistance; we yield to light temptations of which we despise thehazard. Insensibly we fall into perilous situations, against which wecould easily have shielded ourselves, but from which we can afterwardsonly make a way out by heroic efforts that stupefy us, and so we sinkinto the abyss, crying aloud to God, Why hast thou made me so weak? Butin spite of ourselves, God gives answer to our conscience, 'I made theetoo weak to come out from the pit, because I made thee strong enough toavoid falling into it.'"[28] So the hopeful convert did fall in, not ashappens to the pious soul "too hot for certainties in this our life,"to find rest in liberty of private judgment and an open Bible, butsimply as a means of getting food, clothing, and shelter.[29] The boywas clever enough to make some show of resistance, and he turned to gooduse for this purpose the knowledge of Church history and the greatReformation controversy which he had picked up at M. Lambercier's. Hewas careful not to carry things too far, and exactly nine days after hisadmission into the Hospice, he "abjured the errors of the sect."[30] Twodays after that he was publicly received into the kindly bosom of thetrue Church with all solemnity, to the high edification of the devout ofTurin, who marked their interest in the regenerate soul by contributionsto the extent of twenty francs in small money.With that sum and formal good wishes the fathers of the Hospice of theCatechumens thrust him out of their doors into the broad world. Theyouth who had begun the day with dreams of palaces, found himself atnight sleeping in a den where he paid a halfpenny for the privilege ofresting in the same room with the rude woman who kept the house, herhusband, her five or six children, and various other lodgers. This roughawakening produced no consciousness of hardship in a nature which,beneath all fantastic dreams, always remained true to its first sympathywith the homely lives of the poor. The woman of the house swore like acarter, and was always dishevelled and disorderly: this did not preventRousseau from recognising her kindness of heart and her staunchreadiness to befriend. He passed his days in wandering about the streetsof Turin, seeing the wonders of a capital, and expecting some adventurethat should raise him to unknown heights. He went regularly to mass,watched the pomp of the court, and counted upon stirring a passion inthe breast of a princess. A more important circumstance was the effectof the mass in awakening in his own breast his latent passion for music;a passion so strong that the poorest instrument, if it were only intune, never failed to give him the liveliest pleasure. The king ofSardinia was believed to have the best performers in Europe; less thanthat was enough to quicken the musical susceptibility which is perhapsan invariable element in the most completely sensuous natures.When the end of the twenty francs began to seem a thing possible, hetried to get work as an engraver. A young woman in a shop took pity onhim, gave him work and food, and perhaps permitted him to make dumb andgrovelling love to her, until her husband returned home and drove herclient away from the door with threats and the waving of a wand notmagical.[31] Rousseau's self-love sought an explanation in the naturalfury of an Italian husband's jealousy; but we need hardly ask for anyother cause than a shopkeeper's reasonable objection to vagabonds.The next step of this youth, who was always dreaming of the love ofprincesses, was to accept with just thankfulness the position of lackeyor footboy in the household of a widow. With Madame de Vercellis hepassed three months, and at the end of that time she died. His stay herewas marked by an incident that has filled many pages with stormfuldiscussion. When Madame de Vercellis died, a piece of old rose-colouredribbon was missing; Rousseau had stolen it, and it was found in hispossession. They asked him whence he had taken it. He replied that ithad been given to him by Marion, a young and comely maid in the house.In her presence and before the whole household he repeated his falsestory, and clung to it with a bitter effrontery that we may well calldiabolic, remembering how the nervous terror of punishment and exposuresinks the angel in man. Our phrase, want of moral courage, reallydenotes in the young an excruciating physical struggle, often so keenthat the victim clutches after liberation with the spontaneous tenacityand cruelty of a creature wrecked in mastering waters. Undisciplinedsensations constitute egoism in the most ruthless of its shapes, and atthis epoch, owing either to the brutalities which surrounded hisapprentice life at Geneva, or to that rapid tendency towardsdegeneration which he suspected in his own character, Rousseau was theslave of sensations which stained his days with baseness. "Never," hesays, in his account of this hateful action, "was wickedness furtherfrom me than at this cruel moment; and when I accused the poor girl, itis contradictory and yet it is true that my affection for her was thecause of what I did. She was present to my mind, and I threw the blamefrom myself on to the first object that presented itself. When I saw herappear my heart was torn, but the presence of so many people was toostrong for my remorse. I feared punishment very little; I only feareddisgrace, but I feared that more than death, more than crime, more thananything in the world. I would fain have buried myself in the depths ofthe earth; invincible shame prevailed over all, shame alone caused myeffrontery, and the more criminal I became, the more intrepid was I madeby the fright of confessing it. I could see nothing but the horror ofbeing recognised and declared publicly to my face a thief, liar, andtraducer."[32] When he says that he feared punishment little, hisanalysis of his mind is most likely wrong, for nothing is clearer thanthat a dread of punishment in any physical form was a peculiarly strongfeeling with him at this time. However that may have been, the sameover-excited imagination which put every sense on the alarm and led himinto so abominable a misdemeanour, brought its own penalties. It led himto conceive a long train of ruin as having befallen Marion inconsequence of his calumny against her, and this dreadful thoughthaunted him to the end of his life. In the long sleepless nights hethought he saw the unhappy girl coming to reproach him with a crime thatseemed as fresh to him as if it had been perpetrated the day before.[33]Thus the same brooding memory which brought back to him the sweet painof his gentle kinswoman's household melody, preserved the darker side ofhis history with equal fidelity and no less perfect continuousness.Rousseau expresses a hope and belief that this burning remorse wouldserve as expiation for his fault; as if expiation for the destruction ofanother soul could be anything but a fine name for self-absolution. Wemay, however, charitably and reasonably think that the possibleconsequences of his fault to the unfortunate Marion were not actual, butwere as much a hallucination as the midnight visits of her reproachfulspirit. Indeed, we are hardly condoning evil, in suggesting that thewhole story from its beginning is marked with exaggeration, and that wewho have our own lives to lead shall find little help in criticising atfurther length the exact heinousness of the ignoble falsehood of a boywho happened to grow up into a man of genius.[34]After an interval of six weeks, which were passed in the garret orcellar of his rough patroness with kind heart and ungentle tongue,Rousseau again found himself a lackey in the house of a Piedmonteseperson of quality. This new master, the Count of Gouvon, treated himwith a certain unusual considerateness, which may perhaps make us doubtthe narrative. His son condescended to teach the youth Latin, andRousseau presumed to entertain a passion for one of the daughters of thehouse, to whom he paid silent homage in the odd shape of attending toher wants at table with special solicitude. In this situation he had, orat least he supposed that he had, an excellent chance of ultimateadvancement. But advancement here or elsewhere means a measure ofstability, and Rousseau's temperament in his youth was the archtype ofthe mutable. An old comrade from Geneva visited him,[35] and as almostany incident is stimulating enough to fire the restlessness ofimaginative youth, the gratitude which he professed to the Count ofGouvon and his family, the prudence with which he marked his prospects,the industry with which he profited by opportunity, all faded quicklyinto mere dead and disembodied names of virtues. His imagination againwent over the journey across the mountains; the fields, the woods, thestreams, began to absorb his whole life. He recalled with delicioussatisfaction how charming the journey had seemed to him, and thought howfar more charming it would be in the society of a comrade of his own ageand taste, without duty, or constraint, or obligation to go or stayother than as it might please them. "It would be madness to sacrificesuch a piece of good fortune to projects of ambition, which were slow,difficult, doubtful of execution, and which, even if they should one daybe realised, were not with all their glory worth a quarter of an hour oftrue pleasure and freedom in youth."[36]On these high principles he neglected his duties so recklessly that hewas dismissed from his situation, and he and his comrade began theirhomeward wanderings with more than apostolic heedlessness as to whatthey should eat or wherewithal they should be clothed. They had a toyfountain; they hoped that in return for the amusement to be conferred bythis wonder they should receive all that they might need. Their hopeswere not fulfilled. The exhibition of the toy fountain did not excusethem from their reckoning. Before long it was accidentally broken, andto their secret satisfaction, for it had lost its novelty. Their naked,vagrancy was thus undisguised. They made their way by some means orother across the mountains, and their enjoyment of vagabondage wasundisturbed by any thought of a future. "To understand my delirium atthis moment," Rousseau says, in words which shed much light on darkerparts of his history than fits of vagrancy, "it is necessary to know towhat a degree my heart is subject to get aflame with the smallestthings, and with what force it plunges into the imagination of theobject that attracts it, vain as that object may be. The most grotesque,the most childish, the maddest schemes come to caress my favourite idea,and to show me the reasonableness of surrendering myself to it."[37] Itwas this deep internal vehemence which distinguished Rousseau allthrough his life from the commonplace type of social revolter. A vagrantsensuous temperament, strangely compounded with Genevese austerity; anardent and fantastic imagination, incongruously shot with threads offirm reason; too little conscience and too much; a monstrous anddiseased love of self, intertwined with a sincere compassion and keeninterest for the great fellowship of his brothers; a wild dreaming ofdreams that were made to look like sanity by the close and speciousconnection between conclusions and premisses, though the premisseshappened to have the fault of being profoundly unreal:--this was thetype of character that lay unfolded in the youth who, towards the autumnof 1729, reached Annecy, penniless and ragged, throwing himself oncemore on the charity of the patroness who had given him shelter eighteenmonths before. Few figures in the world at that time were less likely toconciliate the favour or excite the interest of an observer, who had notstudied the hidden convolutions of human character deeply enough to knowthat a boy of eighteen may be sly, sensual, restless, dreamy, and yethave it in him to say things one day which may help to plunge a worldinto conflagration.FOOTNOTES:[1] Here is the line:--Didier Rousseau. | Jean | ----------------------- | | David. Noah. | |Isaac (b. 1680-5, d. 1745-7). Jean Francois. | | | -------------- | || JEAN JACQUES. Jean. Theodore.(_Musset-Pathay_, ii. 283.)[2] Picot's _Hist. de Geneve_, iii. 114.[3] _Conf._, i. 7.[4] _Lettre a D'Alembert_, p. 187. Also _Nouv. Hel._, VI. v. 239.[5] _Conf._, i. 9. Also Second Letter to M. de Malesherbes, p. 356.[6] _Reveries_, iv. p. 189. "My master and counsellor, Plutarch," hesays, when he lends a volume to Madame d'Epinay in 1756. _Corr._, i.265.[7] Dedication of the _Discours sur l'Origine de l'Inegalite_, p. 201.(June, 1754.)[8] _Conf._, i. 1.[9] _Ib_, i. 12.[10] The tenacity of this grateful recollection is shown in letters toher (Madame Gonceru)--one in 1754 (_Corr._, i. 204), another as lateas 1770 (vi. 129), and a third in 1762 (_Oeuvr. et Corr. Ined._, 392).[11] _Conf._, i. 17-32.[12] See also _Conf._, i. 43; iii. 185; vii. 73; xii. 188, _n._ 2.[13] _Conf._, i. 27-31.[14] _Conf._, i. 38-47.[15] _Lettre a D'Alembert_(1758), 178, 179.[16] _Reveries_, iv. 211, 212.[17] _Conf._ 212, 213.[18] _Conf._, ii. 102, 103.[19] M. Masseron.[20] M. Ducommun.[21] _Conf._, i. 69.[22] _Conf._, i. 72.[23] J. Gaberel's _Histoire de l'Eglise de Geneve_ (Geneva, 1853-62),vol. iii. p. 285.[24] There is a minute in the register of the company of ministers, tothe effect that the Sieur de Pontverre "is attracting many young menfrom this town, and changing their religion, and that the public oughtto be warned." (Gaberel, iii. 224.)[25] _Conf._, ii. 76.[26] _Conf._, ii. 77.[27] _Conf._, ii. 90-97.[28] _Conf._, ii. 107[29] See _Emile_, iv. 124, 125, where the youth who was born aCalvinist, finding himself a stranger in a strange land, withoutresource, "changed his religion to get bread."[30] In the _Confessions_ (ii. 115) he has grace enough to make theperiod a month; but the extract from the register of his baptism(Gaberel's _Hist. de l'Eglise de Geneve_, iii. 224), which has beenrecently published, shows that this is untrue: "Jean Jacques Rousseau,de Geneve (Calviniste), entre a l'hospice a l'age de 16 ans, le 12avril, 1728. Abjura les erreurs de la secte le 21; et le 23 du mememois lui fut administre le saint bapteme, ayant pour parrain le sieurAndre Ferrero et pour marraine Francoise Christine Rora (ou Rovea)."A little further on (p. 119) he speaks of having been shut up "for twomonths," but this is not true even on his own showing.[31] Madame Basile. _Conf._, ii. 121-135.[32] _Conf._ ii. ad finem.[33] _Conf._, ii. 144.[34] Another version of the story mentioned by Musset-Pathay (i. 7)makes the object of the theft a diamond, but there is really noevidence in the matter beyond that given by Rousseau himself.[35] Bacle, by name.[36] _Conf._, iii. 168.[37] _Conf._, iii. 170. A slightly idealised account of the situationis given in _Emile_, Bk. iv. 125.CHAPTER III.SAVOY.The commonplace theory which the world takes for granted as to therelations of the sexes, makes the woman ever crave the power andguidance of her physically stronger mate. Even if this be a true accountof the normal state, there is at any rate a kind of temperament amongthe many types of men, in which it seems as if the elements of characterremain mere futile and dispersive particles, until compelled into unityand organisation by the creative shock of feminine influence. There aremen, famous or obscure, whose lives might be divided into a number ofepochs, each defined and presided over by the influence of a woman. Forthe inconstant such a calendar contains many divisions, for the constantit is brief and simple; for both alike it marks the great decisivephases through which character has moved.Rousseau's temperament was deeply marked by this special sort ofsusceptibility in one of its least agreeable forms. His sentiment wasneither robustly and courageously animal, nor was it an intellectualdemand for the bright and vivacious sympathies in which women sometimesexcel. It had neither bold virility, nor that sociable energy whichmakes close emotional companionship an essential condition of freedom offaculty and completeness of work. There is a certain close and sicklyair round all his dealings with women and all his feeling for them. Weseem to move not in the star-like radiance of love, nor even in thefiery flames of lust, but among the humid heats of some unknown abode ofthings not wholesome or manly. "I know a sentiment," he writes, "whichis perhaps less impetuous than love, but a thousand times moredelicious, which sometimes is joined to love, and which is very oftenapart from it. Nor is this sentiment friendship only; it is morevoluptuous, more tender; I do not believe that any one of the same sexcould be its object; at least I have been a friend, if ever man was, andI never felt this about any of my friends."[38] He admits that he canonly describe this sentiment by its effects; but our lives are mostlyruled by elements that defy definition, and in Rousseau's case thesentiment which he could not describe was a paramount trait of hismental constitution. It was as a voluptuous garment; in it hisimagination was cherished into activity, and protected against thatouter air of reality which braces ordinary men, but benumbs anddisintegrates the whole vital apparatus of such an organisation asRousseau's. If he had been devoid of this feeling about women, hischaracter might very possibly have remained sterile. That feeling wasthe complementary contribution, without which could be no fecundity.When he returned from his squalid Italian expedition in search of breadand a new religion, his mind was clouded with the vague desire, thesensual moodiness, which in such natures stains the threshold ofmanhood. This unrest, with its mysterious torments and black delights,was banished, or at least soothed into a happier humour, by theinfluence of a person who is one of the most striking types to be foundin the gallery of fair women.I.A French writer in the eighteenth century, in a story which deals with arather repulsive theme of action in a tone that is graceful, simple, andpathetic, painted the portrait of a creature for whom no moralist with areputation to lose can say a word; and we may, if we choose, foolourselves by supposing her to be without a counterpart in thebetter-regulated world of real life, but, in spite of both theseobjections, she is an interesting and not untouching figure to those wholike to know all the many-webbed stuff out of which their brothers andsisters are made. The Manon Lescaut of the unfortunate Abbe Prevost,kindly, bright, playful, tender, but devoid of the very germ of the ideaof that virtue which is counted the sovereign recommendation of woman,helps us to understand Madame de Warens. There are differences enoughbetween them, and we need not mistake them for one and the same type.Manon Lescaut is a prettier figure, because romance has fewerlimitations than real life; but if we think of her in reading ofRousseau's benefactress, the vision of the imaginary woman tends tosoften our judgment of the actual one, as well as to enlighten ourconception of a character that eludes the instruments of a commonplaceanalysis.[39]She was born at Vevai in 1700; she married early, and early disagreedwith her husband, from whom she eventually went away, abandoning family,religion, country, and means of subsistence, with all gaiety of heart.The King of Sardinia happened to be keeping his court at a small town onthe southern shores of the lake of Geneva, and the conversion of Madamede Warens to Catholicism by the preaching of the Bishop of Annecy,[40]gave a zest to the royal visit, as being a successful piece of sport inthat great spiritual hunt which Savoy loved to pursue at the expense ofthe reformed church in Switzerland. The king, to mark his zeal for thefaith of his house, conferred on the new convert a small pension forlife; but as the tongues of the scandalous imputed a less pure motivefor such generosity in a parsimonious prince, Madame de Warens removedfrom the court and settled at Annecy. Her conversion was hardly moreserious than Rousseau's own, because seriousness was no condition of herintelligence on any of its sides or in any of its relations. She wasextremely charitable to the poor, full of pity for all in misfortune,easily moved to forgiveness of wrong or ingratitude; careless, gay,open-hearted; having, in a word, all the good qualities which spring incertain generous soils from human impulse, and hardly any of those whichspring from reflection, or are implanted by the ordering of society. Herreason had been warped in her youth by an instructor of the devil'sstamp;[41] finding her attached to her husband and to her duties, alwayscold, argumentative, and impregnable on the side of the senses, heattacked her by sophisms, and at last persuaded her that the union ofthe sexes is in itself a matter of the most perfect indifference,provided only that decorum of appearance be preserved, and the peace ofmind of persons concerned be not disturbed.[42] This execrable lesson,which greater and more unselfish men held and propagated in grave booksbefore the end of the century, took root in her mind. If we acceptRousseau's explanation, it did so the more easily as her temperament wascold, and thus corroborated the idea of the indifference of what publicopinion and private passion usually concur in investing with suchenormous weightiness. "I will even dare to say," Rousseau declares,"that she only knew one true pleasure in the world, and that was to givepleasure to those whom she loved."[43] He is at great pains to protesthow compatible this coolness of temperament is with excessivesensibility of character; and neither ethological theory nor practicalobservation of men and women is at all hostile to what he is so anxiousto prove. The cardinal element of character is the speed at which itsenergies move; its rapidity or its steadiness, concentration orvolatility; whether the thought and feeling travel as quickly as lightor as slowly as sound. A rapid and volatile constitution like that ofMadame de Warens is inconsistent with ardent and glowing warmth, whichbelongs to the other sort, but it is essentially bound up withsensibility, or readiness of sympathetic answer to every cry fromanother soul. It is the slow, brooding, smouldering nature, likeRousseau's own, in which we may expect to find the tropics.To bring the heavy artillery of moral reprobation to bear upon a poorsoul like Madame de Warens is as if one should denounce flagrant wantof moral purpose in the busy movements of ephemera. Her activity wasincessant, but it ended in nothing better than debt, embarrassment, andconfusion. She inherited from her father a taste for alchemy, and spentmuch time in search after secret elixirs and the like. "Quacks, takingadvantage of her weakness, made themselves her master, constantlyinfested her, ruined her, and wasted, in the midst of furnaces andchemicals, intelligence, talents, and charms which would have made herthe delight of the best societies."[44] Perhaps, however, the toonotorious vagrancy of her amours had at least as much to do with herfailure to delight the best societies as her indiscreet passion foralchemy. Her person was attractive enough. "She had those points ofbeauty," says Rousseau, "which are desirable, because they reside ratherin expression than in feature. She had a tender and caressing air, asoft eye, a divine smile, light hair of uncommon beauty. You could notsee a finer head or bosom, finer arms or hands."[45] She was full oftricks and whimsies. She could not endure the first smell of the soupand meats at dinner; when they were placed on the table she nearlyswooned, and her disgust lasted some time, until at the end of half anhour or so she took her first morsel.[46] On the whole, if we accept thecurrent standard of sanity, Madame de Warens must be pronounced ever solittle flighty; but a monotonous world can afford to be lenient topeople with a slight craziness, if it only has hearty benevolence andcheerfulness in its company, and is free from egoism orrapacious vanity.This was the person within the sphere of whose attraction Rousseau wasdecisively brought in the autumn of 1729, and he remained, with certainbreaks of vagabondage, linked by a close attachment to her until 1738.It was in many respects the truly formative portion of his life. Heacquired during this time much of his knowledge of books, such as itwas, and his principles of judging them. He saw much of the lives of thepoor and of the world's ways with them. Above all his ideal wasrevolutionised, and the recent dreams of Plutarchian heroism, ofgrandeur, of palaces, princesses, and a glorious career full in theworld's eye, were replaced by a new conception of blessedness of life,which never afterwards faded from his vision, and which has held a frontplace in the imagination of literary Europe ever since. The notions oraspirations which he had picked up from a few books gave way to notionsand aspirations which were shaped and fostered by the scenes of actuallife into which he was thrown, and which found his character soft fortheir impression. In one way the new pictures of a future were asdissociated from the conditions of reality as the old had been, and thesensuous life of the happy valley in Savoy as little fitted a man tocompose ideals for our gnarled and knotted world as the mental lifeamong the heroics of sentimental fiction had done.Rousseau's delight in the spot where Madame de Warens lived at Annecywas the mark of the new ideal which circumstances were to engender inhim, and after him to spread in many hearts. His room looked overgardens and a stream, and beyond them stretched a far landscape. "It wasthe first time since leaving Bossey that I had green before my windows.Always shut in by walls, I had nothing under my eye but house-tops andthe dull gray of the streets. How moving and delicious this novelty wasto me! It brightened all the tenderness of my disposition. I counted thelandscape among the kindnesses of my dear benefactress; it seemed as ifshe had brought it there expressly for me. I placed myself there in allpeacefulness with her; she was present to me everywhere among theflowers and the verdure; her charms and those of spring were all mingledtogether in my eyes. My heart, which had hitherto been stifled, founditself more free in this ample space, and my sighs had more liberal ventamong these orchard gardens."[47] Madame de Warens was the semi-divinefigure who made the scene live, and gave it perfect and harmoniousaccent. He had neither transports nor desires by her side, but existedin a state of ravishing calm, enjoying without knowing what. "I couldhave passed my whole life and eternity itself in this way, without aninstant of weariness. She is the only person with whom I never felt thatdryness in conversation, which turns the duty of keeping it up into atorment. Our intercourse was not so much conversation as aninexhaustible stream of chatter, which never came to an end until it wasinterrupted from without. I only felt all the force of my attachment forher when she was out of my sight. So long as I could see her I wasmerely happy and satisfied, but my disquiet in her absence went so faras to be painful. I shall never forget how one holiday, while she was atvespers, I went for a walk outside the town, my heart full of her imageand of an eager desire to pass all my days by her side. I had senseenough to see that for the present this was impossible, and that thebliss which I relished so keenly must be brief. This gave to my musing asadness which was free from everything sombre, and which was moderatedby pleasing hope. The sound of the bells, which has always moved me to asingular degree, the singing of the birds, the glory of the weather, thesweetness of the landscape, the scattered rustic dwellings in which myimagination placed our common home;--all this so struck me with a vivid,tender, sad, and touching impression that I saw myself as in an ecstasytransported into the happy time and the happy place where my heart,possessed of all the felicity that could bring it delight, without evendreaming of the pleasures of sense, should share joysinexpressible."[48]There was still, however, a space to be bridged between the doubtful nowand this delicious future. The harshness of circumstance is everinterposing with a money question, and for a vagrant of eighteen thefirst of all problems is a problem of economics. Rousseau was submittedto the observation of a kinsman of Madame de Warens,[49] and his verdictcorresponded with that of the notary of Geneva, with whom years beforeRousseau had first tried the critical art of making a living. Hepronounced that in spite of an animated expression, the lad was, if notthoroughly inept, at least of very slender intelligence, without ideas,almost without attainments, very narrow indeed in all respects, and thatthe honour of one day becoming a village priest was the highest piece offortune to which he had any right to aspire.[50] So he was sent to theseminary, to learn Latin enough for the priestly offices. He began byconceiving a deadly antipathy to his instructor, whose appearancehappened to be displeasing to him. A second was found,[51] and thepatient and obliging temper, the affectionate and sympathetic manner ofhis new teacher made a great impression on the pupil, though theprogress in intellectual acquirement was as unsatisfactory in one caseas in the other. It is characteristic of that subtle impressionablenessto physical comeliness, which in ordinary natures is rapidly effaced bypress of more urgent considerations, but which Rousseau's stronglysensuous quality retained, that he should have remembered, and thoughtworth mentioning years afterwards, that the first of his two teachers atthe seminary of Annecy had greasy black hair, a complexion as ofgingerbread, and bristles in place of beard, while the second had themost touching expression he ever saw in his life, with fair hair andlarge blue eyes, and a glance and a tone which made you feel that he wasone of the band predestined from their birth to unhappy days. While atTurin, Rousseau had made the acquaintance of another sage and benevolentpriest,[52] and uniting the two good men thirty years after he conceivedand drew the character of the Savoyard Vicar.[53]Shortly the seminarists reported that, though not vicious, their pupilwas not even good enough for a priest, so deficient was he inintellectual faculty. It was next decided to try music, and Rousseauascended for a brief space into the seventh heaven of the arts. This wasone of the intervals of his life of which he says that he recalls notonly the times, places, persons, but all the surrounding objects, thetemperature of the air, its odour, its colour, a certain localimpression only felt there, and the memory of which stirs the oldtransports anew. He never forgot a certain tune, because one AdventSunday he heard it from his bed being sung before daybreak on the stepsof the cathedral; nor an old lame carpenter who played the counter-bass,nor a fair little abbe who played the violin in the choir.[54] Yet hewas in so dreamy, absent, and distracted a state, that neither hisgood-will nor his assiduity availed, and he could learn nothing, noteven music. His teacher, one Le Maitre, belonged to that great class ofirregular and disorderly natures with which Rousseau's destiny, in theshape of an irregular and disorderly temperament of his own, soconstantly brought him into contact. Le Maitre could not work withoutthe inspiration of the wine cup, and thus his passion for his art landedhim a sot. He took offence at a slight put upon him by the precentor ofthe cathedral of which he was choir-master, and left Annecy in a furtivemanner along with Rousseau, whom the too comprehensive solicitude ofMadame de Warens despatched to bear him company. They went together asfar as Lyons; here the unfortunate musician happened to fall into anepileptic fit in the street. Rousseau called for help, informed thecrowd of the poor man's hotel, and then seizing a moment when no one wasthinking about him, turned the street corner and finally disappeared,the musician being thus "abandoned by the only friend on whom he had aright to count."[55] It thus appears that a man maybe exquisitely movedby the sound of bells, the song of birds, the fairness of smilinggardens, and yet be capable all the time without a qualm of misgiving ofleaving a friend senseless in the road in a strange place. It has ceasedto be wonderful how many ugly and cruel actions are done by people withan extraordinary sense of the beauty and beneficence of nature. At themoment Rousseau only thought of getting back to Annecy and Madame deWarens. "It is not," he says in words of profound warning, which manymen have verified in those two or three hours before the tardy dawn thatswell into huge purgatorial aeons,--"it is not when we have just done abad action, that it torments us; it is when we recall it long after, forthe memory of it can never be thrust out."[56]II.When he made his way homewards again, he found to his surprise anddismay that his benefactress had left Annecy, and had gone for anindefinite time to Paris. He never knew the secret of this suddendeparture, for no man, he says, was ever so little curious as to theprivate affairs of his friends. His heart, completely occupied with thepresent, filled its whole capacity and entire space with that, andexcept for past pleasures no empty corner was ever left for what wasdone with.[57] He says he was too young to take the desertion deeply toheart. Where he found subsistence we do not know. He was fascinated by aflashy French adventurer,[58] in whose company he wasted many hours, andthe precious stuff of youthful opportunity. He passed a summer day injoyful rustic fashion with two damsels whom he hardly ever saw again,but the memory of whom and of the holiday that they had made with himremained stamped in his brain, to be reproduced many a year hence insome of the traits of the new Heloisa and her friend Claire.[59] Then heaccepted an invitation from a former waiting-woman of Madame de Warensto attend her home to Freiburg. On this expedition he paid an hour'svisit to his father, who had settled and remarried at Nyon. Returningfrom Freiburg, he came to Lausanne, where, with an audacity that mightbe taken for the first presage of mental disturbance, he undertook toteach music. "I have already," he says, "noted some moments ofinconceivable delirium, in which I ceased to be myself. Behold me now ateacher of singing, without knowing how to decipher an air. Without theleast knowledge of composition, I boasted of my skill in it before allthe world; and without ability to score the slenderest vaudeville, Igave myself out for a composer. Having been presented to M. deTreytorens, a professor of law, who loved music and gave concerts at hishouse, I insisted on giving him a specimen of my talent, and I set towork to compose a piece for his concert with as much effrontery as if Iknew all about it." The performance came off duly, and the strangeimpostor conducted it with as much gravity as the profoundest master.Never since the beginning of opera has the like charivari greeted theears of men.[60] Such an opening was fatal to all chance of scholars,but the friendly tavern-keeper who had first taken him in did not lackeither hope or charity. "How is it," Rousseau cried, many years afterthis, "that having found so many good people in my youth, I find so fewin my advanced life? Is their stock exhausted? No; but the class inwhich I have to seek them now is not the same as that in which I foundthem then. Among the common people, where great passions only speak atintervals, the sentiments of nature make themselves heard oftener. Inthe higher ranks they are absolutely stifled, and under the mask ofsentiment it is only interest or vanity that speaks."[61]From Lausanne he went to Neuchatel, where he had more success, for,teaching others, he began himself to learn. But no success was markedenough to make him resist a vagrant chance. One day in his ramblesfalling in with an archimandrite of the Greek church, who was traversingEurope in search of subscriptions for the restoration of the HolySepulchre, he at once attached himself to him in the capacity ofinterpreter. In this position he remained for a few weeks, until theFrench minister at Soleure took him away from the Greek monk, anddespatched him to Paris to be the attendant of a young officer.[62] Afew days in the famous city, which he now saw for the first time, andwhich disappointed his expectations just as the sea and all otherwonders disappointed them,[63] convinced him that here was not what hesought, and he again turned his face southwards in search of Madame deWarens and more familiar lands.The interval thus passed in roaming over the eastern face of France, andwhich we may date in the summer of 1732,[64] was always counted byRousseau among the happy epochs of his life, though the weeks may seemgrievously wasted to a generation which is apt to limit its ideas ofredeeming the time to the two pursuits of reading books or making money.He travelled alone and on foot from Soleure to Paris and from Paris backagain to Lyons, and this was part of the training which served him inthe stead of books. Scarcely any great writer since the revival ofletters has been so little literary as Rousseau, so little indebted toliterature for the most characteristic part of his work. He was formedby life; not by life in the sense of contact with a great number ofactive and important persons, or with a great number of persons of anykind, but in the rarer sense of free surrender to the plenitude of hisown impressions. A world composed of such people, all dispensing withthe inherited portion of human experience, and living independently ontheir own stock, would rapidly fall backwards into dissolution. Butthere is no more rash idea of the right composition of a society thanone which leads us to denounce a type of character for no better reasonthan that, if it were universal, society would go to pieces. There isvery little danger of Rousseau's type becoming common, unless lunar orother great physical influences arise to work a vast change in thecerebral constitution of the species. We may safely trust the prodigious_vis inertioe_ of human nature to ward off the peril of an eccentricitybeyond bounds spreading too far. At present, however, it is enough,without going into the general question, to notice the particular factthat while the other great exponents of the eighteenth century movement,Hume, Voltaire, Diderot, were nourishing their natural strength ofunderstanding by the study and practice of literature, Rousseau, theleader of the reaction against that movement, was wandering a beggar andan outcast, craving the rude fare of the peasant's hut, knocking atroadside inns, and passing nights in caves and holes in the fields, orin the great desolate streets of towns.If such a life had been disagreeable to him, it would have lost all thesignificance that it now has for us. But where others would have foundaffliction, he had consolation, and where they would have lain desperateand squalid, he marched elate and ready to strike the stars. "Never," hesays, "did I think so much, exist so much, be myself so much, as in thejourneys that I have made alone and on foot. Walking has something aboutit which animates and enlivens my ideas. I can hardly think while I amstill; my body must be in motion, to move my mind. The sight of thecountry, the succession of agreeable views, open air, good appetite, thefreedom of the alehouse, the absence of everything that could make mefeel dependence, or recall me to my situation--all this sets my soulfree, gives me a greater boldness of thought. I dispose of all nature asits sovereign lord; my heart, wandering from object to object, minglesand is one with the things that soothe it, wraps itself up in charmingimages, and is intoxicated by delicious sentiment. Ideas come as theyplease, not as I please: they do not come at all, or they come in acrowd, overwhelming me with their number and their force. When I came toa place I only thought of eating, and when I left it I only thought ofwalking. I felt that a new paradise awaited me at the door, and Ithought of nothing but of hastening in search of it."[65]Here again is a picture of one whom vagrancy assuredly did notdegrade:--"I had not the least care for the future, and I awaited theanswer [as to the return of Madame de Warens to Savoy], lying out in theopen air, sleeping stretched out on the ground or on some wooden bench,as tranquilly as on a bed of roses. I remember passing one deliciousnight outside the town [Lyons], in a road which ran by the side ofeither the Rhone or the Saone, I forget which of the two. Gardens raisedon a terrace bordered the other side of the road. It had been very hotall day, and the evening was delightful; the dew moistened the parchedgrass, the night was profoundly still, the air fresh without being cold;the sun in going down had left red vapours in the heaven, and theyturned the water to rose colour; the trees on the terrace shelterednightingales, answering song for song. I went on in a sort of ecstasy,surrendering my heart and every sense to the enjoyment of it all, andonly sighing for regret that I was enjoying it alone. Absorbed in thesweetness of my musing, I prolonged my ramble far into the night,without ever perceiving that I was tired. At last I found it out. I laydown luxuriously on the shelf of a niche or false doorway made in thewall of the terrace; the canopy of my bed was formed by overarchingtree-tops; a nightingale was perched exactly over my head, and I fellasleep to his singing. My slumber was delicious, my awaking moredelicious still. It was broad day, and my opening eyes looked on sun andwater and green things, and an adorable landscape. I rose up and gavemyself a shake; I felt hungry and started gaily for the town, resolvedto spend on a good breakfast the two pieces of money which I still hadleft. I was in such joyful spirits that I went along the road singinglustily."[66]There is in this the free expansion of inner sympathy; the naturalsentiment spontaneously responding to all the delicious movement of theexternal world on its peaceful and harmonious side, just as if the worldof many-hued social circumstance which man has made for himself had noexistence. We are conscious of a full nervous elation which is not theproduct of literature, such as we have seen so many a time since, andwhich only found its expression in literature in Rousseau's case byaccident. He did not feel in order to write, but felt without anythought of writing. He dreamed at this time of many lofty destinies,among them that of marshal of France, but the fame of authorship neverentered into his dreams. When the time for authorship actually came,his work had all the benefit of the absence of self-consciousness, ithad all the disinterestedness, so to say, with which the first freshimpressions were suffered to rise in his mind.One other picture of this time is worth remembering, as showing thatRousseau was not wholly blind to social circumstances, and asillustrating, too, how it was that his way of dealing with them was somuch more real and passionate, though so much less sagacious in some ofits aspects, than the way of the other revolutionists of the century.One day, when he had lost himself in wandering in search of some sitewhich he expected to find beautiful, he entered the house of a peasant,half dead with hunger and thirst. His entertainer offered him nothingmore restoring than coarse barley bread and skimmed milk. Presently,after seeing what manner of guest he had, the worthy man descended by asmall trap into his cellar, and brought up some good brown bread, somemeat, and a bottle of wine, and an omelette was added afterwards. Thenhe explained to the wondering Rousseau, who was a Swiss, and knew noneof the mysteries of the French fisc, that he hid away his wine onaccount of the duties, and his bread on account of the _taille_, anddeclared that he would be a ruined man if they suspected that he was notdying of hunger. All this made an impression on Rousseau which he neverforgot. "Here," he says, "was the germ of the inextinguishable hatredwhich afterwards grew up in my heart against the vexations that harassthe common people, and against all their oppressors. This man actuallydid not dare to eat the bread which he had won by the sweat of his brow,and only avoided ruin by showing the same misery as reignedaround him."[67]It was because he had thus seen the wrongs of the poor, not from withoutbut from within, not as a pitying spectator but as of their own company,that Rousseau by and by brought such fire to the attack upon the oldorder, and changed the blank practice of the elder philosophers into adeadly affair of ball and shell. The man who had been a servant, who hadwanted bread, who knew the horrors of the midnight street, who had sleptin dens, who had been befriended by rough men and rougher women, who sawthe goodness of humanity under its coarsest outside, and who above allnever tried to shut these things out from his memory, but accepted themas the most interesting, the most touching, the most real of all hisexperiences, might well be expected to penetrate to the root of thematter, and to protest to the few who usurp literature and policy withtheir ideas, aspirations, interests, that it is not they but the many,whose existence stirs the heart and fills the eye with the great primeelements of the human lot.III.It was, then, some time towards the middle of 1732 that Rousseau arrivedat Chamberi, and finally took up his residence with Madame de Warens, inthe dullest and most sombre room of a dull and sombre house. She hadprocured him employment in connection with a land survey which thegovernment of Charles Emmanuel III. was then executing. It was onlytemporary, and Rousseau's function was no loftier than that of clerk,who had to copy and reduce arithmetical calculations. We may imagine howlittle a youth fresh from nights under the summer sky would relish eighthours a day of surly toil in a gloomy office, with a crowd of dirty andill-smelling fellow-workers.[68] If Rousseau was ever oppressed by anyset of circumstances, his method was invariable: he ran away from them.So now he threw up his post, and again tried to earn a little money bythat musical instruction in which he had made so many singular andgrotesque endeavours. Even here the virtues which make ordinary life apossible thing were not his. He was pleased at his lessons while there,but he could not bear the idea of being bound to be there, nor thefixing of an hour. In time this experiment for a subsistence came to thesame end as all the others. He next rushed to Besancon in search of themusical instruction which he wished to give to others, but his baggagewas confiscated at the frontier, and he had to return.[69] Finally heabandoned the attempt, and threw himself loyally upon the narrowresources of Madame de Warens, whom he assisted in some singularlyindefinite way in the transaction of her very indefinite andmiscellaneous affairs,--if we are here, as so often, to give the name ofaffairs to a very rapid and heedless passage along a shabby roadto ruin.The household at this time was on a very remarkable footing. Madame deWarens was at its head, and Claude Anet, gardener, butler, steward, washer factotum. He was a discreet person, of severe probity and few words,firm, thrifty, and sage. The too comprehensive principles of hismistress admitted him to the closest intimacy, and in due time, whenMadame de Warens thought of the seductions which ensnare the feet ofyouth, Rousseau was delivered from them in an equivocal way bysolicitous application of the same maxims of comprehension. "AlthoughClaude Anet was as young as she was, he was so mature and so grave, thathe looked upon us as two children worthy of indulgence, and we bothlooked upon him as a respectable man, whose esteem it was our businessto conciliate. Thus there grew up between us three a companionship,perhaps without another example like it upon earth. All our wishes, ourcares, our hearts were in common; nothing seemed to pass outside ourlittle circle. The habit of living together, and of living togetherexclusively, became so strong that if at our meals one of the three wasabsent, or there came a fourth, all was thrown out; and in spite of ourpeculiar relations, a _tete-a-tete_ was less sweet than a meeting of allthree."[70] Fate interfered to spoil this striking attempt after a newtype of the family, developed on a duandric base. Claude Anet was seizedwith illness, a consequence of excessive fatigue in an Alpine expeditionin search of plants, and he came to his end.[71] In him Rousseau alwaysbelieved that he lost the most solid friend he ever possessed, "a rareand estimable man, in whom nature served instead of education, and whonourished in obscure servitude all the virtues of great men."[72] Theday after his death, Rousseau was speaking of their lost friend toMadame de Warens with the liveliest and most sincere affliction, whensuddenly in the midst of the conversation he remembered that he shouldinherit the poor man's clothes, and particularly a handsome black coat.A reproachful tear from his Maman, as he always somewhat nauseouslycalled Madame de Warens, extinguished the vile thought and washed awayits last traces.[73] After all, those men and women are exceptionallyhappy, who have no such involuntary meanness of thought standing againstthemselves in that unwritten chapter of their lives which even the mostcandid persons keep privately locked up in shamefast recollection.Shortly after his return to Chamberi, a wave from the great tide ofEuropean affairs surged into the quiet valleys of Savoy. In the Februaryof 1733, Augustus the Strong died, and the usual disorder followed inthe choice of a successor to him in the kingship of Poland. France wasfor Stanislaus, the father-in-law of Lewis XV., while the EmperorCharles VI. and Anne of Russia were for August III., elector of Saxony.Stanislaus was compelled to flee, and the French Government, taking uphis quarrel, declared war against the Emperor (October 14, 1733). Thefirst act of this war, which was to end in the acquisition of Naples andthe two Sicilies by Spanish Bourbons, and of Lorraine by France, was thedespatch of a French expedition to the Milanese under Marshall Villars,the husband of one of Voltaire's first idols. This took place in theautumn of 1733, and a French column passed through Chamberi, excitinglively interest in all minds, including Rousseau's. He now read thenewspapers for the first time, with the most eager sympathy for thecountry with whose history his own name was destined to be sopermanently associated. "If this mad passion," he says, "had only beenmomentary, I should not speak of it; but for no visible reason it tooksuch root in my heart, that when I afterwards at Paris played the sternrepublican, I could not help feeling in spite of myself a secretpredilection for the very nation that I found so servile, and thegovernment I made bold to assail."[74] This fondness for France wasstrong, constant, and invincible, and found what was in the eighteenthcentury a natural complement in a corresponding dislike of England.[75]Rousseau's health began to show signs of weakness. His breath becameasthmatic, he had palpitations, he spat blood, and suffered from a slowfeverishness from which he never afterwards became entirely free.[76]His mind was as feverish as his body, and the morbid broodings whichactive life reduces to their lowest degree in most young men, were leftto make full havoc along with the seven devils of idleness and vacuity.An instinct which may flow from the unrecognised animal lying deep downin us all, suggested the way of return to wholesomeness. Rousseauprevailed upon Madame de Warens to leave the stifling streets for thefresh fields, and to deliver herself by retreat to rural solitude fromthe adventurers who made her their prey. Les Charmettes, the modestfarm-house to which they retired, still stands. The modern traveller,with a taste for relieving an imagination strained by great historicmonuments and secular landmarks, with the sight of spots associated withthe passion and meditation of some far-shining teacher of men, may walka short league from where the gray slate roofs of dull Chamberi bake inthe sun, and ascending a gently mounting road, with high leafy bank onthe right throwing cool shadows over his head, and a stream on the leftmaking music at his feet, he sees an old red housetop lifted lonelyabove the trees. The homes in which men have lived now and again lendthemselves to the beholder's subjective impression; they seemed to bebrooding in forlorn isolation like some life-wearied gray-beard overancient and sorrow-stricken memories. At Les Charmettes a pitifulmelancholy penetrates you. The supreme loveliness of the scene, thesweet-smelling meadows, the orchard, the water-ways, the little vineyardwith here and there a rose glowing crimson among the yellow stuntedvines, the rust-red crag of the Nivolet rising against the sky faracross the broad valley; the contrast between all this peace, beauty,silence, and the diseased miserable life of the famous man who found ascanty span of paradise in the midst of it, touches the soul with apathetic spell. We are for the moment lifted out of squalor, vagrancy,and disorder, and seem to hear some of the harmonies which sounded tothis perturbed spirit, soothing it, exalting it, and stirring thoseinmost vibrations which in truth make up all the short divine part of aman's life.[77]"No day passes," he wrote in the very year in which he died, "in whichI do not recall with joy and tender effusion this single and brief timein my life, when I was fully myself, without mixture or hindrance, andwhen I may say in a true sense that I lived. I may almost say, like theprefect when disgraced and proceeding to end his days tranquilly in thecountry, 'I have passed seventy years on the earth, and I have lived butseven of them.' But for this brief and precious space, I should perhapshave remained uncertain about myself; for during all the rest of my lifeI have been so agitated, tossed, plucked hither and thither by thepassions of others, that, being nearly passive in a life so stormy, Ishould find it hard to distinguish what belonged to me in my ownconduct,--to such a degree has harsh necessity weighed upon me. Butduring these few years I did what I wished to do, I was what I wished tobe."[78] The secret of such rare felicity is hardly to be described inwords. It was the ease of a profoundly sensuous nature with every sensegratified and fascinated. Caressing and undivided affection withindoors, all the sweetness and movement of nature without, solitude,freedom, and the busy idleness of life in gardens,--these were theconditions of Rousseau's ideal state. "If my happiness," he says, inlanguage of strange felicity, "consisted in facts, actions, or words, Imight then describe and represent it in some way; but how say what wasneither said nor done nor even thought, but only enjoyed and feltwithout my being able to point to any other object of my happiness thanthe very feeling itself? I arose with the sun and I was happy; I wentout of doors and I was happy; I saw Maman and I was happy; I left herand I was happy; I went among the woods and hills, I wandered about inthe dells, I read, I was idle, I dug in the garden, I gathered fruit, Ihelped them indoors, and everywhere happiness followed me. It was not inany given thing, it was all in myself, and could never leave me for asingle instant."[79] This was a true garden of Eden, with the serpent intemporary quiescence, and we may count the man rare since the fall whohas found such happiness in such conditions, and not less blessed thanhe is rare. The fact that he was one of this chosen company was amongthe foremost of the circumstances which made Rousseau seem to so manymen in the eighteenth century as a spring of water in a thirsty land.All innocent and amiable things moved him. He used to spend hourstogether in taming pigeons; he inspired them with such confidence thatthey would follow him about, and allow him to take them wherever hewould, and the moment that he appeared in the garden two or three ofthem would instantly settle on his arms or his head. The bees, too,gradually came to put the same trust in him, and his whole life wassurrounded with gentle companionship. He always began the day with thesun, walking on the high ridge above the slope on which the house lay,and going through his form of worship. "It did not consist in a vainmoving of the lips, but in a sincere elevation of heart to the author ofthe tender nature whose beauties lay spread out before my eyes. This actpassed rather in wonder and contemplation than in requests; and I alwaysknew that with the dispenser of true blessings, the best means ofobtaining those which are needful for us, is less to ask than to deservethem."[80] These effusions may be taken for the beginning of thedeistical reaction in the eighteenth century. While the truly scientificand progressive spirits were occupied in laborious preparation foradding to human knowledge and systematising it, Rousseau walked with hishead in the clouds among gods, beneficent authors of nature, wisedispensers of blessings, and the like. "Ah, madam," he once said,"sometimes in the privacy of my study, with my hands pressed tight overmy eyes or in the darkness of the night, I am of his opinion that thereis no God. But look yonder (pointing with his hand to the sky, with headerect, and an inspired glance): the rising of the sun, as it scattersthe mists that cover the earth and lays bare the wondrous glitteringscene of nature, disperses at the same moment all cloud from my soul. Ifind my faith again, and my God, and my belief in him. I admire andadore him, and I prostrate myself in his presence."[81] As if thatsettled the question affirmatively, any more than the absence of suchtheistic emotion in many noble spirits settles it negatively. God becamethe highest known formula for sensuous expansion, the synthesis of allcomplacent emotions, and Rousseau filled up the measure of his delightby creating and invoking a Supreme Being to match with fine scenery andsunny gardens. We shall have a better occasion to mark the attributes ofthis important conception when we come to _Emilius_, where it waslaunched in a panoply of resounding phrases upon a Europe which wasgrown too strong for Christian dogma, and was not yet grown strongenough to rest in a provisional ordering of the results of its ownpositive knowledge. Walking on the terrace at Les Charmettes, you are atthe very birth-place of that particular Etre Supreme to whom Robespierreoffered the incense of an official festival.Sometimes the reading of a Jansenist book would make him unhappy by theprominence into which it brought the displeasing idea of hell, and heused now and then to pass a miserable day in wondering whether thiscruel destiny should be his. Madame de Warens, whose softness of heartinspired her with a theology that ought to have satisfied a seraphicdoctor, had abolished hell, but she could not dispense with purgatorybecause she did not know what to do with the souls of the wicked, beingunable either to damn them, or to instal them among the good until theyhad been purified into goodness. In truth it must be confessed, saysRousseau, that alike in this world and the other the wicked areextremely embarrassing.[82] His own search after knowledge of his fateis well known. One day, amusing himself in a characteristic manner bythrowing stones at trees, he began to be tormented by fear of theeternal pit. He resolved to test his doom by throwing a stone at aparticular tree; if he hit, then salvation; if he missed, thenperdition. With a trembling hand and beating heart he threw; as he hadchosen a large tree and was careful not to place himself too far away,all was well.[83] As a rule, however, in spite of the ugly phantoms oftheology, he passed his days in a state of calm. Even when illnessbrought it into his head that he should soon know the future lot by moreassured experiment, he still preserved a tranquillity which he justlyqualifies as sensual.In thinking of Rousseau's peculiar feeling for nature, which acquiredsuch a decisive place in his character during his life at LesCharmettes, it is to be remembered that it was entirely devoid of thatstormy and boisterous quality which has grown up in more modernliterature, out of the violent attempt to press nature in her most awfulmoods into the service of the great revolt against a social andreligious tradition that can no longer be endured. Of this revoltRousseau was a chief, and his passion for natural aspects was connectedwith this attitude, but he did not seize those of them which the poet of_Manfred_, for example, forced into an imputed sympathy with his ownrebellion. Rousseau always loved nature best in her moods of quiescenceand serenity, and in proportion as she lent herself to such moods inmen. He liked rivulets better than rivers. He could not bear the sightof the sea; its infertile bosom and blind restless tumblings filled himwith melancholy. The ruins of a park affected him more than the ruins ofcastles.[84] It is true that no plain, however beautiful, ever seemed soin his eyes; he required torrents, rocks, dark forests, mountains, andprecipices.[85] This does not affect the fact that he never moralisedappalling landscape, as post-revolutionary writers have done, and thatthe Alpine wastes which throw your puniest modern into a rapture, had noattraction for him. He could steep himself in nature without climbingfifteen thousand feet to find her. In landscape, as has been said by onewith a right to speak, Rousseau was truly a great artist, and you can,if you are artistic too, follow him with confidence in his wanderings;he understood that beauty does not require a great stage, and that theeffect of things lies in harmony.[86] The humble heights of the Jura,and the lovely points of the valley of Chamberi, sufficed to give himall the pleasure of which he was capable. In truth a man cannot escapefrom his time, and Rousseau at least belonged to the eighteenth centuryin being devoid of the capacity for feeling awe, and the taste forobjects inspiring it. Nature was a tender friend with softest bosom, andno sphinx with cruel enigma. He felt neither terror, nor any sense ofthe littleness of man, nor of the mysteriousness of life, nor of theunseen forces which make us their sport, as he peered over the precipiceand heard the water roaring at the bottom of it; he only remained forhours enjoying the physical sensation of dizziness with which it turnedhis brain, with a break now and again for hurling large stones, andwatching them roll and leap down into the torrent, with as littlereflection and as little articulate emotion as if he had been achild.[87]Just as it is convenient for purposes of classification to divide a maninto body and soul, even when we believe the soul to be only a functionof the body, so people talk of his intellectual side and his emotionalside, his thinking quality and his feeling quality, though in fact andat the roots these qualities are not two but one, with temperament forthe common substratum. During this period of his life the whole ofRousseau's true force went into his feelings, and at all times feelingpredominated over reflection, with many drawbacks and some advantages ofa very critical kind for subsequent generations of men. Nearly every onewho came into contact with him in the way of testing his capacity forbeing instructed pronounced him hopeless. He had several excellentopportunities of learning Latin, especially at Turin in the house ofCount Gouvon, and in the seminary at Annecy, and at Les Charmettes hedid his best to teach himself, but without any better result than a verylimited power of reading. In learning one rule he forgot the last; hecould never master the most elementary laws of versification; he learntand re-learnt twenty times the Eclogues of Virgil, but not a single wordremained with him.[88] He was absolutely without verbal memory, and hepronounces himself wholly incapable of learning anything from masters.Madame de Warens tried to have him taught both dancing and fencing; hecould never achieve a minuet, and after three months of instruction hewas as clumsy and helpless with his foil as he had been on the firstday. He resolved to become a master at the chessboard; he shut himselfup in his room, and worked night and day over the books withindescribable efforts which covered many weeks. On proceeding to thecafe to manifest his powers, he found that all the moves andcombinations had got mixed up in his head, he saw nothing but clouds onthe board, and as often as he repeated the experiment he only foundhimself weaker than before. Even in music, for which he had a genuinepassion and at which he worked hard, he never could acquire any facilityat sight, and he was an inaccurate scorer, even when only copying thescore of others.[89]Two things nearly incompatible, he writes in an important passage, areunited in me without my being able to think how; an extremely ardenttemperament, lively and impetuous passions, along with ideas that arevery slow in coming to birth, very embarrassed, and which never ariseuntil after the event. "One would say that my heart and my intelligencedo not belong to the same individual.... I feel all, and see nothing; Iam carried away, but I am stupid.... This slowness of thinking, unitedwith such vivacity of feeling, possesses me not only in conversation,but when I am alone and working. My ideas arrange themselves in my headwith incredible difficulty; they circulate there in a dull way andferment until they agitate me, fill me with heat, and give mepalpitations; in the midst of this stir I see nothing clearly, I couldnot write a single word. Insensibly the violent emotion grows still, thechaos is disentangled, everything falls into its place, but very slowlyand after long and confused agitation."[90]So far from saying that his heart and intelligence belonged to twopersons, we might have been quite sure, knowing his heart, that hisintelligence must be exactly what he describes its process to have been.The slow-burning ecstasy in which he knew himself at his height and wasmost conscious of fulness of life, was incompatible with the rapid anddeliberate generation of ideas. The same soft passivity, the samereceptiveness, which made his emotions like the surface of a lake undersky and breeze, entered also into the working of his intellectualfaculties. But it happens that in this region, in the attainment ofknowledge, truth, and definite thoughts, even receptiveness implies adistinct and active energy, and hence the very quality of temperamentwhich left him free and eager for sensuous impressions, seemed to mufflehis intelligence in a certain opaque and resisting medium, of theindefinable kind that interposes between will and action in a dream. Hisrational part was fatally protected by a non-conducting envelope ofsentiment; this intercepted clear ideas on their passage, and even cutoff the direct and true impress of those objects and their relations,which are the material of clear ideas. He was no doubt right in hisavowal that objects generally made less impression on him than therecollection of them; that he could see nothing of what was before hiseyes, and had only his intelligence in cases where memories wereconcerned; and that of what was said or done in his presence, he feltand penetrated nothing.[91] In other words, this is to say that hismaterial of thought was not fact but image. When he plunged intoreflection, he did not deal with the objects of reflection at first handand in themselves, but only with the reminiscences of objects, which hehad never approached in a spirit of deliberate and systematicobservation, and with those reminiscences, moreover, suffused andsaturated by the impalpable but most potent essences of a fermentingimagination. Instead of urgently seeking truth with the patient energy,the wariness, and the conscience, with the sharpened instruments, thesystematic apparatus, and the minute feelers and tentacles of thegenuine thinker and solid reasoner, he only floated languidly on asummer tide of sensation, and captured premiss and conclusion in asuccession of swoons. It would be a mistake to contend that no work canbe done for the world by this method, or that truth only comes to thosewho chase her with logical forceps. But one should always try todiscover how a teacher of men came by his ideas, whether by carefultoil, or by the easy bequest of generous phantasy.To give a zest to rural delight, and partly perhaps to satisfy theintellectual interest which must have been an instinct in one who becameso consummate a master in the great and noble art of composition,Rousseau, during the time when he lived with Madame de Warens, tried aswell as he knew how to acquire a little knowledge of what fruit thecultivation of the mind of man had hitherto brought forth. According tohis own account, it was Voltaire's Letters on the English which firstdrew him seriously to study, and nothing which that illustrious manwrote at this time escaped him. His taste for Voltaire inspired him withthe desire of writing with elegance, and of imitating "the fine andenchanting colour of Voltaire's style"[92]--an object in which he cannotbe held to have in the least succeeded, though he achieved a superbstyle of his own. On his return from Turin Madame de Warens had begun insome small way to cultivate a taste for letters in him, though he hadlost the enthusiasm of his childhood for reading. Saint Evremond,Puffendorff, the Henriade, and the Spectator happened to be in his room,and he turned over their pages. The Spectator, he says, pleased himgreatly and did him much good.[93] Madame de Warens was what he callsprotestant in literary taste, and would talk for ever of the greatBayle, while she thought more of Saint Evremond than she could everpersuade Rousseau to think. Two or three years later than this he beganto use his own mind more freely, and opened his eyes for the first timeto the greatest question that ever dawns upon any human intelligencethat has the privilege of discerning it, the problem of a philosophy anda body of doctrine.His way of answering it did not promise the best results. He read anintroduction to the Sciences, then he took an Encyclopaedia and tried tolearn all things together, until he repented and resolved to studysubjects apart. This he found a better plan for one to whom longapplication was so fatiguing, that he could not with any effect occupyhimself for half an hour on any one matter, especially if following theideas of another person.[94] He began his morning's work, after an houror two of dispersive chat, with the Port-Royal Logic, Locke's Essay onthe Human Understanding, Malebranche, Leibnitz, Descartes.[95] He foundthese authors in a condition of such perpetual contradiction amongthemselves, that he formed the chimerical design of reconciling themwith one another. This was tedious, so he took up another method, onwhich he congratulated himself to the end of his life. It consisted insimply adopting and following the ideas of each author, withoutcomparing them either with one another or with those of other writers,and above all without any criticism of his own. Let me begin, he said,by collecting a store of ideas, true or false, but at any rate clear,until my head is well enough stocked to enable me to compare and choose.At the end of some years passed "in never thinking exactly, except afterother people, without reflecting so to speak, and almost withoutreasoning," he found himself in a state to think for himself. "In spiteof beginning late to exercise my judicial faculty, I never found that ithad lost its vigour, and when I came to publish my own ideas, I washardly accused of being a servile disciple."[96]To that fairly credible account of the matter, one can only say thatthis mutually exclusive way of learning the thoughts of others, anddeveloping thoughts of your own, is for an adult probably the mostmischievous, where it is not the most impotent, fashion in whichintellectual exercise can well be taken. It is exactly the use of thejudicial faculty, criticising, comparing, and defining, which isindispensable in order that a student should not only effectuallyassimilate the ideas of a writer, but even know what those ideas come toand how much they are worth. And so when he works at ideas of his own, ajudicial faculty which has been kept studiously slumbering for someyears, is not likely to revive in full strength without any preliminarytraining. Rousseau was a man of singular genius, and he set anextraordinary mark on Europe, but this mark would have been verydifferent if he had ever mastered any one system of thought, or if hehad ever fully grasped what systematic thinking means. Instead of this,his debt to the men whom he read was a debt of piecemeal, and hisobligation an obligation for fragments; and this is perhaps the worstway of acquiring an intellectual lineage, for it leaves out the vitalcontinuity of temper and method. It is a small thing to accept this orthat of Locke's notions upon education or the origin of ideas, if you donot see the merit of his way of coming by his notions. In short,Rousseau has distinctions in abundance, but the distinction of knowinghow to think, in the exact sense of that term, was hardly among them,and neither now nor at any other time did he go through any of thattoilsome and vigorous intellectual preparation to which the ablest ofhis contemporaries, Diderot, Voltaire, D'Alembert, Turgot, Condorcet,Hume, all submitted themselves. His comfortable view was that "thesensible and interesting conversations of a woman of merit are moreproper to form a young man than all the pedantical philosophy ofbooks."[97]Style, however, in which he ultimately became such a proficient, andwhich wrought such marvels as only style backed by passion can work,already engaged his serious attention. We have already seen how Voltaireimplanted in him the first root idea, which so many of us never perceiveat all, that there is such a quality of writing as style. He evidentlytook pains with the form of expression and thought about it, inobedience to some inborn harmonious predisposition which is the sourceof all veritable eloquence, though there is no strong trace now nor formany years to come of any irresistible inclination for literarycomposition. We find him, indeed, in 1736 showing consciousness of aslight skill in writing,[98] but he only thought of it as a possiblerecommendation for a secretaryship to some great person. He also appearsto have practised verses, not for their own sake, for he always mostjustly thought his own verses mediocre, and they are even worse; but onthe ground that verse-making is a rather good exercise for breakingone's self to elegant inversions, and learning a greater ease inprose.[99] At the age of one and twenty he composed a comedy, longafterwards damned as _Narcisse_. Such prelusions, however, were of smallimportance compared with the fact of his being surrounded by a moralatmosphere in which his whole mind was steeped. It is not in the studyof Voltaire or another, but in the deep soft soil of constant mood andold habit that such a style as Rousseau's has its growth.It was the custom to return to Chamberi for the winter, and the day oftheir departure from Les Charmettes was always a day blurred and tearfulfor Rousseau; he never left it without kissing the ground, the trees,the flowers; he had to be torn away from it as from a loved companion.At the first melting of the winter snows they left their dungeon inChamberi, and they never missed the earliest song of the nightingale.Many a joyful day of summer peace remained vivid in Rousseau's memory,and made a mixed heaven and hell for him long years after in thestifling dingy Paris street, and the raw and cheerless air of aDerbyshire winter.[100] "We started early in the morning," he says,describing one of these simple excursions on the day of St. Lewis, whowas the very unconscious patron saint of Madame de Warens, "together andalone; I proposed that we should go and ramble about the side of thevalley opposite to our own, which we had not yet visited. We sent ourprovisions on before us, for we were to be out all day. We went fromhill to hill and wood to wood, sometimes in the sun and often in theshade, resting from time to time and forgetting ourselves for wholehours; chatting about ourselves, our union, our dear lot, and offeringunheard prayers that it might last. All seemed to conspire for the blissof this day. Rain had fallen a short time before; there was no dust, andthe little streams were full; a light fresh breeze stirred the leaves,the air was pure, the horizon without a cloud, and the same serenityreigned in our own hearts. Our dinner was cooked in a peasant's cottage,and we shared it with his family. These Savoyards are such good souls!After dinner we sought shade under some tall trees, where, while Icollected dry sticks for making our coffee, Maman amused herself bybotanising among the bushes, and the expedition ended in transports oftenderness and effusion."[101] This is one of such days as the soulturns back to when the misery that stalks after us all has seized it,and a man is left to the sting and smart of the memory ofirrecoverable things.He was resolved to bind himself to Madame de Warens with an inalterablefidelity for all the rest of his days; he would watch over her with allthe dutiful and tender vigilance of a son, and she should be to himsomething dearer than mother or wife or sister. What actually befell wasthis. He was attacked by vapours, which he characterises as the disorderof the happy. One symptom of his disease was the conviction derived fromthe rash perusal of surgeon's treatises, that he was suffering from apolypus in the heart. On the not very chivalrous principle that if hedid not spend Madame de Warens' money, he was only leaving it foradventurers and knaves, he proceeded to Montpellier to consult thephysicians, and took the money for his expenses out of hisbenefactress's store, which was always slender because it was alwaysopen to any hand. While on the road, he fell into an intrigue with atravelling companion, whom critics have compared to the fair Philina ofWilhelm Meister. In due time, the Montpellier doctor being unable todiscover a disease, declared that the patient had none. The scenery wasdull and unattractive, and this would have counterbalanced theweightiest prudential reasons with him at any time. Rousseau debatedwhether he should keep tryst with his gay fellow-traveller, or return toChamberi. Remorse and that intractable emptiness of pocket which is theiron key to many a deed of ingenuous-looking self-denial and Spartanvirtue, directed him homewards. Here he had a surprise, and perhapslearnt a lesson. He found installed in the house a personage whom hedescribes as tall, fair, noisy, coxcombical, flat-faced, flat-souled.Another triple alliance seemed a thing odious in the eyes of a man whomhis travelling diversions had made a Pharisee for the hour. Heprotested, but Madame de Warens was a woman of principle, and declinedto let Rousseau, who had profited by the doctrine of indifference, nowset up in his own favour the contrary doctrine of a narrow and churlishpartiality. So a short, delicious, and never-forgotten episode came toan end: this pair who had known so much happiness together were happytogether no more, and the air became peopled for Rousseau with wanspectres of dead joys and fast gathering cares.The dates of the various events described in the fifth and sixth booksof the Confessions are inextricable, and the order is evidently invertedmore than once. The inversion of order is less serious than thecontradictions between the dates of the Confessions and the moreauthentic and unmistakable dates of his letters. For instance, hedescribes a visit to Geneva as having been made shortly before Lautrec'stemporary pacification of the civic troubles of that town; and thatevent took place in the spring of 1738. This would throw the Montpellierjourney, which he says came after the visit to Geneva, into 1738, butthe letters to Madame de Warens from Grenoble and Montpellier are datedin the autumn and winter of 1737.[102] Minor verifications attest theexactitude of the dates of the letters,[103] and we may thereforeconclude that he returned from Montpellier, found his place taken andlost his old delight in Les Charmettes, in the early part of 1738. Inthe tenth of the Reveries he speaks of having passed "a space of four orfive years" in the bliss of Les Charmettes, and it is true that hisconnection with it in one way and another lasted from the middle of 1736until about the middle of 1741. But as he left for Montpellier in theautumn of 1737, and found the obnoxious Vinzenried installed in 1738,the pure and characteristic felicity of Les Charmettes perhaps onlylasted about a year or a year and a half. But a year may set a deep markon a man, and give him imperishable taste of many things bitterand sweet.FOOTNOTES:[38] _Conf._, iii. 177.[39] Lamartine in _Raphael_ defies "a reasonable man to recompose withany reality the character that Rousseau gives to his mistress, out ofthe contradictory elements which he associates in her nature. One ofthese elements excludes the other." It is worth while for any who carefor this kind of study to compare Madame de Warens with the Marquisede Courcelles, whom Sainte-Beuve has well called the Manon Lescaut ofthe seventeenth century.[40] Described by Rousseau in a memorandum for the biographer of M. deBernex, printed in _Melanges_, pp. 139-144.[41] De Tavel, by name. Disorderly ideas as to the relations of thesexes began to appear in Switzerland along with the reformation ofreligion. In the sixteenth century a woman appeared at Geneva with thedoctrine that it is as inhuman and as unjustifiable to refuse thegratification of this appetite in a man as to decline to give food anddrink to the starving. Picot's _Hist. de Geneve_, vol. ii.[42] _Conf._, v. 341. Also ii. 83; and vi. 401.[43] _Conf._, v. 345.[44] _Conf._, ii. 83.[45] _Ib._ ii. 82.[46] _Ib._ iii. 179. See also 200.[47] _Conf._, iii. 177, 178.[48] _Conf._, iii. 183.[49] M. d'Aubonne.[50] _Conf._, iii 192.[51] M. Gatier.[52] M. Gaime.[53] _Conf._, iii. 204.[54] _Ib._ iii. 209, 210.[55] _Conf._, iii. 217-222.[56] _Conf._, iv. 227.[57] _Ib._ iii. 224.[58] One Venture de Villeneuve, who visited him years afterwards(1755) in Paris, when Rousseau found that the idol of old days was acrapulent debauchee. _Ib._ viii. 221.[59] Mdlles. de Graffenried and Galley. _Conf._, iv. 231.[60] _Ib._ iv. 254-256.[61] _Conf._, iv. 253.[62] While in the ambassador's house at Soleure, he was lodged in aroom which had once belonged to his namesake, Jean Baptiste Rousseau(_b. 1670--d. 1741_), whom the older critics astonishingly insist oncounting the first of French lyric poets. There was a third Rousseau,Pierre [_b. 1725--d. 1785_], who wrote plays and did other work nowwell forgotten. There are some lines imperfectly commemorative of thetrio--Trois auteurs que Rousseau l'on nomme, Connus de Paris jusqu'a Rome,Sont differens; voici par ou; Rousseau de Paris fut grand homme;Rousseau de Geneve est un fou; Rousseau de Toulouse un atome.Jean Jacques refers to both his namesakes in his letter to Voltaire,Jan. 30, 1750. _Corr._, i. 145.[63] The only object which ever surpassed his expectation was thegreat Roman structure near Nismes, the Pont du Gard. _Conf._, vi. 446.[64] Rousseau gives 1732 as the probable date of his return toChamberi, after his first visit to Paris [_Conf._, v. 305], and theonly objection to this is his mention of the incident of the march ofthe French troops, which could not have happened until the winter of1733, as having taken place "some months" after his arrival.Musset-Pathay accepts this as decisive, and fixes the return in thespring of 1733 [i. 12]. My own conjectural chronology is this: Returnsfrom Turin towards the autumn of 1729; stays at Annecy until thespring of 1731; passes the winter of 1731-2 at Neuchatel; first visitsParis in spring of 1732; returns to Savoy in the early summer of 1732.But a precise harmonising of the dates in the Confessions isimpossible; Rousseau wrote them three and thirty years after ourpresent point [in 1766 at Wootton], and never claimed to be exact inminuteness of date. Fortunately such matters in the present case areabsolutely devoid of importance.[65] _Conf._, iv. 279, 280.[66] _Conf._, iv. 290, 291,[67] _Conf._, iv. 281-283.[68] _Conf._, v. 325.[69] _Conf._, v. 360-364. _Corr._, i. 21-24.[70] _Conf._, v. 349, 350.[71] Apparently in the summer of 1736, though, the reference to thereturn of the French troops at the peace [_Ib._ v. 365] would place itin 1735.[72] _Ib._ v. 356[73] _Ib._[74] _Conf._, v. 315, 316.[75] _Ib._ iv. 276. _Nouv. Hel._, II. xiv. 381, etc.[76] He refers to the ill-health of his youth, _Conf._, vii. 32, anddescribes an ominous head seizure while at Chamberi, _Ib._ vi. 396.[77] Rousseau's description of Les Charmettes is at the end of thefifth book. The present proprietor keeps the house arranged as it usedto be, and has gathered one or two memorials of its famous tenant,including his poor _clavecin_ and his watch. In an outside wall,Herault de Sechelles, when Commissioner from the Convention in thedepartment of Mont Blanc, inserted a little white stone with two mostlapidary stanzas inscribed upon it, about _genie, solitude, fierte,gloire, verite, envie_, and the like.[78] _Reveries_, x. 336 (1778).[79] _Conf._, vi. 393.[80] _Conf._, vi. 412.[81] _Mem. de Mdme. d'Epinay_, i. 394. (M. Boiteau's edition:Charpentier. 1865.)[82] _Conf._, vi. 399.[83] _Ib._ vi. 424. Goethe made a similar experiment; see Mr. Lewes's_Life_, p. 126.[84] Bernardin de Saint Pierre tells us this. _Oeuvres_ (Ed. 1818),xii. 70, etc.[85] _Conf._, iv. 297. See also the description of the scenery of theValais, in the _Nouv. Hel._, Pt. I. Let. xxiii.[86] George Sand in _Mademoiselle la Quintinie_ (p. 27), a bookcontaining some peculiarly subtle appreciations of the Savoylandscape.[87] _Conf._, iv. 298.[88] _Conf._, vi. 416, 422, etc.; iii. 164; iii. 203; v. 347; v. 383,384. Also vii. 53.[89] _Conf._, v. 313, 367; iv. 293; ix. 353. Also _Mem. de Mdme.d'Epinay_, ii. 151.[90] _Ib._ iii. 192, 193.[91] _Conf._, iv. 301; iii. 195.[92] _Conf._, v. 372, 373. The mistaken date assigned to thecorrespondence between Voltaire and Frederick is one of many instanceshow little we can trust the Confessions for minute accuracy, thoughtheir substantial veracity is confirmed by all the collateral evidencethat we have.[93] _Ib._ iii. 188. For his debt in the way of education to Madame deWarens, see also _Ib._ vii. 46.[94] _Conf._, vi. 409.[95] _Ib._ vi. 413. He adds a suspicious-looking "_et cetera_."[96] _Conf._, vi. 414[97] _Conf._, iv. 295. See also v. 346.[98] _Corr._, 1736, pp. 26, 27.[99] _Conf._, iv. 271, where he says further that he never foundenough attraction in French poetry to make him think of pursuing it.[100] The first part of the Confessions was written in Wootton inDerbyshire, in the winter of 1766-1767.[101] _Conf._, vi. 422.[102] _Corr._, i. 43, 46, 62, etc.[103] Musset-Pathay, i. 23, _n._CHAPTER IV.THERESA LE VASSEUR.Men like Rousseau, who are most heedless in letting their delightperish, are as often as not most loth to bury what they have slain, oreven to perceive that life has gone out of it. The sight of simplehearts trying to coax back a little warm breath of former days into apresent that is stiff and cold with indifference, is touching enough.But there is a certain grossness around the circumstances in whichRousseau now and too often found himself, that makes us watch hisembarrassment with some composure. One cannot easily think of him as asimple heart, and we feel perhaps as much relief as he, when he resolvesafter making all due efforts to thrust out the intruder and bring Madamede Warens over from theories which had become too practical to beinteresting, to leave Les Charmettes and accept a tutorship at Lyons.His new patron was a De Mably, elder brother of the philosophic abbe ofthe same name (1709-85), and of the still more notable Condillac(1714-80).The future author of the most influential treatise on education that hasever been written, was not successful in the practical and far morearduous side of that master art.[104] We have seen how little traininghe had ever given himself in the cardinal virtues of collectedness andself-control, and we know this to be the indispensable quality in allwho have to shape young minds for a humane life. So long as all wentwell, he was an angel, but when things went wrong, he is willing toconfess that he was a devil. When his two pupils could not understandhim, he became frantic; when they showed wilfulness or any other part ofthe disagreeable materials out of which, along with the rest, humanexcellence has to be ingeniously and painfully manufactured, he wasready to kill them. This, as he justly admits, was not the way to renderthem either well learned or sage. The moral education of the teacherhimself was hardly complete, for he describes how he used to steal hisemployer's wine, and the exquisite draughts which he enjoyed in thesecrecy of his own room, with a piece of cake in one hand and some dearromance in the other. We should forgive greedy pilferings of this kindmore easily if Rousseau had forgotten them more speedily. These aresurely offences for which the best expiation is oblivion in a throng ofworthier memories.It is easy to understand how often Rousseau's mind turned from thedeadly drudgery of his present employment to the beatitude of formerdays. "What rendered my present condition insupportable was therecollection of my beloved Charmettes, of my garden, my trees, myfountain, my orchard, and above all of her for whom I felt myself bornand who gave life to it all. As I thought of her, of our pleasures, ourguileless days, I was seized by a tightness in my heart, a stopping ofmy breath, which robbed me of all spirit."[105] For years to come thiswas a kind of far-off accompaniment, thrumming melodiously in his earsunder all the discords of a miserable life. He made another effort toquicken the dead. Throwing up his office with his usual promptitude inescaping from the irksome, after a residence of something like a year atLyons (April, 1740--spring of 1741), he made his way back to his oldhaunts. The first half-hour with Madame de Warens persuaded him thathappiness here was really at an end. After a stay of a few months, hisdesolation again overcame him. It was agreed that he should go to Paristo make his fortune by a new method of musical notation which he hadinvented, and after a short stay at Lyons, he found himself for thesecond time in the famous city which in the eighteenth century hadbecome for the moment the centre of the universe.[106]It was not yet, however, destined to be a centre for him. His plan ofmusical notation was examined by a learned committee of the Academy, nomember of whom was instructed in the musical art. Rousseau, dumb,inarticulate, and unready as usual, was amazed at the ease with whichhis critics by the free use of sounding phrases demolished arguments andobjections which he perceived that they did not at all understand. Hisexperience on this occasion suggested to him the most just reflection,how even without breadth of intelligence, the profound knowledge of anyone thing is preferable in forming a judgment about it, to all possibleenlightenment conferred by the cultivation of the sciences, withoutstudy of the special matter in question. It astonished him that allthese learned men, who knew so many things, could yet be so ignorantthat a man should only pretend to be a judge in his own craft.[107]His musical path to glory and riches thus blocked up, he surrenderedhimself not to despair but to complete idleness and peace of mind. Hehad a few coins left, and these prevented him from thinking of a future.He was presented to one or two great ladies, and with the blunderinggallantry habitual to him he wrote a letter to one of the greatest ofthem, declaring his passion for her. Madame Dupin was the daughter ofone, and the wife of another, of the richest men in France, and theattentions of a man whose acquaintance Madame Beuzenval had begun byinviting him to dine in the servants' hall, were not pleasing toher.[108] She forgave the impertinence eventually, and her stepson, M.Francueil, was Rousseau's patron for some years.[109] On the whole,however, in spite of his own account of his social ineptitude, therecannot have been anything so repulsive in his manners as this accountwould lead us to think. There is no grave anachronism in introducinghere the impression which he made on two fine ladies not many yearsafter this. "He pays compliments, yet he is not polite, or at least heis without the air of politeness. He seems to be ignorant of the usagesof society, but it is easily seen that he is infinitely intelligent. Hehas a brown complexion, while eyes that overflow with fire giveanimation to his expression. When he has spoken and you look at him, heappears comely; but when you try to recall him, his image is alwaysextremely plain. They say that he has bad health, and endures agonywhich from some motive of vanity he most carefully conceals. It isthis, I fancy, which gives him from time to time an air ofsullenness."[110] The other lady, who saw him at the same time, speaksof "the poor devil of an author, who's as poor as Job for you, but withwit and vanity enough for four.... They say his history is as queer ashis person, and that is saying a good deal.... Madame Maupeou and Itried to guess what it was. 'In spite of his face,' said she (for it iscertain he is uncommonly plain), 'his eyes tell that love plays a greatpart in his romance.' 'No,' said I, 'his nose tells me that it isvanity.' 'Well then, 'tis both one and the other.'"[111]One of his patronesses took some trouble to procure him the post ofsecretary to the French ambassador at Venice, and in the spring of 1743our much-wandering man started once more in quest of meat and raiment inthe famous city of the Adriatic. This was one of those steps of whichthere are not a few in a man's life, that seem at the moment to rankforemost in the short line of decisive acts, and then are presently seennot to have been decisive at all, but mere interruptions conductingnowhither. In truth the critical moments with us are mostly as points inslumber. Even if the ancient oracles of the gods were to regain theirspeech once more on the earth, men would usually go to consult them ondays when the answer would have least significance, and could guidethem least far. That one of the most heedless vagrants in Europe, and asit happened one of the men of most extraordinary genius also, shouldhave got a footing in the train of the ambassador of a great government,would naturally seem to him and others as chance's one critical strokein his life. In reality it was nothing. The Count of Montaigu, hismaster, was one of the worst characters with whom Rousseau could for hisown profit have been brought into contact. In his professional qualityhe was not far from imbecile. The folly and weakness of the governmentat Versailles during the reign of Lewis XV., and its indifference tocompetence in every department except perhaps partially in the fisc, wasfairly illustrated in its absurd representative at Venice. Thesecretary, whose renown has preserved his master's name, has recordedmore amply than enough the grounds of quarrel between them. Rousseau isfor once eager to assert his own efficiency, and declares that herendered many important services for which he was repaid withingratitude and persecution.[112] One would be glad to know what theCount of Montaigu's version of matters was, for in truth Rousseau'sconduct in previous posts makes us wonder how it was that he who hadhitherto always been unfaithful over few things, suddenly touchedperfection when he became lord over many.There is other testimony, however, to the ambassador's morbid quality,of which, after that general imbecility which was too common a thingamong men in office to be remarkable, avarice was the most strikingtrait. For instance, careful observation had persuaded him that threeshoes are equivalent to two pairs, because there is always one of a pairwhich is more worn than its fellow; and hence he habitually ordered hisshoes in threes.[113] It was natural enough that such a master and sucha secretary should quarrel over perquisites. That slightly cringingquality which we have noticed on one or two occasions in Rousseau'shungry youthful time, had been hardened out of him by circumstance orthe strengthening of inborn fibre. He would now neither dine in aservants' hall because a fine lady forgot what was due to a musician,nor share his fees with a great ambassador who forgot what was due tohimself. These sordid disputes are of no interest now to anybody, and weneed only say that after a period of eighteen months passed inuncongenial company, Rousseau parted from his count in extreme dudgeon,and the diplomatic career which he had promised to himself came to thesame close as various other careers had already done.He returned to Paris towards the end of 1744, burning with indignationat the unjust treatment which he believed himself to have suffered, andlaying memorial after memorial before the minister at home. He assuresus that it was the justice and the futility of his complaints, that leftin his soul the germ of exasperation against preposterous civilinstitutions, "in which the true common weal and real justice are alwayssacrificed to some seeming order or other, which is in fact destructiveof all order, and only adds the sanction of public authority to theoppression of the weak and the iniquity of the strong."[114]One or two pictures connected with the Venetian episode remain in thememory of the reader of the Confessions, and among them perhaps withmost people is that of the quarantine at Genoa in Rousseau's voyage tohis new post. The travellers had the choice of remaining on board thefelucca, or passing the time in an unfurnished lazaretto. This, we maynotice in passing, was his first view of the sea; he makes no mention ofthe fact, nor does the sight or thought of the sea appear to have leftthe least mark in any line of his writings. He always disliked it, andthought of it with melancholy. Rousseau, as we may suppose, found thewant of space and air in the boat the most intolerable of evils, andpreferred to go alone to the lazaretto, though it had neitherwindow-sashes nor tables nor chairs nor bed, nor even a truss of strawto lie down upon. He was locked up and had the whole barrack to himself."I manufactured," he says, "a good bed out of my coats and shirts,sheets out of towels which I stitched together, a pillow out of my oldcloak rolled up. I made myself a seat of one trunk placed flat, and atable of the other. I got out some paper and my writing-desk, andarranged some dozen books that I had by way of library. In short I mademyself so comfortable, that, with the exception of curtains and windows,I was nearly as well off in this absolutely naked lazaretto as in mylodgings in Paris. My meals were served with much pomp; two grenadiers,with bayonets at their musket-ends, escorted them; the staircase was mydining-room, the landing did for table and the lower step for a seat,and when my dinner was served, they rang a little bell as they withdrew,to warn me to seat myself at table. Between my meals, when I was neitherwriting nor reading, nor busy with my furnishing, I went for a walk inthe Protestant graveyard, or mounted into a lantern which looked out onto the port, and whence I could see the ships sailing in and out. Ipassed a fortnight in this way, and I could have spent the whole threeweeks of the quarantine without feeling an instant's weariness."[115]These are the occasions when we catch glimpses of the true Rousseau; buthis residence in Venice was on the whole one of his few really sociableperiods. He made friends and kept them, and there was even a certaingaiety in his life. He used to tell people their fortunes in a way thatan earlier century would have counted unholy.[116] He rarely soughtpleasure in those of her haunts for which the Queen of the Adriatic hada guilty renown, but he has left one singular anecdote, showing thedegree to which profound sensibility is capable of doing the moralist'swork in a man, and how a stroke of sympathetic imagination may keep onefrom sin more effectually than an ethical precept.[117] It is pleasanterto think of him as working at the formation of that musical taste whichten years afterwards led him to amaze the Parisians by proving thatFrench melody was a hollow idea born of national self-delusion. AVenetian experiment, whose evidence in the special controversy is lessweighty perhaps than Rousseau supposed, was among the facts whichpersuaded him that Italian is the language of music. An Armenian who hadnever heard any music was invited to listen first of all to a Frenchmonologue, and then to an air of Galuppi's. Rousseau observed in theArmenian more surprise than pleasure during the performance of theFrench piece. The first notes of the Italian were no sooner struck, thanhis eyes and whole expression softened; he was enchanted, surrenderedhis whole soul to the ravishing impressions of the music, and couldnever again be induced to listen to the performance of anyFrench air.[118]More important than this was the circumstance that the sight of thedefects of the government of the Venetian Republic first drew his mindto political speculation, and suggested to him the composition of abook that was to be called Institutions Politiques.[119] The work, asthus designed and named, was never written, but the idea of it, aftermany years of meditation, ripened first in the Discourse on Inequality,and then in the Social Contract.If Rousseau's departure for Venice was a wholly insignificant element inhis life, his return from it was almost immediately followed by an eventwhich counted for nothing at the moment, which his friends by and bycame to regard as the fatal and irretrievable disaster of his life, butwhich he persistently described as the only real consolation that heavenpermitted him to taste in his misery, and the only one that enabled himto bear his many sore burdens.[120]He took up his quarters at a small and dirty hotel not far from theSorbonne, where he had alighted on the occasion of his second arrival inParis.[121] Here was a kitchen-maid, some two-and-twenty years old, whoused to sit at table with her mistress and the guests of the house. Thecompany was rough, being mainly composed of Irish and Gascon abbes, andother people to whom graces of mien and refinement of speech had comeneither by nature nor cultivation. The hostess herself pitched theconversation in merry Rabelaisian key, and the apparent modesty of herserving-woman gave a zest to her own licence. Rousseau was moved withpity for a maid defenceless against a ribald storm, and from pity headvanced to some warmer sentiment, and he and Theresa Le Vasseur tookeach other for better for worse, in a way informal but sufficientlyeffective. This was the beginning of a union which lasted for the lengthof a generation and more, down to the day of Rousseau's most tragicalending.[122] She thought she saw in him a worthy soul; and he wasconvinced that he saw in her a woman of sensibility, simple and freefrom trick, and neither of the two, he says, was deceived in respect ofthe other. Her intellectual quality was unique. She could never betaught to read with any approach to success. She could never follow theorder of the twelve months of the year, nor master a single arithmeticalfigure, nor count a sum of money, nor reckon the price of a thing. Amonth's instruction was not enough to give knowledge of the hours of theday on the dial-plate. The words she used were often the directopposites of the words that she meant to use.[123]The marriage choice of others is the inscrutable puzzle of those whohave no eye for the fact that such choice is the great match of cajolerybetween purpose and invisible hazard; the blessedness of many lives isthe stake, as intention happens to cheat accident or to be cheated byit. When the match is once over, deep criticism of a game of pure chanceis time wasted. The crude talk in which the unwise deliver theirjudgments upon the conditions of success in the relations between menand women, has flowed with unprofitable copiousness as to this not veryinviting case. People construct an imaginary Rousseau out of hiswritings, and then fetter their elevated, susceptible, sensitive, andhumane creation, to the unfortunate woman who could never be taught thatApril is the month after March, or that twice four and a half are nine.Now we have already seen enough of Rousseau to know for how infinitelylittle he counted the gift of a quick wit, and what small store he seteither on literary varnish or on capacity for receiving it. He wastouched in people with whom he had to do, not by attainment, but bymoral fibre or his imaginary impression of their moral fibre. Instead ofanalysing a character, bringing its several elements into the balance,computing the more or less of this faculty or that, he loved to feel itsinfluence as a whole, indivisible, impalpable, playing without sound oragitation around him like soft light and warmth and the fostering air.The deepest ignorance, the dullest incapacity, the cloudiest facultiesof apprehension, were nothing to him in man or woman, provided he couldonly be sensible of that indescribable emanation from voice and eye andmovement, that silent effusion of serenity around spoken words, whichnature has given to some tranquillising spirits, and which would haveleft him free in an even life of indolent meditation and unfrettedsense. A woman of high, eager, stimulating kind would have been a morefatal mate for him than the most stupid woman that ever rivalled thestupidity of man. Stimulation in any form always meant distress toRousseau. The moist warmth of the Savoy valleys was not dearer to himthan the subtle inhalations of softened and close envelopingcompanionship, in which the one needful thing is not intellectualequality, but easy, smooth, constant contact of feeling about thethousand small matters that make up the existence of a day. This is notthe highest ideal of union that one's mind can conceive from the pointof view of intense productive energy, but Rousseau was not concernedwith the conditions of productive energy. He only sought to live, to behimself, and he knew better than any critics can know for him, what kindof nature was the best supplement for his own. As he said in anapophthegm with a deep melancholy lying at the bottom of it,--you nevercan cite the example of a thoroughly happy man, for no one but the manhimself knows anything about it.[124] "By the side of people we love,"he says very truly, "sentiment nourishes the intelligence as well as theheart, and we have little occasion to seek ideas elsewhere. I lived withmy Theresa as pleasantly as with the finest genius in theuniverse."[125]Theresa Le Vasseur would probably have been happier if she had married astout stable-boy, as indeed she did some thirty years hence by way ofgathering up the fragments that were left; but there is little reason tothink that Rousseau would have been much happier with any other matethan he was with Theresa. There was no social disparity between the two.She was a person accustomed to hardship and coarseness, and so was he.And he always systematically preferred the honest coarseness of theplain people from whom he was sprung and among whom he had lived, to themore hateful coarseness of heart which so often lurks under fine mannersand a complete knowledge of the order of the months in the year and thearithmetical table. Rousseau had been a serving-man, and there was nodeterioration in going with a serving-woman.[126] However this may be,it is certain that for the first dozen years or so of hispartnership--and many others as well as he are said to have found inthis term a limit to the conditions of the original contract,--Rousseauhad perfect and entire contentment in the Theresa whom all his friendspronounced as mean, greedy, jealous, degrading, as she was avowedlybrutish in understanding. Granting that she was all these things, howmuch of the responsibility for his acts has been thus shifted from theshoulders of Rousseau himself, whose connection with her was frombeginning to end entirely voluntary? If he attached himself deliberatelyto an unworthy object by a bond which he was indisputably free to breakon any day that he chose, were not the effects of such a union as muchdue to his own character which sought, formed, and perpetuated it, as tothe character of Theresa Le Vasseur? Nothing, as he himself said in apassage to which he appends a vindication of Theresa, shows the trueleanings and inclinations of a man better than the sort of attachmentswhich he forms.[127]It is a natural blunder in a literate and well-mannered society tocharge a mistake against a man who infringes its conventions in thisparticular way. Rousseau knew what he was about, as well as politerpersons. He was at least as happy with his kitchen wench as Addison waswith his countess, or Voltaire with his marchioness, and he would nothave been what he was, nor have played the part that he did play in theeighteenth century, if he had felt anything derogatory or unseemly in akitchen wench. The selection was probably not very deliberate; as ithappened, Theresa served as a standing illustration of two of his mostmarked traits, a contempt for mere literary culture, and a yet deepercontempt for social accomplishments and social position. In time hefound out the grievous disadvantages of living in solitude with acompanion who did not know how to think, and whose stock of ideas was soslight that the only common ground of talk between them was gossip andquodlibets. But her lack of sprightliness, beauty, grace, refinement,and that gentle initiative by which women may make even a sombre life sovarious, went for nothing with him. What his friends missed in her, hedid not seek and would not have valued; and what he found in her, theywere naturally unable to appreciate, for they never were in the mood fordetecting it. "I have not seen much of happy men," he wrote when nearhis end, "perhaps nothing; but I have many a time seen contented hearts,and of all the objects that have struck me, I believe it is this whichhas always given most contentment to myself."[128] This moderateconception of felicity, which was always so characteristic with him, asan even, durable, and rather low-toned state of the feelings, accountsfor his prolonged acquiescence in a companion whom men with more elationin their ideal would assuredly have found hostile even to the mostmodest contentment."The heart of my Theresa," he wrote long after the first tenderness hadchanged into riper emotion on his side, and, alas, into indifference onhers, "was that of an angel; our attachment waxed stronger with ourintimacy, and we felt more and more each day that we were made for oneanother. If our pleasures could be described, their simplicity wouldmake you laugh; our excursions together out of town, in which I wouldmunificently expend eight or ten halfpence in some rural tavern; ourmodest suppers at my window, seated in front of one another on two smallchairs placed on a trunk that filled up the breadth of the embrasure.Here the window did duty for a table, we breathed the fresh air, wecould see the neighbourhood and the people passing by, and though on thefourth story, could look down into the street as we ate. Who shalldescribe, who shall feel the charms of those meals, consisting of acoarse quartern loaf, some cherries, a tiny morsel of cheese, and a pintof wine which we drank between us? Ah, what delicious seasoning there isin friendship, confidence, intimacy, gentleness of soul! We usedsometimes to remain thus until midnight, without once thinking of thetime."[129]Men and women are often more fairly judged by the way in which they bearthe burden of what they have done, than by the prime act which laid theburden on their lives.[130] The deeper part of us shows in the manner ofaccepting consequences. On the whole, Rousseau's relations with thiswoman present him in a better light than those with any other personwhatever. If he became with all the rest of the world suspicious, angry,jealous, profoundly diseased in a word, with her he was habituallytrustful, affectionate, careful, most long-suffering. It sometimes evenoccurs to us that his constancy to Theresa was only another side of themorbid perversity of his relations with the rest of the world. People ofa certain kind not seldom make the most serious and vital sacrifices forbare love of singularity, and a man like Rousseau was not unlikely tofeel an eccentric pleasure in proving that he could find merit in awoman who to everybody else was desperate. One who is on bad terms withthe bulk of his fellows may contrive to save his self-respect andconfirm his conviction that they are all in the wrong, by preservingattachment to some one to whom general opinion is hostile; the privateargument being that if he is capable of this degree of virtue andfriendship in an unfavourable case, how much more could he havepractised it with others, if they would only have allowed him. Whetherthis kind of apology was present to his mind or not, Rousseau couldalways refer those who charged him with black caprice, to his steadykindness towards Theresa Le Vasseur. Her family were among the mostodious of human beings, greedy, idle, and ill-humoured, while her motherhad every fault that a woman could have in Rousseau's eyes, includingthat worst fault of setting herself up for a fine wit. Yet he bore withthem all for years, and did not break with Madame Le Vasseur until shehad poisoned the mind of her daughter, and done her best by rapacity andlying to render him contemptible to all his friends.In the course of years Theresa herself gave him unmistakable signs of achange in her affections. "I began to feel," he says, at a date ofsixteen or seventeen years from our present point, "that she was nolonger for me what she had been in our happy years, and I felt it allthe more clearly as I was still the same towards her."[131] This was in1762, and her estrangement grew deeper and her indifference more open,until at length, seven years afterwards, we find that she had proposed aseparation from him. What the exact reasons for this gradual change mayhave been we do not know, nor have we any right in ignorance of thewhole facts to say that they were not adequate and just. There are twogood traits recorded of the woman's character. She could never consoleherself for having let her father be taken away to end his daysmiserably in a house of charity.[132] And the repudiation of herchildren, against which the glowing egoism of maternity always rebelled,remained a cruel dart in her bosom as long as she lived. We may supposethat there was that about household life with Rousseau which might havebred disgusts even in one as little fastidious as Theresa was. Amongother things which must have been hard to endure, we know that incomposing his works he was often weeks together without speaking a wordto her.[133] Perhaps again it would not be difficult to produce somepassages in Rousseau's letters and in the Confessions, which show tracesof that subtle contempt for women that lurks undetected in many whowould blush to avow it. Whatever the causes may have been, fromindifference she passed to something like aversion, and in the oneplace where a word of complaint is wrung from him, he describes her asrending and piercing his heart at a moment when his other miseries wereat their height. His patience at any rate was inexhaustible; now old,worn by painful bodily infirmities, racked by diseased suspicion and themost dreadful and tormenting of the minor forms of madness, nearlyfriendless, and altogether hopeless, he yet kept unabated the oldtenderness of a quarter of a century before, and expressed it in wordsof such gentleness, gravity, and self-respecting strength, as may toucheven those whom his books leave unmoved, and who view his character withdeepest distrust. "For the six-and-twenty years, dearest, that our unionhas lasted, I have never sought my happiness except in yours, and havenever ceased to try to make you happy; and you saw by what I didlately,[134] that your honour and happiness were one as dear to me asthe other. I see with pain that success does not answer my solicitude,and that my kindness is not as sweet to you to receive, as it is sweetto me to show. I know that the sentiments of honour and uprightness withwhich you were born will never change in you; but as for those oftenderness and attachment which were once reciprocal between us, I feelthat they now only exist on my side. Not only, dearest of all friends,have you ceased to find pleasure in my company, but you have to taxyourself severely even to remain a few minutes with me out ofcomplaisance. You are at your ease with all the world but me. I do notspeak to you of many other things. We must take our friends with theirfaults, and I ought to pass over yours, as you pass over mine. If youwere happy with me I could be content, but I see clearly that you arenot, and this is what makes my heart sore. If I could do better for yourhappiness, I would do it and hold my peace; but that is not possible. Ihave left nothing undone that I thought would contribute to yourfelicity. At this moment, while I am writing to you, overwhelmed withdistress and misery, I have no more true or lively desire than to finishmy days in closest union with you. You know my lot,--it is such as onecould not even dare to describe, for no one could believe it. I neverhad, my dearest, other than one single solace, but that the sweetest; itwas to pour out all my heart in yours; when I talked of my miseries toyou, they were soothed; and when you had pitied me, I needed pity nomore. My every resource, my whole confidence, is in you and in you only;my soul cannot exist without sympathy, and cannot find sympathy exceptwith you. It is certain that if you fail me and I am forced to livealone, I am as a dead man. But I should die a thousand times morecruelly still, if we continued to live together in misunderstanding, andif confidence and friendship were to go out between us. It would be ahundred times better to cease to see each other; still to live, andsometimes to regret one another. Whatever sacrifice may be necessary onmy part to make you happy, be so at any cost, and I shall be content.We have faults to weep over and to expiate, but no crimes; let us notblot out by the imprudence of our closing days the sweetness and purityof those we have passed together."[135] Think ill as we may ofRousseau's theories, and meanly as we may of some parts of his conduct,yet to those who can feel the pulsing of a human life apart from a man'sformulae, and can be content to leave to sure circumstance the tragicretaliation for evil behaviour, this letter is like one of the greatmaster's symphonies, whose theme falls in soft strokes of melting pityon the heart. In truth, alas, the union of this now diverse pair hadbeen stained by crimes shortly after its beginning. In the estrangementof father and mother in their late years we may perhaps hear the rustleand spy the pale forms of the avenging spectres of their lost children.At the time when the connection with Theresa Le Vasseur was formed,Rousseau did not know how to gain bread. He composed the musicaldiversion of the Muses Galantes, which Rameau rightly or wronglypronounced a plagiarism, and at the request of Richelieu he made someminor re-adaptations in Voltaire's Princesse de Navarre, which Rameauhad set to music--that "farce of the fair" to which the author of Zaireowed his seat in the Academy.[136] But neither task brought him money,and he fell back on a sort of secretaryship, with perhaps a little ofthe valet in it, to Madame Dupin and her son-in-law, M. de Francueil,for which he received the too moderate income of nine hundred francs. Onone occasion he returned to his room expecting with eager impatience thearrival of a remittance, the proceeds of some small property which cameto him by the death of his father.[137] He found the letter, and wasopening it with trembling hands, when he was suddenly smitten with shameat his want of self-control; he placed it unopened on the chimney-piece,undressed, slept better than usual, and when he awoke the next morning,he had forgotten all about the letter until it caught his eye. He wasdelighted to find that it contained his money, but "I can swear," headds, "that my liveliest delight was in having conquered myself." Anoccasion for self-conquest on a more considerable scale was at hand. Inthese tight straits, he received grievous news from the unfortunateTheresa. He made up his mind cheerfully what to do; the motheracquiesced after sore persuasion and with bitter tears; and the new-bornchild was dropped into oblivion in the box of the asylum for foundlings.Next year the same easy expedient was again resorted to, with the sameheedlessness on the part of the father, the same pain and reluctance onthe part of the mother. Five children in all were thus put away, andwith such entire absence of any precaution with a view to theiridentification in happier times, that not even a note was kept of theday of their birth.[138]People have made a great variety of remarks upon this transaction, fromthe economist who turns it into an illustration of the evil results ofhospitals for foundlings in encouraging improvident unions, down to thetheologian who sees in it new proof of the inborn depravity of the humanheart and the fall of man. Others have vindicated it in various ways,one of them courageously taking up the ground that Rousseau had goodreason to believe that the children were not his own, and therefore wasfully warranted in sending the poor creatures kinless into theuniverse.[139] Perhaps it is not too transcendental a thing to hope thatcivilisation may one day reach a point when a plea like this shall countfor an aggravation rather than a palliative; when a higher conception ofthe duties of humanity, familiarised by the practice of adoption as wellas by the spread of both rational and compassionate considerations as tothe blameless little ones, shall have expelled what is surely as somered and naked beast's emotion of fatherhood. What may be an excellentreason for repudiating a woman, can never be a reason for abandoning achild, except with those whom reckless egoism has made willing to thinkit a light thing to fling away from us the moulding of new lives and theensuring of salutary nurture for growing souls.We are, however, dispensed from entering into these questions of thegreater morals by the very plain account which the chief actor has givenus, almost in spite of himself. His crime like most others was theresult of heedlessness, of the overriding of duty by the short dim-eyedselfishness of the moment. He had been accustomed to frequent a tavern,where the talk turned mostly upon topics which men with muchself-respect put as far from them, as men with little self-respect willallow them to do. "I formed my fashion of thinking from what I perceivedto reign among people who were at bottom extremely worthy folk, and Isaid to myself, Since it is the usage of the country, as one lives here,one may as well follow it. So I made up my mind to it cheerfully, andwithout the least scruple."[140] By and by he proceeded to cover thisnude and intelligible explanation with finer phrases, about preferringthat his children should be trained up as workmen and peasants ratherthan as adventurers and fortune-hunters, and about his supposing that insending them to the hospital for foundlings he was enrolling himself acitizen in Plato's Republic.[141] This is hardly more than the talk ofone become famous, who is defending the acts of his obscurity on thehigh principles which fame requires. People do not turn citizens ofPlato's Republic "cheerfully and without the least scruple," and if aman frequents company where the despatch of inconvenient children to thehospital was an accepted point of common practice, it is superfluous todrag Plato and his Republic into the matter. Another turn again wasgiven to his motives when his mind had become clouded by suspiciousmania. Writing a year or two before his death he had assured himselfthat his determining reason was the fear of a destiny for his children athousand times worse than the hard life of foundlings, namely, beingspoiled by their mother, being turned into monsters by her family, andfinally being taught to hate and betray their father by his plottingenemies.[142] This is obviously a mixture in his mind of the motiveswhich led to the abandonment of the children and justified the act tohimself at the time, with the circumstances that afterwards reconciledhim to what he had done; for now he neither had any enemies plottingagainst him, nor did he suppose that he had. As for his wife's family,he showed himself quite capable, when the time came, of dealingresolutely and shortly with their importunities in his own case, and hemight therefore well have trusted his power to deal with them in thecase of his children. He was more right when in 1770, in his importantletter to M. de St. Germain, he admitted that example, necessity, thehonour of her who was dear to him, all united to make him entrust hischildren to the establishment provided for that purpose, and kept himfrom fulfilling the first and holiest of natural duties. "In this, farfrom excusing, I accuse myself; and when my reason tells me that I didwhat I ought to have done in my situation, I believe that less than myheart, which bitterly belies it."[143] This coincides with the firstundisguised account given in the Confessions, which has been alreadyquoted, and it has not that flawed ring of cant and fine words whichsounds through nearly all his other references to this great stain uponhis life, excepting one, and this is the only further document withwhich we need concern ourselves. In that,[144] which was written whilethe unholy work was actually being done, he states very distinctly thatthe motives were those which are more or less closely connected withmost unholy works, motives of money--the great instrument and measure ofour personal convenience, the quantitative test of our self-control inplacing personal convenience behind duty to other people. "If my miseryand my misfortunes rob me of the power of fulfilling a duty so dear,that is a calamity to pity me for, rather than a crime to reproach mewith. I owe them subsistence, and I procured a better or at least asurer subsistence for them than I could myself have provided; thiscondition is above all others." Next comes the consideration of theirmother, whose honour must be kept. "You know my situation; I gained mybread from day to day painfully enough; how then should I feed a familyas well? And if I were compelled to fall back on the profession ofauthor, how would domestic cares and the confusion of children leave mepeace of mind enough in my garret to earn a living? Writings whichhunger dictates are hardly of any use, and such a resource is speedilyexhausted. Then I should have to resort to patronage, to intrigue, totricks ... in short to surrender myself to all those infamies, for whichI am penetrated with such just horror. Support myself, my children, andtheir mother on the blood of wretches? No, madame, it were better forthem to be orphans than to have a scoundrel for their father.... Whyhave I not married, you will ask? Madame, ask it of your unjust laws. Itwas not fitting for me to contract an eternal engagement; and it willnever be proved to me that my duty binds me to it. What is certain isthat I have never done it, and that I never meant to do it. But we oughtnot to have children when we cannot support them. Pardon me, madame;nature means us to have offspring, since the earth produces sustenanceenough for all; but it is the rich, it is your class, which robs mine ofthe bread of my children.... I know that foundlings are not delicatelynurtured; so much the better for them, they become more robust. Theyhave nothing superfluous given to them, but they have everything that isnecessary. They do not make gentlemen of them, but peasants orartisans.... They would not know how to dance, or ride on horseback, butthey would have strong unwearied legs. I would neither make authors ofthem, nor clerks; I would not practise them in handling the pen, but theplough, the file, and the plane, instruments for leading a healthy,laborious, innocent life.... I deprived myself of the delight of seeingthem, and I have never tasted the sweetness of a father's embrace. Alas,as I have already told you, I see in this only a claim on your pity, andI deliver them from misery at my own expense."[145] We may see here thatRousseau's sophistical eloquence, if it misled others, was at least aspowerful in misleading himself, and it may be noted that this letter,with its talk of the children of the rich taking bread out of the mouthsof the children of the poor, contains the first of those socialisticsentences by which the writer in after times gained so famous a name. Itis at any rate clear from this that the real motive of the abandonmentof the children was wholly material. He could not afford to maintainthem, and he did not wish to have his comfort disturbed bytheir presence.There is assuredly no word to be said by any one with firm reason andunsophisticated conscience in extenuation of this crime. We have only toremember that a great many other persons in that lax time, when thestructure of the family was undermined alike in practice andspeculation, were guilty of the same crime; that Rousseau, better thanthey, did not erect his own criminality into a social theory, but wastolerably soon overtaken by a remorse which drove him both to confesshis misdeed, and to admit that it was inexpiable; and that the atrocityof the offence owes half the blackness with which it has always beeninvested by wholesome opinion, to the fact that the offender was by andby the author of the most powerful book by which parental duty has beencommended in its full loveliness and nobility. And at any rate, letRousseau be a little free from excessive reproach from all clergymen,sentimentalists, and others, who do their worst to uphold the common andrather bestial opinion in favour of reckless propagation, and who, ifthey do not advocate the despatch of children to public institutions,still encourage a selfish incontinence which ultimately falls in burdenson others than the offenders, and which turns the family into a scene ofsqualor and brutishness, producing a kind of parental influence that isfar more disastrous and demoralising than the absence of it in publicinstitutions can possibly be. If the propagation of children withoutregard to their maintenance be either a virtue or a necessity, and ifafterwards the only alternatives are their maintenance in an asylum onthe one hand, and their maintenance in the degradation of apoverty-stricken home on the other, we should not hesitate to givepeople who act as Rousseau acted, all that credit for self-denial andhigh moral courage which he so audaciously claimed for himself. Itreally seems to be no more criminal to produce children with thedeliberate intention of abandoning them to public charity, as Rousseaudid, than it is to produce them in deliberate reliance on the besottedmaxim that he who sends mouths will send meat, or any other of thespurious saws which make Providence do duty for self-control, and add tothe gratification of physical appetite the grotesque luxury ofreligious unction.In 1761 the Marechale de Luxembourg made efforts to discover Rousseau'schildren, but without success. They were gone beyond hope ofidentification, and the author of _Emitius_ and his sons and daughterslived together in this world, not knowing one another. Rousseau withsingular honesty did not conceal his satisfaction at the fruitlessnessof the charitable endeavours to restore them to him. "The success ofyour search," he wrote, "could not give me pure and undisturbedpleasure; it is too late, too late.... In my present condition thissearch interested me more for another person [Theresa] than myself; andconsidering the too easily yielding character of the person in question,it is possible that what she had found already formed for good or forevil, might turn out a sorry boon to her."[146] We may doubt, in spiteof one or two charming and graceful passages, whether Rousseau was of anature to have any feeling for the pathos of infancy, the bright blankeye, the eager unpurposed straining of the hand, the many turns andchanges in murmurings that yet can tell us nothing. He was both tooself-centred and too passionate for warm ease and fulness of life in allthings, to be truly sympathetic with a condition whose feebleness andimmaturity touch us with half-painful hope.Rousseau speaks in the Confessions of having married Theresafive-and-twenty years after the beginning of their acquaintance,[147]but we hardly have to understand that any ceremony took place whichanybody but himself would recognise as constituting a marriage. Whathappened appears to have been this. Seated at table with Theresa and twoguests, one of them the mayor of the place, he declared that she was hiswife. "This good and seemly engagement was contracted," he says, "in allthe simplicity but also in all the truth of nature, in the presence oftwo men of worth and honour.... During the short and simple act, I sawthe honest pair melted in tears."[148] He had at this time whimsicallyassumed the name of Renou, and he wrote to a friend that of course hehad married in this name, for he adds, with the characteristic insertionof an irrelevant bit of magniloquence, "it is not names that aremarried; no, it is persons." "Even if in this simple and holy ceremonynames entered as a constituent part, the one I bear would have sufficed,since I recognise no other. If it were a question of property to beassured, then it would be another thing, but you know very well that isnot our case."[149] Of course, this may have been a marriage accordingto the truth of nature, and Rousseau was as free to choose his own ritesas more sacramental performers, but it is clear from his own words aboutproperty that there was no pretence of a marriage in law. He and Theresawere on profoundly uncomfortable terms about this time,[150] andRousseau is not the only person by many thousands who has deceivedhimself into thinking that some form of words between man and woman mustmagically transform the substance of their characters and lives, andconjure up new relations of peace and steadfastness.       *       *       *       *       *We have, however, been outstripping slow-footed destiny, and have now toreturn to the time when Theresa did not drink brandy, nor run afterstable-boys, nor fill Rousseau's soul with bitterness and suspicion, butsat contentedly with him in an evening taking a stoic's meal in thewindow of their garret on the fourth floor, seasoning it with"confidence, intimacy, gentleness of soul," and that general comfort ofsensation which, as we know to our cost, is by no means an invariablecondition either of duty done externally or of spiritual growth within.It is perhaps hard for us to feel that we are in the presence of a greatreligious reactionist; there is so little sign of the higher graces ofthe soul, there are so many signs of the lowering clogs of the flesh.But the spirit of a man moves in mysterious ways, and expands like theplants of the field with strange and silent stirrings. It is one of thechief tests of worthiness and freedom from vulgarity of soul in us, tobe able to have faith that this expansion is a reality, and the mostimportant of all realities. We do not rightly seize the type of Socratesif we can never forget that he was the husband of Xanthippe, nor David'sif we can only think of him as the murderer of Uriah, nor Peter's if wecan simply remember that he denied his master. Our vision is onlyblindness, if we can never bring ourselves to see the possibilities ofdeep mystic aspiration behind the vile outer life of a man, or tobelieve that this coarse Rousseau, scantily supping with his coarsemate, might yet have many glimpses of the great wide horizons that arehaunted by figures rather divine than human.FOOTNOTES:[104] In theory he was even now curiously prudent and almostsagacious; witness the Projet pour l'Education, etc., submitted to M.de Mably, and printed in the volume of his Works entitled _Melanges_,pp. 106-136. In the matter of Latin, it may be worth noting thatRousseau rashly or otherwise condemns the practice of writing it, as avexatious superfluity (p. 132).[105] _Conf._, vi. 471.[106] _Ib._, vi. 472-475; vii. 8.[107] _Conf._, vii. 18, 19.[108] Musset-Pathay (ii. 72) quotes the passage from LordChesterfield's Letters, where the writer suggests Madame Dupin as aproper person with whom his son might in a regular and business-likemanner open the elevating game of gallant intrigue.[109] M. Dupin deserves honourable mention as having helped theeditors of the Encyclopaedia by procuring information for them as tosalt-works (D'Alembert's _Discours Preliminaire_). His son M. Dupin deFrancueil, it may be worth noting, is a link in the genealogical chainbetween two famous personages. In 1777, the year before Rousseau'sdeath, he married (in the chapel of the French embassy in London)Aurora de Saxe, a natural daughter of the marshal, himself the naturalson of August the Strong, King of Poland. From this union was bornMaurice Dupin, and Maurice Dupin was the father of Madame George Sand.M. Francueil died in 1787.[110] _Mem. de Mdme. d'Epinay_, vol. i. ch. iv. p. 176.[111] _Ib._ vol. i. ch. iv. pp. 178, 179.[112] _Conf._, vii. 46, 51, 52, etc. A diplomatic piece in Rousseau'shandwriting has been found in the archives of the French consulate atConstantinople, as M. Girardin informs us. Voltaire unworthily spreadthe report that Rousseau had been the ambassador's private attendant.For Rousseau's reply to the calumny, see _Corr._, v. 75 (Jan. 5,1767); also iv. 150.[113] Bernardin de St. Pierre, _Oeuv._, xii. 55 _seq._[114] _Conf._, vii. 92.[115] _Conf._, vii. 38, 39.[116] _Lettres de la Montagne_, iii. 266.[117] _Conf._, vii. 75-84. Also a second example, 84-86. For Byron'sopinion of one of these stories, see Lockhart's _Life of Scott_, vi.132. (Ed. 1837.)[118] _Lettre sur la Musique Francaise_ (1753), p. 186.[119] _Conf._, ix. 232.[120] _Ib._ vii. 97.[121] Hotel St. Quentin, rue des Cordiers, a narrow street runningbetween the rue St. Jacques and the rue Victor Cousin. The stillsqualid hostelry is now visible as Hotel J.J. Rousseau. There is somedoubt whether he first saw Theresa in 1743 or 1745. The account in Bk.vii. of the _Confessions_ is for the latter date (see also _Corr._,ii. 207), but in the well-known letter to her in 1769 (_Ib._ vi. 79),he speaks of the twenty-six years of their union. Their so-calledmarriage took place in 1768, and writing in that year he speaks of thefive-and-twenty years of their attachment (_Ib._ v. 323), and in the_Confessions_ (ix. 249) he fixes their marriage at the same date; alsoin the letter to Saint-Germain (vi. 152). Musset-Pathay, though giving1745 in one place (i. 45), and 1743 in another (ii. 198), has withless than his usual care paid no attention to the discrepancy.[122] _Conf._, vii. 97-100.[123] _Conf._, vii. 101. A short specimen of her composition may beinteresting, at any rate to hieroglyphic students: "Mesiceuras ancormien re mies quan geu ceures o pres deu vous, e deu vous temoes tousla goies e latandres deu mon querque vous cones ces que getou gour erus pour vous, e qui neu finiraes quotobocs ces mon quere qui vouspaleu ces paes mes le vre ... ge sui avestous lamities e la reu coneccaceu posible e la tacheman mon cher bonnamies votreau enble e bonamiess theress le vasseur." Of which dark words this is theinterpretation:--"Mais il sera encore mieux remis quand je sera aupresde vous, et de vous temoigner toute la joie et la tendresse de moncoeur que vous connaissez que j'ai toujours eue pour vous, et qui nefinira qu'au tombeau; c'est mon coeur qui vous parle, c'est pas meslevres.... Je suis avec toute l'amitie et la reconnaissance possibles,et l'attachement, mon cher bon ami, votre humble et bonne amie,Therese Le Vasseur." (_Rousseau, ses Amis et ses Ennemis_, ii. 450.)Certainly it was not learning and arts which hindered Theresa'smanners from being pure.[124] _Oeuv. et Corr. Ined._, 365.[125] _Conf._, vii. 102. See also _Corr._, v. 373 (Oct. 10, 1768). Onthe other hand, _Conf._, ix. 249.[126] M. St. Marc Girardin, in one of his admirable papers onRousseau, speaks of him as "a bourgeois unclassed by an alliance witha tavern servant" (_Rev. des Deux Mondes_, Nov. 1852, p. 759); butsurely Rousseau had unclassed himself long before, in the houses ofMadame Vercellis, Count Gouvon, and even Madame de Warens, and by hisrepudiation, from the time when he ran away from Geneva, of nearlyevery bourgeois virtue and bourgeois prejudice.[127] _Conf._, vii. 11. Also footnote.[128] _Reveries_, ix. 309.[129] _Conf._, viii. 142, 143.[130] The other day I came for the first time upon the following inthe sayings of Madame de Lambert:--"Ce ne sont pas toujours les fautesqui nous perdent; c'est la maniere de se conduire apres les avoirfaites." [1877.][131] _Conf._, xii. 187, 188.[132] _Ib._, viii. 221.[133] Bernardin de St. Pierre, _Oeuv._, xii. 103. See _Conf._, xii188, and _Corr._, v. 324.[134] Referring, no doubt, to the ceremony which he called theirmarriage, and which had taken place in 1768.[135] _Corr._, vi. 79-86. August 12, 1769.[136] Composed in 1745. The _Fetes de Ramire_ was represented atVersailles at the very end of this year.[137] Some time in 1746-7. _Conf._, vii. 113, 114.[138] Probably in the winter of 1746-7. _Corr._, ii. 207. _Conf._,vii. 120-124. _Ib._, viii. 148. _Corr._, ii. 208. June 12, 1761, tothe Marechale de Luxembourg.[139] George Sand,--in an eloquent piece entitled _A Propos desCharmettes (Revue des Deux Mondes_, November 15, 1863), in which sheexpresses her own obligations to Jean Jacques. In 1761 Rousseaudeclares that he had never hitherto had the least reason to suspectTheresa's fidelity. _Corr._, ii. 209[140] _Conf._, vii. 123.[141] _Ib._, viii. 145-151.[142] _Reveries_, ix. 313. The same reason is given, _Conf._, ix. 252;also in Letter to Madame B., January 17, 1770 (_Corr._, vi. 117).[143] _Corr._, vi. 152, 153. Feb. 27, 1770.[144] Letter to Madame de Francueil, April 20, 1751. _Corr._, i. 151.[145] _Corr._, i. 151-155[146] August 10, 1761. _Corr._, ii. 220. The Marechale de Luxembourg'snote on the subject, to which this is a reply, is given in _Rousseau,ses Amis et ses Ennemis_, i. 444.[147] _Conf._, x. 249. See above, p. 106, _n._[148] To Lalliaud, Aug 31, 1768. _Corr._, v. 324. See also D'Escherny,quoted in Musset-Pathay, i. 169, 170.[149] To Du Peyrou, Sept. 26, 1768. _Corr._, v. 360.[150] To Mdlle. Le Vasseur, July 25, 1768. _Corr._, v. 116-119.CHAPTER V.THE DISCOURSES.The busy establishment of local academies in the provincial centres ofFrance only preceded the outbreak of the revolution by ten or a dozenyears; but one or two of the provincial cities, such as Bordeaux, Rouen,Dijon, had possessed academies in imitation of the greater body of Parisfor a much longer time. Their activity covered a very varied ground,from the mere commonplaces of literature to the most practical detailsof material production. If they now and then relapsed into inquiriesabout the laws of Crete, they more often discussed positive andscientific theses, and rather resembled our chambers of agriculture thanbodies of more learned pretension. The academy of Dijon was one of theearliest of these excellent institutions, and on the whole the list ofits theses shows it to have been among the most sensible in respect ofthe subjects which it found worth thinking about. Its members, however,could not entirely resist the intellectual atmosphere of the time. In1742 they invited discussion of the point, whether the natural law canconduct society to perfection without the aid of political laws.[151]In 1749 they proposed this question as a theme for their prize essay:_Has the restoration of the sciences contributed to purify or to corruptmanners?_ Rousseau was one of fourteen competitors, and in 1750 hisdiscussion of the academic theme received the prize.[152] This was hisfirst entry on the field of literature and speculation. Three yearsafterwards the same academy propounded another question: _What is theorigin of inequality among men, and is it authorised by the naturallaw?_ Rousseau again competed, and though his essay neither gained theprize, nor created as lively an agitation as its predecessor had done,yet we may justly regard the second as a more powerful supplement tothe first.It is always interesting to know the circumstances under which piecesthat have moved a world were originally composed, and Rousseau's accountof the generation of his thoughts as to the influence of enlightenmenton morality, is remarkable enough to be worth transcribing. He waswalking along the road from Paris to Vincennes one hot summer afternoonon a visit to Diderot, then in prison for his Letter on the Blind(1749), when he came across in a newspaper the announcement of the themepropounded by the Dijon academy. "If ever anything resembled a suddeninspiration, it was the movement which began in me as I read this. Allat once I felt myself dazzled by a thousand sparkling lights; crowds ofvivid ideas thronged into my mind with a force and confusion that threwme into unspeakable agitation; I felt my head whirling in a giddinesslike that of intoxication. A violent palpitation oppressed me; unable towalk for difficulty of breathing, I sank under one of the trees of theavenue, and passed half an hour there in such a condition of excitement,that when I arose I saw that the front of my waistcoat was all wet withmy tears, though I was wholly unconscious of shedding them. Ah, if Icould ever have written the quarter of what I saw and felt under thattree, with what clearness should I have brought out all thecontradictions of our social system; with what simplicity I should havedemonstrated that man is good naturally, and that by institutions onlyis he made bad."[153] Diderot encouraged him to compete for the prize,and to give full flight to the ideas which had come to him in thissingular way.[154]People have held up their hands at the amazing originality of the ideathat perhaps sciences and arts have not purified manners. This sentimentis surely exaggerated, if we reflect first that it occurred to theacademicians of Dijon as a question for discussion, and second that, ifyou are asked whether a given result has or has not followed fromcertain circumstances, the mere form of the question suggests No quiteas readily as Yes. The originality lay not in the central contention,but in the fervour, sincerity, and conviction of a most unacademic sortwith which it was presented and enforced. There is less originality indenouncing your generation as wicked and adulterous than there is inbelieving it to be so, and in persuading the generation itself both thatyou believe it and that you have good reasons to give. We have not tosuppose that there was any miracle wrought by agency celestial orinfernal in the sudden disclosure of his idea to Rousseau. Rousseau hadbeen thinking of politics ever since the working of the government ofVenice had first drawn his mind to the subject. What is the government,he had kept asking himself, which is most proper to form a sage andvirtuous nation? What government by its nature keeps closest to the law?What is this law? And whence?[155] This chain of problems had led him towhat he calls the historic study of morality, though we may doubtwhether history was so much his teacher as the rather meagrely nourishedhandmaid of his imagination. Here was the irregular preparation, thehidden process, which suddenly burst into light and manifested itselfwith an exuberance of energy, that passed to the man himself for aninward revolution with no precursive sign.Rousseau's ecstatic vision on the road to Vincennes was the opening of alife of thought and production which only lasted a dozen years, butwhich in that brief space gave to Europe a new gospel. Emilius and theSocial Contract were completed in 1761, and they crowned a work which ifyou consider its origin, influence, and meaning with due and properbreadth, is marked by signal unity of purpose and conception. The key toit is given to us in the astonishing transport at the foot of thewide-spreading oak. Such a transport does not come to us of cool andrational western temperament, but more often to the oriental afterlonely sojourning in the wilderness, or in violent reactions on the roadto Damascus and elsewhere. Jean Jacques detected oriental quality in hisown nature,[156] and so far as the union of ardour with mysticism, ofintense passion with vague dream, is to be defined as oriental, heassuredly deserves the name. The ideas stirred in his mind by the Dijonproblem suddenly "opened his eyes, brought order into the chaos in hishead, revealed to him another universe. From the active effervescencewhich thus began in his soul, came sparks of genius which people sawglittering in his writings through ten years of fever and delirium, butof which no trace had been seen in him previously, and which wouldprobably have ceased to shine henceforth, if he should have chanced towish to continue writing after the access was over. Inflamed by thecontemplation of these lofty objects, he had them incessantly present tohis mind. His heart, made hot within him by the idea of the futurehappiness of the human race, and by the honour of contributing to it,dictated to him a language worthy of so high an enterprise ... and for amoment, he astonished Europe by productions in which vulgar souls sawonly eloquence and brightness of understanding, but in which those whodwell in the ethereal regions recognised with joy one of theirown."[157]This was his own account of the matter quite at the end of his life, andthis is the only point of view from which we are secure against thevulgarity of counting him a deliberate hypocrite and consciouscharlatan. He was possessed, as holier natures than his have been, by anenthusiastic vision, an intoxicated confidence, a mixture of sacred rageand prodigious love, an insensate but absolutely disinterested revoltagainst the stone and iron of a reality which he was bent on melting ina heavenly blaze of splendid aspiration and irresistibly persuasiveexpression. The last word of this great expansion was Emilius, its firstand more imperfectly articulated was the earlier of the two Discourses.Rousseau's often-repeated assertion that here was the instant of theruin of his life, and that all his misfortunes flowed from that unhappymoment, has been constantly treated as the word of affectation anddisguised pride. Yet, vain as he was, it may well have represented hissincere feeling in those better moods when mental suffering was strongenough to silence vanity. His visions mastered him for these thirteenyears, _grande mortalis oevi spatium_. They threw him on to that turbidsea of literature for which he had so keen an aversion, and from which,let it be remarked, he fled finally away, when his confidence in theease of making men good and happy by words of monition had left him. Itwas the torment of his own enthusiasm which rent that veil of placidliving, that in his normal moments he would fain have interposed betweenhis existence and the tumult of a generation with which he wasprofoundly out of sympathy. In this way the first Discourse was theletting in of much evil upon him, as that and the next and the SocialContract were the letting in of much evil upon all Europe.Of this essay the writer has recorded his own impression that, thoughfull of heat and force, it is absolutely wanting in logic and order, andthat of all the products of his pen, it is the feeblest in reasoning andthe poorest in numbers and harmony. "For," as he justly adds, "the artof writing is not learnt all at once."[158] The modern critic must becontent to accept the same verdict; only a generation so in love asthis was with anything that could tickle its intellectual curiousness,would have found in the first of the two Discourses that combination ofspeculative and literary merit which was imputed to Rousseau on thestrength of it, and which at once brought him into a place among thenotables of an age that was full of them.[159] We ought to take inconnection with it two at any rate of the vindications of the Discourse,which the course of controversy provoked from its author, and whichserve to complete its significance. It is difficult to analyse, becausein truth it is neither closely argumentative, nor is it vertebrate, evenas a piece of rhetoric. The gist of the piece, however, runs somewhat inthis wise:--Before art had fashioned our manners, and taught our passions to use atoo elaborate speech, men were rude but natural, and difference ofconduct announced at a glance difference of character. To-day a vile andmost deceptive uniformity reigns over our manners, and all minds seem asif they had been cast in a single mould. Hence we never know with whatsort of person we are dealing, hence the hateful troop of suspicions,fears, reserves, and treacheries, and the concealment of impiety,arrogance, calumny, and scepticism, under a dangerous varnish ofrefinement. So terrible a set of effects must have a cause. Historyshows that the cause here is to be found in the progress of sciences andarts. Egypt, once so mighty, becomes the mother of philosophy and thefine arts; straightway behold its conquest by Cambyses, by Greeks, byRomans, by Arabs, finally by Turks. Greece twice conquered Asia, oncebefore Troy, once in its own homes; then came in fatal sequence theprogress of the arts, the dissolution of manners, and the yoke of theMacedonian. Rome, founded by a shepherd and raised to glory byhusbandmen, began to degenerate with Ennius, and the eve of her ruin wasthe day when she gave a citizen the deadly title of arbiter of goodtaste. China, where letters carry men to the highest dignities of thestate, could not be preserved by all her literature from the conqueringpower of the ruder Tartar. On the other hand, the Persians, Scythians,Germans, remain in history as types of simplicity, innocence, andvirtue. Was not he admittedly the wisest of the Greeks, who made of hisown apology a plea for ignorance, and a denunciation of poets, orators,and artists? The chosen people of God never cultivated the sciences, andwhen the new law was established, it was not the learned, but the simpleand lowly, fishers and workmen, to whom Christ entrusted his teachingand its ministry.[160]This, then, is the way in which chastisement has always overtaken ourpresumptuous efforts to emerge from that happy ignorance in whicheternal wisdom placed us; though the thick veil with which that wisdomhas covered all its operations seemed to warn us that we were notdestined to fatuous research. All the secrets that Nature hides from usare so many evils against which she would fain shelter us.Is probity the child of ignorance, and can science and virtue be reallyinconsistent with one another? These sounding contrasts are meredeceits, because if you look nearly into the results of this science ofwhich we talk so proudly, you will perceive that they confirm theresults of induction from history. Astronomy, for instance, is born ofsuperstition; geometry from the desire of gain; physics from a futilecuriosity; all of them, even morals, from human pride. Are we for everto be the dupes of words, and to believe that these pompous names ofscience, philosophy, and the rest, stand for worthy and profitablerealities?[161] Be sure that they do not.How many errors do we pass through on our road to truth, errors athousandfold more dangerous than truth is useful? And by what marks arewe to know truth, when we think that we have found it? And above all, ifwe do find it, who of us can be sure that he will make good use of it?If celestial intelligences cultivated science, only good could result;and we may say as much of great men of the stamp of Socrates, who areborn to be the guides of others.[162] But the intelligences of commonmen are neither celestial nor Socratic.Again, every useless citizen may be fairly regarded as a pernicious man;and let us ask those illustrious philosophers who have taught us whatinsects reproduce themselves curiously, in what ratio bodies attractone another in space, what curves have conjugate points, points ofinflection or reflection, what in the planetary revolutions are therelations of areas traversed in equal times--let us ask those who haveattained all this sublime knowledge, by how much the worse governed,less flourishing, or less perverse we should have been if they hadattained none of it? Now if the works of our most scientific men andbest citizens lead to such small utility, tell us what we are to thinkof the crowd of obscure writers and idle men of letters who devour thepublic substance in pure loss.Then it is in the nature of things that devotion to art leads to luxury,and luxury, as we all know from our own experience, no less than fromthe teaching of history, saps not only the military virtues by whichnations preserve their independence, but also those moral virtues whichmake the independence of a nation worth preserving. Your children go tocostly establishments where they learn everything except their duties.They remain ignorant of their own tongue, though they will speak othersnot in use anywhere in the world; they gain the faculty of composingverses which they can barely understand; without capacity to distinguishtruth from error, they possess the art of rendering themindistinguishable to others by specious arguments. Magnanimity, equity,temperance, courage, humanity, have no real meaning to them; and if theyhear speak of God, it breeds more terror than awful fear.Whence spring all these abuses, if not from the disastrous inequalityintroduced among men by the distinction of talents and the cheapening ofvirtue?[163] People no longer ask of a man whether he has probity, butwhether he is clever; nor of a book whether it is useful, but whether itis well written. And after all, what is this philosophy, what are theselessons of wisdom, to which we give the prize of enduring fame? Tolisten to these sages, would you not take them for a troop ofcharlatans, all bawling out in the market-place, Come to me, it is onlyI who never cheat you, and always give good measure? One maintains thatthere is no body, and that everything is mere representation; the otherthat there is no entity but matter, and no God but the universe: onethat moral good and evil are chimeras; the other that men are wolves andmay devour one another with the easiest conscience in the world. Theseare the marvellous personages on whom the esteem of contemporaries islavished so long as they live, and to whom immortality is reserved aftertheir death. And we have now invented the art of making theirextravagances eternal, and thanks to the use of typographic charactersthe dangerous speculations of Hobbes and Spinoza will endure for ever.Surely when they perceive the terrible disorders which printing hasalready caused in Europe, sovereigns will take as much trouble tobanish this deadly art from their states as they once took tointroduce it.If there is perhaps no harm in allowing one or two men to givethemselves up to the study of sciences and arts, it is only those whofeel conscious of the strength required for advancing their subjects,who have any right to attempt to raise monuments to the glory of thehuman mind. We ought to have no tolerance for those compilers who rashlybreak open the gate of the sciences, and introduce into their sanctuarya populace that is unworthy even to draw near to it. It may be well thatthere should be philosophers, provided only and always that the peopledo not meddle with philosophising.[164]In short, there are two kinds of ignorance: one brutal and ferocious,springing from a bad heart, multiplying vices, degrading the reason, anddebasing the soul: the other "a reasonable ignorance, which consists inlimiting our curiosity to the extent of the faculties we have received;a modest ignorance, born of a lively love for virtue, and inspiringindifference only for what is not worthy of filling a man's heart, orfails to contribute to its improvement; a sweet and precious ignorance,the treasure of a pure soul at peace with itself, which finds all itsblessedness in inward retreat, in testifying to itself its owninnocence, and which feels no need of seeking a warped and hollowhappiness in the opinion of other people as to its enlightenment."[165]       *       *       *       *       *Some of the most pointed assaults in this Discourse, such for instanceas that on the pedantic parade of wit, or that on the excessivepreponderance of literary instruction in the art of education, are dueto Montaigne; and in one way, the Discourse might be described asbinding together a number of that shrewd man's detached hints by meansof a paradoxical generalisation. But the Rousseau is more important thanthe Montaigne in it. Another remark to be made is that its vigorousdisparagement of science, of the emptiness of much that is calledscience, of the deadly pride of intellect, is an anticipation in a veryprecise way of the attitude taken by the various Christian churches andtheir representatives now and for long, beginning with De Maistre, thegreatest of the religious reactionaries after Rousseau. The vilificationof the Greeks is strikingly like some vehement passages in De Maistre'sestimate of their share in sophisticating European intellect. At lastRousseau even began to doubt whether "so chattering a people could everhave had any solid virtues, even in primitive times."[166] YetRousseau's own thinking about society is deeply marked with opinionsborrowed exactly from these very chatterers. His imagination wasfascinated from the first by the freedom and boldness of Plato's socialspeculations, to which his debt in a hundred details of his politicaland educational schemes is well known. What was more important than anyobligation of detail was the fatal conception, borrowed partly from theGreeks and partly from Geneva, of the omnipotence of the Lawgiver inmoulding a social state after his own purpose and ideal. We shallpresently quote the passage in which he holds up for our envy andimitation the policy of Lycurgus at Sparta, who swept away all that hefound existing and constructed the social edifice afresh from foundationto roof.[167] It is true that there was an unmistakable decay of Greekliterary studies in France from the beginning of the eighteenth century,and Rousseau seems to have read Plato only through Ficinus'stranslation. But his example and its influence, along with that of Mablyand others, warrant the historian in saying that at no time did Greekideas more keenly preoccupy opinion than during this century.[168]Perhaps we may say that Rousseau would never have proved how littlelearning and art do for the good of manners, if Plato had not insistedon poets being driven out of the Republic. The article on PoliticalEconomy, written by him for the Encyclopaedia (1755), rings with thenames of ancient rulers and lawgivers; the project of public educationis recommended by the example of Cretans, Lacedaemonians, and Persians,while the propriety of the reservation of a state domain is suggestedby Romulus.It may be added that one of the not too many merits of the essay is theway in which the writer, more or less in the Socratic manner, insists ondragging people out of the refuge of sonorous general terms, with agreat public reputation of much too well-established a kind to besubjected to the affront of analysis. It is true that Rousseau himselfcontributed nothing directly to that analytic operation which Socrateslikened to midwifery, and he set up graven images of his own in place ofthe idols which he destroyed. This, however, did not wholly efface thedistinction, which he shares with all who have ever tried to lead theminds of men into new tracks, of refusing to accept the current coins ofphilosophical speech without test or measurement. Such a treatment ofthe great trite words which come so easily to the tongue and seem toweigh for so much, must always be the first step towards bringingthought back into the region of real matter, and confronting phrases,terms, and all the common form of the discussion of an age, with theactualities which it is the object of sincere discussion to penetrate.The refutation of many parts of Rousseau's main contention on theprinciples which are universally accepted among enlightened men inmodern society is so extremely obvious that to undertake it would merelybe to draw up a list of the gratulatory commonplaces of which we hearquite enough in the literature and talk of our day. In this direction,perhaps it suffices to say that the Discourse is wholly one-sided,admitting none of the conveniences, none of the alleviations ofsuffering of all kinds, nothing of the increase of mental stature, whichthe pursuit of knowledge has brought to the race. They may or may notcounterbalance the evils that it has brought, but they are certainly tobe put in the balance in any attempt at philosophic examination of thesubject. It contains no serious attempt to tell us what those allegedevils really are, or definitely to trace them one by one, to abuse ofthe thirst for knowledge and defects in the method of satisfying it. Itomits to take into account the various other circumstances, such asclimate, government, race, and the disposition of neighbours, which mustenter equally with intellectual progress into whatever demoralisationhas marked the destinies of a nation. Finally it has for the base of itsargument the entirely unsupported assumption of there having once beenin the early history of each society a stage of mild, credulous, andinnocent virtue, from which appetite for the fruit of the forbidden treecaused an inevitable degeneration. All evidence and all scientificanalogy are now well known to lead to the contrary doctrine, that thehistory of civilisation is a history of progress and not of decline froma primary state. After all, as Voltaire said to Rousseau in a letterwhich only showed a superficial appreciation of the real drift of theargument, we must confess that these thorns attached to literature areonly as flowers in comparison with the other evils that have deluged theearth. "It was not Cicero nor Lucretius nor Virgil nor Horace, whocontrived the proscriptions of Marius, of Sulla, of the debauchedAntony, of the imbecile Lepidus, of that craven tyrant basely surnamedAugustus. It was not Marot who produced the St. Bartholomew massacre,nor the tragedy of the Cid that led to the wars of the Fronde. Whatreally makes, and always will make, this world into a valley of tears,is the insatiable cupidity and indomitable insolence of men, from KouliKhan, who did not know how to read, down to the custom-house clerk, whoknows nothing but how to cast up figures. Letters nourish the soul, theystrengthen its integrity, they furnish a solace to it,"--and so on inthe sense, though without the eloquence, of the famous passage inCicero's defence of Archias the poet.[169] All this, however, in ourtime is in no danger of being forgotten, and will be present to the mindof every reader. The only danger is that pointed out by Rousseauhimself: "People always think they have described what the sciences do,when they have in reality only described what the sciences oughtto do."[170]What we are more likely to forget is that Rousseau's piece has apositive as well as a negative side, and presents, in however vehementand overstated a way, a truth which the literary and speculativeenthusiasm of France in the eighteenth century, as is always the casewith such enthusiasm whenever it penetrates either a generation or anindividual, was sure to make men dangerously ready to forget.[171] Thistruth may be put in different terms. We may describe it as thepossibility of eminent civic virtue existing in people, without eitherliterary taste or science or speculative curiosity. Or we may express itas the compatibility of a great amount of contentment and order in agiven social state, with a very low degree of knowledge. Or finally, wemay give the truth its most general expression, as the subordination ofall activity to the promotion of social aims. Rousseau's is an elaborateand roundabout manner of saying that virtue without science is betterthan science without virtue; or that the well-being of a country dependsmore on the standard of social duty and the willingness of citizens toconform to it, than on the standard of intellectual culture and theextent of its diffusion. In other words, we ought to be less concernedabout the speculative or scientific curiousness of our people than aboutthe height of their notion of civic virtue and their firmness andpersistency in realising it. It is a moralist's way of putting theancient preacher's monition, that they are but empty in whom is not thewisdom of God. The importance of stating this is in our modern eraalways pressing, because there is a constant tendency on the part ofenergetic intellectual workers, first, to concentrate their energies ona minute specialty, leaving public affairs and interests to their owncourse. Second, they are apt to overestimate their contributions to thestock of means by which men are made happier, and what is more serious,to underestimate in comparison those orderly, modest, self-denying,moral qualities, by which only men are made worthier, and the continuityof society is made surer. Third, in consequence of their greater commandof specious expression and their control of the organs of publicopinion, they both assume a kind of supreme place in the socialhierarchy, and persuade the majority of plain men unsuspectingly to takeso very egregious an assumption for granted. So far as Rousseau'sDiscourse recalled the truth as against this sort of error it was fullof wholesomeness.Unfortunately his indignation against the overweening pretensions of theverse-writer, the gazetteer, and the great band of socialists at large,led him into a general position with reference to scientific andspeculative energy, which seems to involve a perilous misconception ofthe conditions of this energy producing its proper results. It is easynow, as it was easy for Rousseau in the last century, to ask in anepigrammatical manner by how much men are better or happier for havingfound out this or that novelty in transcendental mathematics, biology,or astronomy; and this is very well as against the discoverer of smallmarvels who shall give himself out for the benefactor of the humanrace. But both historical experience and observation of the terms onwhich the human intelligence works, show us that we can only make sureof intellectual activity on condition of leaving it free to work allround, in every department and in every remotest nook of eachdepartment, and that its most fruitful epochs are exactly those whenthis freedom is greatest, this curiosity most keen and minute, and thiswaste, if you choose to call the indispensable superfluity of force in anatural process waste, most copious and unsparing. You will not findyour highest capacity in statesmanship, nor in practical science, nor inart, nor in any other field where that capacity is most urgently neededfor the right service of life, unless there is a general and vehementspirit of search in the air. If it incidentally leads to manyindustrious futilities and much learned refuse, this is still the signand the generative element of industry which is not futile, and oflearning which is something more than mere water spilled uponthe ground.We may say in fine that this first Discourse and its vindications were adim, shallow, and ineffective feeling after the great truth, that theonly normal state of society is that in which neither the love of virtuehas been thrust far back into a secondary place by the love ofknowledge, nor the active curiosity of the understanding dulled,blunted, and made ashamed by soft, lazy ideals of life as a life only ofthe affections. Rousseau now and always fell into the opposite extremefrom that against which his whole work was a protest. We need notcomplain very loudly that while remonstrating against the restlessintrepidity of the rationalists of his generation, he passed over thecentral truth, namely that the full and ever festal life is found inactive freedom of curiosity and search taking significance, motive,force, from a warm inner pulse of human love and sympathy. It was notgiven to Rousseau to see all this, but it was given to him to see theside of it for which the most powerful of the men living with him had noeyes, and the first Discourse was only a moderately successful attemptto bring his vision before Europe. It was said at the time that he didnot believe a word of what he had written.[172] It is a naturalcharacteristic of an age passionately occupied with its own set ofideas, to question either the sincerity or the sanity of anybody whodeclares its sovereign conceptions to be no better than foolishness. Wecannot entertain such a suspicion. Perhaps the vehemence of controversycarries him rather further than he quite meant to go, when he declaresthat if he were a chief of an African tribe, he would erect on hisfrontier a gallows, on which he would hang without mercy the firstEuropean who should venture to pass into his territory, and the firstnative who should dare to pass out of it.[173] And there are many otherextravagances of illustration, but the main position is serious enough,as represented in the emblematic vignette with which the essay wasprinted--the torch of science brought to men by Prometheus, who warns asatyr that it burns; the satyr, seeing fire for the first time and beingfain to embrace it, is the symbol of the vulgar men who, seduced by theglitter of literature, insist on delivering themselves up to itsstudy.[174] Rousseau's whole doctrine hangs compactly together, and wemay see the signs of its growth after leaving his hands in the crudeformula of the first Discourse, if we proceed to the more audaciousparadox of the second.II.The Discourse on the Origin of Inequality among men opens with adescription of the natural state of man, which occupies considerablymore than half of the entire performance. It is composed in a vein whichis only too familiar to the student of the literature of the time,picturing each habit and thought, and each step to new habits andthoughts, with the minuteness, the fulness, the precision, of one whonarrates circumstances of which he has all his life been the closeeye-witness. The natural man reveals to us every motive, every processinternal and external, every slightest circumstance of his daily life,and each element that gradually transformed him into the non-naturalman. One who had watched bees or beetles for years could not give us amore full or confident account of their doings, their hourly goings inand out, than it was the fashion in the eighteenth century to give ofthe walk and conversation of the primeval ancestor. The conditions ofprimitive man were discussed by very incompetent ladies and gentlemen atconvivial supper parties, and settled with complete assurance.[175]Rousseau thought and talked about the state of nature because all hisworld was thinking and talking about it. He used phrases and formulaswith reference to it which other people used. He required no moreevidence than they did, as to the reality of the existence of thesupposed set of conditions to which they gave the almost sacramentalname of state of nature. He never thought of asking, any more thananybody else did in the middle of the eighteenth century, what sort ofproof, how strong, how direct, was to be had, that primeval man had suchand such habits, and changed them in such a way and direction, and forsuch reasons. Physical science had reached a stage by this time when itsfollowers were careful to ask questions about evidence, correctdescription, verification. But the idea of accurate method had to bemade very familiar to men by the successes of physical science in thesearch after truths of one kind, before the indispensableness ofapplying it in the search after truths of all kinds had extended to thescience of the constitution and succession of social states. In thisrespect Rousseau was not guiltier than the bulk of his contemporaries.Voltaire's piercing common sense, Hume's deep-set sagacity,Montesquieu's caution, prevented them from launching very far on to thismetaphysical sea of nature and natural laws and states, but none of themasked those critical questions in relation to such matters which occurso promptly in the present day to persons far inferior to them inintellectual strength. Rousseau took the notion of the state of naturebecause he found it to his hand; he fitted to it his own characteristicaspirations, expanding and vivifying a philosophic conception with allthe heat of humane passion; and thus, although, at the end of theprocess when he had done with it, the state of nature came out bloomingas the rose, it was fundamentally only the dry, current abstraction ofhis time, artificially decorated to seduce men into embracing a strangeideal under a familiar name.Before analysing the Discourse on Inequality, we ought to make somemention of a remarkable man whose influence probably reached Rousseau inan indirect manner through Diderot; I mean Morelly.[176] In 1753 Morellypublished a prose poem called the Basiliade, describing the corruptionof manners introduced by the errors of the lawgiver, and pointing outhow this corruption is to be amended by return to the empire of natureand truth. He was no doubt stimulated by what was supposed to be thecentral doctrine of Montesquieu, then freshly given to the world, thatit is government and institutions which make men what they are. But hewas stimulated into a reaction, and in 1754 he propounded his wholetheory, in a piece which in closeness, consistency, and thoroughness isadmirably different from Rousseau's rhetoric.[177] It lacked thesovereign quality of persuasiveness, and so fell on deaf ears. Morellyaccepts the doctrine that men are formed by the laws, but insists thatmoralists and statesmen have always led us wrong by legislating andprescribing conduct on the false theory that man is bad, whereas he isin truth a creature endowed with natural probity. Then he strikes to theroot of society with a directness that Rousseau could not imitate, bythe position that "these laws by establishing a monstrous division ofthe products of nature, and even of their very elements--by dividingwhat ought to have remained entire, or ought to have been restored toentireness if any accident had divided them, aided and favoured thebreak-up of all sociability." All political and all moral evils are theeffects of this pernicious cause--private property. He says ofRousseau's first Discourse that the writer ought to have seen that thecorruption of manners which he set down to literature and art reallycame from this venomous principle of property, which infects all thatit touches.[178] Christianity, it is true, assailed this principle andrestored equality or community of possessions, but Christianity had theradical fault of involving such a detachment from earthly affections, inorder to deliver ourselves to heavenly meditation, as brought about anecessary degeneration in social activity. The form of government is amatter of indifference, provided you can only assure community of goods.Political revolutions are at bottom the clash of material interests, anduntil you have equalised the one you will never prevent the other.[179]Let us turn from this very definite position to one of the leastdefinite productions to be found in all literature.       *       *       *       *       *It will seem a little odd that more than half of a discussion on theorigin of inequality among men should be devoted to a glowing imaginarydescription, from which no reader could conjecture what thesis it wasdesigned to support. But we have only to remember that Rousseau's objectwas to persuade people that the happier state is that in whichinequality does not subsist, that there had once been such a state, andthat this was first the state of nature, and then the state only onedegree removed from it, in which we now find the majority of savagetribes. At the outset he defines inequality as a word meaning twodifferent things; one, natural or physical inequality, such asdifference of age, of health, of physical strength, of attributes ofintelligence and character; the other, moral or political inequality,consisting in difference of privileges which some enjoy to the detrimentof the rest, such as being richer, more honoured, more powerful. Theformer differences are established by nature, the latter are authorised,if they were not established, by the consent of men.[180] In the stateof nature no inequalities flow from the differences among men in pointof physical advantage and disadvantage, and which remain withoutderivative differences so long as the state of nature enduresundisturbed. Nature deals with men as the law of Sparta dealt with thechildren of its citizens; she makes those who are well constitutedstrong and robust, and she destroys all the rest.The surface of the earth is originally covered by dense forest, andinhabited by animals of every species. Men, scattered among them,imitate their industry, and so rise to the instinct of the brutes, withthis advantage that while each species has only its own, man, withoutanything special, appropriates the instincts of all. This admirablecreature, with foes on every side, is forced to be constantly on thealert, and hence to be always in full possession of all his faculties,unlike civilised man, whose native force is enfeebled by the mechanicalprotections with which he has surrounded himself. He is not afraid ofthe wild beasts around him, for experience has taught him that he istheir master. His health is better than ours, for we live in a time whenexcess of idleness in some, excess of toil in others, the heating andover-abundant diet of the rich, the bad food of the poor, the orgies andexcesses of every kind, the immoderate transport of every passion, thefatigue and strain of spirit,--when all these things have inflicted moredisorders upon us than the vaunted art of medicine has been able to keeppace with. Even if the sick savage has only nature to hope from, on theother hand he has only his own malady to be afraid of. He has no fear ofdeath, for no animal can know what death is, and the knowledge of deathand its terrors is one of the first of man's terrible acquisitionsafter abandoning his animal condition.[181] In other respects, such asprotection against weather, such as habitation, such as food, thesavage's natural power of adaptation, and the fact that his demands aremoderate in proportion to his means of satisfying them, forbid us toconsider him physically unhappy. Let us turn to the intellectual andmoral side.If you contend that men were miserable, degraded, and outcast duringthese primitive centuries because the intelligence was dormant, then donot forget, first, that you are drawing an indictment againstnature,--no trifling blasphemy in those days--and second, that you areattributing misery to a free creature with tranquil spirit and healthybody, and that must surely be a singular abuse of the term. We seearound us scarcely any but people who complain of the burden of theirlives; but who ever heard of a savage in full enjoyment of his libertyever dreaming of complaint about his life or of self-destruction?With reference to virtues and vices in a state of nature, Hobbes iswrong in declaring that man in this state is vicious, as not knowingvirtue. He is not vicious, for the reason that he does not know whatbeing good is. It is not development of enlightenment nor therestrictions of law, but the calm of the passions and ignorance of vice,which keep them from doing ill. _Tanto plus in illis profitcit vitiorumignoratio, quam in his cognitio virtutis._Besides man has one great natural virtue, that of pity, which precedesin him the use of reflection, and which indeed he shares with some ofthe brutes. Mandeville, who was forced to admit the existence of thisadmirable quality in man, was absurd in not perceiving that from it flowall the social virtues which he would fain deny. Pity is more energeticin the primitive condition than it is among ourselves. It is reflectionwhich isolates one. It is philosophy which teaches the philosopher tosay secretly at sight of a suffering wretch, Perish if it please thee; Iam safe and sound. They may be butchering a fellow-creature under yourwindow; all you have to do is to clap your hands to your ears, and arguea little with yourself to hinder nature in revolt from making you feelas if you were in the case of the victim.[182] The savage man has notgot this odious gift. In the state of nature it is pity that takes theplace of laws, manners, and virtue. It is in this natural sentimentrather than in subtle arguments that we have to seek the reluctance thatevery man would feel to do ill, even without the precepts ofeducation.[183]Finally, the passion of love, which produces such disasters in a stateof society, where the jealousy of lovers and the vengeance of husbandslead each day to duels and murders, where the duty of eternal fidelityonly serves to occasion adulteries, and where the law of continencenecessarily extends the debauching of women and the practice ofprocuring abortion[184]--this passion in a state of nature, where it ispurely physical, momentary, and without any association of durablesentiment with the object of it, simply leads to the necessaryreproduction of the species and nothing more."Let us conclude, then, that wandering in the forests, without industry,without speech, without habitation, without war, without connection ofany kind, without any need of his fellows or without any desire to harmthem, perhaps even without ever recognising one of them individually,savage man, subject to few passions and sufficing to himself, had onlythe sentiments and the enlightenment proper to his condition. He wasonly sensible of his real wants, and only looked because he thought hehad an interest in seeing; and his intelligence made no more progressthan his vanity. If by chance he hit on some discovery, he was all theless able to communicate it; as he did not know even his own children.An art perished with its inventor. There was neither education norprogress; generations multiplied uselessly; and as each generationalways started from the same point, centuries glided away in all therudeness of the first ages, the race was already old, the individualremained always a child."This brings us to the point of the matter. For if you compare theprodigious diversities in education and manner of life which reign inthe different orders of the civil condition, with the simplicity anduniformity of the savage and animal life, where all find nourishment inthe same articles of food, live in the same way, and do exactly the samethings, you will easily understand to what degree the difference betweenman and man must be less in the state of nature than in that ofsociety.[185] Physical inequality is hardly perceived in the state ofnature, and its indirect influences there are almost non-existent.Now as all the social virtues and other faculties possessed by manpotentially were not bound by anything inherent in him to develop intoactuality, he might have remained to all eternity in his admirable andmost fitting primitive condition, but for the fortuitous concurrence ofa variety of external changes. What are these different changes, whichmay perhaps have perfected human reason, while they certainly havedeteriorated the race, and made men bad in making them sociable?What, then, are the intermediary facts between the state of nature andthe state of civil society, the nursery of inequality? What broke up thehappy uniformity of the first times? First, difference in soil, inclimate, in seasons, led to corresponding differences in men's manner ofliving. Along the banks of rivers and on the shores of the sea, theyinvented hooks and lines, and were eaters of fish. In the forests theyinvented bows and arrows, and became hunters. In cold countries theycovered themselves with the skins of beasts. Lightning, volcanoes, orsome happy chance acquainted them with fire, a new protection againstthe rigours of winter. In company with these natural acquisitions, grewup a sort of reflection or mechanical prudence, which showed them thekind of precautions most necessary to their security. From thisrudimentary and wholly egoistic reflection there came a sense of theexistence of a similar nature and similar interests in theirfellow-creatures. Instructed by experience that the love of well-beingand comfort is the only motive of human actions, the savage united withhis neighbours when union was for their joint convenience, and did hisbest to blind and outwit his neighbours when their interests wereadverse to his own, and he felt himself the weaker. Hence the origin ofcertain rude ideas of mutual obligation.[186]Soon, ceasing to fall asleep under the first tree, or to withdraw intocaves, they found axes of hard stone, which served them to cut wood, todig the ground, and to construct hovels of branches and clay. This wasthe epoch of a first revolution, which formed the establishment anddivision of families, and which introduced a rough and partial sort ofproperty. Along with rudimentary ideas of property, though notconnected with them, came the rudimentary forms of inequality. When menwere thrown more together, then he who sang or danced the best, thestrongest, the most adroit, or the most eloquent, acquired the mostconsideration--that is, men ceased to take uniform and equal place. Andwith the coming of this end of equality there passed away the happyprimitive immunity from jealousy, envy, malice, hate.On the whole, though men had lost some of their original endurance, andtheir natural pity had already undergone a certain deterioration, thisperiod of the development of the human faculties, occupying a justmedium between the indolence of the primitive state and the petulantactivity of our modern self-love, must have been at once the happiestand the most durable epoch. The more we reflect, the more evident wefind it that this state was the least subject to revolutions and thebest for man. "So long as men were content with their rustic hovels, solong as they confined themselves to stitching their garments of skinwith spines or fish bones, to decking their bodies with feathers andshells and painting them in different colours, to perfecting andbeautifying their bows and arrows--in a word, so long as they onlyapplied themselves to works that one person could do, and to arts thatneeded no more than a single hand, then they lived free, healthy, good,and happy, so far as was compatible with their natural constitution, andcontinued to enjoy among themselves the sweetness of independentintercourse. But from the moment that one man had need of the help ofanother, as soon as they perceived it to be useful for one person tohave provisions for two, then equality disappeared, property wasintroduced, labour became necessary, and the vast forests changed intosmiling fields, which had to be watered by the sweat of men, and inwhich they ever saw bondage and misery springing up and growing ripewith the harvests."[187]The working of metals and agriculture have been the two great agents inthis revolution. For the poet it is gold and silver, but for thephilosopher it is iron and corn, that have civilised men and undone thehuman race. It is easy to see how the latter of the two arts wassuggested to men by watching the reproducing processes of vegetation. Itis less easy to be sure how they discovered metal, saw its uses, andinvented means of smelting it, for nature had taken extreme precautionsto hide the fatal secret. It was probably the operation of some volcanowhich first suggested the idea of fusing ore. From the fact of landbeing cultivated its division followed, and therefore the institution ofproperty in its full shape. From property arose civil society. "Thefirst man who, having enclosed a piece of ground, could think of saying,_This is mine_, and found people simple enough to believe him, was thereal founder of civil society. How many crimes, wars, murders, miseries,and horrors would not have been spared to the human race by one who,plucking up the stakes, or filling in the trench, should have called outto his fellows: Beware of listening to this impostor; you are undone ifyou forget that the earth belongs to no one, and that its fruits are forall."[188]Things might have remained equal even in this state, if talents had onlybeen equal, and if for example the employment of iron and theconsumption of agricultural produce had always exactly balanced oneanother. But the stronger did more work; the cleverer got more advantagefrom his work; the more ingenious found means of shortening his labour;the husbandman had more need of metal, or the smith more need of grain;and while working equally, one got much gain, and the other couldscarcely live. This distinction between Have and Have-not led toconfusion and revolt, to brigandage on the one side and constantinsecurity on the other.Hence disorders of a violent and interminable kind, which gave rise tothe most deeply designed project that ever entered the human mind. Thiswas to employ in favour of property the strength of the very persons whoattacked it, to inspire them with other maxims, and to give them otherinstitutions which should be as favourable to property as natural lawhad been contrary to it. The man who conceived this project, aftershowing his neighbours the monstrous confusion which made their livesmost burdensome, spoke in this wise: "Let us unite to shield the weakfrom oppression, to restrain the proud, and to assure to each thepossession of what belongs to him; let us set up rules of justice andpeace, to which all shall be obliged to conform, without respect ofpersons, and which may repair to some extent the caprices of fortune, bysubjecting the weak and the mighty alike to mutual duties. In a word,instead of turning our forces against one another, let us collect theminto one supreme power to govern us by sage laws, to protect and defendall the members of the association, repel their common foes, andpreserve us in never-ending concord." This, and not the right ofconquest, must have been the origin of society and laws, which threw newchains round the poor and gave new might to the rich; and for the profitof a few grasping and ambitious men, subjected the whole human racehenceforth and for ever to toil and bondage and wretchednesswithout hope.The social constitution thus propounded and accepted was radicallyimperfect from the outset, and in spite of the efforts of the sagestlawgivers, it has always remained imperfect, because it was the work ofchance, and because, inasmuch as it was ill begun, time, while revealingdefects and suggesting remedies, could never repair its vices; _peoplewent on incessantly repairing and patching, instead of which it wasindispensable to begin by making a clean surface and by throwing asideall the old materials, just as Lycurgus did in Sparta_.Put shortly, the main positions are these. In the state of nature eachman lived in entire isolation, and therefore physical inequality was asif it did not exist. After many centuries, accident, in the shape ofdifference of climate and external natural conditions, enforcing for thesake of subsistence some degree of joint labour, led to an increase ofcommunication among men, to a slight development of the reasoning andreflective faculties, and to a rude and simple sense of mutualobligation, as a means of greater comfort in the long run. The firststate was good and pure, but the second state was truly perfect. It wasdestroyed by a fresh succession of chances, such as the discovery of thearts of metal-working and tillage, which led first to the institution ofproperty, and second to the prominence of the natural or physicalinequalities, which now began to tell with deadly effectiveness. Theseinequalities gradually became summed up in the great distinction betweenrich and poor; and this distinction was finally embodied in theconstitution of a civil society, expressly adapted to consecrate theusurpation of the rich, and to make the inequality of condition betweenthem and the poor eternal.We thus see that the Discourse, unlike Morelly's terse exposition,contains no clear account of the kind of inequality with which it deals.Is it inequality of material possession or inequality of politicalright? Morelly tells you decisively that the latter is only an accident,flowing from the first; that the key to renovation lies in the abolitionof the first. Rousseau mixes the two confusedly together under a singlename, bemoans each, but shrinks from a conclusion or a recommendationas to either. He declares property to be the key to civil society, butfalls back from any ideas leading to the modification of the institutionlying at the root of all that he deplores.The first general criticism, which in itself contains and covers nearlyall others, turns on Method. "Conjectures become reasons when they arethe most likely that you can draw from the nature of things," and "it isfor philosophy in lack of history to determine the most likely facts."In an inductive age this royal road is rigorously closed. Guesses drawnfrom the general nature of things can no longer give us light as to theparticular nature of the things pertaining to primitive men, any morethan such guesses can teach us the law of the movement of the heavenlybodies, or the foundations of jurisprudence. Nor can deduction fromanything but propositions which have themselves been won by laboriousinduction, ever lead us to the only kind of philosophy which has fairpretension to determine the most probable of the missing facts in thechain of human history. That quantitative and differentiating knowledgewhich is science, was not yet thought of in connection with themovements of our own race upon the earth. It is to be said, further,that of the two possible ways of guessing about the early state, theconditions of advance from it, and the rest, Rousseau's guess that allmovement away from it has been towards corruption, is less supported bysubsequent knowledge than the guess of his adversaries, that it hasbeen a movement progressive and upwards.This much being said as to incurable vice of method, and there arefervent disciples of Rousseau now living who will regard one's cravingfor method in talking about men as a foible of pedantry, we may brieflyremark on one or two detached objections to Rousseau's story. To beginwith, there is no certainty as to there having ever been a state ofnature of a normal and organic kind, any more than there is any onenormal and typical state of society now. There are infinitely diversestates of society, and there were probably as many diverse states ofnature. Rousseau was sufficiently acquainted with the most recentmetaphysics of his time to know that you cannot think of a tree ingeneral, nor of a triangle in general, but only of some particular treeor triangle.[189] In a similar way he might have known that there neverwas any such thing as a state of nature in the general and abstract,fixed, typical, and single. He speaks of the savage state also, whichcomes next, as one, identical, normal. It is, of course, nothing of thekind. The varieties of belief and habit and custom among the differenttribes of savages, in reference to every object that can engage theirattention, from death and the gods and immortality down to the uses ofmarriage and the art of counting and the ways of procuring subsistence,are infinitely numerous; and the more we know about this vast diversity,the less easy is it to think of the savage state in general. WhenRousseau extols the savage state as the veritable youth of the world, wewonder whether we are to think of the negroes of the Gold Coast, or theDyaks of Borneo, Papuans or Maoris, Cheyennes or Tierra-del-Fuegians orthe fabled Troglodytes; whether in the veritable youth of the world theycounted up to five or only to two; whether they used a fire-drill, andif so what kind of drill; whether they had the notion of personalidentity in so weak a shape as to practise the couvade; and a hundredother points, which we should now require any writer to settle, whoshould speak of the savage state as sovereign, one, and indivisible, inthe way in which Rousseau speaks of it, and holds it up to our vainadmiration.Again, if the savage state supervened upon the state of nature inconsequence of certain climatic accidents of a permanent kind, such asliving on the banks of a river or in a dense forest, how was it that theforce of these accidents did not begin to operate at once? How could theisolated state of nature endure for a year in face of them? Or what wasthe precipitating incident which suddenly set them to work, and drew theprimitive men from an isolation so profound that they barely recognisedone another, into that semi-social state in which the familywas founded?We cannot tell how the state of nature continued to subsist, or, if itever subsisted, how and why it ever came to an end, because the agencieswhich are alleged to have brought it to an end must have been coevalwith the appearance of man himself. If gods had brought to men seed,fire, and the mechanical arts, as in one of the Platonic myths,[190] wecould understand that there was a long stage preliminary to theseheavenly gifts. But if the gods had no part nor lot in it, and if theaccidents that slowly led the human creature into union were as old asthat nature, of which indeed they were actually the component elements,then man must have quitted the state of nature the very day on which hewas born into it. And what can be a more monstrous anachronism than toturn a flat-headed savage into a clever, self-conscious, argumentativeutilitarian of the eighteenth century; working the social problem out inhis flat head with a keenness, a consistency, a grasp of firstprinciples, that would have entitled him to a chair in the institute ofmoral sciences, and entering the social union with the calm andreasonable deliberation of a great statesman taking a critical step inpolicy? Aristotle was wiser when he fixed upon sociability as anultimate quality of human nature, instead of making it, as Rousseau andso many others have done, the conclusion of an unimpeachable train ofsyllogistic reasoning.[191] Morelly even, his own contemporary, andmuch less of a sage than Aristotle, was still sage enough to perceivethat this primitive human machine, "though composed of intelligentparts, generally operates independently of its reason; its deliberationsare forestalled, and only leave it to look on, while sentiment does itswork."[192] It is the more remarkable that Rousseau should have falleninto this kind of error, as it was one of his distinctions to haveperceived and partially worked out the principle, that men guide theirconduct rather from passion and instinct than from reasonedenlightenment.[193] The ultimate quality which he named pity is, afterall, the germ of sociability, which is only extended sympathy. But hedid not firmly adhere to this ultimate quality, nor make any effortconsistently to trace out its various products.We do not find, however, in Rousseau any serious attempt to analyse thecomposition of human nature in its primitive stages. Though constantlywarning his readers very impressively against confounding domesticatedwith primitive men, he practically assumes that the main elements ofcharacter must always have been substantially identical with suchelements and conceptions as are found after the addition of many ages ofincreasingly complex experience. There is something worth considering inhis notion that civilisation has had effects upon man analogous to thoseof domestication upon animals, but he lacked logical persistency enoughto enable him to adhere to his own idea, and work out conclusionsfrom it.It might further be pointed out in another direction that he takes forgranted that the mode of advance into a social state has always been oneand the same, a single and uniform process, marked by precisely the sameset of several stages, following one another in precisely the sameorder. There is no evidence of this; on the contrary, evidence goes toshow that civilisation varies in origin and process with race and otherthings, and that though in all cases starting from the prime factor ofsociableness in man, yet the course of its development has depended onthe particular sets of circumstances with which that factor has had tocombine. These are full of variety, according to climate and racialpredisposition, although, as has been justly said, the force of boththese two elements diminishes as the influence of the past in givingconsistency to our will becomes more definite, and our means ofmodifying climate and race become better known. There is no sign thatRousseau, any more than many other inquirers, ever reflected whether thecapacity for advance into the state of civil society in any highlydeveloped form is universal throughout the species, or whether there arenot races eternally incapable of advance beyond the savage state.Progress would hardly be the exception which we know it to be in thehistory of communities if there were not fundamental diversities in thecivilisable quality of races. Why do some bodies of men get on to thehigh roads of civilisation, while others remain in the jungle andthicket of savagery; and why do some races advance along one of theseroads, and others advance by different roads?Considerations of this sort disclose the pinched frame of trim theorywith which Rousseau advanced to set in order a huge mass of boundlesslyvaried, intricate, and unmanageable facts. It is not, however, at allworth while to extend such criticism further than suffices to show howlittle his piece can stand the sort of questions which may be put to itfrom a scientific point of view. Nothing that Rousseau had to say aboutthe state of nature was seriously meant for scientific exposition, anymore than the Sermon on the Mount was meant for political economy. Theimportance of the Discourse on Inequality lay in its vehementdenunciation of the existing social state. To the writer the questionof the origin of inequality is evidently far less a matter at heart,than the question of its results. It is the natural inclination of onedeeply moved by a spectacle of depravation in his own time and country,to extol some other time or country, of which he is happily ignorantenough not to know the drawbacks. Rousseau wrote about the savage statein something of the same spirit in which Tacitus wrote the Germania. Andhere, as in the Discourse on the influence of science and art uponvirtue, there is a positive side. To miss this in resentment of theunscientific paradox that lies about it, is to miss the force of thepiece, and to render its enormous influence for a generation after itwas written incomprehensible. We may always be quite sure that no set ofideas ever produced this resounding effect on opinion, unless theycontained something which the social or spiritual condition of the menwhom they inflamed made true for the time, and true in an urgent sense.Is it not tenable that the state of certain savage tribes is morenormal, offers a better balance between desire and opportunity, betweenfaculty and performance, than the permanent state of large classes inwestern countries, the broken wreck of civilisation?[194] To admit thisis not to conclude, as Rousseau so rashly concluded, that the movementaway from the primitive stages has been productive only of evil andmisery even to the masses of men, the hewers of wood and the drawers ofwater; or that it was occasioned, and has been carried on by thepredominance of the lower parts and principles of human nature. Ourprovisional acquiescence in the straitness and blank absence of outlookor hope of the millions who come on to the earth that greets them withno smile, and then stagger blindly under dull burdens for a season, andat last are shovelled silently back under the ground,--our acquiescencecan only be justified in the sight of humanity by the conviction thatthis is one of the temporary conditions of a vast process, workingforwards through the impulse and agency of the finer human spirits, butneeding much blood, many tears, uncounted myriads of lives, andimmeasurable geologic periods of time, for its high and beneficentconsummation. There is nothing surprising, perhaps nothing deeplycondemnable, in the burning anger for which this acquiescence is oftenchanged in the more impatient natures. As against the ignoble host whothink that the present ordering of men, with all its prodigiousinequalities, is in foundation and substance the perfection of socialblessedness, Rousseau was almost in the right. If the only alternativeto the present social order remaining in perpetuity were a retrogressionto some such condition as that of the islanders of the South Sea, alover of his fellow-creatures might look upon the result, so far as itaffected the happiness of the bulk of them, with tolerably completeindifference. It is only the faith that we are moving slowly away fromthe existing order, as our ancestors moved slowly away from the old wantof order, that makes the present endurable, and makes any tenaciouseffort to raise the future possible.       *       *       *       *       *An immense quantity of nonsense has been talked about the equality ofman, for which those who deny that doctrine and those who assert it maydivide the responsibility. It is in reality true or false, according tothe doctrines with which it is confronted. As against the theory thatthe existing way of sharing the laboriously acquired fruits and delightsof the earth is a just representation and fair counterpart of naturalinequalities among men in merit and capacity, the revolutionary theoryis true, and the passionate revolutionary cry for equality of externalchance most righteous and unanswerable. But the issues do not end here.Take such propositions as these:--there are differences in the capacityof men for serving the community; the well-being of the communitydemands the allotment of high function in proportion to high faculty;the rights of man in politics are confined to a right of the sameprotection for his own interests as is given to the interests of others.As against these principles, the revolutionary deductions from theequality of man are false. And such pretensions as that every man couldbe made equally fit for every function, or that not only each shouldhave an equal chance, but that he who uses his chance well and sociablyshould be kept on a level in common opinion and trust with him who usesit ill and unsociably, or does not use it at all,--the whole of this isobviously most illusory and most disastrous, and in whatever decree anyset of men have ever taken it up, to that degree they have paidthe penalty.What Rousseau's Discourse meant, what he intended it to mean, and whathis first direct disciples understood it as meaning, is not that all menare born equal. He never says this, and his recognition of naturalinequality implies the contrary proposition. His position is that theartificial differences, springing from the conditions of the socialunion, do not coincide with the differences in capacity springing fromoriginal constitution; that the tendency of the social union as noworganised is to deepen the artificial inequalities, and make the gulfbetween those endowed with privileges and wealth and those not soendowed ever wider and wider. It would have been very difficult ahundred years ago to deny the truth of this way of stating the case. Ifit has to some extent already ceased to be entirely true, and if violentpopular forces are at work making it less and less true, we owe theorigin of the change, among other causes and influences, not least tothe influence of Rousseau himself, and those whom he inspired. It wasthat influence which, though it certainly did not produce, yet did ascertainly give a deep and remarkable bias, first to the AmericanRevolution, and a dozen years afterwards to the French Revolution.It would be interesting to trace the different fortunes which awaitedthe idea of the equality of man in America and in France. In America ithas always remained strictly within the political order, and perhapswith the considerable exception of the possibles share it may have had,along with Christian notions of the brotherhood of man, andstatesmanlike notions of national prosperity, in leading to theabolition of slavery, it has brought forth no strong moral sentimentagainst the ethical and economic bases of any part of the social order.In France, on the other hand, it was the starting-point of movementsthat have had all the fervour and intensity of religions, and have mademen feel about social inequalities the burning shame and wrath withwhich a Christian saw the flourishing temples of unclean gods. Thisdifference in the interpretation and development of the first doctrinemay be explained in various ways,--by difference of materialcircumstance between America and France; difference of the political andsocial level from which the principle of equality had to start; and notleast by difference of intellectual temperament. This last was itselfpartly the product of difference in religion, which makes the Englishdread the practical enforcement of logical conclusions, while the Frenchhave hitherto been apt to dread and despise any tendency to stopshort of that.       *       *       *       *       *Let us notice, finally, the important fact that the appearance ofRousseau's Discourses was the first sign of reaction against thehistoric mode of inquiry into society that had been initiated byMontesquieu. The Spirit of Laws was published in 1748, with a trulyprodigious effect. It coloured the whole of the social literature inFrance during the rest of the century. A history of its influence wouldbe a history of one of the most important sides of speculative activity.In the social writings of Rousseau himself there is hardly a chapterwhich does not contain tacit reference to Montesquieu's book. TheDiscourses were the beginning of a movement in an exactly oppositedirection; that is, away from patient collection of wide multitudes offacts relating to the conditions of society, towards the promulgation ofarbitrary systems of absolute social dogmas. Mably, the chief dogmaticsocialist of the century, and one of the most dignified and austerecharacters, is an important example of the detriment done by theinfluence of Rousseau to that of Montesquieu, in the earlier stages ofthe conflict between the two schools. Mably (1709-1785), of whom theremark is to be made that he was for some years behind the scenes ofgovernment as De Tencin's secretary and therefore was versed in affairs,began his inquiries with Greece and Rome. "You will find everything inancient history," he said.[195] And he remained entirely in this grooveof thought until Rousseau appeared. He then gradually left Montesquieu."To find the duties of a legislator," he said, "I descend into theabysses of my heart, I study my sentiments." He opposed the Economists,the other school that was feeling its way imperfectly enough to apositive method. "As soon as I see landed property established," hewrote, "then I see unequal fortunes; and from these unequal fortunesmust there not necessarily result different and opposed interests, allthe vices of riches, all the vices of poverty, the brutalisation ofintelligence, the corruption of civil manners?" and so forth.[196] Inhis most important work, published in 1776, we see Rousseau's notionsdeveloped, with a logic from which their first author shrunk, eitherfrom fear, or more probably from want of firmness and consistency as areasoner. "It is to equality that nature has attached the preservationof our social faculties and happiness: and from this I conclude thatlegislation will only be taking useless trouble, unless all itsattention is first of all directed to the establishment of equality inthe fortune and condition of citizens."[197] That is to say not onlypolitical equality, but economic communism. "What miserable folly, thatpersons who pass for philosophers should go on repeating after oneanother that without property there can be no society. Let us leaveillusion. It is property that divides us into two classes, rich andpoor; the first will alway prefer their fortune to that of the state,while the second will never love a government or laws that leave them inmisery."[198] This was the kind of opinion for which Rousseau's diffuseand rhetorical exposition of social necessity had prepared France sometwenty years before. After powerfully helping the process of generaldissolution, it produced the first fruits specifically after its ownkind some twenty years later in the system of Baboeuf.[199]The unflinching application of principles is seldom achieved by the menwho first launch them. The labour of the preliminary task seems toexhaust one man's stock of mental force. Rousseau never thought of thesubversion of society or its reorganisation on a communistic basis.Within a few months of his profession of profound lament that the firstman who made a claim to property had not been instantly unmasked as thearch foe of the race, he speaks most respectfully of property as thepledge of the engagements of citizens and the foundation of the socialpact, while the first condition of that pact is that every one should bemaintained in peaceful enjoyment of what belongs to him.[200] We neednot impute the apparent discrepancy to insincerity. Rousseau was alwaysapt to think in a slipshod manner. He sensibly though illogicallyaccepted wholesome practical maxims, as if they flowed from theoreticalpremisses that were in truth utterly incompatible with them.FOOTNOTES:[151] Delandine's _Couronnes Academiques, ou Recueil de prix proposespar les Societes Savantes_. (Paris, 2 vols., 1787.)[152] Musset-Pathay has collected the details connected with the awardof the prize, ii. 365-367.[153] Second Letter to M. de Malesherbes, p. 358. Also _Conf._, viii.135.[154] Diderot's account (_Vie de Seneque_, sect. 66, _Oeuv._, iii. 98;also ii. 285) is not inconsistent with Rousseau's own, so that we maydismiss as apocryphal Marmontel's version of the story (_Mem._ VIII.),to the effect that Rousseau was about to answer the question with acommonplace affirmative, until Diderot persuaded him that a paradoxwould attract more attention. It has been said also that M. deFrancueil, and various others, first urged the writer to take anegative line of argument. To suppose this possible is to prove one'sincapacity for understanding what manner of man Rousseau was.[155] _Conf._, ix. 232, 233.[156] _Rousseau Juge de Jean Jacques, Dialogues_, i. 252.[157] _Dialogues_, i. 275, 276.[158] _Conf._, viii. 138.[159] "It made a kind of revolution in Paris," says Grimm. _Corr.Lit._, i. 108.[160] _Rep. au Roi de Pologne_, p. 111 and p. 113.[161] _Rep. a M. Bordes_, 138.[162] _Ib._ 137.[163] "The first source of the evil is inequality; from inequalitycome riches ... from riches are born luxury and idleness; from luxurycome the fine arts, and from idleness the sciences." _Rep. au Roi dePologne_, 120, 121.[164] _Rep. a M. Bordes_, 147. In the same spirit he once wrote themore wholesome maxim, "We should argue with the wise, and never withthe public." _Corr._, i. 191.[165] _Rep. au Roi de Pologne_, 128, 129.[166] _Rep. a M. Bordes_, 150-161.[167] P. 174.[168] Egger's _Hellenisme en France_, 28ieme lecon, p. 265.[169] Voltaire to J.J.R. Aug. 30, 1755.[170] _Rep. au Roi de Pologne_, 105.[171] In 1753 the French Academy, by way no doubt of summoning acounter-blast to Rousseau, boldly offered as the subject of theiressay the thesis that "The love of letters inspires the love ofvirtue," and the prize was won fitly enough by a Jesuit professor ofrhetoric. See Delandine, i. 42.[172] Preface to _Narcisse_, 251.[173] _Rep. a M. Bordes_, 167.[174] P. 187.[175] See for instance a strange discussion about _morale universelle_and the like in _Mem. de Mdme. d'Epinay_, i. 217-226.[176] Often described as Morelly the Younger, to distinguish him fromhis father, who wrote an essay on the human heart, and another on thehuman intelligence.[177] _Code de la Nature, ou le veritable esprit de ses loix, de touttems neglige ou meconnu._[178] P. 169. Rousseau did not see it then, but he showed himself onthe track.[179] At the end of the _Code de la Nature_ Morelly places a completeset of rules for the organisation of a model community. The base of itwas the absence of private property--a condition that was to bepreserved by vigilant education of the young in ways of thinking, thatshould make the possession of private property odious orinconceivable. There are to be sumptuary laws of a moderate kind. Thegovernment is to be in the hands of the elders. The children are to betaken away from their parents at the age of five; reared and educatedin public establishments; and returned to their parents at the age ofsixteen or so when they will marry. Marriage is to be dissoluble atthe end of ten years, but after divorce the woman is not to marry aman younger than herself, nor is the man to marry a woman younger thanthe wife from whom he has parted. The children of a divorced coupleare to remain with the father, and if he marries again, they are to beheld the children of the second wife. Mothers are to suckle their ownchildren (p. 220). The whole scheme is fuller of good ideas than suchschemes usually are.[180] P. 218.[181] This is obviously untrue. Animals do not know death in the senseof scientific definition, and probably have no abstract idea of it asa general state; but they know and are afraid of its concretephenomena, and so are most savages.[182] This is one of the passages in the Discourse, the harshness ofwhich was afterwards attributed by Rousseau to the influence ofDiderot. _Conf._, viii. 205, _n._[183] P. 261.[184] As if sin really came by the law in this sense; as if a lawdefining and prohibiting a malpractice were the cause of thecommission of the act which it constituted a malpractice. As if givinga name and juristic classification to any kind of conduct were addingto men's motives for indulging in it.[185] P. 269.[186] P. 278.[187] Pp. 285-287.[188] P. 273.[189] P. 250.[190] _Politicus_, 268 D-274 E.[191] Here for instance is D'Alembert's story:--"The necessity ofshielding our own body from pain and destruction leads us to examineamong external objects those which are useful and those which arehurtful, so that we may seek the one and flee the others. But wehardly begin our search into such objects before we discover amongthem a great number of beings which strike us as exactly likeourselves; that is, whose form is just like our own, and who, so faras we can judge at the first glance, appear to have the sameperceptions. Everything therefore leads us to suppose that they havealso the same wants, and consequently the same interest in satisfyingthem, whence it results that we must find great advantage in joiningwith them for the purpose of distinguishing in nature what has thepower of preserving us from what has the power of hurting us. Thecommunication of ideas is the principle and the stay of this union,and necessarily demands the invention of signs; such is the origin ofthe formation of societies." _Discours Preliminaire del'Encyclopedie._ Contrast this with Aristotle's sensible statement(_Polit._ I. ii. 15) that "there is in men by nature a strong impulseto enter into such union."[192] _Code de la Nature._[193] See, for example, his criticism on the Abbe de St. Pierre._Conf._, viii. 264. And also in the analysis of this very Discourse,above, vol. i. p. 163.[194] "I have lived with communities of savages in South America andin the East, who have no laws or law courts but the public opinion ofthe visage freely expressed. Each man scrupulously respects the rightsof his fellow, and any infraction of those rights rarely or nevertakes place. In such a community all are nearly equal. There are noneof those wide distinctions of education and ignorance, wealth andpoverty, master and servant, which are the products of ourcivilisation; there is none of that widespread division of labourwhich, while it increases wealth, produces also conflicting interests;there is not that severe competition and struggle for existence, orfor wealth, which the dense population of civilised countriesinevitably creates. All incitements to great crimes are thus wanting,and petty ones are repressed, partly by the influence of publicopinion, but chiefly by that natural sense of justice and of hisneighbour's right, which seems to be in some degree inherent in everyrace of man. Now, although we have progressed vastly beyond the savagestate in intellectual achievements, we have not advanced equally inmorals. It is true that among those classes who have no wants thatcannot be easily supplied, and among whom public opinion has greatinfluence, the rights of others are fully respected. It is true, also,that we have vastly extended the sphere of those rights, and includewithin them all the brotherhood of man. But it is not too much to say,that the mass of our populations have not at all advanced beyond thesavage code of morals, and have in many cases sunk below it."Wallace's _Malay Archipelago_, vol. ii. pp. 460-461.[195] So too Bougainville, a brother of the navigator, said in 1760,"For an attentive observer who sees nothing in events of the utmostdiversity of appearance but the natural effects of a certain number ofcauses differently combined, Greece is the universe in small, and thehistory of Greece an excellent epitome of universal history." (Quotedin Egger's _Hellenisme en France_, ii. 272.) The revolutionists of thenext generation, who used to appeal so unseasonably to the ancients,were only following a literary fashion set by their fathers.[196] _Doutes sur l'Ordre Naturel_; _Oeuv._, xi. 80. (Ed. 1794, 1795.)[197] _La Legislation_, I. i.[198] _Ibid._[199] It is not within our province to examine the vexed questionwhether the Convention was fundamentally socialist, and not merelypolitical. That socialist ideas were afloat in the minds of somemembers, one can hardly doubt. See Von Sybel's _Hist. of the FrenchRevolution_, Bk. II. ch. iv., on one side, and Quinet's _LaRevolution_, ii. 90-107, on the other.[200] _Economie Politique_, pp. 41, 53, etc.CHAPTER VI.PARIS.I.By what subtle process did Rousseau, whose ideal had been a summer lifeamong all the softnesses of sweet gardens and dappled orchards, turninto panegyrist of the harsh austerity of old Cato and grim Brutus'scivic devotion? The amiability of eighteenth century France--and Francewas amiable in spite of the atrocities of White Penitents at Toulouse,and black Jansenists at Paris, and the men and women who dealt in_lettres-de-cachet_ at Versailles--was revolted by the name of the cruelpatriot who slew his son for the honour of discipline.[201] How cameRousseau of all men, the great humanitarian of his time, to rise to theheight of these unlovely rigours?The answer is that he was a citizen of Geneva transplanted. He had beenbred in puritan and republican tradition, with love of God and love oflaw and freedom and love of country all penetrating it, and then he hadbeen accidentally removed to a strange city that was in active fermentwith ideas that were the direct abnegation of all these. In Paris theidea of a God was either repudiated along with many other ancestralconceptions, or else it was fatally entangled with the worstsuperstition and not seldom with the vilest cruelties. The idea offreedom was unknown, and the idea of law was benumbed by abuses andexceptions. The idea of country was enfeebled in some and displaced inothers by a growing passion for the captivating something styledcitizenship of the world. If Rousseau could have ended his days amongthe tranquil lakes and hills of Savoy, Geneva might possibly never havecome back to him. For it depends on circumstance, which of the chancesthat slumber within us shall awake, and which shall fall unroused withus into the darkness. The fact of Rousseau ranking among the greatest ofthe writers of the French language, and the yet more important fact thathis ideas found their most ardent disciples and exploded in their mostviolent form in France, constantly make us forget that he was not aFrenchman, but a Genevese deeply imbued with the spirit of his nativecity. He was thirty years old before he began even temporarily to livein France: he had only lived there some five or six years when he wrotehis first famous piece, so un-French in all its spirit; and the ideas ofthe Social Contract were in germ before he settled in France at all.There have been two great religious reactions, and the name of Genevahas a fundamental association with each of them. The first was thatagainst the paganised Catholicism of the renaissance, and of thisCalvin was a prime leader; the second was that against the materialismof the eighteenth century, of which the prime leader was Rousseau. Thediplomatist was right who called Geneva the fifth part of the world. Atthe congress of Vienna, some one, wearied at the enormous place taken bythe hardly visible Geneva in the midst of negotiations involvingmomentous issues for the whole habitable globe, called out that it wasafter all no more than a grain of sand. But he was not wrong who madebold to reply, "Geneva is no grain of sand; 'tis a grain of musk thatperfumes all Europe."[202] We have to remember that it was at all eventsas a grain of musk ever pervading the character of Rousseau. It happenedin later years that he repudiated his allegiance to her, but howeverbitterly a man may quarrel with a parent, he cannot change blood, andRousseau ever remained a true son of the city of Calvin. We may perhapsconjecture without excessive fancifulness that the constant spectacleand memory of a community, free, energetic, and prosperous, whoseinstitutions had been shaped and whose political temper had beeninspired by one great lawgiver, contributed even more powerfully thanwhat he had picked up about Lycurgus and Lacedaemon, to give him a turnfor Utopian speculation, and a conviction of the artificiality and easymodifiableness of the social structure. This, however, is less certainthan that he unconsciously received impressions in his youth from thecircumstances of Geneva, both as to government and religion, as tofreedom, order, citizenship, manners, which formed the deepest part ofhim on the reflective side, and which made themselves visible wheneverhe exchanged the life of beatified sense for moods of speculativeenergy, "Never," he says, "did I see the walls of that happy city, Inever went into it, without feeling a certain faintness at my heart, dueto excess of tender emotion. At the same time that the noble image offreedom elevated my soul, those of equality, of union, of gentlemanners, touched me even to tears."[203] His spirit never ceased tohaunt city and lake to the end, and he only paid the debt of an owedacknowledgment in the dedication of his Discourse on Inequality to therepublic of Geneva.[204] It was there it had its root. The honour inwhich industry was held in Geneva, the democratic phrases thatconstituted the dialect of its government, the proud tradition of thelong battle which had won and kept its independence, the severity of itsmanners, the simplicity of its pleasures,--all these things awoke in hismemory as soon as ever occasion drew him to serious thought. More thanthat, he had in a peculiar manner drawn in with the breath of hisearliest days in this theocratically constituted city, the vital ideathat there are sacred things and objects of reverence among men. Andhence there came to him, though with many stains and much misdirection,the most priceless excellence of a capacity for devout veneration.There is certainly no real contradiction between the quality ofreverence and the more equivocal quality of a sensuous temperament,though a man may well seem on the surface, as the first succeeds thesecond in rule over him, to be the contradiction to his other self. Theobjects of veneration and the objects of sensuous delight are externallyso unlike and so incongruous, that he who follows both in their turns isas one playing the part of an ironical chorus in the tragi-comic dramaof his own life. You may perceive these two to be mere imperfect orillusory opposites, when you confront a man like Rousseau with the trueopposite of his own type; with those who are from their birth analystsand critics, keen, restless, urgent, inexorably questioning. Thatenergetic type, though not often dead or dull on the side of sense, yetis incapable of steeping itself in the manifold delights of eye and ear,of nostril and touch, with the peculiar intensity of passive absorptionthat seeks nothing further nor deeper than unending continuance of thisprofound repose of all filled sensation, just as it is incapable of thekindred mood of elevated humility and joyful unasking devoutness in thepresence of emotions and dim thoughts that are beyond the compassof words.The citizen of Geneva with this unseen fibre of Calvinistic venerationand austerity strong and vigorous within him, found a world that hadnothing sacred and took nothing for granted; that held the past incontempt, and ever like old Athenians asked for some new thing; thatcounted simplicity of life an antique barbarism, and literarycuriousness the master virtue. There were giants in this world, like thepanurgic Diderot. There were industrious, worthy, disinterested men, whoused their minds honestly and actively with sincere care for truth, likeD'Holbach. There was poured around the whole, like a high stimulatingatmosphere to the stronger, and like some evil mental aphrodisiac to theweaker, the influence of Voltaire, the great indomitable chieftain ofthem all. Intellectual size half redeems want of perfect direction byits generous power and fulness. It was not the strong men, atheists andphilosophisers as they were, who first irritated Rousseau into revoltagainst their whole system of thought in all its principles. The dissentbetween him and them was fundamental and enormous, and in time it flamedout into open war. Conflict of theory, however, was brought home to himfirst by slow-growing exasperation at the follies in practice of theminor disciples of the gospel of knowing and acting, as distinguishedfrom his own gospel of placid being. He craved beliefs that shoulduphold men in living their lives, substantial helps on which they mightlean without examination and without mistrust: his life in Paris wasthrown among people who lived in the midst of open questions, andrevelled in a reflective and didactic morality, which had no root in theheart and so made things easy for the practical conscience. He soughttranquillity and valued life for its own sake, not as an arena and atheme for endless argument and debate: he found friends who knew nohigher pleasure than the futile polemics of mimic philosophy overdessert, who were as full of quibble as the wrong-headed interlocutorsin a Platonic dialogue, and who babbled about God and state of nature,about virtue and the spirituality of the soul, much as Boswell may havedone when Johnson complained of him for asking questions that would makea man hang himself. The highest things were thus brought down to thelevel of the cheapest discourse, and subjects which the wise take careonly to discuss with the wise, were here everyday topics for all comers.The association with such high themes of those light qualities of tact,gaiety, complaisance, which are the life of the superficial commerce ofmen and women of the world, probably gave quite as much offence toRousseau as the doctrines which some of his companions had the honestcourage or the heedless fatuity to profess. It was an outrage to all theserious side of him to find persons of quality introducing materialismas a new fashion, and atheism as the liveliest of condiments. Theperfume of good manners only made what he took for bad principles theworse, and heightened his impatience at the flippancy of pretensions tooverthrow the beliefs of a world between two wines.Doctrine and temperament united to set him angrily against the worldaround him. The one was austere and the other was sensuous, and thesensuous temperament in its full strength is essentially solitary. Theplay of social intercourse, its quick transitions, and incessantdemands, are fatal to free and uninterrupted abandonment to the flow ofsoft internal emotions. Rousseau, dreaming, moody, indolently,meditative, profoundly enwrapped in the brooding egoism of his ownsensations, had to mix with men and women whose egoism took the contraryform of an eager desire to produce flashing effects on other people. Wemay be sure that as the two sides of his character--his notions ofserious principle, and his notions of personal comfort--both went in thesame direction, the irritation and impatience with which they inspiredhim towards society did not lessen with increased communication, butnaturally deepened with a more profoundly settled antipathy.Rousseau lived in Paris for twelve years, from his return from Venice in1744 until his departure in 1756 for the rustic lodge in a wood whichthe good-will of Madame d'Epinay provided for him. We have already seenone very important side of his fortunes during these years, in therelations he formed with Theresa, and the relations which he repudiatedwith his children. We have heard too the new words with which duringthese years he first began to make the hearts of his contemporaries waxhot within them. It remains to examine the current of daily circumstanceon which his life was embarked, and the shores to which it wasbearing him.His patrons were at present almost exclusively in the circle offinance. Richelieu, indeed, took him for a moment by the hand, but eventhe introduction to him was through the too frail wife of one of thegreatest of the farmers general.[205] Madame Dupin and Madame d'Epinay,his two chief patronesses, were also both of them the wives of magnatesof the farm. The society of the great people of this world was marked byall the glare, artificiality, and sentimentalism of the epoch, but ithad also one or two specially hollow characteristics of its own. As isalways the case when a new rich class rises in the midst of a communitypossessing an old caste, the circle of Parisian financiers made it theirhighest social aim to thrust and strain into the circle of theVersailles people of quality. They had no normal life of their own, withindependent traditions and self-respect; and for the same reason that anessentially worn-out aristocracy may so long preserve a considerabledegree of vigour and even of social utility under certain circumstancesby means of tenacious pride in its own order, a new plutocracy isdemoralised from the very beginning of its existence by want of asimilar kind of pride in itself, and by the ignoble necessity of cravingthe countenance of an upper class that loves to despise and humiliateit. Besides the more obvious evils of a position resting entirely onmaterial opulence, and maintaining itself by coarse and glitteringostentation, there is a fatal moral hollowness which infects bothserious conduct and social diversion. The result is seen in imitativemanners, affected culture, and a mixture of timorous self-consciousnesswithin and noisy self-assertion without, which completes the mostdistasteful scene that any collected spirit can witness.Rousseau was, as has been said, the secretary of Madame Dupin and herstepson Francueil. He occasionally went with them to Chenonceaux inTouraine, one of Henry the Second's castles built for Diana of Poitiers,and here he fared sumptuously every day. In Paris his means, as we know,were too strait. For the first two years he had a salary of nine hundredfrancs; then his employers raised it to as much as fifty louis. For thefirst of the Discourses the publisher gave him nothing, and for thesecond he had to extract his fee penny by penny, and after long waiting.His comic opera, the Village Soothsayer, was a greater success; itbrought him the round sum of two hundred louis from the court, and somefive and twenty more from the bookseller, and so, he says, "theinterlude, which cost me five or six weeks of work, produced nearly asmuch money as Emilius afterwards did, which had cost me twenty years ofmeditation and three years of composition."[206] Before the arrival ofthis windfall, M. Francueil, who was receiver-general, offered him thepost of cashier in that important department, and Rousseau attended forsome weeks to receive the necessary instructions. His progress was tardyas usual, and the complexities of accounts were as little congenial tohim as notarial complexities had been three and twenty years previously.It is, however, one of the characteristics of times of national break-upnot to be peremptory in exacting competence, and Rousseau gravely sat atthe receipt of custom, doing the day's duty with as little skill asliking. Before he had been long at his post, his official chief going ona short journey left him in charge of the chest, which happened at themoment to contain no very portentous amount. The disquiet with which thewatchful custody of this moderate treasure harassed and afflictedRousseau, not only persuaded him that nature had never designed him tobe the guardian of money chests, but also threw him into a fit of verypainful illness. The surgeons let him understand that within six monthshe would be in the pale kingdoms. The effect of such a hint on a man ofhis temper, and the train of reflections which it would be sure to setaflame, are to be foreseen by us who know Rousseau's fashion of dealingwith the irksome. Why sacrifice the peace and charm of the littlefragment of days left to him, to the bondage of an office for which hefelt nothing but disgust? How reconcile the austere principles which hehad just adopted in his denunciation of sciences and arts, and hispanegyric on the simplicity of the natural life, with such duties as hehad to perform? And how preach disinterestedness and frugality from amidthe cashboxes of a receiver-general? Plainly it was his duty to pass inindependence and poverty the little time that was yet left to him, tobring all the forces of his soul to bear in breaking the fetters ofopinion, and to carry out courageously whatever seemed best to himself,without suffering the judgment of others to interpose the slightestembarrassment or hindrance.[207]With Rousseau, to conceive a project of this kind for simplifying hislife was to hasten urgently towards its realisation, because suchprojects harmonised with all his strongest predispositions. His designmastered and took whole possession of him. He resolved to earn hisliving by copying music, as that was conformable to his taste, withinhis capacity, and compatible with entire personal freedom. His patrondid as the world is so naturally ready to do with those who choose thestoic's way; he declared that Rousseau was gone mad.[208] Talk like thishad no effect on a man whom self-indulgence led into a path that otherswould only have been forced into by self-denial. Let it be said,however, that this is a form of self-indulgence of which society isnever likely to see an excess, and meanwhile we may continue to pay itsome respect as assuredly leaning to virtue's side. Rousseau's manylapses from grace perhaps deserve a certain gentleness of treatment,after the time when with deliberation and collected effort he sethimself to the hard task of fitting his private life to his publicprinciples. Anything that heightens the self-respect of the race is goodfor us to behold, and it is a permanent source of comfort to all whothirst after reality in teachers, whether their teaching happens to beour own or not, to find that the prophet of social equality was not afine gentleman, nor the teacher of democracy a hanger-on to the sillyskirts of fashion.Rousseau did not merely throw up a post which would one day have madehim rich. Stoicism on the heroic, peremptory scale is not so difficultas the application of the same principle to trifles. Besides thisgreater sacrifice, he gave up the pleasant things for which most menvalue the money that procures them, and instituted an austere sumptuaryreform in truly Genevese spirit. His sword was laid aside; for flowingperuke was substituted the small round wig; he left off gilt buttons andwhite stockings, and he sold his watch with the joyful and singularthought that he would never again need to know the time. One sacrificeremained to be made. Part of his equipment for the Venetian embassy hadbeen a large stock of fine linen, and for this he retained a particularaffection, for both now and always Rousseau had a passion for personalcleanliness, as he had for corporeal wholesomeness. He was seasonablydelivered from bondage to his fine linen by aid from without. OneChristmas Eve it lay drying in a garret in the rather considerablequantity of forty-two shirts, when a thief, always suspected to be thebrother of Theresa, broke open the door and carried off the treasure,leaving Rousseau henceforth to be the contented wearer of coarserstuffs.[209]We may place this reform towards the end of the year 1750, or thebeginning of 1751, when his mind was agitated by the busy discussionwhich his first Discourse excited, and by the new ideas of literarypower which its reception by the public naturally awakened in him. "Ittakes," wrote Diderot, "right above the clouds; never was such asuccess."[210] We can hardly have a surer sign of a man's fundamentalsincerity than that his first triumph, the first revelation to him ofhis power, instead of seducing him to frequent the mischievous anddisturbing circle of his applauders, should throw him inwards uponhimself and his own principles with new earnestness and refreshedindependence. Rousseau very soon made up his mind what the world wasworth to him; and this, not as the ordinary sentimentalist or satiristdoes, by way of set-off against the indulgence of personal foibles, butfrom recognition of his own qualities, of the bounds set to our capacityof life, and of the limits of the world's power to satisfy us. "When mydestiny threw me into the whirlpool of society," he wrote in his lastmeditation on the course of his own life, "I found nothing there togive a moment's solace to my heart. Regret for my sweet leisure followedme everywhere; it shed indifference or disgust over all that might havebeen within my reach, leading to fortune and honours. Uncertain in thedisquiet of my desires, I hoped for little, I obtained less, and I felteven amid gleams of prosperity that if I obtained all that I supposedmyself to be seeking, I should still not have found the happiness forwhich my heart was greedily athirst, though without distinctly knowingits object. Thus everything served to detach my affections from society,even before the misfortunes which were to make me wholly a stranger toit. I reached the age of forty, floating between indigence and fortune,between wisdom and disorder, full of vices of habit without any eviltendency at heart, living by hazard, distracted as to my duties withoutdespising them, but often without much clear knowledge what theywere."[211]A brooding nature gives to character a connectedness and unity that isin strong contrast with the dispersion and multiformity of the activetype. The attractions of fame never cheated Rousseau into forgetfulnessof the commanding principle that a man's life ought to be steadilycomposed to oneness with itself in all its parts, as by mastery of anart of moral counterpoint, and not crowded with a wild mixture of aimand emotion like distracted masks in high carnival. He complains of thephilosophers with whom he came into contact, that their philosophy wassomething foreign to them and outside of their own lives. They studiedhuman nature for the sake of talking learnedly about it, not for thesake of self-knowledge; they laboured to instruct others, not toenlighten themselves within. When they published a book, its contentsonly interested them to the extent of making the world accept it,without seriously troubling themselves whether it were true or false,provided only that it was not refuted. "For my own part, when I desiredto learn, it was to know things myself, and not at all to teach others.I always believed that before instructing others it was proper to beginby knowing enough for one's self; and of all the studies that I havetried to follow in my life in the midst of men, there is hardly one thatI should not have followed equally if I had been alone, and shut up in adesert island for the rest of my days."[212]When we think of Turgot, whom Rousseau occasionally met among thesociety which he denounces, such a denunciation sounds a littleoutrageous. But then Turgot was perhaps the one sane Frenchman of thefirst eminence in the eighteenth century. Voltaire chose to be an exilefrom the society of Paris and Versailles as pertinaciously as Rousseaudid, and he spoke more bitterly of it in verse than Rousseau ever spokebitterly of it in prose.[213] It was, as has been so often said, asociety dominated by women, from the king's mistress who helped to ruinFrance, down to the financier's wife who gave suppers to flashy men ofletters. The eighteenth century salon has been described as having threestages; the salon of 1730, still retaining some of the statelydomesticity, elegance, dignity of the age of Lewis XIV.; that of 1780,grave, cold, dry, given to dissertation; and between the two, the salonof 1750, full of intellectual stir, brilliance, frivolous originality,glittering wastefulness.[214] Though this division of time must not bepressed too closely, it is certain that the era of Rousseau's advent inliterature with his Discourses fell in with the climax of socialunreality in the surface intercourse of France, and that the same datemarks the highest point of feminine activity and power.The common mixture of much reflective morality in theory with muchlight-hearted immorality in practice, never entered so largely intomanners. We have constantly to wonder how they analysed and defined theword Virtue, to which they so constantly appealed in letters,conversation, and books, as the sovereign object for our deepest andwarmest adoration. A whole company of transgressors of the marriage lawwould melt into floods of tears over a hymn to virtue, which they mustsurely have held of too sacred an essence to mix itself with any onevirtue in particular, except that very considerable one of charitablyletting all do as they please. It is much, however, that these tears,if not very burning, were really honest. Society, though not believingvery deeply in the supernatural, was not cursed with an arid, parching,and hardened scepticism about the genuineness of good emotions in a man,and so long as people keep this baleful poison out of their hearts,their lives remain worth having.It is true that cynicism in the case of some women of this timeoccasionally sounded in a diabolic key, as when one said, "It is yourlover to whom you should never say that you don't believe in God; toone's husband that does not matter, because in the case of a lover onemust reserve for one's self some door of escape, and devotional scruplescut everything short."[215] Or here: "I do not distrust anybody, forthat is a deliberate act; but I do not trust anybody, and there is notrouble in this."[216] Or again in the word thrown to a man vaunting theprobity of some one: "What! can a man of intelligence like you acceptthe prejudice of _meum_ and _tuum_?"[217] Such speech, however, wasprobably most often a mere freak of the tongue, a mode and fashion, aswho should go to a masked ball in guise of Mephistopheles, withoutanything more Mephistophelian about him than red apparel and peakedtoes. "She was absolutely charming," said one of a new-comer; "she didnot utter one single word that was not a paradox."[218] This was thepassing taste. Human nature is able to keep itself wholesome infundamentals even under very great difficulties, and it is as wise as itis charitable in judging a sharp and cynical tone to make largeallowances for mere costume and assumed character.In respect of the light companionship of common usage, however, it isexactly the costume which comes closest to us, and bad taste in that ismost jarring and least easily forgiven. There is a certain stage in anobservant person's experience of the heedlessness, indolence, and nativefolly of men and women--and if his observation be conducted in acatholic spirit, he will probably see something of this not merely inothers--when the tolerable average sanity of human arrangements strikeshim as the most marvellous of all the fortunate accidents in theuniverse. Rousseau could not even accept the fact of this miraculousresult, the provisional and temporary sanity of things, and heconfronted society with eyes of angry chagrin. A great lady asked himhow it was that she had not seen him for an age. "Because when I wish tosee you, I wish to see no one but you. What do you want me to do in themidst of your society? I should cut a sorry figure in a circle ofmincing tripping coxcombs; they do not suit me." We cannot wonder thaton some occasion when her son's proficiency was to be tested before acompany of friends, Madame d'Epinay prayed Rousseau to be of them, onthe ground that he would be sure to ask the child outrageously absurdquestions, which would give gaiety to the affair.[219] As it happened,the father was unwise. He was a man of whom it was said that he haddevoured two million francs, without either saying or doing a singlegood thing. He rewarded the child's performance with the gift of asuperb suit of cherry-coloured velvet, extravagantly trimmed with costlylace; the peasant from whose sweat and travail the money had been wrung,went in heavy rags, and his children lived as the beasts of the field.The poor youth was ill dealt with. "That is very fine," said rudeDuclos, "but remember that a fool in lace is still a fool." Rousseau, inreply to the child's importunity, was still blunter: "Sir, I am no judgeof finery, I am only a judge of man; I wished to talk with you a littlewhile ago, but I wish so no longer."[220]Marmontel, whose account may have been coloured by retrospection inlater years, says that before the success of the first Discourse,Rousseau concealed his pride under the external forms of a politenessthat was timid even to obsequiousness; in his uneasy glance youperceived mistrust and observant jealousy; there was no freedom in hismanner, and no one ever observed more cautiously the hateful precept tolive with your friends as though they were one day to be yourenemies.[221] Grimm's description is different and more trustworthy.Until he began to affect singularity, he says, Rousseau had been gallantand overflowing with artificial compliment, with manners that werehoneyed and even wearisome in their soft elaborateness. All at once heput on the cynic's cloak, and went to the other extreme. Still in spiteof an abrupt and cynical tone he kept much of his old art of elaboratefine speeches, and particularly in his relations with women.[222] Of hisabruptness, he tells a most displeasing tale. "One day Rousseau told uswith an air of triumph, that as he was coming out of the opera where hehad been seeing the first representation of the Village Soothsayer, theDuke of Zweibruecken had approached him with much politeness, saying,'Will you allow me to pay you a compliment?' and that he replied, 'Yes,if it be very short.' Everybody was silent at this, until I said to himlaughingly, 'Illustrious citizen and co-sovereign of Geneva, since thereresides in you a part of the sovereignty of the republic, let merepresent to you that, for all the severity of your principles, youshould hardly refuse to a sovereign prince the respect due to awater-carrier, and that if you had met a word of good-will from awater-carrier with an answer as rough and brutal as that, you would havehad to reproach yourself with a most unseasonable piece ofimpertinence.'"[223]There were still more serious circumstances when exasperation at theflippant tone about him carried him beyond the ordinary bounds of thatpolite time. A guest at table asked contemptuously what was the use of anation like the French having reason, if they did not use it. "They mockthe other nations of the earth, and yet are the most credulous of all."ROUSSEAU: "I forgive them for their credulity, but not for condemningthose who are credulous in some other way." Some one said that inmatters of religion everybody was right, but that everybody shouldremain in that in which he had been born. ROUSSEAU, with warmth: "Notso, by God, if it is a bad one, for then it can do nothing but harm."Then some one contended that religion always did some good, as a kind ofrein to the common people who had no other morality. All the rest criedout at this in indignant remonstrance, one shrewd person remarking thatthe common people had much livelier fear of being hanged than of beingdamned. The conversation was broken off for a moment by the hostesscalling out, "After all, one must nourish the tattered affair we callour body, so ring and let them bring us the joint." This done, theservants dismissed, and the door shut, the discussion was resumed withsuch vehemence by Duclos and Saint Lambert, that, says the lady whotells us the story, "I feared they were bent on destroying all religion,and I prayed for some mercy to be shown at any rate to naturalreligion." There was not a whit more sympathy for that than for therest. Rousseau declared himself _paullo infirmior_, and clung to themorality of the gospel as the natural morality which in old timesconstituted the whole and only creed. "But what is a God," cried oneimpetuous disputant, "who gets angry and is appeased again?" Rousseaubegan to murmur between grinding teeth, and a tide of pleasantries setin at his expense, to which came this: "If it is a piece of cowardice tosuffer ill to be spoken of one's friend behind his back, 'tis a crime tosuffer ill to be spoken of one's God, who is present; and for my part,sirs, I believe in God." "I admit," said the atheistic champion, "thatit is a fine thing to see this God bending his brow to earth andwatching with admiration the conduct of a Cato. But this notion is, likemany others, very useful in some great heads, such as Trajan, MarcusAurelius, Socrates, where it can only produce heroism, but it is thegerm of all madnesses." ROUSSEAU: "Sirs, I leave the room if you sayanother word more," and he was rising to fulfil his threat, when theentry of a new-comer stopped the discussion.[224]His words on another occasion show how all that he saw helped to keep upa fretted condition of mind, in one whose soft tenacious memory turneddaily back to simple and unsophisticated days among the green valleys,and refused to acquiesce in the conditions of changed climate. Soterrible a thing is it to be the bondsman of reminiscence. Madamed'Epinay was suspected, wrongfully as it afterwards proved, of havingdestroyed some valuable papers belonging to a dead relative. There wasmuch idle and cruel gossip in an ill-natured world. Rousseau, herfriend, kept steadfast silence: she challenged his opinion. "What am Ito say?" he answered; "I go and come, and all that I hear outrages andrevolts me. I see the one so evidently malicious and so adroit in theirinjustice; the other so awkward and so stupid in their good intentions,that I am tempted (and it is not the first time) to look on Paris as acavern of brigands, of whom every traveller in his turn is the victim.What gives me the worst idea of society is to see how eager each personis to pardon himself, by reason of the number of the people who are likehim."[225]Notwithstanding his hatred of this cavern of brigands, and the littlepains he took to conceal his feelings from any individual brigand,whether male or female, with whom he had to deal, he found out that "itis not always so easy as people suppose to be poor and independent."Merciless invasion of his time in every shape made his life weariness.Sometimes he had the courage to turn and rend the invader, as in theletter to a painter who sent him the same copy of verses three times,requiring immediate acknowledgment. "It is not just," at length wrotethe exasperated Rousseau, "that I should be tyrannised over for yourpleasure; not that my time is precious, as you say; it is either passedin suffering or it is lost in idleness; but when I cannot employ itusefully for some one, I do not wish to be hindered from wasting it inmy own fashion. A single minute thus usurped is what all the kings ofthe universe could not give me back, and it is to be my own master thatI flee from the idle folk of towns,--people as thoroughly wearied asthey are thoroughly wearisome,--who, because they do not know what to dowith their own time, think they have a right to waste that ofothers."[226] The more abruptly he treated visitors, persecutingdinner-givers, and all the tribe of the importunate, the more obstinatethey were in possessing themselves of his time. In seizing the hoursthey were keeping his purse empty, as well as keeping up constantirritation in his soul. He appears to have earned forty sous for amorning's work, and to have counted this a fair fee, remarking modestlythat he could not well subsist on less.[227] He had one chance of apension, which he threw from him in a truly characteristic manner.When he came to Paris he composed his musical diversion of the MusesGalantes, which was performed (1745) in the presence of Rameau, underthe patronage of M. de la Popeliniere. Rameau apostrophised the unluckycomposer with much violence, declaring that one-half of the piece wasthe work of a master, while the other was that of a person entirelyignorant of the musical rudiments; the bad work therefore wasRousseau's own, and the good was a plagiarism.[228] This repulse did notdaunt the hero. Five or six years afterwards on a visit to Passy, as hewas lying awake in bed, he conceived the idea of a pastoral interludeafter the manner of the Italian comic operas. In six days the VillageSoothsayer was sketched, and in three weeks virtually completed. Duclosprocured its rehearsal at the Opera, and after some debate it wasperformed before the court at Fontainebleau. The Plutarchian stoic, itsauthor, went from Paris in a court coach, but his Roman tone desertedhim, and he felt shamefaced as a schoolboy before the great world, suchdivinity doth hedge even a Lewis XV., and even in a soul of Genevantemper. The piece was played with great success, and the composer wasinformed that he would the next day have the honour of being presentedto the king, who would most probably mark his favour by the bestowal ofa pension.[229] Rousseau was tossed with many doubts. He would fain havegreeted the king with some word that should show sensibility to theroyal graciousness, without compromising republican severity, "clothingsome great and useful truth in a fine and deserved compliment." Thismoral difficulty was heightened by a physical one, for he was liable toan infirmity which, if it should overtake him in presence of king andcourtiers, would land him in an embarrassment worse than death. Whatwould become of him if mind or body should fail, if either he should bedriven into precipitate retreat, or else there should escape him,instead of the great truth wrapped delicately round in veraciouspanegyric, a heavy, shapeless word of foolishness? He fled in terror,and flung up the chance of pension and patronage. We perceive the borndreamer with a phantasmagoric imagination, seizing nothing in justproportion and true relation, and paralysing the spirit with terror ofunrealities; in short, with the most fatal form of moral cowardice,which perhaps it is a little dangerous to try to analyse intofiner names.When Rousseau got back to Paris he was amazed to find that Diderot spoketo him of this abandonment of the pension with a fire that he couldnever have expected from a philosopher, Rousseau plainly sharing theopinion of more vulgar souls that philosopher is but fool writ large."He said that if I was disinterested on my own account, I had no rightto be so on that of Madame Le Vasseur and her daughter, and that I owedit to them not to let pass any possible and honest means of giving thembread.... This was the first real dispute I had with him, and all ourquarrels that followed were of the same kind; he laying down for me whathe insisted that I should do, and I refusing because I thought that Iought not to do it."[230]Let us abstain, at this and all other points, from being too sure thatwe easily see to the bottom of our Rousseau. When we are most ready tofling up the book and to pronounce him all selfishness and sophistry,some trait is at hand to revive moral interest in him, and show himunlike common men, reverent of truth and human dignity. There is aslight anecdote of this kind connected with his visit to Fontainebleau.The day after the representation of his piece, he happened to be takinghis breakfast in some public place. An officer entered, and, proceedingto describe the performance of the previous day, told at great lengthall that had happened, depicted the composer with much minuteness, andgave a circumstantial account of his conversation. In this story, whichwas told with equal assurance and simplicity, there was not a word oftruth, as was clear from the fact that the author of whom he spoke withsuch intimacy sat unknown and unrecognised before his eyes. The effecton Rousseau was singular enough. "The man was of a certain age; he hadno coxcombical or swaggering air; his expression bespoke a man of merit,and his cross of St. Lewis showed that he was an old officer. While hewas retailing his untruths, I grew red in the face, I lowered my eyes, Isat on thorns; I tried to think of some means of believing him to havemade a mistake in good faith. At length trembling lest some one shouldrecognise me and confront him, I hastened to finish my chocolate withoutsaying a word; and stooping down as I passed in front of him, I wentout as fast as possible, while the people present discussed his tale. Iperceived in the street that I was bathed in sweat, and I am sure thatif any one had recognised me and called me by name before I got out,they would have seen in me the shame and embarrassment of a culprit,simply from a feeling of the pain the poor man would have had to sufferif his lie had been discovered."[231] One who can feel thus vividlyhumiliated by the meanness of another, assuredly has in himself thewholesome salt of respect for the erectness of his fellows; he has therare sentiment that the compromise of integrity in one of them is as astain on his own self-esteem, and a lowering of his own moral stature.There is more deep love of humanity in this than in giving many alms,and it was not the less deep for being the product of impulse andsympathetic emotion, and not of a logical sorites.Another scene in a cafe is worth referring to, because it shows in thesame way that at this time Rousseau's egoism fell short of thefatuousness to which disease or vicious habit eventually depraved it. In1752 he procured the representation of his comedy of Narcisse, which hehad written at the age of eighteen, and which is as well worth readingor playing as most comedies by youths of that amount of experience ofthe ways of the world and the heart of man. Rousseau was amazed andtouched by the indulgence of the public, in suffering without any signof impatience even a second representation of his piece. For himself,he could not so much as sit out the first; quitting the theatre beforeit was over, he entered the famous cafe de Procope at the other side ofthe street, where he found critics as wearied as himself. Here he calledout, "The new piece has fallen flat, and it deserved to fall flat; itwearied me to death. It is by Rousseau of Geneva, and I am that veryRousseau."[232] The relentless student of mental pathology is verylikely to insist that even this was egoism standing on its head and noton its feet, choosing to be noticed for an absurdity, rather than not benoticed at all. It may be so, but this inversion of the ordinary form ofvanity is rare enough to be not unrefreshing, and we are very loth tohand Rousseau wholly over to the pathologist before his hour has come.II.In the summer of 1754 Rousseau, in company with his Theresa, went torevisit the city of his birth, partly because an exceptionallyfavourable occasion presented itself, but in yet greater part because hewas growing increasingly weary of the uncongenial world in which hemoved. On his road he turned aside to visit her who had been more thaneven his birth-place to him. He felt the shock known to all who cherisha vision for a dozen years, and then suddenly front the changed reality.He had not prepared himself by recalling the commonplace which we onlyremember for others, how time wears hard and ugly lines into the facethat recollection at each new energy makes lovelier with an addedsweetness. "I saw her," he says, "but in what a state, O God, in whatdebasement! Was this the same Madame de Warens, in those days sobrilliant, to whom the priest of Pontverre had sent me! How my heart wastorn by the sight!" Alas, as has been said with a truth that dailyexperience proves to those whom pity and self-knowledge have made mostindulgent, as to those whom pinched maxims have made mostrigorous,--_morality is the nature of things_.[233] We may have a humanetenderness for our Manon Lescaut, but we have a deep presentiment allthe time that the poor soul must die in a penal settlement. It is partlya question of time; whether death comes fast enough to sweep you out ofreach of the penalties which the nature of things may appoint, but whichin their fiercest shape are mostly of the loitering kind. Death wasunkind to Madame de Warens, and the unhappy creature lived long enoughto find that morality does mean something after all; that the old hoaryworld has not fixed on prudence in the outlay of money as a good thing,out of avarice or pedantic dryness of heart; nor on some continence andorder in the relations of men and women as a good thing, out ofcheerless grudge to the body, but because the breach of such virtues isever in the long run deadly to mutual trust, to strength, to freedom, tocollectedness, which are the reserve of humanity against days of ordeal.Rousseau says that he tried hard to prevail upon his fallen benefactressto leave Savoy, to come and take up her abode peacefully with him, whilehe and Theresa would devote their days to making her happy. He had notforgotten her in the little glimpse of prosperity; he had sent her moneywhen he had it.[234] She was sunk in indigence, for her pension had longbeen forestalled, but still she refused to change her home. WhileRousseau was at Geneva she came to see him. "She lacked money tocomplete her journey; I had not enough about me; I sent it to her anhour afterwards by Theresa. Poor Maman! Let me relate this trait of herheart. The only trinket she had left was a small ring; she took it fromher finger to place it on Theresa's, who instantly put it back, as shekissed the noble hand and bathed it with her tears." In after years hepoured bitter reproaches upon himself for not quitting all to attach hislot to hers until her last hour, and he professes always to have beenhaunted by the liveliest and most enduring remorse.[235] Here is theworst of measuring duty by sensation instead of principle; if thesensations happen not to be in right order at the critical moment, thechance goes by, never to return, and then, as memory in the best ofsuch temperaments is long though not without intermittence, oldsentiment revives and drags the man into a burning pit. Rousseau appearsnot to have seen her again, but the thought of her remained with him tothe end, like a soft vesture fragrant with something of the sweetmysterious perfume of many-scented night in the silent garden atCharmettes. She died in a hovel eight years after this, sunk in disease,misery, and neglect, and was put away in the cemetery on the heightsabove Chamberi.[236] Rousseau consoled himself with thoughts of anotherworld that should reunite him to her and be the dawn of new happiness;like a man who should illusorily confound the last glistening of awintry sunset seen through dark yew-branches, with the broad-beamingstrength of the summer morning. "If I thought," he said, "that I shouldnot see her in the other life, my poor imagination would shrink from theidea of perfect bliss, which I would fain promise myself in it."[237] Topluck so gracious a flower of hope on the edge of the sombre unechoinggulf of nothingness into which our friend has slid silently down, is anatural impulse of the sensitive soul, numbing remorse and giving amoment's relief to the hunger and thirst of a tenderness that has beenrobbed of its object. Yet would not men be more likely to have a deeperlove for those about them, and a keener dread of filling a house withaching hearts, if they courageously realised from the beginning of theirdays that we have none of this perfect companionable bliss to promiseourselves in other worlds, that the black and horrible grave is indeedthe end of our communion, and that we know one another no more?The first interview between Rousseau and Madame de Warens was followedby his ludicrous conversion to Catholicism (1728); the last wascontemporary with his re-conversion to the faith in which he had beenreared. The sight of Geneva gave new fire to his Republican enthusiasm;he surrendered himself to transports of patriotic zeal. The thought ofthe Parisian world that he had left behind, its frivolity, itspetulance, its disputation over all things in heaven and on the earth,its profound deadness to all civic activity, quickened his admirationfor the simple, industrious, and independent community from which henever forgot that he was sprung. But no Catholic could enjoy the rightsof citizenship. So Rousseau proceeded to reflect that the Gospel is thesame for all Christians, and the substance of dogma only differs,because people interposed with explanations of what they could notunderstand; that therefore it is in each country the business of thesovereign to fix both the worship and the amount and quality ofunintelligible dogma; that consequently it is the citizen's duty toadmit the dogma, and follow the worship by law appointed. "The societyof the Encyclopaedists, far from shaking my faith, had confirmed it by mynatural aversion for partisanship and controversy. The reading of theBible, especially of the Gospel, to which I had applied myself forseveral years, had made me despise the low and childish interpretationput upon the words of Christ by the people who were least worthy tounderstand him. In a word, philosophy by drawing me towards theessential in religion, had drawn me away from that stupid mass oftrivial formulas with which men had overlaid and darkened it."[238] Wemay be sure that if Rousseau had a strong inclination towards a givencourse of action, he would have no difficulty in putting his case in ablaze of the brightest light, and surrounding it with endless emblemsand devices of superlative conviction. In short, he submitted himselffaithfully to the instruction of the pastor of his parish; was closelycatechised by a commission of members of the consistory; received fromthem a certificate that he had satisfied the requirements of doctrine inall points; was received to partake of the Communion, and finallyrestored to all his rights as a citizen.[239]This was no farce, such as Voltaire played now and again at the expenseof an unhappy bishop or unhappier parish priest; nor such as Rousseauhimself had played six-and-twenty years before, at the expense of thosehonest Catholics of Turin whose helpful donation of twenty francs hadmarked their enthusiasm over a soul that had been lost and was foundagain. He was never a Catholic, any more than he was ever an atheist,and if it might be said in one sense that he was no more a Protestantthan he was either of these two, yet he was emphatically the child ofProtestantism. It is hardly too much to say that one bred in Catholictradition and observance, accustomed to think of the whole life of menas only a manifestation of the unbroken life of the Church, and of allthe several communities of men as members of that great organisationwhich binds one order to another, and each generation to those that havegone before and those that come after, would never have dreamed thatmonstrous dream of a state of nature as a state of perfection. He wouldnever have held up to ridicule and hate the idea of society as anorganism with normal parts and conditions of growth, and never have leftthe spirit of man standing in bald isolation from history, from hisfellows, from a Church, from a mediator, face to face with the greatvague phantasm. Nor, on the other hand, is it likely that one born andreared in the religious school of authority with its elaboratelydisciplined hierarchy, would have conceived that passion for politicalfreedom, that zeal for the rights of peoples against rulers, thatenergetic enthusiasm for a free life, which constituted the fire andessence of Rousseau's writing. As illustration of this, let us remarkhow Rousseau's teaching fared when it fell upon a Catholic country likeFrance: so many of its principles were assimilated by the revolutionaryschools as were wanted for violent dissolvents, while the rest droppedaway, and in this rejected portion was precisely the most vital part ofhis system. In other words, in no country has the power of collectiveorganisation been so pressed and exalted as in revolutionised France,and in no country has the free life of the individual been made to countfor so little. With such force does the ancient system of temporal andspiritual organisation reign in the minds of those who think mostconfidently that they have cast it wholly out of them. The use of reasonmay lead a man far, but it is the past that has cut the groove.In re-embracing the Protestant confession, therefore, Rousseau was notleaving Catholicism, to which he had never really passed over; he wasonly undergoing in entire gravity of spirit a formality which reconciledhim with his native city, and reunited those strands of spiritualconnection with it which had never been more than superficially parted.There can be little doubt that the four months which he spent in Genevain 1754 marked a very critical time in the formation of some of the mostmemorable of his opinions. He came from Paris full of inarticulate andsmouldering resentment against the irreverence and denial of thematerialistic circle which used to meet at the house of D'Holbach. Whatsort of opinions he found prevailing among the most enlightened of theGenevese pastors we know from an abundance of sources. D'Alembert hadthree or four years later than this to suffer a bitter attack fromthem, but the account of the creed of some of the ministers which hegave in his article on Geneva in the Encyclopedia, was substantiallycorrect. "Many of them," he wrote, "have ceased to believe in thedivinity of Jesus Christ. Hell, one of the principal points in ourbelief, is no longer one with many of the Genevese pastors, who contendthat it is an insult to the Divinity to imagine that a being full ofgoodness and justice can be capable of punishing our faults by aneternity of torment. In a word, they have no other creed than pureSocinianism, rejecting everything that they call mysteries, andsupposing the first principle of a true religion to be that it shallpropose nothing for belief which clashes with reason. Religion here isalmost reduced to the adoration of one single God, at least among nearlyall who do not belong to the common people; and a certain respect forJesus Christ and the Scriptures is nearly the only thing thatdistinguishes the Christianity of Geneva from pure Deism."[240] And itwould be easy to trace the growth of these rationalising tendencies.Throughout the seventeenth century men sprang up who anticipated some ofthe rationalistic arguments of the eighteenth, in denying the Trinity,and so forth,[241] but the time was not then ripe. The generalconditions grew more favourable. Burnet, who was at Geneva in 1685-6,says that though there were not many among the Genevese of the firstform of learning, "yet almost everybody here has a good tincture of alearned education."[242] The pacification of civic troubles in 1738 wasfollowed by a quarter of a century of extreme prosperity andcontentment, and it is in such periods that the minds of men previouslytrained are wont to turn to the great matters of speculation. There wasat all times a constant communication, both public and private, going onbetween Geneva and Holland, as was only natural between the two chiefProtestant centres of the Continent. The controversy of the seventeenthcentury between the two churches was as keenly followed in Geneva as atLeyden, and there is more than one Genevese writer who deserves a placein the history of the transition in the beginning of the eighteenthcentury from theology proper to that metaphysical theology, which wasthe first marked dissolvent of dogma within the Protestant bodies. Tothis general movement of the epoch, of course, Descartes supplied thefirst impulse. The leader of the movement in Geneva, that is of anattempt to pacify the Christian churches on the basis of some such Deismas was shortly to find its passionate expression in the SavoyardVicar's Confession of Faith, was John Alphonse Turretini (1661-1737). Hebelonged to a family of Italian refugees from Lucca, and his grandfatherhad been sent on a mission to Holland for aid in defence of Genevaagainst Catholic Savoy. He went on his travels in 1692; he visitedHolland, where he saw Bayle, and England, where he saw Newton, andFrance, where he saw Bossuet. Chouet initiated him into the mysteries ofDescartes. All this bore fruit when he returned home, and his eloquentexposition of rationalistic ideas aroused the usual cry of heresy fromthe people who justly insist that Deism is not Christianity. There wasmuch stir for many years, but he succeeded in holding his own and infinding many considerable followers.[243] For example, some three yearsor so after his death, a work appeared in Geneva under the title of _LaReligion Essentielle a l'Homme_, showing that faith in the existence ofa God suffices, and treating with contempt the belief in theinspiration of the Gospels.[244]Thus we see what vein of thought was running through the graver and moreactive minds of Geneva about the time of Rousseau's visit. Whether it betrue or not that the accepted belief of many of the preachers was a pureDeism, it is certain that the theory was fully launched among them, andthat those who could not accept it were still pressed to refute it, andin refuting, to discuss. Rousseau's friendships were according to hisown account almost entirely among the ministers of religion and theprofessors of the academy, precisely the sort of persons who would bemost sure to familiarise him, in the course of frequent conversations,with the current religious ideas and the arguments by which they wereopposed or upheld. We may picture the effect on his mind of thedifference in tone and temper in these grave, candid, and careful men,and the tone of his Parisian friends in discussing the same high themes;how this difference would strengthen his repugnance, and corroborate hisown inborn spirit of veneration; how he would here feel himself in hisown world. For as wise men have noticed, it is not so much difference ofopinion that stirs resentment in us, at least in great subjects wherethe difference is not trivial but profound, as difference in gravity ofhumour and manner of moral approach. He returned to Paris (Oct. 1754)warm with the resolution to give up his concerns there, and in thespring go back once and for all to the city of liberty and virtue, wheremen revered wisdom and reason instead of wasting life in the frivolitiesof literary dialectic.[245]The project, however, grew cool. The dedication of his Discourse onInequality to the Republic was received with indifference by some andindignation by others.[246] Nobody thought it a compliment, and somethought it an impertinence. This was one reason which turned his purposeaside. Another was the fact that the illustrious Voltaire now alsosigned himself Swiss, and boasted that if he shook his wig the powderflew over the whole of the tiny Republic. Rousseau felt certain thatVoltaire would make a revolution in Geneva, and that he should find inhis native country the tone, the air, the manners which were driving himfrom Paris. From that moment he counted Geneva lost. Perhaps he ought tomake head against the disturber, but what could he do alone, timid andbad talker as he was, against a man arrogant, rich, supported by thecredit of the great, of brilliant eloquence, and already the very idolof women and young men?[247] Perhaps it would not be uncharitable tosuspect that this was a reason after the event, for no man was ever sofond as Rousseau, or so clever a master in the art, of covering anaccident in a fine envelope of principle, and, as we shall see, he wasat this time writing to Voltaire in strains of effusive panegyric. Inthis case he almost tells us that the one real reason why he did notreturn to Geneva was that he found a shelter from Paris close at hand.Even before then he had begun to conceive characteristic doubts whetherhis fellow-citizens at Geneva would not be nearly as hostile to his loveof living solitarily and after his own fashion as the good peopleof Paris.Rousseau has told us a pretty story, how one day he and Madame d'Epinaywandering about the park came upon a dilapidated lodge surrounded byfruit gardens, in the skirts of the forest of Montmorency; how heexclaimed in delight at its solitary charm that here was the very placeof refuge made for him; and how on a second visit he found that his goodfriend had in the interval had the old lodge pulled down, and replacedby a pretty cottage exactly arranged for his own household. "My poorbear," she said, "here is your place of refuge; it was you who chose it,'tis friendship offers it; I hope it will drive away your cruel notionof going from me."[248] Though moved to tears by such kindness,Rousseau did not decide on the spot, but continued to waver for sometime longer between this retreat and return to Geneva.In the interval Madame d'Epinay had experience of the character she wasdealing with. She wrote to Rousseau pressing him to live at the cottagein the forest, and begging him to allow her to assist him in assuringthe moderate annual provision which he had once accidentally declared tomark the limit of his wants.[249] He wrote to her bitterly in reply,that her proposition struck ice into his soul, and that she could havebut sorry appreciation of her own interests in thus seeking to turn afriend into a valet. He did not refuse to listen to what she proposed,if only she would remember that neither he nor his sentiments were forsale.[250] Madame d'Epinay wrote to him patiently enough in return, andthen Rousseau hastened to explain that his vocabulary needed specialappreciation, and that he meant by the word valet "the degradation intowhich the repudiation of his principles would throw his soul. Theindependence I seek is not immunity from work; I am firm for winning myown bread, I take pleasure in it; but I mean not to subject myself toany other duty, if I can help it. I will never pledge any portion of myliberty, either for my own subsistence or that of any one else. I intendto work, but at my own will and pleasure, and even to do nothing, if ithappens to suit me, without any one finding fault except mystomach."[251] We may call this unamiable, if we please, but in afrivolous world amiability can hardly go with firm resolve to live anindependent life after your own fashion. The many distasteful sides ofRousseau's character ought not to hinder us from admiring hissteadfastness in refusing to sacrifice his existence to the first personwho spoke him civilly. We may wish there had been more of ruggedsimplicity in his way of dealing with temptations to sell his birthrightfor a mess of pottage; less of mere irritability. But then thisirritability is one side of soft temperament. The soft temperament iseasily agitated, and this unpleasant disturbance does not stir up trueanger nor lasting indignation, but only sends quick currents of eagerirritation along the sufferer's nerves. Rousseau, quivering from head tofoot with self-consciousness, is sufficiently unlike our plain Johnson,the strong-armoured; yet persistent withstanding of the patron is asworthy of our honour in one instance as in the other. Indeed, resistanceto humiliating pressure is harder for such a temper as Rousseau's, inwhich deliberate endeavour is needed, than it is for the naturallystoical spirit which asserts itself spontaneously and riseswithout effort.When our born solitary, wearied of Paris and half afraid of the toofriendly importunity of Geneva, at length determined to accept Madamed'Epinay's offer of the Hermitage on conditions which left him anentire sentiment of independence of movement and freedom from all senseof pecuniary obligation, he was immediately exposed to a very copioustorrent of pleasantry and remonstrance from the highly social circle whomet round D'Holbach's dinner-table. They deemed it sheer midsummermadness, or even a sign of secret depravity, to quit their cheerfulworld for the dismal solitude of woods and fields. "Only the bad man isalone," wrote Diderot in words which Rousseau kept resentfully in hismemory as long as he lived. The men and women of the eighteenth centuryhad no comprehension of solitude, the strength which it may impart tothe vigorous, the poetic graces which it may shed about the life ofthose who are less than vigorous; and what they did not comprehend, theydreaded and abhorred, and thought monstrous in the one man who didcomprehend it. They were all of the mind of Socrates when he said toPhaedrus, "Knowledge is what I love, and the men who dwell in the townare my teachers, not trees and landscape."[252] Sarcasms fell on himlike hail, and the prophecies usual in cases where a stray soul does notshare the common tastes of the herd. He would never be able to livewithout the incense and the amusements of the town; he would be back ina fortnight; he would throw up the whole enterprise within threemonths.[253] Amid a shower of such words, springing from men's perverseblindness to the binding propriety of keeping all propositions as towhat is the best way of living in respect of place, hours,companionship, strictly relative to each individual case, Rousseaustubbornly shook the dust of the city from off his feet, and sought newlife away from the stridulous hum of men. Perhaps we are better pleasedto think of the unwearied Diderot spending laborious days in factoriesand quarries and workshops and forges, while friendly toilers patientlyexplained to him the structure of stocking looms and velvet looms, theprocesses of metal-casting and wire-drawing and slate-cutting, and allthe other countless arts and ingenuities of fabrication, which heafterwards reproduced to a wondering age in his spacious and magnificentrepertory of human thought, knowledge, and practical achievement. And itis yet more elevating to us to think of the true stoic, the greathigh-souled Turgot, setting forth a little later to discharge beneficentduty in the hard field of his distant Limousin commissionership,enduring many things and toiling late and early for long years, that theburden of others might be lighter, and the welfare of the land moreassured. But there are many paths for many men, and if only magnanimousself-denial has the power of inspiration, and can move us with the deepthrill of the heroic, yet every truthful protest, even of excessivepersonality, against the gregarious trifling of life in the socialgroove, has a side which it is not ill for us to consider, and perhapsfor some men and women in every generation to seek to imitate.FOOTNOTES:[201] _Rep. a M. Bordes_, 163.[202] Pictet de Sergy., i. 18.[203] _Conf._, iv. 248.[204] _Ib._ ix. 279. Also _Economie Politique_.[205] Madame de la Popeliniere, whose adventures and the misadventuresof her husband are only too well known to the reader of Marmontel'sMemoirs.[206] The passages relating to income during his first residence inParis (1744-1756) are at pp. 119, 145, 153, 165, 200, 227, in Booksvii.-ix. of the _Confessions_. Rousseau told Bernardin de St. Pierre(_Oeuv._, xii. 74) that Emile was sold for 7000 livres. In the_Confessions_ (xi. 126), he says 6000 livres, and one or two hundredcopies. It may be worth while to add that Diderot and D'Alembertreceived 1200 livres a year apiece for editing the Encyclopaedia.Sterne received L650 for two volumes of _Tristram Shandy_ in 1780.Walpole's _Letters_, in. 298.[207] _Conf._, viii. 154-157.[208] _Ib._ viii. 160.[209] _Conf._, viii. 160, 161.[210] _Ib._ viii. 159.[211] _Reveries_, iii 168.[212] _Reveries_, iii. 166.[213] See the _Epitre a Mdme. la Marquise du Chatelet, sur laCalomnie_.[214] _La Femme au 18ieme siecle_, par MM. de Goncourt, p. 40.[215] Madame d'Epinay's _Mem._, i. 295.[216] Quoted in Goncourt's _Femme au 18ieme siecle_, p. 378.[217] _Ib._, p. 337.[218] Mdlle. L'Espinasse's _Letters_, ii. 89.[219] Madame d'Epinay's _Mem._, ii. 47, 48.[220] _Ib._, ii. 55.[221] _Mem._, Bk. iv. 327.[222] _Corr. Lit._, iii. 58.[223] _Ib._, 54.[224] Madame d'Epinay's _Mem._, i. 378-381. Saint Lambert formulatedhis atheism afterwards in the _Catechisme Universel_.[225] Madame d'Epinay's _Mem._, i. 443.[226] _Corr._, i. 317. Sept. 14, 1756.[227] Letter to Madame de Crequi, 1752. _Corr._, i. 171.[228] _Conf_,., vii. 104.[229] The _Devin du Village_ was played at Fontainebleau on October18, 1752, and at the Opera in Paris in March 1753. Madame de Pompadourtook a part in it in a private performance. See Rousseau's note toher, _Corr._, i. 178.[230] _Conf._, viii. 190.[231] _Conf._, viii. 183.[232] _Conf._, viii. 202; and Musset-Pathay, ii. 439. When inStrasburg, in 1765, he could not bring himself to be present at itsrepresentation. _Oeuv. et Corr. Ined._, p. 434.[233] Madame de Stael insisted that her father said this, and Neckerinsisted that it was his daughter's.[234] _Corr._, i. 176. Feb. 13, 1753.[235] _Conf._, viii. 208-210.[236] She died on July 30, 1762, aged "about sixty-three years."Arthur Young, visiting Chamberi in 1789, with some trouble procuredthe certificate of her death, which may be found in his _Travels_, i.272. See a letter of M. de Conzie to Rousseau, in M.Streckeisen-Moultou's collection, ii. 445.[237] _Conf._, xii. 233.[238] _Conf._, viii. 210.[239] Gaberel's _Rousseau et les Genevois_, p. 62. _Conf._, viii. 212.[240] The venerable Company of Pastors and Professors of the Churchand Academy of Geneva appointed a committee, as in duty bound, toexamine these allegations, and the committee, equally in duty bound,reported (Feb. 10, 1758) with mild indignation, that they wereunfounded, and that the flock was untainted by unseasonable use of itsmind. See on this Rousseau's _Lettres ecrites de la Montagne_, ii.231.[241] See Picot's _Hist. de Geneve_, ii. 415.[242] _Letters containing an account of Switzerland, Italy, etc., in1685-86._ By G. Burnet, p. 9.[243] J.A. Turretini's complete works were published as late as 1776,including among much besides that no longer interests men, an _Oratiode Scientiarum Vanitate et Proestantia_ (vol. iii. 437), not at all inthe vein of Rousseau's Discourse, and a treatise in four parts, _DeLegibus Naturalibus_, in which, among other matters, he refutes Hobbesand assails the doctrine of Utility (i. 173, etc.), by limiting itsdefinition to [Greek: to pros heauton] in its narrowest sense. Heappears to have been a student of Spinoza (i. 326). Francis Turretini,his father, took part in the discussion as to the nature of the treatyor contract between God and man, in a piece entitled _Foedus Naturae aprimo homine ruptum, ejusque Proevaricationem posteris imputatam_(1675).[244] Gaberel's _Eglise de Geneve_, iii. 188.[245] _Corr._, i. 223 (to Vernes, April 5, 1755).[246] _Conf._, viii. 215, 216. _Corr._, i. 218 (to Perdriau, Nov. 28,1754).[247] _Conf._, viii. 218.[248] _Conf._, viii. 217. It is worth noticing as bearing on theaccuracy of the Confessions, that Madame d'Epinay herself (_Mem._, ii.115) says that when she began to prepare the Hermitage for Rousseau hehad never been there, and that she was careful to lead him to believethat the expense had not been incurred for him. Moreover her letter tohim describing it could only have been written to one who had not seenit, and though her Memoirs are full of sheer imagination and romance,the documents in them are substantially authentic, and this letter isshown to be so by Rousseau's reply to it.[249] _Mem._, ii. 116.[250] _Corr._ (1755), i. 242.[251] _Corr._, i. 245.[252] _Phaedrus_, 230.[253] _Conf._, viii. 221, etc.CHAPTER VII.THE HERMITAGE.It would have been a strange anachronism if the decade of theEncyclopaedia and the Seven Years' War had reproduced one of those sceneswhich are as still resting-places amid the ceaseless forward tramp ofhumanity, where some holy man turned away from the world, and withadorable seriousness sought communion with the divine in mortificationof flesh and solitude of spirit. Those were the retreats of firm hopeand beatified faith. The hope and faith of the eighteenth century werecentred in action, not in contemplation, and the few solitaries of thatepoch, as well as of another nearer to our own, fled away from theimpotence of their own will, rather than into the haven of satisfiedconviction and clear-eyed acceptance. Only one of them--Wordsworth, thepoetic hermit of our lakes--impresses us in any degree like one of thegreat individualities of the ages when men not only craved for theunseen, but felt the closeness of its presence over their heads andabout their feet. The modern anchorite goes forth in the spirit of thepreacher who declared all the things that are under the sun to bevanity, not in the transport of the saint who knew all the things thatare under the sun to be no more than the shadow of a dream in the lightof a celestial brightness to come.Rousseau's mood, deeply tinged as it was by bitterness against societyand circumstance, still contained a strong positive element in hisnative exultation in all natural objects and processes, which did notleave him vacantly brooding over the evil of the world he had quitted.The sensuousness that penetrated him kept his sympathy with lifeextraordinarily buoyant, and all the eager projects for the disclosureof a scheme of wisdom became for a time the more vividly desired, as thegeneral tide of desire flowed more fully within him. To be surroundedwith the simplicity of rural life was with him not only a stimulus, butan essential condition to free intellectual energy. Many a time, hesays, when making excursions into the country with great people, "I wasso tired of fine rooms, fountains, artificial groves and flower beds,and the still more tiresome people who displayed all these; I was soworn out with pamphlets, card-playing, music, silly jokes, stupid airs,great suppers, that as I spied a poor hawthorn copse, a hedge, afarmstead, a meadow, as in passing through a hamlet I snuffed the odourof a good chervil omelette, as I heard from a distance the rude refrainof the shepherd's songs, I used to wish at the devil the whole tale ofrouge and furbelows."[254] He was no anchorite proper, one weary of theworld and waiting for the end, but a man with a strong dislike for onekind of life and a keen liking for another kind. He thought he was nowabout to reproduce the old days of the Charmettes, true to hisinveterate error that one may efface years and accurately replace apast. He forgot that instead of the once vivacious and tenderbenefactress who was now waiting for slow death in her hovel, hishouse-mates would be a poor dull drudge and her vile mother. He forgot,too, that since those days the various processes of intellectual lifehad expanded within him, and produced a busy fermentation which makes aman's surroundings very critical. Finally, he forgot that in proportionas a man suffers the smooth course of his thought to depend on anythingexternal, whether on the greenness of the field or the gaiety of thestreet or the constancy of friends, so comes he nearer to chance ofmaking shipwreck. Hence his tragedy, though the very root of the tragedylay deeper,--in temperament.I.Rousseau's impatience drove him into the country almost before the wallsof his little house were dry (April 9, 1756). "Although it was cold, andsnow still lay upon the ground, the earth began to show signs of life;violets and primroses were to be seen; the buds on the trees werebeginning to shoot; and the very night of my arrival was marked by thefirst song of the nightingale. I heard it close to my window in a woodthat touched the house. After a light sleep I awoke, forgetting that Iwas transplanted; I thought myself still in the Rue de Grenelle, when inan instant the warbling of the birds made me thrill with delight. Myvery first care was to surrender myself to the impression of the rusticobjects about me. Instead of beginning by arranging things inside myquarters, I first set about planning my walks, and there was not a pathnor a copse nor a grove round my cottage which I had not found outbefore the end of the next day. The place, which was lonely rather thanwild, transported me in fancy to the end of the world, and no one couldever have dreamed that we were only four leagues from Paris."[255]This rural delirium, as he justly calls it, lasted for some days, at theend of which he began seriously to apply himself to work. But work wastoo soon broken off by a mood of vehement exaltation, produced by thestimulus given to all his senses by the new world of delight in which hefound himself. This exaltation was in a different direction from thatwhich had seized him half a dozen years before, when he had discardedthe usage and costume of politer society, and had begun to conceive anangry contempt for the manners, prejudices, and maxims of his time.Restoration to a more purely sensuous atmosphere softened thisausterity. No longer having the vices of a great city before his eyes,he no longer cherished the wrath which they had inspired in him. "When Idid not see men, I ceased to despise them; and when I had not the badbefore my eyes, I ceased to hate them. My heart, little made as it isfor hate, now did no more than deplore their wretchedness, and made nodistinction between their wretchedness and their badness. This state, somuch more mild, if much less sublime, soon dulled the glowing enthusiasmthat had long transported me."[256] That is to say, his nature remainedfor a moment not exalted but fairly balanced. It was only for a moment.And in studying the movements of impulse and reflection in him at thiscritical time of his life, we are hurried rapidly from phase to phase.Once more we are watching a man who lived without either intellectual orspiritual direction, swayed by a reminiscence, a passing mood, apersonality accidentally encountered, by anything except permanent aimand fixed objects, and who would at any time have surrendered the mostdeliberately pondered scheme of persistent effort to the fascination ofa cottage slumbering in a bounteous landscape. Hence there could be nonormally composed state for him; the first soothing effect of the richlife of forest and garden on a nature exasperated by the life of thetown passed away, and became transformed into an exaltation that sweptthe stoic into space, leaving sensuousness to sovereign and uncontrolledtriumph, until the delight turned to its inevitable ashes andbitterness.At first all was pure and delicious. In after times when pain made himgloomily measure the length of the night, and when fever prevented himfrom having a moment of sleep, he used to try to still his suffering byrecollection of the days that he had passed in the woods of Montmorency,with his dog, the birds, the deer, for his companions. "As I got up withthe sun to watch his rising from my garden, if I saw the day was goingto be fine, my first wish was that neither letters nor visits might cometo disturb its charm. After having given the morning to divers taskswhich I fulfilled with all the more pleasure that I could put them offto another time if I chose, I hastened to eat my dinner, so as to escapefrom the importunate and make myself a longer afternoon. Before oneo'clock, even on days of fiercest heat, I used to start in the blaze ofthe sun, along with my faithful Achates, hurrying my steps lest some oneshould lay hold of me before I could get away. But when I had oncepassed a certain corner, with what beating of the heart, with whatradiant joy, did I begin to breathe freely, as I felt myself safe and myown master for the rest of the day! Then with easier pace I went insearch of some wild and desert spot in the forest, where there wasnothing to show the hand of man, or to speak of servitude anddomination; some refuge where I could fancy myself its discoverer, andwhere no inopportune third person came to interfere between nature andme. She seemed to spread out before my eyes a magnificence that wasalways new. The gold of the broom and the purple of the heather struckmy eyes with a glorious splendour that went to my very heart; themajesty of the trees that covered me with their shadow, the delicacy ofthe shrubs that surrounded me, the astonishing variety of grasses andflowers that I trod under foot, kept my mind in a continual alternationof attention and delight.... My imagination did not leave the earth thussuperbly arrayed without inhabitants. I formed a charming society, ofwhich I did not feel myself unworthy; I made a golden age to please myown fancy, and filling up these fair days with all those scenes of mylife that had left sweet memories behind, and all that my heart couldyet desire or hope in scenes to come, I waxed tender even to sheddingtears over the true pleasures of humanity, pleasures so delicious, sopure, and henceforth so far from the reach of men. Ah, if in suchmoments any ideas of Paris, of the age, of my little aureole as author,came to trouble my dreams, with what disdain did I drive them out, todeliver myself without distraction to the exquisite sentiments of whichI was so full. Yet in the midst of it all, the nothingness of mychimeras sometimes broke sadly upon my mind. Even if every dream hadsuddenly been transformed into reality, it would not have been enough;I should have dreamed, imagined, yearned still." Alas, this deepinsatiableness of sense, the dreary vacuity of soul that follows fulnessof animal delight, the restless exactingness of undirected imagination,was never recognised by Rousseau distinctly enough to modify either hisconduct or his theory of life. He filled up the void for a short spaceby that sovereign aspiration, which changed the dead bones of oldtheology into the living figure of a new faith. "From the surface of theearth I raised my ideas to all the existences in nature, to theuniversal system of things, to the incomprehensible Being who embracesall. Then with mind lost in that immensity, I did not think, I did notreason, I did not philosophise; with a sort of pleasure I feltoverwhelmed by the weight of the universe, I surrendered myself to theravishing confusion of these vast ideas. I loved to lose myself inimagination in immeasurable space; within the limits of real existencesmy heart was too tightly compressed; in the universe I was stifled; Iwould fain have launched myself into the infinite. I believe that if Ihad unveiled all the mysteries of nature, I should have found myself ina less delicious situation than that bewildering ecstasy to which mymind so unreservedly delivered itself, and which sometimes transportedme until I cried out, 'O mighty Being! O mighty Being!' without power ofany other word or thought."[257]It is not wholly insignificant that though he could thus expand hissoul with ejaculatory delight in something supreme, he could not endurethe sight of one of his fellow-creatures. "If my gaiety lasted the wholenight, that showed that I had passed the day alone; I was very differentafter I had seen people, for I was rarely content with others and neverwith myself. Then in the evening I was sure to be in taciturn orscolding humour." It is not in every condition that effervescent passionfor ideal forms of the religious imagination assists sympathy with thereal beings who surround us. And to this let us add that there arenatures in which all deep emotion is so entirely associated with theideal, that real and particular manifestations of it are repugnant tothem as something alien; and this without the least insincerity, thoughwith a vicious and disheartening inconsistency. Rousseau belonged tothis class, and loved man most when he saw men least. Bad as this was,it does not justify us in denouncing his love of man as artificial; itwas one side of an ideal exaltation, which stirred the depths of hisspirit with a force as genuine as that which is kindled in natures ofanother type by sympathy with the real and concrete, with the daily walkand conversation and actual doings and sufferings of the men and womenwhom we know. The fermentation which followed his arrival at theHermitage, in its first form produced a number of literary schemes. Theidea of the Political Institutions, first conceived at Venice, pressedupon his meditations. He had been earnestly requested to compose atreatise on education. Besides this, his thoughts wandered confusedlyround the notion of a treatise to be called Sensitive Morality, or theMaterialism of the Sage, the object of which was to examine theinfluence of external agencies, such as light, darkness, sound, seasons,food, noise, silence, motion, rest, on our corporeal machine, and thusindirectly upon the soul also. By knowing these and acquiring the art ofmodifying them according to our individual needs, we should become surerof ourselves and fix a deeper constancy in our lives. An external systemof treatment would thus be established, which would place and keep thesoul in the condition most favourable to virtue.[258] Though thetreatise was never completed, and the sketch never saw the light, weperceive at least that Rousseau would have made the means of access tocharacter wide enough, and the material influences that impress it andproduce its caprices, multitudinous enough, instead of limiting themwith the medical specialist to one or two organs, and one or two of theconditions that affect them. Nor, on the other hand, do the words inwhich he sketches his project in the least justify the attribution tohim of the doctrine of the absolute power of the physical constitutionover the moral habits, whether that doctrine would be a credit or adiscredit to his philosophical thoroughness of perception. No one deniesthe influence of external conditions on the moral habits, and Rousseausays no more than that he proposed to consider the extent and themodifiableness of this influence. It was not then deemed essential for aspiritualist thinker to ignore physical organisation.A third undertaking of a more substantial sort was to arrange and editthe papers and printed works of the Abbe de Saint Pierre (1658-1743),confided to him through the agency of Saint Lambert, and partly also ofMadame Dupin, the warm friend of that singular and good man.[259] Thistask involved reading, considering, and picking extracts fromtwenty-three diffuse and chaotic volumes, full of prolixity andrepetition. Rousseau, dreamer as he was, yet had quite keenness ofperception enough to discern the weakness of a dreamer of another sort;and he soon found out that the Abbe de Saint Pierre's views wereimpracticable, in consequence of the author's fixed idea that men areguided rather by their lights than by their passions. In fact, SaintPierre was penetrated with the eighteenth-century faith to a peculiardegree. As with Condorcet afterwards, he was led by his admiration forthe extent of modern knowledge to adopt the principle that perfectedreason is capable of being made the base of all institutions, and wouldspeedily terminate all the great abuses of the world. "He went wrong,"says Rousseau, "not merely in having no other passion but that ofreason, but by insisting on making all men like himself, instead oftaking them as they are and as they will continue to be." The critic'sown error in later days was not very different from this, save that itapplied to the medium in which men live, rather than to themselves, byrefusing to take complex societies as they are, even as starting-pointsfor higher attempts at organisation. Rousseau had occasionally seen theold man, and he preserved the greatest veneration for his memory,speaking of him as the honour of his age and race, with a fulness ofenthusiasm very unusual towards men, though common enough towardsinanimate nature. The sincerity of this respect, however, could not makethe twenty-three volumes which the good man had written, either fewer innumber or lighter in contents, and after dealing as well as he couldwith two important parts of Saint Pierre's works, he threw up thetask.[260] It must not be supposed that Rousseau would allow thatfatigue or tedium had anything to do with a resolve which really neededno better justification. As we have seen before, he had amazing skill infinding a certain ingeniously contrived largeness for his motives. SaintPierre's writings were full of observations on the government of France,some of them remarkably bold in their criticism, but he had not beenpunished for them because the ministers always looked upon him as akind of preacher rather than a genuine politician, and he was allowed tosay what he pleased, because it was observed that no one listened towhat he said. Besides, he was a Frenchman, and Rousseau was not, andhence the latter, in publishing Saint Pierre's strictures on Frenchaffairs, was exposing himself to a sharp question why he meddled with acountry that did not concern him. "It surprised me," says Rousseau,"that the reflection had not occurred to me earlier," but thiscoincidence of the discovery that the work was imprudent, with thediscovery that he was weary of it, will surprise nobody versed in studyof a man who lives in his sensations, and yet has vanity enough todislike to admit it.The short remarks which Rousseau appended to his abridgment of SaintPierre's essays on Perpetual Peace, and on a Polysynodia, or Pluralityof Councils, are extremely shrewd and pointed, and would suffice to showus, if there were nothing else to do so, the right kind of answer tomake to the more harmful dreams of the Social Contract. Saint Pierre'sfault is said, with entire truth, to be a failure to make his viewsrelative to men, to times, to circumstances; and there is something thatstartles us when we think whose words we are reading, in the declarationthat, "whether an existing government be still that of old times, orwhether it have insensibly undergone a change of nature, it is equallyimprudent to touch it: if it is the same, it must be respected, and ifit has degenerated, that is due to the force of time and circumstance,and human sagacity is powerless." Rousseau points to France, asking hisreaders to judge the peril of once moving by an election the enormousmasses comprising the French monarchy; and in another place, after awise general remark on the futility of political machinery without menof a certain character, he illustrates it by this scornful question:When you see all Paris in a ferment about the rank of a dancer or a wit,and the affairs of the academy or the opera making everybody forget theinterest of the ruler and the glory of the nation, what can you hopefrom bringing political affairs close to such a people, and removingthem from the court to the town?[261] Indeed, there is perhaps not oneof these pages which Burke might not well have owned.[262]A violent and prolonged crisis followed this not entirely unsuccessfuleffort after sober and laborious meditation. Rousseau was now to findthat if society has its perils, so too has solitude, and that if thereis evil in frivolous complaisance for the puppet-work of a world that isonly a little serious, so there is evil in a passionate tenderness forphantoms of an imaginary world that is not serious at all. To the pureor stoical soul the solitude of the forest is strength, but then theimagination must know the yoke. Rousseau's imagination, in no way of thestrongest either as receptive or inventive, was the free accomplice ofhis sensations. The undisciplined force of animal sensibility graduallyrose within him, like a slowly welling flood. The spectacle does noteither brighten or fortify the student's mind, yet if there are suchstates, it is right that those who care to speak of human nature shouldhave an opportunity of knowing its less glorious parts. They may bepresumed to exist, though in less violent degree, in many people whom wemeet in the street and at the table, and there can be nothing but dangerin allowing ourselves to be so narrowed by our own virtuousness,viciousness being conventionally banished to the remoter region of thethird person, as to forget the presence of "the brute brain within theman's." In Rousseau's case, at any rate, it was no wicked broth normagic potion that "confused the chemic labour of the blood," but the toopotent wine of the joyful beauty of nature herself, working misery in amental structure that no educating care nor envelope of circumstance hadever hardened against her intoxication. Most of us are protected againstthis subtle debauch of sensuous egoism by a cool organisation, whileeven those who are born with senses and appetites of great strength andkeenness, are guarded by accumulated discipline of all kinds fromwithout, especially by the necessity for active industry which bringsthe most exaggerated native sensibility into balance. It is the constantand rigorous social parade which keeps the eager regiment of the sensesfrom making furious rout. Rousseau had just repudiated all socialobligation, and he had never gone through external discipline. He was atan age when passion that has never been broken in has the beak of thebald vulture, tearing and gnawing a man; but its first approach is infair shapes.Wandering and dreaming "in the sweetest season of the year, in the monthof June, under the fresh groves, with the song of the nightingale andthe soft murmuring of the brooks in his ear," he began to wonderrestlessly why he had never tasted in their plenitude the vividsentiments which he was conscious of possessing in reserve, or any ofthat intoxicating delight which he felt potentially existent in hissoul. Why had he been created with faculties so exquisite, to be leftthus unused and unfruitful? The feeling of his own quality, with this ofa certain injustice and waste superadded, brought warm tears which heloved to let flow. Visions of the past, from girl playmates of his youthdown to the Venetian courtesan, thronged in fluttering tumult into hisbrain. He saw himself surrounded by a seraglio of houris whom he hadknown, until his blood was all aflame and his head in a whirl. Hisimagination was kindled into deadly activity. "The impossibility ofreaching to the real beings plunged me into the land of chimera; andseeing nothing actual that rose to the height of my delirium, Inourished it in an ideal world, which my creative imagination had soonpeopled with beings after my heart's desire. In my continual ecstasies,I made myself drunk with torrents of the most delicious sentiments thatever entered the heart of man. Forgetting absolutely the whole humanrace, I invented for myself societies of perfect creatures, as heavenlyfor their virtues as their beauties; sure, tender, faithful friends,such as I never found in our nether world. I had such a passion forhaunting this empyrean with all its charming objects, that I passedhours and days in it without counting them as they went by; and losingrecollection of everything else, I had hardly swallowed a morsel in hothaste, before I began to burn to run off in search of my beloved groves.If, when I was ready to start for the enchanted world, I saw unhappymortals coming to detain me on the dull earth, I could neither moderatenor hide my spleen, and, no longer master over myself, I used to givethem greeting so rough that it might well be called brutal."[263]This terrific malady was something of a very different kind from thetranquil sensuousness of the days in Savoy, when the blood was young,and life was not complicated with memories, and the sweet freshness ofnature made existence enough. Then his supreme expansion had beenattended with a kind of divine repose, and had found edifying voice indevout acknowledgment in the exhilaration of the morning air of thegoodness and bounty of a beneficent master. In this later and morepitiable time the beneficent master hid himself, and creation was onlynot a blank because it was veiled by troops of sirens not in the flesh.Nature without the association of some living human object, like Madamede Warens, was a poison to Rousseau, until the advancing years whichslowly brought decay of sensual force thus brought the antidote. At ourpresent point we see one stricken with an ugly disease. It was almostmercy when he was laid up with a sharp attack of the more painful, butfar less absorbing and frightful disorder, to which Rousseau was subjectall his life long. It gave pause to what he misnames his angelic loves."Besides that one can hardly think of love when suffering anguish, myimagination, which is animated by the country and under the trees,languishes and dies in a room and under roof-beams." This interval heemployed with some magnanimity, in vindicating the ways and economy ofProvidence, in the letter to Voltaire which we shall presently examine.The moment he could get out of doors again into the forest, thetransport returned, but this time accompanied with an active effort inthe creative faculties of his mind to bring the natural relief to theseover-wrought paroxysms of sensual imagination. He soothed his emotionsby associating them with the life of personages whom he invented, and byintroducing into them that play and movement and changing relation whichprevented them from bringing his days to an end in malodorous fever. Theegoism of persistent invention and composition was at least better thanthe egoism of mere unreflecting ecstasy in the charm of naturalobjects, and took off something from the violent excess of sensuousforce. His thought became absorbed in two female figures, one dark andthe other fair, one sage and the other yielding, one gentle and theother quick, analogous in character but different, not handsome butanimated by cheerfulness and feeling. To one of these he gave a lover,to whom the other was a tender friend. He planted them all, after muchdeliberation and some changes, on the shores of his beloved lake atVevay, the spot where his benefactress was born, and which he alwaysthought the richest and loveliest in all Europe.This vicarious or reflected egoism, accompanied as it was by a certainamount of productive energy, seemed to mark a return to a sort of moralconvalescence. He walked about the groves with pencil and tablets,assigning this or that thought or expression to one or other of thethree companions of his fancy. When the bad weather set in, and he wasconfined to the house (the winter of 1756-7), he tried to resume hisordinary indoor labour, the copying of music and the compilation of hisMusical Dictionary. To his amazement he found that this was no longerpossible. The fever of that literary composition of which he had alwayssuch dread had strong possession of him. He could see nothing on anyside but the three figures and the objects about them made beautiful byhis imagination. Though he tried hard to dismiss them, his resistancewas vain, and he set himself to bringing some order into his thoughts"so as to produce a kind of romance." We have a glimpse of his mentalstate in the odd detail, that he could not bear to write his romance onanything but the very finest paper with gilt edges; that the powder withwhich he dried the ink was of azure and sparkling silver; and that hetied up the quires with delicate blue riband.[264] The distance from allthis to the state of nature is obviously very great indeed. It must notbe supposed that he forgot his older part as Cato, Brutus, and the otherPlutarchians. "My great embarrassment," he says honestly, "was that Ishould belie myself so clearly and thoroughly. After the severeprinciples I had just been laying down with so much bustle, after theaustere maxims I had preached so energetically, after so many bitinginvectives against the effeminate books that breathed love and softdelights, could anything be imagined more shocking, more unlooked-for,than to see me inscribe myself with my own hand among the very authorson whose books I had heaped this harsh censure? I felt thisinconsequence in all its force, I taxed myself with it, I blushed overit, and was overcome with mortification; but nothing could restore me toreason."[265] He adds that perhaps on the whole the composition of theNew Heloisa was turning his madness to the best account. That may betrue, but does not all this make the bitter denunciation, in the Letterto D'Alembert, of love and of all who make its representation aconsiderable element in literature or the drama, at the very time whenhe was composing one of the most dangerously attractive romances of hiscentury, a rather indecent piece of invective? We may forgiveinconsistency when it is only between two of a man's theories, or twoself-concerning parts of his conduct, but hardly when it takes the formof reviling in others what the reviler indulgently permits to himself.We are more edified by the energy with which Rousseau refused connivancewith the public outrages on morality perpetrated by a patron. M.d'Epinay went to pay him a visit at the Hermitage, taking with him twoladies with whom his relations were less than equivocal, and for whomamong other things he had given Rousseau music to copy. "They werecurious to see the eccentric man," as M. d'Epinay afterwards told hisscandalised wife, for it was in the manners of the day on no account toparade even the most notorious of these unblessed connections. "He waswalking in front of the door; he saw me first; he advanced cap in hand;he saw the ladies; he saluted us, put on his cap, turned his back, andstalked off as fast as he could. Can anything be more mad?"[266] In themiserable and intricate tangle of falsity, weakness, sensuality, andquarrel, which make up this chapter in Rousseau's life, we are glad ofeven one trait of masculine robustness. We should perhaps be still moreglad if the unwedded Theresa were not visible in the background of thisscene of high morals.II.The New Heloisa was not to be completed without a further extension ofmorbid experience of a still more burning kind than the sufferings ofcompressed passion. The feverish torment of mere visions of the airswarming impalpable in all his veins, was replaced when the earth againbegan to live and the sap to stir in plants, by the more concentred fireof a consuming passion for one who was no dryad nor figure of a dream.In the spring of 1757 he received a visit from Madame d'Houdetot, thesister-in-law of Madame d'Epinay.[267] Her husband had gone to the war(we are in the year of Rossbach), and so had her lover, Saint Lambert,whose passion had been so fatal to Voltaire's Marquise du Chatelet eightyears before. She rode over in man's guise to the Hermitage from a housenot very far off, where she was to pass her retreat during the absenceof her two natural protectors. Rousseau had seen her before on variousoccasions; she had been to the Hermitage the previous year, and hadpartaken of its host's homely fare.[268] But the time was not ripe; theforce of a temptation is not from without but within. Much, too,depended with our hermit on the temperature; one who would have been avery ordinary mortal to him in cold and rain, might grow to Aphroditeherself in days when the sun shone hot and the air was aromatic. Hisfancy was suddenly struck with the romantic guise of the femalecavalier, and this was the first onset of a veritable intoxication,which many men have felt, but which no man before or since ever invitedthe world to hear the story of. He may truly say that after the firstinterview with her in this disastrous spring, he was as one who hadthirstily drained a poisoned bowl. A sort of palsy struck him. He layweeping in his bed at night, and on days when he did not see thesorceress he wept in the woods.[269] He talked to himself for hours, andwas of a black humour to his house-mates. When approaching the object ofthis deadly fascination, his whole organisation seemed to be dissolved.He walked in a dream that filled him with a sense of sickly torture,commixed with sicklier delight.People speak with precisely marked division of mind and body, of will,emotion, understanding; the division is good in logic, but itsconvenient lines are lost to us as we watch a being with soul allblurred, body all shaken, unstrung, poisoned, by erotic mania, rising inslow clouds of mephitic steam from suddenly heated stagnancies of theblood, and turning the reality of conduct and duty into distantunmeaning shadows. If such a disease were the furious mood of the brutein spring-time, it would be less dreadful, but shame and remorse in theever-struggling reason of man or woman in the grip of the foul thing,produces an aggravation of frenzy that makes the mental healer tremble.Add to all this lurking elements of hollow rage that his passion was notreturned; of stealthy jealousy of the younger man whose place he couldnot take, and who was his friend besides; of suspicion that he was alittle despised for his weakness by the very object of it, who saw thathis hairs were sprinkled with gray,--and the whole offers a scene ofmoral humiliation that half sickens, half appals, and we turn away withdismay as from a vision of the horrid loves of heavy-eyed and scalyshapes that haunted the warm primeval ooze.Madame d'Houdetot, the unwilling enchantress bearing in an unconscioushand the cup of defilement, was not strikingly singular either inphysical or mental attraction. She was now seven-and-twenty. Small-pox,the terrible plague of the country, had pitted her face and given ayellowish tinge to her complexion; her features were clumsy and her browlow; she was short-sighted, and in old age at any rate was afflicted byan excessive squint. This homeliness was redeemed by a gentle andcaressing expression, and by a sincerity, a gaiety of heart, and freesprightliness of manner, that no trouble could restrain. Her figure wasvery slight, and there was in all her movements at once awkwardness andgrace. She was natural and simple, and had a fairly good judgment of amodest kind, in spite of the wild sallies in which her spirits sometimesfound vent. Capable of chagrin, she was never prevented by it fromyielding to any impulse of mirth. "She weeps with the best faith in theworld, and breaks out laughing at the same moment; never was anybody sohappily born," says her much less amiable sister-in-law.[270] Herhusband was indifferent to her. He preserved an attachment to a ladywhom he knew before his marriage, whose society he never ceased tofrequent, and who finally died in his arms in 1793. Madame d'Houdetotfound consolation in the friendship of Saint Lambert. "We both of us,"said her husband, "both Madame d'Houdetot and I, had a vocation forfidelity, only there was a mis-arrangement." She occasionally composedverses of more than ordinary point, but she had good sense enough not towrite them down, nor to set up on the strength of them for poetess andwit.[271] Her talk in her later years, and she lived down to the year ofLeipsic, preserved the pointed sententiousness of earlier time. One day,for instance, in the era of the Directory, a conversation was going onas to the various merits and defects of women; she heard much, and thenwith her accustomed suavity of voice contributed this lightsummary:--"Without women, the life of man would be without aid at thebeginning, without pleasure in the middle, and without solace at theend."[272]We may be sure that it was not her power of saying things of this sortthat kindled Rousseau's flame, but rather the sprightly naturalness,frankness, and kindly softness of a character which in his opinionunited every virtue except prudence and strength, the two which Rousseauwould be least likely to miss. The bond of union between them wassubtle. She found in Rousseau a sympathetic listener while she told thestory of her passion for Saint Lambert, and a certain contagious forceproduced in him a thrill which he never felt with any one else before orafter. Thus, as he says, there was equally love on both sides, though itwas not reciprocal. "We were both of us intoxicated with passion, shefor her lover, I for her; our sighs and sweet tears mingled. Tenderconfidants, each of the other, our sentiments were of such close kinthat it was impossible for them not to mix; and still she never forgother duty for a moment, while for myself, I protest, I swear, that ifsometimes drawn astray by my senses, still"--still he was a paragon ofvirtue, subject to rather new definition. We can appreciate the authorof the New Heloisa; we can appreciate the author of Emilius; but thisstrained attempt to confound those two very different persons bycombining tearful erotics with high ethics, is an exhibition ofself-delusion that the most patient analyst of human nature might wellfind hard to suffer. "The duty of privation exalted my soul. The gloryof all the virtues adorned the idol of my heart in my sight; to soil itsdivine image would have been to annihilate it," and so forth.[273]Moon-lighted landscape gave a background for the sentimentalist'spicture, and dim groves, murmuring cascades, and the soft rustle of thenight air, made up a scene which became for its chief actor "an immortalmemory of innocence and delight." "It was in this grove, seated with heron a grassy bank, under an acacia heavy with flowers, that I foundexpression for the emotions of my heart in words that were worthy ofthem. 'Twas the first and single time of my life; but I was sublime, ifyou can use the word of all the tender and seductive things that themost glowing love can bring into the heart of a man. What intoxicatingtears I shed at her knees, what floods she shed in spite of herself! Atlength in an involuntary transport, she cried out, 'Never was man sotender, never did man love as you do! But your friend Saint Lamberthears us, and my heart cannot love twice.'"[274] Happily, as we learnfrom another source, a breath of wholesome life from without brought thetranscendental to grotesque end. In the climax of tears andprotestations, an honest waggoner at the other side of the park wall,urging on a lagging beast launched a round and far-sounding oath outinto the silent night. Madame d'Houdetot answered with a livelycontinuous peal of young laughter, while an angry chill brought back thediscomfited lover from an ecstasy that was very full of peril.[275]Rousseau wrote in the New Heloisa very sagely that you should grant tothe senses nothing when you mean to refuse them anything. He admits thatthe saying was falsified by his relations with Madame d'Houdetot.Clearly the credit of this happy falsification was due to her ratherthan to himself. What her feelings were, it is not very easy to see.Honest pity seems to have been the strongest of them. She was idle andunoccupied, and idleness leaves the soul open for much stray generosityof emotion, even towards an importunate lover. She thought him mad, andshe wrote to Saint Lambert to say so. "His madness must be very strong,"said Saint Lambert, "since she can perceive it."[276]Character is ceaselessly marching, even when we seem to have sunk into afixed and stagnant mood. The man is awakened from his dream of passionby inexorable event; he finds the house of the soul not swept andgarnished for a new life, but possessed by demons who have enteredunseen. In short, such profound disorder of spirit, though in its firststage marked by ravishing delirium, never escapes a bitter sequel. Whena man lets his soul be swept away from the narrow track of conductappointed by his relations with others, still the reality of suchrelations survives. He may retreat to rural lodges; that will not savehim either from his own passion, or from some degree of that kinshipwith others which instantly creates right and wrong like a wall of brassaround him. Let it be observed that the natures of finest stuff suffermost from these forced reactions, and it was just because Rousseau hadinnate moral sensitiveness, and a man like Diderot was without it, thatthe first felt his fall so profoundly, while the second was unconsciousof having fallen at all.One day in July Rousseau went to pay his accustomed visit. He foundMadame d'Houdetot dejected, and with the flush of recent weeping on hercheeks. A bird of the air had carried the matter. As usual, the matterwas carried wrongly, and apparently all that Saint Lambert suspected wasthat Rousseau's high principles had persuaded Madame d'Houdetot of theviciousness of her relations with her lover.[277] "They have played usan evil turn," cried Madame d'Houdetot; "they have been unjust to me,but that is no matter. Either let us break off at once, or be what youought to be."[278] This was Rousseau's first taste of the ashes ofshame into which the lusciousness of such forbidden fruit, plucked atthe expense of others, is ever apt to be transformed. Mortification ofthe considerable spiritual pride that was yet alive after this lapse,was a strong element in the sum of his emotion, and it was pointed bythe reflection which stung him so incessantly, that his monitress wasyounger than himself. He could never master his own contempt for thegallantry of grizzled locks.[279] His austerer self might at any ratehave been consoled by knowing that this scene was the beginning of theend, though the end came without any seeking on his part and withoutviolence. To his amazement, one day Saint Lambert and Madame d'Houdetotcame to the Hermitage, asking him to give them dinner, and much to thecredit of human nature's elasticity, the three passed a delightfulafternoon. The wronged lover was friendly, though a little stiff, and hepassed occasional slights which Rousseau would surely not have forgiven,if he had not been disarmed by consciousness of guilt. He fell asleep,as we can well imagine that he might do, while Rousseau read aloud hisvery inadequate justification of Providence against Voltaire.[280]In time he returned to the army, and Rousseau began to cure himself ofhis mad passion. His method, however, was not unsuspicious, for itinvolved the perilous assistance of Madame d'Houdetot. Fortunately herloyalty and good sense forced a more resolute mode upon him. He found,or thought he found her distracted, emharrassed, indifferent. In despairat not being allowed to heal his passionate malady in his own fashion,he did the most singular thing that he could have done under thecircumstances. He wrote to Saint Lambert.[281] His letter is a prodigyof plausible duplicity, though Rousseau in some of his mental states hadso little sense of the difference between the actual and the imaginary,and was moreover so swiftly borne away on a flood of fine phrases, thatit is hard to decide how far this was voluntary, and how far he was hisown dupe. Voluntary or not, it is detestable. We pass the false whineabout "being abandoned by all that was dear to him," as if he had notdeliberately quitted Paris against the remonstrance of every friend hehad; about his being "solitary and sad," as if he was not ready at thisvery time to curse any one who intruded on his solitude, and hinderedhim of a single half-hour in the desert spots that he adored.Remembering the scenes in moon-lighted groves and elsewhere, we readthis:--"Whence comes her coldness to me? Is it possible that you canhave suspected me of wronging you with her, and of turning perfidious inconsequence of an unseasonably rigorous virtue? A passage in one of yourletters shows a glimpse of some such suspicion. No, no, Saint Lambert,the breast of J.J. Rousseau never held the heart of a traitor, and Ishould despise myself more than you suppose, if I had ever tried to robyou of her heart.... Can you suspect that her friendship for me may hurther love for you? Surely natures endowed with sensibility are open toall sorts of affections, and no sentiment can spring up in them whichdoes not turn to the advantage of the dominant passion. Where is thelover who does not wax the more tender as he talks to his friend of herwhom he loves? And is it not sweeter for you in your banishment thatthere should be some sympathetic creature to whom your mistress loves totalk of you, and who loves to hear?"Let us turn to another side of his correspondence. The way in which thesympathetic creature in the present case loved to hear his friend'smistress talk of him, is interestingly shown in one or two passages froma letter to her; as when he cries, "Ah, how proud would even thy loverhimself be of thy constancy, if he only knew how much it hassurmounted.... I appeal to your sincerity. You, the witness and thecause of this delirium, these tears, these ravishing ecstasies, thesetransports which were never made for mortal, say, have I ever tastedyour favours in such a way that I deserve to lose them?... Never oncedid my ardent desires nor my tender supplications dare to solicitsupreme happiness, without my feeling stopped by the inner cries of asorrow-stricken soul.... O Sophie, after moments so sweet, the idea ofeternal privation is too frightful for one who groans that he cannotidentify himself with thee. What, are thy tender eyes never again to belowered with a delicious modesty, intoxicating me with pleasure? What,are my burning lips never again to lay my very soul on thy heart alongwith my kisses? What, may I never more feel that heavenly shudder, thatrapid and devouring fire, swifter than lightning?"[282].... We see asympathetic creature assuredly, and listen to the voice of a natureendowed with sensibility even more than enough, but with decency,loyalty, above all with self-knowledge, far less than enough.One more touch completes the picture of the fallen desperate man. Hetakes great trouble to persuade Saint Lambert that though the rigour ofhis principles constrains him to frown upon such breaches of social lawas the relations between Madame d'Houdetot and her lover, yet he is soattached to the sinful pair that he half forgives them. "Do notsuppose," he says, with superlative gravity, "that you have seduced meby your reasons; I see in them the goodness of your heart, not yourjustification. I cannot help blaming your connection: you can hardlyapprove it yourself; and so long as you both of you continue dear to me,I will never leave you in careless security as to the innocence of yourstate. Yet love such as yours deserves considerateness.... I feelrespect for a union so tender, and cannot bring myself to attempt tolead it to virtue along the path of despair" (p. 401).Ignorance of the facts of the case hindered Saint Lambert fromappreciating the strange irony of a man protesting about leading tovirtue along the path of despair a poor woman whom he had done as muchas he could to lead to vice along the path of highly stimulated sense.Saint Lambert was as much a sentimentalist as Rousseau was, but he had acertain manliness, acquired by long contact with men, which hiscorrespondent only felt in moods of severe exaltation. Saint Lamberttook all the blame on himself. He had desired that his mistress and hisfriend should love one another; then he thought he saw some coolness inhis mistress, and he set the change down to his friend, though not onthe true grounds. "Do not suppose that I thought you perfidious or atraitor; I knew the austerity of your principles; people had spoken tome of it; and she herself did so with a respect that love found hard tobear." In short, he had suspected Rousseau of nothing worse than beingover-virtuous, and trying in the interest of virtue to break off aconnection sanctioned by contemporary manners, but not by law orreligion. If Madame d'Houdetot had changed, it was not that she hadceased to honour her good friend, but only that her lover might bespared a certain chagrin, from suspecting the excess of scrupulosity andconscience in so austere an adviser.[283]It is well known how effectively one with a germ of good principle inhim is braced by being thought better than he is. With this letter inhis hands and its words in his mind, Rousseau strode off for his lastinterview with Madame d'Houdetot. Had Saint Lambert, he says, been lesswise, less generous, less worthy, I should have been a lost man. As itwas, he passed four or five hours with her in a delicious calm,infinitely more delightful than the accesses of burning fever which hadseized him before. They formed the project of a close companionship ofthree, including the absent lover; and they counted on the projectcoming more true than such designs usually do, "since all the feelingsthat can unite sensitive and upright hearts formed the foundation of it,and we three united talents enough as well as knowledge enough tosuffice to ourselves, without need of aid or supplement from others."What happened was this. Madame d'Houdetot for the next three or fourmonths, which were among the most bitter in Rousseau's life, for thenthe bitterness which became chronic was new and therefore harder to beborne, wrote him the wisest, most affectionate, and most considerateletters that a sincere and sensible woman ever wrote to the mostpetulant, suspicious, perverse, and irrestrainable of men. For patienceand exquisite sweetness of friendship some of these letters arematchless, and we can only conjecture the wearing querulousness of theletters to which they were replies. If through no fault of her own shehad been the occasion of the monstrous delirium of which he never shookoff the consequences, at least this good soul did all that wise counseland grave tenderness could do, to bring him out of the black slough ofsuspicion and despair into which he was plunged.[284] In the beginningof 1758 there was a change. Rousseau's passion for her somehow becameknown to all the world; it reached the ears of Saint Lambert, and wasthe cause of a passing disturbance between him and his mistress. SaintLambert throughout acted like a man who is thoroughly master of himself.At first, we learn, he ceased for a moment to see in Rousseau the virtuewhich he sought in him, and which he was persuaded that he found in him."Since then, however," wrote Madame d'Houdetot, "he pities you more foryour weakness than he reproaches you, and we are both of us far fromjoining the people who wish to blacken your character; we have andalways shall have the courage to speak of you with esteem."[285] Theysaw one another a few times, and on one occasion the Count and Countessd'Houdetot, Saint Lambert, and Rousseau all sat at table together,happily without breach of the peace.[286] One curious thing about thismeeting was that it took place some three weeks after Rousseau and SaintLambert had interchanged letters on the subject of the quarrel withDiderot, in which each promised the other contemptuous oblivion.[287]Perpetuity of hate is as hard as perpetuity of love for our poorshort-spanned characters, and at length the three who were once to havelived together in self-sufficing union, and then in their next mood tohave forgotten one another instantly and for ever, held to neither ofthe extremes, but settled down into an easier middle path of indifferentgood-will. The conduct of all three, said the most famous of them, mayserve for an example of the way in which sensible people separate, whenit no longer suits them to see one another.[288] It is at least certainthat in them Rousseau lost two of the most unimpeachably good friendsthat he ever possessed.III.The egoistic character that loves to brood and hates to act, is big withcatastrophe. We have now to see how the inevitable law accomplisheditself in the case of Rousseau. In many this brooding egoism produces asilent and melancholy insanity; with him it was developed into somethingof acridly corrosive quality. One of the agents in this disastrousprocess was the wearing torture of one of the most painful of disorders.This disorder, arising from an internal malformation, harassed him fromhis infancy to the day of his death. Our fatuous persistency in reducingman to the spiritual, blinds the biographer to the circumstance that thehistory of a life is the history of a body no less than that of a soul.Many a piece of conduct that divides the world into two factions ofmoral assailants and moral vindicators, provoking a thousand ingenuitiesof ethical or psychological analysis, ought really to have been nothingmore than an item in a page of a pathologist's case-book. We are not tosuspend our judgment on action; right and wrong can depend on no man'smalformations. In trying to know the actor, it is otherwise; here it isfolly to underestimate the physical antecedents of mental phenomena. Infirm and lofty character, pain is mastered; in a character so littleendowed with cool tenacious strength as Rousseau's, pain such as heendured was enough to account, not for his unsociality, which flowedfrom temperament, but for the bitter, irritable, and suspicious formwhich this unsociality now first assumed. Rousseau was never a saintlynature, but far the reverse, and in reading the tedious tale of hisquarrels with Grimm and Madame d'Epinay and Diderot--a tale oflabyrinthine nightmares--let us remember that we may even to this pointexplain what happened, without recourse to the too facile theory ofinsanity, unless one defines that misused term so widely as to make manysane people very uncomfortable.His own account was this: "In my quality of solitary, I am moresensitive than another; if I am wrong with a friend who lives in theworld, he thinks of it for a moment, and then a thousand distractionsmake him forget it for the rest of the day; but there is nothing todistract me as to his wrong towards me; deprived of my sleep, I busymyself with him all night long; solitary in my walks, I busy myself withhim from sunrise until sunset; my heart has not an instant's relief, andthe harshness of a friend gives me in one day years of anguish. In myquality of invalid, I have a title to the considerateness that humanityowes to the weakness or irritation of a man in agony. Who is the friend,who is the good man, that ought not to dread to add affliction to anunfortunate wretch tormented with a painful and incurable malady?"[289]We need not accept this as an adequate extenuation of perversities, butit explains them without recourse to the theory of uncontrollableinsanity. Insanity came later, the product of intellectual excitation,public persecution, and moral reaction after prolonged tension.Meanwhile he may well be judged by the standards of the sane; knowinghis temperament, his previous history, his circumstances, we have nodifficulty in accounting for his conduct. Least of all is there any needfor laying all the blame upon his friends. There are writers whomenthusiasm for the principles of Jean Jacques has driven into fanaticaldenigration of every one whom he called his enemy, that is to say,nearly every one whom he ever knew.[290] Diderot said well, "Too manyhonest people would be wrong, if Jean Jacques were right."The first downright breach was with Grimm, but there were angry passagesduring the year 1757, not only with him, but with Diderot and Madamed'Epinay as well. Diderot, like many other men of energetic natureunchastened by worldly wisdom, was too interested in everything thatattracted his attention to keep silence over the indiscretion of afriend. He threw as much tenacity and zeal into a trifle, if it had oncestruck him, as he did into the Encyclopaedia. We have already seen howwarmly he rated Jean Jacques for missing the court pension. Then hescolded and laughed at him for turning hermit. With still moreseriousness he remonstrated with him for remaining in the countrythrough the winter, thus endangering the life of Theresa's aged mother.This stirred up hot anger in the Hermitage, and two or three bitterletters were interchanged,[291] those of Diderot being pronounced by aperson who was no partisan of Rousseau decidedly too harsh.[292] Yetthere is copious warmth of friendship in these very letters, if only theman to whom they were written had not hated interference in his affairsas the worst of injuries. "I loved Diderot tenderly, I esteemed himsincerely," says Rousseau, "and I counted with entire confidence uponthe same sentiments in him. But worn out by his unwearied obstinacy ineverlastingly thwarting my tastes, my inclinations, my ways of living,everything that concerned myself only; revolted at seeing a younger manthan myself insist with all his might on governing me like a child;chilled by his readiness in giving his promise and his negligence inkeeping it; tired of so many appointments which he made and broke, andof his fancy for repairing them by new ones to be broken in their turn;provoked at waiting for him to no purpose three or four times a month ondays which he had fixed, and of dining alone in the evening, after goingon as far as St. Denis to meet him and waiting for him all day,--I hadmy heart already full of a multitude of grievances."[293] Thisirritation subsided in presence of the storms that now rose up againstDiderot. He was in the thick of the dangerous and mortifyingdistractions stirred up by the foes of the Encyclopaedia. Rousseau infriendly sympathy went to see him; they embraced, and old wrongs wereforgotten until new arose.[294]There is a less rose-coloured account than this. Madame d'Epinay assignstwo motives to Rousseau: a desire to find an excuse for going to Paris,in order to avoid seeing Saint Lambert; secondly, a wish to hearDiderot's opinion of the two first parts of the New Heloisa. She saysthat he wanted to borrow a portfolio in which to carry the manuscriptsto Paris; Rousseau says that they had already been in Diderot'spossession for six months.[295] As her letters containing this verycircumstantial story were written at the moment, it is difficult touphold the Confessions as valid authority against them. Thirdly,Rousseau told her that he had not taken his manuscripts to Paris (p.302), whereas Grimm writing a few days later (p. 309) mentions that hehas received a letter from Diderot, to the effect that Rousseau's visithad no other object than the revision of these manuscripts. The scene ischaracteristic. "Rousseau kept him pitilessly at work from Saturday atten o'clock in the morning till eleven at night on Monday, hardly givinghim time to eat and drink. The revision at an end, Diderot chats withhim about a plan he has in his head, and begs Rousseau to help him incontriving some incident which he cannot yet arrange to his taste. 'Itis too difficult,' replies the hermit coldly, 'it is late, and I am notused to sitting up. Good night; I am off at six in the morning, and 'tistime for bed.' He rises from his chair, goes to bed, and leaves Diderotpetrified at his behaviour. The day of his departure, Diderot's wife sawthat her husband was in bad spirits, and asked the reason. 'It is thatman's want of delicacy,' he replied, 'which afflicts me; he makes mework like a slave, but I should never have found that out, if he had notso drily refused to take an interest in me for a quarter of an hour.''You are surprised at that,' his wife answered; 'do you not know him? Heis devoured with envy; he goes wild with rage when anything fine appearsthat is not his own. You will see him one day commit some great crimerather than let himself be ignored. I declare I would not swear that hewill not join the ranks of the Jesuits, and undertake theirvindication.'"Of course we cannot be sure that Grimm did not manipulate these letterslong after the event, but there is nothing in Rousseau's history to makeus perfectly sure that he was incapable either of telling a falsehood toMadame d'Epinay, or of being shamelessly selfish in respect of Diderot.I see no reason to refuse substantial credit to Grimm's account, and thepoints of coincidence between that and the Confessions make its truthprobable.[296]Rousseau's relations with Madame d'Epinay were more complex, and hissentiments towards her underwent many changes. There was a prevalentopinion that he was her lover, for which no real foundation seems tohave existed.[297] Those who disbelieved that he had reached thisdistinction, yet made sure that he had a passion for her, which may ormay not have been true.[298] Madame d'Epinay herself was vain enough tobe willing that this should be generally accepted, and it is certainthat she showed a friendship for him which, considering the manners ofthe time, was invitingly open to misconception. Again, she was jealousof her sister-in-law, Madame d'Houdetot, if for no other reason thanthat the latter, being the wife of a Norman noble, had access to thecourt, and this was unattainable by the wife of a farmer-general. HenceMadame d'Epinay's barely-concealed mortification when she heard of themeetings in the forest, the private suppers, the moonlight rambles inthe park. When Saint Lambert first became uneasy as to the relationsbetween Rousseau and his mistress, and wrote to her to say that he wasso, Rousseau instantly suspected that Madame d'Epinay had been hisinformant. Theresa confirmed the suspicion by tales of baskets anddrawers ransacked by Madame d'Epinay in search of Madame d'Houdetot'sletters to him. Whether these tales were true or not, we can never know;we can only say that Madame d'Epinay was probably not incapable of thesemeannesses, and that there is no reason to suppose that she took thepains to write directly to Saint Lambert a piece of news which she waswriting to Grimm, knowing that he was then in communication with SaintLambert. She herself suspected that Theresa had written to SaintLambert,[299] but it may be doubted whether Theresa's imagination couldhave risen to such feat as writing to a marquis, and a marquis in whatwould have seemed to her to be remote and inaccessible parts of theearth. All this, however, has become ghostly for us; a puzzle that cannever be found out, nor be worth finding out. Rousseau was persuadedthat Madame d'Epinay was his betrayer, and was seized by one of hisblackest and most stormful moods. In reply to an affectionate letterfrom her, inquiring why she had not seen him for so long, he wrote thus:"I can say nothing to you yet. I wait until I am better informed, andthis I shall be sooner or later. Meanwhile, be certain that accusedinnocence will find a champion ardent enough to make calumniatorsrepent, whoever they may be." It is rather curious that so strange amissive as this, instead of provoking Madame d'Epinay to anger, wasanswered by a warmer and more affectionate letter than the first. Tothis Rousseau replied with increased vehemence, charged with dark andmysteriously worded suspicion. Still Madame d'Epinay remained willing toreceive him. He began to repent of his imprudent haste, because it wouldcertainly end by compromising Madame d'Houdetot, and because, moreover,he had no proof after all that his suspicions had any foundation. Hewent instantly to the house of Madame d'Epinay; at his approach shethrew herself on his neck and melted into tears. This unexpectedreception from so old a friend moved him extremely; he too weptabundantly. She showed no curiosity as to the precise nature of hissuspicions or their origin, and the quarrel came to an end.[300]Grimm's turn followed. Though they had been friends for many years,there had long been a certain stiffness in their friendship. Theircharacters were in fact profoundly antipathetic. Rousseau weknow,--sensuous, impulsive, extravagant, with little sense of thedifference between reality and dreams. Grimm was exactly the opposite;judicious, collected, self-seeking, coldly upright. He was a German(born at Ratisbon), and in Paris was first a reader to the Duke of SaxeGotha, with very scanty salary. He made his way, partly through thefriendship of Rousseau, into the society of the Parisian men of letters,rapidly acquired a perfect mastery of the French language, and with theinspiring help of Diderot, became an excellent critic. After beingsecretary to sundry high people, he became the literary correspondent ofvarious German sovereigns, keeping them informed of what was happeningin the world of art and letters, just as an ambassador keeps hisgovernment informed of what happens in politics. The sobriety,impartiality, and discrimination of his criticism make one think highlyof his literary judgment; he had the courage, or shall we say hepreserved enough of the German, to defend both Homer and Shakespeareagainst the unhappy strictures of Voltaire.[301] This is not all,however; his criticism is conceived in a tone which impresses us withthe writer's integrity. And to this internal evidence we have to add theexternal corroboration that in the latter part of his life he filledvarious official posts, which implied a peculiar confidence in hisprobity on the part of those who appointed him. At the present moment(1756-57), he was acting as secretary to Marshal d'Estrees, commander ofthe French army in Westphalia at the outset of the Seven Years' War. Hewas an able and helpful man, in spite of his having a rough manner,powdering his face, and being so monstrously scented as to earn the nameof the musk-bear. He had that firmness and positivity which are notalways beautiful, but of which there is probably too little rather thantoo much in the world, certainly in the France of his time, and of whichthere was none at all in Rousseau. Above all things he hateddeclamation. Apparently cold and reserved, he had sensibility enoughunderneath the surface to go nearly out of his mind for love of a singerat the opera who had a thrilling voice. As he did not believe in themetaphysical doctrine about the freedom of the will, he accepted fromtemperament the necessity which logic confirmed, of guiding the will byconstant pressure from without. "I am surprised," Madame d'Epinay saidto him, "that men should be so little indulgent to one another." "Nay,the want of indulgence comes of our belief in freedom; it is because theestablished morality is false and bad, inasmuch as it starts from thisfalse principle of liberty." "Ah, but the contrary principle, by makingone too indulgent, disturbs order." "It does nothing of the kind. Thoughman does not wholly change, he is susceptible of modification; you canimprove him; hence it is not useless to punish him. The gardener doesnot cut down a tree that grows crooked; he binds up the branch and keepsit in shape; that is the effect of public punishment."[302] He appliedthe same doctrine, as we shall see, to private punishment for socialcrookedness.It is easy to conceive how Rousseau's way of ordering himself wouldgradually estrange so hard a head as this. What the one thought aweighty moral reformation, struck the other as a vain desire to attractattention. Rousseau on the other hand suspected Grimm of intriguing toremove Theresa from him, as well as doing his best to alienate all hisfriends. The attempted alienation of Theresa consisted in the secretallowance to her mother and her by Grimm and Diderot of some sixteenpounds a year.[303] Rousseau was unaware of this, but the whisperingsand goings and comings to which it gave rise, made him darkly uneasy.That the suspicions in other respects were in a certain sense not whollyunfounded, is shown by Grimm's own letters to Madame d'Epinay. Hedisapproved of her installing Rousseau in the Hermitage, and warned herin a very remarkable prophecy that solitude would darken hisimagination.[304] "He is a poor devil who torments himself, and does notdare to confess the true subject of all his sufferings, which is in hiscursed head and his pride; he raises up imaginary matters, so as to havethe pleasure of complaining of the whole human race."[305] More thanonce he assures her that Rousseau will end by going mad, it beingimpossible that so hot and ill-organised a head should enduresolitude.[306] Rousseauite partisans usually explain all this bysupposing that Grimm was eager to set a woman for whom he had a passion,against a man who was suspected of having a passion for her; and it ispossible that jealousy may have stimulated the exercise of his naturalshrewdness. But this shrewdness, added to entire want of imagination anda very narrow range of sympathy, was quite enough to account for Grimm'sharsh judgment, without the addition of any sinister sentiment. He wasperfectly right in suspecting Rousseau of want of loyalty to Madamed'Epinay, for we find our hermit writing to her in strains of perfectintimacy, while he was writing of her to Madame d'Houdetot as "yourunworthy sister."[307] On the other hand, while Madame d'Epinay wasoverwhelming him with caressing phrases, she was at the same momentdescribing him to Grimm as a master of impertinence and intractableness.As usual where there is radical incompatibility of character, anattempted reconciliation between Grimm and Rousseau (some time in theearly part of October 1757) had only made the thinly veiled antipathymore resolute. Rousseau excused himself for wrongs of which in his hearthe never thought himself guilty. Grimm replied by a discourse on thevirtues of friendship and his own special aptitude for practising them.He then conceded to the impetuous penitent the kiss of peace, in aslight embrace which was like the accolade given by a monarch to newknights.[308] The whole scene is ignoble. We seem to be watching anunclean cauldron, with Theresa's mother, a cringing and babbling crone,standing witch-like over it and infusing suspicion, falsehood, andmalice. When minds are thus surcharged, any accident suffices torelease the evil creatures that lurk in an irritated imagination.One day towards the end of the autumn of 1757, Rousseau learned to hisunbounded surprise that Madame d'Epinay had been seized with somestrange disorder, which made it advisable that she should start withoutany delay for Geneva, there to place herself under the care of Tronchin,who was at that time the most famous doctor in Europe. His surprise wasgreatly increased by the expectation which he found among his friendsthat he would show his gratitude for her many kindnesses to him, byoffering to bear her company on her journey, and during her stay in atown which was strange to her and thoroughly familiar to him. It was tono purpose that he protested how unfit was one invalid to be the nurseof another; and how great an incumbrance a man would be in a coach inthe bad season, when for many days he was absolutely unable to leave hischamber without danger. Diderot, with his usual eagerness to guide afriend's course, wrote him a letter urging that his many obligations,and even his grievances in respect of Madame d'Epinay, bound him toaccompany her, as he would thus repay the one and console himself forthe other. "She is going into a country where she will be like onefallen from the clouds. She is ill; she will need amusement anddistraction. As for winter, are you worse now than you were a monthback, or than you will be at the opening of the spring? For me, Iconfess that if I could not bear the coach, I would take a staff andfollow her on foot."[309] Rousseau trembled with fury, and as soon asthe transport was over, he wrote an indignant reply, in which he more orless politely bade the panurgic one to attend to his own affairs, andhinted that Grimm was making a tool of him. Next he wrote to Grimmhimself a letter, not unfriendly in form, asking his advice andpromising to follow it, but hardly hiding his resentment. By this timehe had found out the secret of Madame d'Epinay's supposed illness andher anxiety to pass some months away from her family, and the sharewhich Grimm had in it. This, however, does not make many passages of hisletter any the less ungracious or unseemly. "If Madame d'Epinay hasshown friend' ship to me, I have shown more to her.... As for benefits,first of all I do not like them, I do not want them, and I owe no thanksfor any that people may burden me with by force. Madame d'Epinay, beingso often left alone in the country, wished me for company; it was forthat she had kept me. After making one sacrifice to friendship, I mustnow make another to gratitude. A man must be poor, must be without aservant, must be a hater of constraint, and he must have my character,before he can know what it is for me to live in another person's house.For all that, I lived two years in hers, constantly brought into bondagewith the finest harangues about liberty, served by twenty domestics, andcleaning my own shoes every morning, overloaded with gloomy indigestion,and incessantly sighing for my homely porringer.... Consider how muchmoney an hour of the life and the time of a man is worth; compare thekindnesses of Madame d'Epinay with the sacrifice of my native countryand two years of serfdom; and then tell me whether the obligation isgreater on her side or mine." He then urges with a torrent of impetuouseloquence the thoroughly sound reasons why it was unfair and absurd forhim, a beggar and an invalid, to make the journey with Madame d'Epinay,rich and surrounded by attendants. He is particularly splenetic that thephilosopher Diderot, sitting in his own room before a good fire andwrapped in a well-lined dressing-gown, should insist on his doing hisfive and twenty leagues a day on foot, through the mud in winter.[310]The whole letter shows, as so many incidents in his later life showed,how difficult it was to do Rousseau a kindness with impunity, and howlittle such friends as Madame d'Epinay possessed the art of soothingthis unfortunate nature. They fretted him by not leaving himsufficiently free to follow his own changing moods, while he in turnlost all self-control, and yielded in hours of bodily torment to angryand resentful fancies. But let us hasten to an end. Grimm replied to hiseloquent manifesto somewhat drily, to the effect that he would think thematter over, and that meanwhile Rousseau had best keep quiet in hishermitage. Rousseau burning with excitement at once conceived a thousandsuspicions, wholly unable to understand that a cold and reserved Germanmight choose to deliberate at length, and finally give an answer withbrevity. "After centuries of expectation in the cruel uncertainty inwhich this barbarous man had plunged me"--that is after eight or tendays, the answer came, apparently not without a second directapplication for one.[311] It was short and extremely pointed, notcomplaining that Rousseau had refused to accompany Madame d'Epinay butprotesting against the horrible tone of the apology which he had sent tohim for not accompanying her. "It has made me quiver with indignation;so odious are the principles it contains, so full is it of blackness andduplicity. You venture to talk to me of your slavery, to me who for morethan two years have been the daily witness of all the marks of thetenderest and most generous friendship that you have received at thehands of that woman. If I could pardon you, I should think myselfunworthy of having a single friend. I will never see you again while Ilive, and I shall think myself happy if I can banish the recollection ofyour conduct from my mind."[312] A flash of manly anger like this isvery welcome to us, who have to thread a tedious way between morbidegoistic irritation on the one hand, and sly pieces of equivocalcomplaisance on the other. The effect on Rousseau was terrific. In aparoxysm he sent Grimm's letter back to him, with three or four lines inthe same key. He wrote note after note to Madame d'Houdetot, inshrieks. "Have I a single friend left, man or woman? One word, only oneword, and I can live." A day or two later: "Think of the state I am in.I can bear to be abandoned by all the world, but you! You who know me sowell! Great God! am I a scoundrel? a scoundrel, I!"[313] And so on,raving. It was to no purpose that Madame d'Houdetot wrote him soothingletters, praying him to calm himself, to find something to busy himselfwith, to remain at peace with Madame d'Epinay, "who had never appearedother than the most thoughtful and warm-hearted friend to him."[314] Hewas almost ready to quarrel with Madame d'Houdetot herself because shepaid the postage of her letters, which he counted an affront to hispoverty.[315] To Madame d'Epinay he had written in the midst of histormenting uncertainty as to the answer which Grimm would make to hisletter. It was an ungainly assertion that she was playing a game oftyranny and intrigue at his cost. For the first time she replied withspirit and warmth. "Your letter is hardly that of a man who, on the eveof my departure, swore to me that he could never in his life repair thewrongs he had done me." She then tersely remarks that it is not naturalto pass one's life in suspecting and insulting one's friends, and thathe abuses her patience. To this he answered with still greater tersenessthat friendship was extinct between them, and that he meant to leave theHermitage, but as his friends desired him to remain there until thespring he would with her permission follow their counsel. Then she, witha final thrust of impatience, in which we perhaps see the hand of Grimm:"Since you meant to leave the Hermitage, and felt you ought to do so, Iam astonished that your friends could detain you. For me, I don'tconsult mine as to my duties, and I have nothing more to say to you asto yours." This was the end. Rousseau returned for a moment from ignoblepetulance to dignity and self-respect. He wrote to her that if it is amisfortune to make a mistake in the choice of friends, it is one notless cruel to awake from so sweet an error, and two days before hewrote, he left her house. He found a cottage at Montmorency, andthither, nerved with fury, through snow and ice he carried his scantyhousehold goods (Dec. 15, 1757).[316]We have a picture of him in this fatal month. Diderot went to pay him avisit (Dec. 5). Rousseau was alone at the bottom of his garden. As soonas he saw Diderot, he cried in a voice of thunder and with his eyes allaflame: "What have you come here for?" "I want to know whether you aremad or malicious." "You have known me for fifteen years; you are wellaware how little malicious I am, and I will prove to you that I am notmad: follow me." He then drew Diderot into a room, and proceeded toclear himself, by means of letters, of the charge of trying to make abreach between Saint Lambert and Madame d'Houdetot. They were in factletters that convicted him, as we know, of trying to persuade Madamed'Houdetot of the criminality of her relations with her lover, and atthe same time to accept himself in the very same relation. Of all thiswe have heard more than enough already. He was stubborn in the face ofDiderot's remonstrance, and the latter left him in a state which hedescribed in a letter to Grimm the same night. "I throw myself into yourarms, like one who has had a shock of fright: that man intrudes into mywork; he fills me with trouble, and I am as if I had a damned soul at myside. May I never see him again; he would make me believe in devils andhell."[317] And thus the unhappy man who had began this episode in hislife with confident ecstasy in the glories and clear music of spring,ended it looking out from a narrow chamber upon the sullen crimson ofthe wintry twilight and over fields silent in snow, with the haggarddesperate gaze of a lost spirit.FOOTNOTES:[254] _Conf._, ix. 247.[255] _Conf._, ix. 230. Madame d'Epinay (_Mem._, ii. 132) has given anaccount of the installation, with a slight discrepancy of date. WhenMadame d'Epinay's son-in-law emigrated at the Revolution, theHermitage--of which nothing now stands--along with the rest of theestate became national property, and was bought after other purchasersby Robespierre, and afterwards by Gretry the composer, who paid 10,000livres for it.[256] _Conf._, ix. 255.[257] Third letter to Malesherbes, 364-368.[258] _Conf._, ix. 239.[259] _Conf._, ix. 237, 238, and 263, etc.[260] The extract from the Project for Perpetual Peace and thePolysynodia, together with Rousseau's judgments on them, are found atthe end of the volume containing the Social Contract. The first, butwithout the judgment, was printed separately without Rousseau'spermission, in 1761, by Bastide, to whom he had sold it for twelvelouis for publication in his journal only. _Conf._, xi. 107. _Corr._,ii. 110, 128.[261] P. 485.[262] For a sympathetic account of the Abbe de Saint Pierre's life andspeculations, see M. Leonce de Lavergne's _Economistes francais du18ieme siecle_ (Paris: 1870). Also Comte's _Lettres a M. Valat_, p.73.[263] _Conf._, ix. 270-274.[264] _Conf._, ix. 289.[265] _Ib._ ix. 286.[266] D'Epinay, ii. 153.[267] Madame d'Houdetot, (_b._ 1730--_d._ 1813) was the daughter of M.de Bellegarde, the father of Madame d'Epinay's husband. Her marriagewith the Count d'Houdetot, of high Norman stock, took place in 1748.The circumstances of the marriage, which help to explain the lax viewof the vows common among the great people of the time, are given withperhaps a shade too much dramatic colouring in Madame d'Epinay's_Mem._, i 101.[268] _Conf._, ix. 281.[269] D'Epinay, ii. 246.[270] D'Epinay, ii. 269.[271] Musset-Pathay has collected two or three trifles of hercomposition, ii. 136-138. Heal so quotes Madame d'Allard's account ofher, pp. 140, 141.[272] Quoted by M. Girardin, _Rev. des Deux Mondes_, Sept. 1853, p.1080.[273] _Conf._, ix. 304.[274] _Ib._ ix. 305. Slightly modified version in _Corr._, i. 377.[275] M. Boiteau's note to Madame d'Epinay, ii. 273.[276] Grimm, to Madame d'Epinay, ii. 305.[277] This is shown partly by Saint Lambert's letter to Rousseau, towhich we come presently, and partly by a letter of Madame d'Houdetotto Rousseau in May, 1758 (Streckeisen-Moultou, i. 411-413), where shedistinctly says that she concealed his mad passion for her from SaintLambert, who first heard of it in common conversation.[278] _Conf._, ix. 311.[279] Besides the many hints of reference to this in the Confessions,see the phrenetic Letters to Sarah, printed in the _Melanges_, pp.347-360.[280] _Conf._, ix. 337.[281] _Corr._, i. 398. Sept. 4, 1757.[282] To Madame d'Houdetot. _Corr._, i. 376-387. June 1757.[283] Saint Lambert to Rousseau, from Wolfenbuttel, Oct. 11, 1757.Streckeisen-Moultou, i. 415.[284] These letters are given in M. Streckeisen-Moultou's first volume(pp. 354-414). The thirty-second of them (Jan. 10, 1758) is perhapsthe one best worth turning to.[285] Streckeisen-Moultou, i. 412. May 6, 1768. _Conf._, x. 15.[286] _Ib._ x. 22.[287] _Ib._ x. 18. Streckeisen, i. 422.[288] _Conf._, x. 24.[289] To Madame d'Epinay, 1757. _Corr._, i. 362, 353. See also_Conf._, ix. 307.[290] One of the most unflinching in this kind is an _Essai sur la vieet le caractere de J.J. Rousseau_, by G.H. Morin (Paris: 1851): thelaborious production of a bitter advocate, who accepts theConfessions, Dialogues, Letters, etc., with the reverence due toverbal inspiration, and writes of everybody who offended his hero,quite in the vein of Marat towards aristocrats.[291] _Corr._, i. 327-335. D'Epinay, ii. 165-182[292] D'Epinay, ii. 173.[293] _Conf._, ix. 325.[294] _Ib._, ix. 334.[295] _Mem._, ii. 297. She also places the date many mouths later thanRousseau, and detaches the reconciliation from the quarrel in thewinter of 1756-1757.[296] The same story is referred to in Madame de Vandeul's _Mem. deDiderot, _p. 61.[297] _Conf._, ix. 245, 246.[298] Grimm to Madame d'Epinay, ii. 259, 269, 313, 326. _Conf._, x.17.[299] _Mem._, ii. 318.[300] _Conf._, ix. 322. Madame d'Epinay (_Mem._, ii. 326), writing toGrimm, gives a much colder and stiffer colour to the scene ofreconciliation, but the nature of her relations with him would accountfor this. The same circumstance, as M. Girardin has pointed out (_Rev.des Deux Mondes_, Sept. 1853), would explain the discrepancy betweenher letters as given in the Confessions, and the copies of them sentto Grimm, and printed in her Memoirs. M. Sainte Beuve, who is neverperfectly master of himself in dealing with the chiefs of therevolutionary schools, as might indeed have been expected in a writerwith his predilections for the seventeenth century, rashly hints(_Causeries_, vii. 301) that Rousseau was the falsifier. Thepublication from the autograph originals sets this at rest.[301] For Shakespeare, see _Corr. Lit._, iv. 143, etc.[302] D'Epinay, ii. 188.[303] D'Epinay, ii. 150. Also Vandeul's _Mem. de Diderot_, p. 61.[304] _Mem._ ii. 128.[305] P. 258. See also p. 146.[306] Pp. 282, 336, etc.[307] _Corr._, i. 386. June 1757.[308] _Conf._, ix. 355. For Madame d'Epinay's equally credibleversion, assigning all the stiffness and arrogance to Rousseau, see_Mem._, ii. 355-358. Saint Lambert refers to the momentaryreconciliation in his letter to Rousseau of Nov. 21 (Streckeisen, i.418), repeating what he had said before (p. 417), that Grimm alwaysspoke of Mm in amicable terms, though complaining of Rousseau'sinjustice.[309] _Conf._, ix. 372.[310] _Corr._, i. 404-416. Oct 19, 1757.[311] Grimm to Diderot, in Madame d'Epinay's _Mem._ ii. 386. Nov. 3,1757.[312] D'Epinay, ii. 387. Nov. 3.[313] _Corr._, i. 425. Nov. 8. _Ib._ 426.[314] Streckeisen-Moultou, i. 381-383.[315] _Ib._ 387. Many years after, Rousseau told Bernardin de St.Pierre (_Oeuv._, xii. 57) that one of the reasons which made him leavethe Hermitage was the indiscretion of friends who insisted on sendinghim letters by some conveyance that cost 4 francs, when it mightequally well have been sent for as many sous.[316] The sources of all this are in the following places. _Corr._, i.416. Oct. 29. Streckeisen, i. 349. Nov. 12. _Conf._, ix. 377. _Corr._,i. 427. Nov. 23. _Conf._, ix. 381. Dec. 1. _Ib._, ix. 383. Dec. 17.[317] Diderot to Grimm; D'Epinay, ii. 397. Diderot's _Oeuv._, xix.446. See also 449 and 210.CHAPTER VIII.MUSIC.Simplification has already been used by us as the key-word to Rousseau'saims and influence. The scheme of musical notation with which he came totry his fortune in Paris in 1741, his published vindication of it, andhis musical compositions afterwards all fall under this term. Each ofthem was a plea for the extrication of the simple from the cumbrousnessof elaborated pedantry, and for a return to nature from the unmeaningdevices of false art. And all tended alike in the popular direction,towards the extension of enjoyment among the common people, and theglorification of their simple lives and moods, in the art designed forthe great.The Village Soothsayer was one of the group of works which marked arevolution in the history of French music, by putting an end to thetyrannical tradition of Lulli and Rameau, and preparing the way througha middle stage of freshness, simplicity, naturalism, up to the nobleseverity of Gluck (1714-1787). This great composer, though a Bohemian bybirth, found his first appreciation in a public that had been trainedby the Italian pastoral operas, of which Rousseau's was one of theearliest produced in France. Gretri, the Fleming (1741-1813), who had ahearty admiration for Jean Jacques, and out of a sentiment of pietylived for a time in his Hermitage, came in point of musical excellencebetween the group of Rousseau, Philidor, Duni, and the rest, and Gluck."I have not produced exaltation in people's heads by tragicalsuperlative," Gretri said, "but I have revealed the accent of truth,which I have impressed deeper in men's hearts."[318] These words expresssufficiently the kind of influence which Rousseau also had. Crude as themusic sounds to us who are accustomed to more sumptuous schools, we canstill hear in it the note which would strike a generation weary ofRameau. It was the expression in one way of the same mood which inanother way revolted against paint, false hair, and preposterous costumeas of savages grown opulent. Such music seems without passion orsubtlety or depth or magnificence. Thus it had hardly any higher than anegative merit, but it was the necessary preparation for the acceptanceof a more positive style, that should replace both the elaborate falseart of the older French composers and the too colourless realism of thepastoral comic opera, by the austere loveliness and elevation of _Orfeo_and _Alceste_.In 1752 an Italian company visited Paris, and performed at the Opera anumber of pieces by Pergolese, and other composers of their country. Aviolent war arose, which agitated Paris far more intensely than thedefeat of Rossbach and the loss of Canada did afterwards. The quarrelbetween the Parliament and the Clergy was at its height. The Parliamenthad just been exiled, and the gravest confusion threatened the State.The operatic quarrel turned the excitement of the capital into anotherchannel. Things went so far that the censor was entreated to prohibitthe printing of any work containing the damnable doctrine and positionthat Italian music is good. Rousseau took part enthusiastically with theItalians.[319] His Letter on French Music (1753) proved to the greatfury of the people concerned, that the French had no national music, andthat it would be so much the worse for them if they ever had any. Theirlanguage, so proper to be the organ of truth and reason, was radicallyunfit either for poetry or music. All national music must derive itsprincipal characteristics from the language. Now if there is a languagein Europe fit for music, it is certainly the Italian, for it is sweet,sonorous, harmonious, and more accentuated than any other, and these areprecisely the four qualities which adapt a language to singing. It issweet because the articulations are not composite, because the meetingof consonants is both infrequent and soft, and because a great number ofthe syllables being only formed of vowels, frequent elisions make itspronunciation more flowing. It is sonorous because most of the vowelsare full, because it is without composite diphthongs, because it hasfew or no nasal vowels. Again, the inversions of the Italian are farmore favourable to true melody than the didactic order of French. And soonwards, with much close grappling of the matter. French melody does notexist; it is only a sort of modulated plain-song which has nothingagreeable in itself, which only pleases with the aid of a few capriciousornaments, and then only pleases those who have agreed to find itbeautiful.[320]The letter contains a variety of acute remarks upon music, and includesa vigorous protest against fugues, imitations, double designs, and thelike. Scarcely any one succeeds in them, and success even when obtainedhardly rewards the labour. As for counterfugues, double fugues, and"other difficult fooleries that the ear cannot endure nor the reasonjustify," they are evidently relics of barbarism and bad taste whichonly remain, like the porticoes of our gothic churches, to the disgraceof those who had patience enough to construct them.[321] The lastphrase-and both Voltaire and Turgot used gothic architecture as thesymbol for the supreme of rudeness and barbarism--shows that even a manwho seems to run counter to the whole current of his time yet does notescape its influence.Grimm, after remarking on the singularity of a demonstration of theimpossibility of setting melody to French words on the part of a writerwho had just produced the Village Soothsayer, informs us that the lettercreated a furious uproar, and set all Paris in a blaze. He had himselftaken the side of the Italians in an amusing piece of pleasantry, whichbecame a sort of classic model for similar facetiousness in othercontroversies of the century. The French, as he said, forgive everythingin favour of what makes them laugh, but Rousseau talked reason anddemolished the pretensions of French music with great sounding strokesas of an axe.[322] Rousseau expected to be assassinated, and gravelyassures us that there was a plot to that effect, as well as a design toput him in the Bastille. This we may fairly surmise to have been afiction of his own imagination, and the only real punishment thatovertook him was the loss of his right to free admission to the Opera.After what he had said of the intolerable horrors of French music, thedirectors of the theatre can hardly be accused of vindictiveness inreleasing him from them.[323] Some twenty years after (1774), when Pariswas torn asunder by the violence of the two great factions of theGluckists and Piccinists, Rousseau retracted his opinion as to theimpossibility of wedding melody to French words.[324] He went as oftenas he could to hear the works both of Gretri and Gluck, and _Orfeo_delighted him, while the _Fausse magie_ of the former moved him to sayto the composer, "Your music stirs sweet sensations to which I thoughtmy heart had long been closed."[325] This being so, and life being asbrief as art is long, we need not further examine the controversy. Itmay be worth adding that Rousseau wrote some of the articles on musicfor the Encyclopaedia, and that in 1767 he published a not inconsiderableMusical Dictionary of his own.His scheme of a new musical notation and the principles on which hedefended it are worth attention, because some of the ideas are nowaccepted as the base of a well-known and growing system of musicalinstruction. The aim of the scheme, let us say to begin with, was atonce practical and popular; to reduce the difficulty of learning musicto the lowest possible point, and so to bring the most delightful of thearts within the reach of the largest possible number of people. Hence,although he maintains the fitness of his scheme for instrumental as wellas vocal performances, it is clearly the latter which he has most atheart, evidently for the reason that this is the kind of music mostaccessible to the thousands, and it was always the thousands of whomRousseau thought. This is the true distinction of music, it is for thepeople; and the best musical notation is that which best enables personsto sing at sight. The difficulty of the old notation had comepractically before him as a teacher. The quantity of details which thepupil was forced to commit to memory before being able to sing from theopen book, struck him then as the chief obstacle to anything likefacility in performance, and without some of this facility he rightlyfelt that music must remain a luxury for the few. So genuine was hisinterest in the matter, that he was not very careful to fight for theoriginality of his own scheme. Our present musical signs, he said, areso imperfect and so inconvenient that it is no wonder that severalpersons have tried to re-cast or amend them; nor is it any wonder thatsome of them should have hit upon the same device in selecting the signsmost natural and proper, such as numerical figures. As much, however,depends on the way of dealing with these figures, as with theiradoption, and here he submitted that his own plan was as novel as it wasadvantageous.[326] Thus we have to bear in mind that Rousseau's schemewas above all things a practical device, contrived for making theteaching and the learning of musical elements an easier process.[327]The chief element of the project consists in the substitution of arelative series of notes or symbols in place of an absolute series. Inthe common notation any given note, say the A of the treble clef, isuniformly represented by the same symbol, namely, the position of secondspace in the clef, whatever key it may belong to. Rousseau, insisting onthe varying quality impressed on any tone of a given pitch by thekey-note of the scale to which it belongs, protested against the samename being given to the tone, however the quality of it might vary. ThusRe or D, which is the second tone in the key of C, ought, according tohim, to have a different name when found as the fifth in the key of G,and in every case the name should at once indicate the interval of atone from its key-note. His mode of effecting this change is as follows.The names _ut, re_, and the rest, are kept for the fixed order of thetones, C, D, E, and the rest. The key of a piece is shown by prefixingone of these symbols, and this determines the absolute quality of themelody as to pitch. That settled, every tone is expressed by a numberbearing a relation to the key-note. This tonic note is represented byone, the other six tones of the scale are expressed by the numbers fromtwo to seven. In the popular Tonic Sol-Fa notation, which correspondsso closely to Rousseau's in principle, the key-note is always styled Do,and the other symbols, _mi_, _la_, and the rest, indicate at once therelative position of these tones in their particular key or scale. Herethe old names were preserved as being easily sung; Rousseau selectednumbers because he supposed that they best expressed the generation ofthe sounds.[328]Rousseau attempted to find a theoretic base for this symbolicestablishment of the relational quality of tones, and he dimly guessedthat the order of the harmonics or upper tones of a given tonic wouldfurnish a principle for forming the familiar major scale,[329] but hisknowledge of the order was faulty. He was perhaps groping after the ideaby which Professor Helmholtz has accounted for the various mentaleffects of the several intervals in a key--namely, the degree of naturalaffinity, measured by means of the upper tones, existing between thegiven tone and its tonic. Apart from this, however, the practical valueof his ideas in instruction in singing is clearly shown by thecircumstance that at any given time many thousands of young children arenow being taught to read melody in the Sol-Fa notation in a few weeks.This shows how right Rousseau was in continually declaring the ease ofhitting a particular tone, when the relative position of the tone inrespect to the key-note is clearly manifested. A singer in trying to hitthe tone is compelled to measure the interval between it and thepreceding tone, and the simplest and easiest mode of doing this is toassociate every tone with the tonics, thus constituting it a term of arelation with this fundamental tone.Rousseau made a mistake when he supposed that his ideas were just asapplicable to instrumental as they were to vocal music. The requirementsof the singer are not those of the player. To a performer on the piano,who has to light rapidly and simultaneously on a number of tones, or toa violinist who has to leap through several octaves with great rapidity,the most urgent need is that of a definite and fixed mark, by which theabsolute pitch of each successive tone may be at once recognised.Neither of these has any time to think about the melodious relation ofthe tones; it is quite as much as they can do to find their place on thekey-board or the string. Rousseau's scheme, or any similar one, fails tosupply the clear and obvious index to pitch supplied by the old system.Old Rameau pointed this out to Rousseau when the scheme was laid beforehim, and Rousseau admitted that the objection was decisive,[330] thoughhis admission was not practically deterrent.His device for expressing change of octave by means of points wouldrender the rapid seizing of a particular tone by the performer stillmore difficult, and it is strange that he should have preferred this tothe other plan suggested, of indicating height of octave by visibleplace above or below a horizontal line. Again, his attempt to simplifythe many varieties of musical time by reducing them all to the two modesof double and triple time, though laudable enough, yet implies animperfect recognition of the full meaning of time, by omitting allreference to the distribution of accent and to the average time value ofthe tones in a particular movement.FOOTNOTES:[318] Quoted in Martin's _Hist. de France_, xvi. 158.[319] _Conf._, viii. 197. Grimm, _Corr. Lit._, i. 27.[320] _Lettre sur la Musique Francaise_, 178, etc., 187.[321] P. 197.[322] _Corr. Lit._, i. 92. His own piece was _Le petit prophete deBoehmischbroda_, the style of which will be seen in a subsequentfootnote.[323] He was burnt in effigy by the musicians of the Opera. Grimm,_Corr. Lit._, i. 113.[324] This is Turgot's opinion on the controversy (Letter to Caillard,_Oeuv._, ii. 827):--"Tous avez donc vu Jean-Jacques; la musique est unexcellent passe-port aupres de lui. Quant a l'impossibilite de fairede la musique francaise, je ne puis y croire, et votre raison ne meparait pas bonne; car il n'est point vrai que l'essence de la languefrancaise est d'etre sans accent. Point de conversation animee sansbeaucoup d'accent; mais l'accent est libre et determine seulement parl'affection de celui qui parle, sans etre fixe par des conventions surcertaines syllabes, quoique nous ayons aussi dans plusieurs mots dessyllabes dominantes qui seules peuvent etre accentuees."[325] Musset-Pathay, i. 289.[326] Preface to _Dissertation sur la Musique Moderne_, pp. 32, 33.[327] I am indebted to Mr. James Sully, M.A., for furnishing me withnotes on a technical subject with which I have too littleacquaintance.[328] _Dissertation_, p. 42.[329] P. 52.[330] _Conf._, vii. 18, 19. Also _Dissertation_, pp. 74, 75.CHAPTER IX.VOLTAIRE AND D'ALEMBERT.Everybody in the full tide of the eighteenth century had something to dowith Voltaire, from serious personages like Frederick the Great andTurgot, down to the sorriest poetaster who sent his verses to becorrected or bepraised. Rousseau's debt to him in the days of hisunformed youth we have already seen, as well as the courtesies withwhich they approached one another, when Richelieu employed thestruggling musician to make some modifications in the great man'sunconsidered court-piece. Neither of them then dreamed that their twonames were destined to form the great literary antithesis of thecentury. In the ten years that elapsed between their first interchangeof letters and their first fit of coldness, it must have been tolerablyclear to either of them, if either of them gave thought to the matter,that their dissidence was increasing and likely to increase. Theirmethods were different, their training different, their points of viewdifferent, and above all these things, their temperaments were differentby a whole heaven's breadth.A great number of excellent and pointed half-truths have been utteredby various persons in illustration of all these contrasts. Thephilosophy of Voltaire, for instance, is declared to be that of thehappy, while Rousseau is the philosopher of the unhappy. Voltaire stealsaway their faith from those who doubt, while Rousseau strikes doubt intothe mind of the unbeliever. The gaiety of the one saddens, while thesadness of the other consoles. If we pass from the marked divergence intendencies, which is imperfectly hinted at in such sayings as these, tothe divergence between them in all the fundamental conditions ofintellectual and moral life, then the variation which divided therevolutionary stream into two channels, flowing broadly apart throughunlike regions and climates down to the great sea, is intelligibleenough. Voltaire was the arch-representative of all those elements incontemporary thought, its curiosity, irreverence, intrepidity,vivaciousness, rationality, to which, as we have so often had to say,Rousseau's temperament and his Genevese spirit made him profoundlyantipathetic. Voltaire was the great high priest, robed in the dazzlingvestments of poetry and philosophy and history, of that very religion ofknowledge and art which Rousseau declared to be the destroyer of thefelicity of men. The glitter has faded away from Voltaire's philosophicraiment since those days, and his laurel bough lies a little leafless.Still this can never make us forget that he was in his day andgeneration one of the sovereign emancipators, because he awoke onedormant set of energies, just as Rousseau presently came to awakeanother set. Each was a power, not merely by virtue of some singularpreeminence of understanding or mysterious unshared insight of his own,but for a far deeper reason. No partial and one-sided direction canpermanently satisfy the manifold aspirations and faculties of the humanmind in the great average of common men, and it is the common average ofmen to whom exceptional thinkers speak, whom they influence, and by whomthey are in turn influenced, depressed, or buoyed up, just as a painteror a dramatist is affected. Voltaire's mental constitution made himeagerly objective, a seeker of true things, quivering for action,admirably sympathetic with all life and movement, a spirit restlesslytraversing the whole world. Rousseau, far different from this, saw inhimself a reflected microcosm of the outer world, and was content totake that instead of the outer world, and as its truest version. He madehis own moods the premisses from which he deduced a system of life forhumanity, and so far as humanity has shared his moods or some parts ofthem, his system was true, and has been accepted. To him the bustle ofthe outer world was only a hindrance to that process of self-absorptionwhich was his way of interpreting life. Accessible only to interests ofemotion and sense, he was saved from intellectual sterility, and madeeloquent, by the vehemence of his emotion and the fire of his senses. Hewas a master example of sensibility, as Voltaire was a master exampleof clear-eyed penetration.This must not be taken for a rigid piece of mutually exclusive division,for the edges of character are not cut exactly sharp, as words are.Especially when any type is intense, it seems to meet and touch itsopposite. Just as Voltaire's piercing activity and soundness ofintelligence made him one of the humanest of men, so Rousseau'semotional susceptibility endowed him with the gift of a vision thatcarried far into the social depths. It was a very early criticism on thepair, that Voltaire wrote on more subjects, but that Rousseau was themore profound. In truth one was hardly much more profound than theother. Rousseau had the sonorousness of speech which popular confusionof thought is apt to identify with depth. And he had seriousness. Ifprofundity means the quality of seeing to the heart of subjects,Rousseau had in a general way rather less of it than the shrewd-wittedcrusher of the Infamous. What the distinction really amounts to is thatRousseau had a strong feeling for certain very important aspects ofhuman life, which Voltaire thought very little about, or never thoughtabout at all, and that while Voltaire was concerned with poetry,history, literature, and the more ridiculous parts of the religioussuperstition of his time, Rousseau thought about social justice and dutyand God and the spiritual consciousness of men, with a certain attemptat thoroughness and system. As for the substance of his thinking, as wehave already seen in the Discourses, and shall soon have an opportunityof seeing still more clearly, it was often as thin and hollow as if hehad belonged to the company of the epigrammatical, who, after all, havefar less of a monopoly of shallow thinking than is often supposed. Theprime merit of Rousseau, in comparing him with the brilliant chief ofthe rationalistic school of the time, is his reverence; reverence formoral worth in however obscure intellectual company, for the dignity ofhuman character and the loftiness of duty, for some of those cravings ofthe human mind after the divine and incommensurable, which may indeedoften be content with solutions proved by long time and slow experienceto be inadequate, but which are closely bound up with the highestelements of nobleness of soul.It was this spiritual part of him which made Rousseau a third greatpower in the century, between the Encyclopaedic party and the Church. Herecognised a something in men, which the Encyclopaedists treated as achimera imposed on the imagination by theologians and others for theirown purposes. And he recognised this in a way which did not offend therational feeling of the times, as the Catholic dogmas offended it. In aword he was religious. In being so, he separated himself from Voltaireand his school, who did passably well without religion. Again, he was apuritan. In being this, he was cut off from the intellectually andmorally unreformed church, which was then the organ of religion inFrance. Nor is this all. It was Rousseau, and not the feeblecontroversialists put up from time to time by the Jesuits and otherecclesiastical bodies, who proved the effective champion of religion,and the only power who could make head against the triumphant onslaughtof the Voltaireans. He gave up Christian dogmas and mysteries, and,throwing himself with irresistible ardour upon the emotions in which allreligions have their root and their power, he breathed new life intothem, he quickened in men a strong desire to have them satisfied, and hebeat back the army of emancipators with the loud and incessantlyrepeated cry that they were not come to deliver the human mind, but toroot out all its most glorious and consolatory attributes. This immenseachievement accomplished,--the great framework of a faith in God andimmortality and providential government of the world thus preserved, itwas an easy thing by and by for the churchmen to come back, and oncemore unpack and restore to their old places the temporarily discreditedparaphernalia of dogma and mystery. How far all this was good or bad forthe mental elevation of France and Europe, we shall have a betteropportunity of considering presently.We have now only to glance at the first skirmishes between the religiousreactionist, on the one side, and, on the other, the leader of theschool who believed that men are better employed in thinking asaccurately, and knowing as widely, and living as humanely, as all thosedifficult processes are possible, than in wearying themselves in futilesearch after gods who dwell on inaccessible heights.       *       *       *       *       *Voltaire had acknowledged Rousseau's gift of the second Discourse withhis usual shrewd pleasantry: "I have received your new book against thehuman race, and thank you for it. Never was such cleverness used in thedesign of making us all stupid. One longs in reading your book to walkon all fours. But as I have lost that habit for more than sixty years, Ifeel unhappily the impossibility of resuming it. Nor can I embark insearch of the savages of Canada, because the maladies to which I amcondemned render a European surgeon necessary to me; because war isgoing on in those regions; and because the example of our actions hasmade the savages nearly as bad as ourselves. So I content myself withbeing a very peaceable savage in the solitude which I have chosen nearyour native place, where you ought to be too." After an extremelyinadequate discussion of one or two points in the essay,[331] heconcludes:--"I am informed that your health is bad; you ought to come toset it up again in your native air, to enjoy freedom, to drink with methe milk of our cows and browse our grass."[332] Rousseau replied to allthis in a friendly way, recognising Voltaire as his chief, and actuallyat the very moment when he tells us that the corrupting presence of thearrogant and seductive man at Geneva helped to make the idea ofreturning to Geneva odious to him, hailing him in such terms asthese:--"Sensible of the honour you do my country, I share the gratitudeof my fellow-citizens, and hope that it will increase when they haveprofited by the lessons that you of all men are able to give them.Embellish the asylum you have chosen; enlighten a people worthy of yourinstruction; and do you who know so well how to paint virtue andfreedom, teach us to cherish them in our walls."[333]Within a year, however, the bright sky became a little clouded. In 1756Voltaire published one of the most sincere, energetic, and passionatepieces to be found in the whole literature of the eighteenth century,his poem on the great earthquake of Lisbon (November 1755). No such wordhad been heard in Europe since the terrible images in which Pascal hadfigured the doom of man. It was the reaction of one who had begun lifeby refuting Pascal with doctrines of cheerfulness drawn from theoptimism of Pope and Leibnitz, who had done Pope's Essay on Man(1732-34) into French verse as late as 1751,[334] and whose imagination,already sombred by the triumphant cruelty and superstition which ragedaround him, was suddenly struck with horror by a catastrophe which, in aworld where whatever is is best, destroyed hundreds of human creaturesin the smoking ashes and engulfed wreck of their city. How, he cried,can you persist in talking of the deliberate will of a free andbenevolent God, whose eternal laws necessitated such an appalling climaxof misery and injustice as this? Was the disaster retributive? If so,why is Lisbon in ashes, while Paris dances? The enigma is desperate andinscrutable, and the optimist lives in the paradise of the fool. We askin vain what we are, where we are, whither we go, whence we came. We aretormented atoms on a clod of earth, whom death at last swallows up, andwith whom destiny meanwhile makes cruel sport. The past is only adisheartening memory, and if the tomb destroys the thinking creature,how frightful is the present!Whatever else we may say of Voltaire's poem, it was at least the firstsign of the coming reaction of sympathetic imagination against thepolished common sense of the great Queen Anne school, which had for morethan a quarter of a century such influence in Europe.[335] It is alittle odd that Voltaire, the most brilliant and versatile branch ofthis stock, should have broken so energetically away from it, and thathe should have done so, shows how open and how strong was the feeling inhim for reality and actual circumstance.Rousseau was amazed that a man overwhelmed as Voltaire was withprosperity and glory, should declaim against the miseries of this lifeand pronounce that all is evil and vanity. "Voltaire in seeming alwaysto believe in God, never really believed in anybody but the devil, sincehis pretended God is a maleficent being who according to him finds allhis pleasure in working mischief. The absurdity of this doctrine isespecially revolting in a man crowned with good things of every sort,and who from the midst of his own happiness tries to fill hisfellow-creatures with despair, by the cruel and terrible image of theserious calamities from which he is himself free."[336]As if any doctrine could be more revolting than this which Rousseau soquietly takes for granted, that if it is well with me and I am free fromcalamities, then there must needs be a beneficent ruler of the universe,and the calamities of all the rest of the world, if by chance they catchthe fortunate man's eye, count for nothing in our estimate of the methodof the supposed divine government. It is hard to imagine a moreexecrable emotion than the complacent religiosity of the prosperous.Voltaire is more admirable in nothing than in the ardent humanity andfar-spreading lively sympathy with which he interested himself in allthe world's fortunes, and felt the catastrophe of Lisbon as profoundlyas if the Geneva at his gates had been destroyed. He relished his ownprosperity keenly enough, but his prosperity became ashes in his mouthwhen he heard of distress or wrong, and he did not rest until he hadmoved heaven and earth to soothe the distress and repair the wrong. Itwas his impatience in the face of the evils of the time which wrung fromhim this desperate cry, and it is precisely because these evils did nottouch him in his own person, that he merits the greater honour for thesurpassing energy and sincerity of his feeling for them.Rousseau, however, whose biographer has no such stories to tell as thoseof Calas and La Barre, Sirven and Lally, but only tales of a maidenwrongfully accused of theft, and a friend left senseless on the pavementof a strange town, and a benefactress abandoned to the cruelty of herfate, still was moved in the midst of his erotic visions in the forestof Montmorency to speak a jealous word in vindication of the divinegovernment of our world. For him at any rate life was then warm and theday bright and the earth very fair, and he lauded his gods accordingly.It was his very sensuousness, as we are so often saying, that made himreligious. The optimism which Voltaire wished to destroy was to him asovereign element of comfort. "Pope's poem," he says, "softens mymisfortunes and inclines me to patience, while yours sharpens all mypains, excites me to murmuring, and reduces me to despair. Pope andLeibnitz exhort me to resignation by declaring calamities to be anecessary effect of the nature and constitution of the universe. Youcry, Suffer for ever, unhappy wretch; if there be a God who createdthee, he could have stayed thy pains if he would: hope for no end tothem, for there is no reason to be discerned for thy existence, exceptto suffer and to perish."[337] Rousseau then proceeds to argue thematter, but he says nothing really to the point which Pope had not saidbefore, and said far more effectively. He begins, however, originallyenough by a triumphant reference to his own great theme of thesuperiority of the natural over the civil state. Moral evil is our ownwork, the result of our liberty; so are most of our physical evils,except death, and that is mostly an evil only from the preparations thatwe make for it. Take the case of Lisbon. Was it nature who collected thetwenty thousand houses, all seven stories high? If the people of Lisbonhad been dispersed over the face of the country, as wild tribes are,they would have fled at the first shock, and they would have been seenthe next day twenty leagues away, as gay as if nothing had happened. Andhow many of them perished in the attempt to rescue clothes or papers ormoney? Is it not true that the person of a man is now, thanks tocivilisation, the least part of himself, and is hardly worth savingafter loss of the rest? Again, there are some events which lose much oftheir horror when we look at them closely. A premature death is notalways a real evil and may be a relative good; of the people crushed todeath under the ruins of Lisbon, many no doubt thus escaped still worsecalamities. And is it worse to be killed swiftly than to await death inprolonged anguish?[338]The good of the whole is to be sought before the good of the part.Although the whole material universe ought not to be dearer to itsCreator than a single thinking and feeling being, yet the system of theuniverse which produces, preserves, and perpetuates all thinking andfeeling beings, ought to be dearer to him than any one of them, and hemay, notwithstanding his goodness, or rather by reason of his goodness,sacrifice something of the happiness of individuals to the preservationof the whole. "That the dead body of a man should feed worms or wolvesor plants is not, I admit, a compensation for the death of such a man;but if in the system of this universe, it is necessary for thepreservation of the human race that there should be a circulation ofsubstance between men, animals, vegetables, then the particular mishapof an individual contributes to the general good. I die, I am eaten byworms; but my children, my brothers, will live as I have lived; my bodyenriches the earth of which they will consume the fruits; and so I do,by the order of nature and for all men, what Codrus, Curtius, the Decii,and a thousand others, did of their own free will for a small part ofmen." (p. 305.)All this is no doubt very well said, and we are bound to accept it astrue doctrine. Although, however, it may make resignation easier byexplaining the nature of evil, it does not touch the point of Voltaire'soutburst, which is that evil exists, and exists in shapes which it is amere mockery to associate with the omnipotence of a benevolentcontroller of the world's forces. According to Rousseau, if we go to theroot of what he means, there is no such thing as evil, though much thatto our narrow and impatient sight has the look of it. This may be trueif we use that fatal word in an arbitrary and unreal sense, for theavoidable, the consequent without antecedent, or antecedent withoutconsequent. If we consent to talk in this way, and only are careful todefine terms so that there is no doubt as to their meaning, it is hardlydeniable that evil is a mere word and not a reality, and whatever is isindeed right and best, because no better is within our reach. Voltaire,however, like the man of sense that he was, exclaimed that at any raterelatively to us poor creatures the existence of pain, suffering, waste,whether caused or uncaused, whether in accordance with stern immutablelaw or mere divine caprice, is a most indisputable reality: from ourpoint of view it is a cruel puerility to cry out at every calamity andevery iniquity that all is well in the best of possible worlds, and tosing hymns of praise and glory to the goodness and mercy of a being ofsupreme might, who planted us in this evil state and keeps us in it.Voltaire's is no perfect philosophy; indeed it is not a philosophy atall, but a passionate ejaculation; but it is perfect in comparison witha cut and dried system like this of Rousseau's, which rests on a mockingjuggle with phrases, and the substitution by dexterous sleight of handof one definition for another.Rousseau really gives up the battle, by confessing frankly that thematter is beyond the light of reason, and that, "if the theist onlyfounds his sentiment on probabilities, the atheist with still lessprecision only founds his on the alternative possibilities." Theobjections on both sides are insoluble, because they turn on things ofwhich men can have no veritable idea; "yet I believe in God as stronglyas I believe any other truth, because believing and not believing arethe last things in the world that depend on me." So be it. But why takethe trouble to argue in favour of one side of an avowedly insolublequestion? It was precisely because he felt that the objections on bothsides cannot be answered, that Voltaire, hastily or not, cried out thathe faced the horrors of such a catastrophe as the Lisbon earthquakewithout a glimpse of consolation. The upshot of Rousseau's remonstranceonly amounted to this, that he could not furnish one with anyconsolation out of the armoury of reason, that he himself found thisconsolation, but in a way that did not at all depend upon his own effortor will, and was therefore as incommunicable as the advantage of havinga large appetite or being six feet high. The reader of Rousseau becomesaccustomed to this way of dealing with subjects of discussion. We seehim using his reason as adroitly as he knows how for three-fourths ofthe debate, and then he suddenly flings himself back with a triumphantkind of weariness into the buoyant waters of emotion and sentiment. "Yousir, who are a poet," once said Madame d'Epinay to Saint Lambert, "willagree with me that the existence of a Being, eternal, all powerful, andof sovereign intelligence, is at any rate the germ of the finestenthusiasm."[339] To take this position and cleave to it may be verywell, but why spoil its dignity and repose by an unmeaning andsuperfluous flourish of the weapons of the reasoner?With the same hasty change of direction Rousseau says the true questionis not whether each of us suffers or not, but whether it is good thatthe universe should be, and whether our misfortunes were inevitable inits constitution. Then within a dozen lines he admits that there can beno direct proof either way; we must content ourselves with settling itby means of inference from the perfections of God. Of course, it isclear that in the first place what Rousseau calls the true questionconsists of two quite distinct questions. Is the universe in its presentordering on the whole good relatively either to men, or to all sentientcreatures? Next was evil an inevitable element in that ordering? Second,this way of putting it does not in the least advance the case againstVoltaire, who insisted that no fine phrases ought to hide from us thedreadful power and crushing reality of evil and the desolate plight inwhich we are left. This is no exhaustive thought, but a deep cry ofanguish at the dark lot of men, and of just indignation against thephilosophy which to creatures asking for bread gave the brightlypolished stone of sentimental theism. Rousseau urged that Voltairerobbed men of their only solace. What Voltaire really did urge was thatthe solace derived from the attribution of humanity and justice to theSupreme Being, and from the metaphysical account of evil, rests on toonarrow a base either to cover the facts, or to be a true solace to anyman who thinks and observes. He ought to have gone on, if it had onlybeen possible in those times, to persuade his readers that there is nosolace attainable, except that of an energetic fortitude, and that we dobest to go into life not in a softly lined silken robe, but with a sharpsword and armour thrice tempered. As between himself and Rousseau, hesaw much the more keenly of the two, and this was because he approachedthe matter from the side of the facts, while the latter approached itfrom the side of his own mental comfort and the preconceptionsinvolved in it.The most curious part of this curious letter is the conclusion, whereRousseau, loosely wandering from his theme, separates Voltaire from thephilosopher, and beseeches him to draw up a moral code or profession ofcivil faith that should contain positively the social maxims thateverybody should be bound to admit, and negatively the intolerant maximsthat everybody should be forced to reject as seditious. Every religionin accord with the code should be allowed, and every religion out ofaccord with it proscribed, or a man might be free to have no otherreligion but the code itself.Voltaire was much too clear-headed a person to take any notice ofnonsense like this. Rousseau's letter remained unanswered, nor is thereany reason to suppose that Voltaire ever got through it, though Rousseauchose to think that _Candide_ (1759) was meant for a reply to him.[340]He is careful to tell us that he never read that incomparable satire,for which one would be disposed to pity any one except Rousseau, whoseappreciation of wit, if not of humour also, was probably more deficientthan in any man who ever lived, either in Geneva or any other countryfashioned after Genevan guise. Rousseau's next letter to Voltaire wasfour years later, and by that time the alienation which had nodefinitely avowed cause, and can be marked by no special date, hadbecome complete. "I hate you, in fact," he concluded, "since you have sowilled it; but I hate you like a man still worthier to have loved you,if you had willed it. Of all the sentiments with which my heart was fulltowards you, there only remains the admiration that we cannot refuse toyour fine genius, and love for your writings. If there is nothing in youwhich I can honour but your talents, that is no fault of mine."[341] Weknow that Voltaire did not take reproach with serenity, and he behavedwith bitter violence towards Rousseau in circumstances when silencewould have been both more magnanimous and more humane. Rousseauoccasionally, though not very often, retaliated in the same vein.[342]On the whole his judgment of Voltaire, when calmly given, was not meantto be unkind. "Voltaire's first impulse," he said, "is to be good; it isreflection that makes him bad."[343] Tronchin had said in the same waythat Voltaire's heart was the dupe of his understanding. Rousseau isalways trying to like him, he always recognises him as the first man ofthe time, and he subscribed his mite for the erection of a statue tohim. It was the satire and mockery in Voltaire which irritated Rousseaumore than the doctrines or denial of doctrine which they cloaked; in hiseyes sarcasm was always the veritable dialect of the evil power. It sayssomething for the sincerity of his efforts after equitable judgment,that he should have had the patience to discern some of the fundamentalmerit of the most remorseless and effective mocker that ever madesuperstition look mean, and its doctors ridiculous.II.Voltaire was indirectly connected with Rousseau's energetic attack uponanother great Encyclopaedist leader, the famous Letter to D'Alembert onStage Plays. "There," Rousseau said afterwards, "is my favourite book,my Benjamin, because I produced it without effort, at the firstinspiration, and in the most lucid moments of my life."[344] Voltaire,who to us figures so little as a poet and dramatist, was to himself andto his contemporaries of this date a poet and dramatist before all else,the author of _Zaire_ and _Mahomet_, rather than of _Candide_ and the_Philosophical Dictionary_. D'Alembert was Voltaire's staunchesthenchman. He only wrote his article on Geneva for the Encyclopaedia togratify the master. Fresh from a visit to him when he composed it, hetook occasion to regret that the austerity of the tradition of the citydeprived it of the manifold advantages of a theatre. This suggestion hadits origin partly in a desire to promote something that would please theeager vanity of the dramatist whom Geneva now had for so close aneighbour, and who had just set her the example by setting up a theatreof his own; and partly, also, because it gave the writer an opportunityof denouncing the intolerant rigour with which the church nearer hometreated the stage and all who appeared on it. Geneva was to set anexample that could not be resisted, and France would no longer seeactors on the one hand pensioned by the government, and on the other anobject of anathema, excommunicated by priests and regarded with contemptby citizens.[345]The inveterate hostility of the church to the theatre was manifested bythe French ecclesiastics in the full eighteenth century as bitterly asever. The circumstance that Voltaire was the great play-writer of thetime would not tend to soften their traditional prejudice, and thepersecution of players by priests was in some sense an episode of thewar between the priest and the philosophers. The latter took up thecause of the stage partly because they hoped to make the drama aneffective rival to the teaching of pulpit and confessional, partly fromtheir natural sympathy with an elevated form of intellectualmanifestation, and partly from their abhorrence of the practicalinhumanity with which the officers of the church treated stageperformers. While people of quality eagerly sought the society of thosewho furnished them as much diversion in private as in public, the churchrefused to all players the marriage blessing; when an actor or actresswished to marry, they were obliged to renounce the stage, and theArchbishop of Paris diligently resisted evasion or subterfuge.[346] Theatrocities connected with the refusal of burial, as well in the case ofplayers as of philosophers, are known to all readers in a dozenillustrious instances, from Moliere and Adrienne Lecouvreur downwards.Here, as along the whole line of the battle between new light and oldprejudice, Rousseau took part, if not with the church, at least againstits adversaries. His point of view was at bottom truly puritanical.Jeremy Collier in his _Short View of the Profaneness and Immorality ofthe English Stage_ (1698) takes up quite a different position. This oncefamous piece was not a treatment of the general question, but an attackon certain specific qualities of the plays of his time--their indecencyof phrase, their oaths, their abuse of the clergy, the gross libertinismof the characters. One can hardly deny that this was richly deserved bythe English drama of the Restoration, and Collier's strictures were notapplicable, nor meant to apply, either to the ancients, for he has agood word even for Aristophanes, or to the French drama. Bossuet'sloftier denunciation, like Rousseau's, was puritanical, and it extendedto the whole body of stage plays. He objected to the drama as a schoolof concupiscence, as a subtle or gross debaucher of the gravity andpurity of the understanding, as essentially a charmer of the senses, andtherefore the most equivocal and untrustworthy of teachers. He appealsto the fathers, to Scripture, to Plato, and even to Christ, who cried,_Woe unto you that laugh_.[347] There is a fine austerity aboutBossuet's energetic criticism; it is so free from breathless eagerness,and so severe without being thinly bitter. The churchmen of a generationor two later had fallen from this height into gloomy peevishness.Rousseau's letter on the theatre, it need hardly be said, is meant to bean appeal to the common sense and judgment of his readers, and notconceived in the ecclesiastical tone of unctuous anathema and fulgurantmenace. It is no bishop's pastoral, replete with solecisms of thoughtand idiom, but a piece of firm dialectic in real matter. His position isthis: that the moral effect of the stage can never be salutary initself, while it may easily be extremely pernicious, and that the habitof frequenting the theatre, the taste for imitating the style of theactors, the cost in money, the waste in time, and all the otheraccessory conditions, apart from the morality of the matter represented,are bad things in themselves, absolutely and in every circumstance.Secondly, these effects in all kinds are specially bad in relation tothe social condition and habits of Geneva.[348] The first part of thediscussion is an ingenious answer to some of the now trite pleas forthe morality of the drama, such as that tragedy leads to pity throughterror, that comedy corrects men while amusing them, that both makevirtue attractive and vice hateful.[349] Rousseau insists with abundanceof acutely chosen illustration that the pity that is awaked by tragedyis a fleeting emotion which subsides when the curtain falls; that comedyas often as not amuses men at the expense of old age, uncouth virtue,paternal carefulness, and other objects which we should be taught ratherto revere than to ridicule; and that both tragedy and comedy, instead ofmaking vice hateful, constantly win our sympathy for it. Is not theFrench stage, he asks, as much the triumph of great villains, likeCatilina, Mahomet, Atreus, as of illustrious heroes?This rude handling of accepted commonplace is always one of the mostinteresting features in Rousseau's polemic. It was of course acharacteristic of the eighteenth century always to take up the ethicaland high prudential view of whatever had to be justified, and Rousseauseems from this point to have been successful in demolishing argumentswhich might hold of Greek tragedy at its best, but which certainly donot hold of any other dramatic forms. The childishness of the oldcriticism which attaches the label of some moral from the copybook toeach piece, as its lesson and point of moral aim, is evident. Inrepudiating this Rousseau was certainly right.[350] Both the assailantsand the defenders of the stage, however, commit the double error, firstof supposing that the drama is always the same thing, from the Agamemnondown to the last triviality of a London theatre, and next of pitchingthe discussion in too high a key, as if the effect or object of a stageplay in the modern era, where grave sentiment clothes itself in otherforms, were substantially anything more serious than an evening'samusement. Apart from this, and in so far as the discussion is confinedto the highest dramatic expression, the true answer to Rousseau is now avery plain one. The drama does not work in the sphere of directmorality, though like everything else in the world it has a moral orimmoral aspect. It is an art of ideal presentation, not concerned withthe inculcation of immediate practical lessons, but producing a stir inall our sympathetic emotions, quickening the imagination, and socommunicating a wider life to the character of the spectator. This iswhat the drama in the hands of a worthy master does; it is just whatnoble composition in music does, and there is no more directlymoralising effect in the one than in the other. You must trust to thesum of other agencies to guide the interest and sympathy thus quickenedinto channels of right action. Rousseau, like most othercontroversialists, makes an attack of which the force rests on theassumption that the special object of the attack is the singleinfluencing element and the one decisive instrument in making men had orgood. What he says about the drama would only be true if the public wentto the play all day long, and were accessible to no other moral forcewhatever, modifying and counteracting such lessons as they might learnat the theatre. He failed here as in the wider controversy on thesciences and arts, to consider the particular subject of discussion inrelation to the whole of the general medium in which character moves,and by whose manifold action and reaction it is incessantly affected andvariously shaped.So when he passed on from the theory of dramatic morality to the matterwhich he had more at heart, namely, the practical effects of introducingthe drama into Geneva, he keeps out of sight all the qualities in theGenevese citizen which would protect him against the evil influence ofthe stage, though it is his anxiety for the preservation of these veryqualities that gives all its fire to his eloquence. If the citizenreally was what Rousseau insisted that he was, then his virtues wouldsurely neutralise the evil of the drama; if not, the drama would do himno harm. We need not examine the considerations in which Rousseaupointed out the special reasons against introducing a theatre into hisnative town. It would draw the artisans away from their work, causewasteful expenditure of money in amusements, break up the harmless andinexpensive little clubs of men and the social gatherings of women. Thetown was not populous enough to support a theatre, therefore thegovernment would have to provide one, and this would mean increasedtaxation. All this was the secondary and merely colourable support byargumentation, of a position that had been reached and was really heldby sentiment. Rousseau hated the introduction of French plays in thesame way that Cato hated the introduction of fine talkers from Greece.It was an innovation, and so habitual was it with Rousseau to look onall movement in the direction of what the French writers called tasteand cultivation as depraving, that he cannot help taking for grantedthat any change in manners associated with taste must necessarily be achange for the worse. Thus the Letter to D'Alembert was essentially asupplement to the first Discourse; it was an application of itsprinciples to a practical case. It was part of his general reactionaryprotest against philosophers, poets, men of letters, and all theirworks, without particular apprehension on the side of the drama. Henceits reasoning is much less interesting than its panegyric on thesimplicity, robust courage, and manliness of the Genevese, and itsinvective against the effeminacy and frivolity of the Parisian. One ofthe most significant episodes in the discussion is the lengthy criticismon the immortal Misanthrope of Moliere. Rousseau admits it for themasterpiece of the comic muse, though with characteristic perversity heinsists that the hero is not misanthropic enough, nor truly misanthropicat all, because he flies into rage at small things affecting himself,instead of at the large follies of the race. Again, he says that Molieremakes Alceste ridiculous, virtuous as he is, in order to win theapplause of the pit. It is for the character of Philinte, however, thatRousseau reserves all his spleen. He takes care to describe him in termswhich exactly hit Rousseau's own conception of his philosophic enemies,who find all going well because they have no interest in anything goingbetter; who are content with everybody, because they do not care foranybody; who round a full table maintain that it is not true that thepeople are hungry. As criticism, one cannot value this kind of analysis.D'Alembert replied with a much more rational interpretation of the greatcomedy, but finding himself seized with the critic's besettingimpertinence of improving masterpieces, he suddenly stopped with thebecoming reflection--"But I perceive, sir, that I am giving lessons toMoliere."[351]The constant thought of Paris gave Rousseau an admirable occasion ofpainting two pictures in violent contrast, each as over-coloured as theother by his mixed conceptions of the Plutarchian antique and imaginarypastoral. We forget the depravation of the stage and the ill living ofcomedians in magnificent descriptions of the manly exercises andcheerful festivities of the free people on the shores of the Lake ofGeneva, and in scornful satire on the Parisian seraglios, where somewoman assembles a number of men who are more like women than theirentertainers. We see on the one side the rude sons of the republic,boxing, wrestling, running, in generous emulation, and on the other thecoxcombs of cultivated Paris imprisoned in a drawing-room, "rising up,sitting down, incessantly going and coming to the fire-place, to thewindow, taking up a screen and putting it down again a hundred times,turning over books, flitting from picture to picture, turning andpirouetting about the room, while the idol stretched motionless on acouch all the time is only alive in her tongue and eyes" (p. 161). Ifthe rough patriots of the Lake are less polished in speech, they are allthe weightier in reason; they do not escape by a pleasantry or acompliment; each feeling himself attacked by all the forces of hisadversary, he is obliged to employ all his own to defend himself, andthis is how a mind acquires strength and precision. There may be hereand there a licentious phrase, but there is no ground for alarm in that.It is not the least rude who are always the most pure, and even a ratherclownish speech is better than that artificial style in which the twosexes seduce one another, and familiarise themselves decently with vice.'Tis true our Swiss drinks too much, but after all let us not calumniateeven vice; as a rule drinkers are cordial and frank, good, upright,just, loyal, brave, and worthy folk. Wherever people have mostabhorrence of drunkenness, be sure they have most reason to fear lestits indiscretion should betray intrigue and treachery. In Switzerland itis almost thought well of, while at Naples they hold it in horror; butat bottom which is the more to be dreaded, the intemperance of the Swissor the reserve of the Italian? It is hardly surprising to learn that thepeople of Geneva were as little gratified by this well-meant panegyricon their jollity as they had been by another writer's friendly eulogy ontheir Socinianism.[352]The reader who was not moved to turn brute and walk on all fours by thepictures of the state of nature in the Discourses, may find it moredifficult to resist the charm of the brotherly festivities and simplepastimes which in the Letter to D'Alembert the patriot holds up to theadmiration of his countrymen and the envy of foreigners. The writer isin Sparta, but he tempers his Sparta with a something from Charmettes.Never before was there so attractive a combination of martial austeritywith the grace of the idyll. And the interest of these pictures is muchmore than literary; it is historic also. They were the original versionof those great gatherings in the Champ de Mars and strange suppers offraternity during the progress of the Revolution in Paris, which haveamused the cynical ever since, but which pointed to a not unworthyaspiration. The fine gentlemen whom Rousseau did so well to despise hadthen all fled, and the common people under Rousseauite leaders weredoing the best they could to realise on the banks of the Seine theimaginary joymaking and simple fellowship which had been first dreamedof for the banks of Lake Leman, and commended with an eloquence thatstruck new chords in minds satiated or untouched by the brilliance ofmere literature. There was no real state of things in Genevacorresponding to the gracious picture which Rousseau so generouslypainted, and some of the citizens complained that his account of theirsocial joys was as little deserved as his ingenious vindication of theirhearty feeling for barrel or bottle was little founded.[353]The glorification of love of country did little for the Genevese forwhom it was meant, but it penetrated many a soul in the greater nationthat lay sunk in helpless indifference to its own ruin. Nowhere elseamong the writers who are the glory of France at this time, is anyserious eulogy of patriotism. Rousseau glows with it, and though healways speaks in connection with Geneva, yet there is in his words agenerous breadth and fire which gave them an irresistiblecontagiousness. There are many passages of this fine persuasive force inthe Letter to D'Alembert; perhaps this, referring to the citizens ofGeneva who had gone elsewhere in search of fortune, is as good asanother. Do you think that the opening of a theatre, he asks, will bringthem back to their mother city? No; "each of them must feel that he cannever find anywhere else what he has left behind in his own land; aninvincible charm must call him back to the spot that he ought never tohave quitted; the recollection of their first exercises, their firstpleasures, their first sights, must remain deeply graven in theirhearts; the soft impressions made in the days of their youth must abideand grow stronger with advancing years, while a thousand others wax dim;in the midst of the pomp of great cities and all their cheerlessmagnificence, a secret voice must for ever cry in the depth of thewanderer's soul, Ah, where are the games and holidays of my youth? Whereis the concord of the townsmen, where the public brotherhood? Where ispure joy and true mirth? Where are peace, freedom, equity? Let us hastento seek all these. With the heart of a Genevese, with a city as smiling,a landscape as full of delight, a government as just, with pleasures sotrue and so pure, and all that is needed to be able to relish them, howis it that we do not all adore our birth-land? It was thus in old timesthat by modest feasts and homely games her citizens were called back bythat Sparta which I can never quote often enough as an example for us;thus in Athens in the midst of fine art, thus in Susa in the very bosomof luxury and soft delights, the wearied Spartan sighed after his coarsepastimes and exhausting exercises" (p. 211).[354]Any reference to this powerfully written, though most sophisticalpiece, would be imperfect which should omit its slightly virulentonslaught upon women and the passion which women inspire. The moderndrama, he said, being too feeble to rise to high themes, has fallen backon love; and on this hint he proceeds to a censure of love as a poetictheme, and a bitter estimate of women as companions for men, which mighthave pleased Calvin or Knox in his sternest mood. The same eloquencewhich showed men the superior delights of the state of nature, now showsthe superior fitness of the oriental seclusion of women; it makes asympathetic reader tremble at the want of modesty, purity, and decency,in the part which women are allowed to take by the infatuated men of amodern community.All this, again, is directed against "that philosophy of a day, which isborn and dies in the corner of a city, and would fain stifle the cry ofnature and the unanimous voice of the human race" (p. 131). The sameintrepid spirits who had brought reason to bear upon the current notionsof providence, inspiration, ecclesiastical tradition, and otherunlighted spots in the human mind, had perceived that the subjection ofwomen to a secondary place belonged to the same category, and could notany more successfully be defended by reason. Instead of raging againstwomen for their boldness, their frivolousness, and the rest, as ourpassionate sentimentalist did, the opposite school insisted that allthese evils were due to the folly of treating women with gallantryinstead of respect, and to the blindness of refusing an equally vigorousand masculine education to those who must be the closest companions ofeducated man. This was the view forced upon the most rational observersof a society where women were so powerful, and so absolutely unfit bywant of intellectual training for the right use of social power.D'Alembert expressed this view in a few pages of forcible pleading inhis reply to Rousseau,[355] and some thirty-two years later, when allquestions had become political (1790), Condorcet ably extended the sameline of argument so as to make it cover the claims of women to all therights of citizenship.[356] From the nature of the case, however, it isimpossible to confute by reason a man who denies that the matter indispute is within the decision and jurisdiction of reason, and whosupposes that his own opinion is placed out of the reach of attack whenhe declares it to be the unanimous voice of the human race. We mayremember that the author of this philippic against love was at the verymoment brooding over the New Heloisa, and was fresh from strangetransports at the feet of the Julie whom we know.The Letter on the Stage was the definite mark of Rousseau's schism fromthe philosophic congregation. Has Jean Jacques turned a father of thechurch? asked Voltaire. Deserters who fight against their country oughtto be hung. The little flock are falling to devouring one another. Thisarch-madman, who might have been something, if he would only have beenguided by his brethren of the Encyclopaedia, takes it into his head tomake a band of his own. He writes against the stage, after writing a badplay of his own. He finds four or five rotten staves of Diogenes' tub,and instals himself therein to bark at his friends.[357] D'Alembert wasmore tolerant, but less clear-sighted. He insisted that the little flockshould do its best to heal divisions instead of widening them. JeanJacques, he said, "is a madman who is very clever, and who is onlyclever when he is in a fever; it is best therefore neither to cure norto insult him."Rousseau made the preface to the Letter on the Stage an occasion for aproclamation of his final breach with Diderot. "I once," he said,"possessed a severe and judicious Aristarchus; I have him no longer, andwish for him no longer." To this he added in a footnote a passage fromEcclesiasticus, to the effect that if you have drawn a sword on a friendthere still remains a way open, and if you have spoken cheerless wordsto him concord is still possible, but malicious reproach and thebetrayal of a secret--these things banish friendship beyond return. Thiswas the end of his personal connection with the men whom he alwayscontemptuously called the Holbachians. After 1760 the great streamdivided into two; the rationalist and the emotional schools becamevisibly antipathetic, and the voice of the epoch was no longer single orundistracted.FOOTNOTES:[331] See above p. 149.[332] Voltaire to Rousseau. Aug. 30, 1755.[333] _Corr._, i. 237. Sept. 10, 1755.[334] _La Loi Naturelle._[335] In 1754 the Berlin Academy proposed for a prize essay, AnExamination of Pope's System, and Lessing the next year wrote apamphlet to show that Pope had no system, but only a patchwork. SeeMr. Pattison's _Introduction to Pope's Essay on Man_, p. 12. Sime's_Lessing_, i. 128.[336] _Conf._ ix. 276.[337] _Corr._, i. 289-316. Aug. 18, 1756.[338] Joseph De Maistre put all this much more acutely; _Soirees_, iv.[339] Madame d'Epinay, _Mem._, i. 380.[340] _Conf._, ix. 277. Also _Corr._, iii. 326. March 11, 1764.Tronchin's long letter, to which Rousseau refers in this passage, isgiven in M. Streckeisen-Moultou's collection, i. 323, and isinteresting to people who care to know how Voltaire looked to a doctorwho saw him closely.[341] _Corr._, ii. 132. June 17, 1760. Also _Conf._, x. 91.[342] Some other interesting references to Voltaire in Rousseau'sletters are--ii. 170 (Nov. 29, 1760), denouncing Voltaire as "thattrumpet of impiety, that fine genius, and that low soul," and soforth; iii. 29 (Oct. 30, 1762), accusing Voltaire of maliciousintrigues against him in Switzerland; iii. 168 (Mar. 21, 1763), thatif there is to be any reconciliation, Voltaire must make firstadvances; iii. 280 (Dec., 1763), described a trick played by Voltaire;iv. 40 (Jan. 31, 1765) 64; _Corr._, v. 74 (Jan. 5, 1767), replying toVoltaire's calumnious account of his early life; note on this subjectgiving Voltaire the lie direct, iv. 150 (May 31, 1765); the _Lettre aD'Almbert_, p. 193, etc.[343] Bernardin St. Pierre, xii. 96. In the same sense, in Dusaulx,_Mes Rapports avec J.J.R._, (Paris: 1798), p. 101. See also _Corr._,iv. 254. Dec. 30, 1765. And again, iv. 276, Feb. 28, 1766, and p. 356.[344] Dusaulx, p. 102.[345] This part of D'Alembert's article is reproduced in Rousseau'spreface, and the whole is given at the end of the volume in M.Auguis's edition, p. 409.[346] Goncourt, _Femme au 18ieme siecle_, p. 256. Grimm, _Corr. Lit._,vi. 248.[347] _Maximes sur la Comedie_, Sec.15, etc. They were written in replyto a plea for Comedy by Caffaro, a Jesuit father.[348] The letter may be conveniently divided into three parts: I. pp.1-89, II. pp. 90-145, III. pp. 146 to the end. Of course if Rousseauin saying that tragedy leads to pity through terror, was thinking ofthe famous passage in the sixth chapter of Aristotle's _Poetics_, hewas guilty of a shocking mistranslation.[349] Some of the arguments seem drawn from Plato; see, besides thewell-known passages in the _Republic_, the _Laws_, iv. 719, and stillmore directly, _Gorgias_, 502.[350] Yet D'Alembert in his very cool and sensible reply (p. 245)repeats the old saws, as that in _Catilina_ we learn the lesson of theharm which may be done to the human race by the abuse of greattalents, and so forth.[351] _Lettre a M. J.J. Rousseau_, p. 258.[352] D'Alembert's _Lettre a J.J. Rousseau_, p. 277. Rousseau has apassage to the same effect, that false people are always sober, in the_Nouv. Hel., _Pt. I. xxiii. 123.[353] Tronchin, for instance, in a letter to Rousseau, in M.Streckeisen-Moultou's collection, i. 325.[354] A troop of comedians had been allowed to play for a short timein Geneva, with many protests, during the mediation of 1738. In 1766,eight years after Rousseau's letter, the government gave permissionfor the establishment of a theatre in the town. It was burnt down in1768, and Voltaire spitefully hinted that the catastrophe was theresult of design, instigated by Rousseau (_Corr._ v. 299, April 26,1768). The theatre was not re-erected until 1783, when the oligarchicparty regained the ascendancy and brought back with them the drama,which the democrats in their reign would not permit.[355] _Lettre a J.J. Rousseau_, pp. 265-271.[356] _Oeuv._, x. 121.[357] To Thieriot, Sept. 17, 1758. To D'Alembert, Oct. 20, 1761. _Ib._March 19, 1761.END OF VOL. I._Printed by_ R. & R. CLARK, LIMITED, _Edinburgh_                       *  *  *  *  *ROUSSEAUBYJOHN MORLEYVOL. II.LondonMACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITEDNEW YORK: THE MACMILLAN COMPANY1905_All rights reserved__First printed in this form 1886__Reprinted 1888, 1891, 1896, 1900, 1905_CONTENTS OF VOL. II.CHAPTER I.MONTMORENCY--THE NEW HELOISA.Conditions preceding the composition of the New Heloisa 1The Duke and Duchess of Luxembourg 2Rousseau and his patrician acquaintances 4Peaceful life at Montmorency 9Equivocal prudence occasionally shown by Rousseau 12His want of gratitude for commonplace service 13Bad health, and thoughts of suicide 16Episode of Madame Latour de Franqueville 17Relation of the New Heloisa to Rousseau's general doctrine 20Action of the first part of the story 25Contrasted with contemporary literature 25And with contemporary manners 27Criticism of the language and principal actors 28, 29Popularity of the New Heloisa 31Its reactionary intellectual direction 33Action of the second part 35, 36Its influence on Goethe and others 38Distinction between Rousseau and his school 40Singular pictures of domesticity 42Sumptuary details 44The slowness of movement in the work justified 46Exaltation of marriage 47Equalitarian tendencies 49Not inconsistent with social quietism 51Compensation in the political consequences of the triumph of sentiment54Circumstances of the publication of the New Heloisa 55Nature of the trade in books 57Malesherbes and the printing of Emilius 61Rousseau's suspicions 62The great struggle of the moment 64Proscription of Emilius 67Flight of the author 67CHAPTER II.PERSECUTION.Rousseau's journey from Switzerland 69Absence of vindictiveness 70Arrival at Yverdun 72Repairs to Motiers 73Relations with Frederick the Great 74Life at Motiers 77Lord Marischal 79Voltaire 81Rousseau's letter to the Archbishop of Paris 83Its dialectic 86The ministers of Neuchatel 90Rousseau's singular costume 92His throng of visitors 93Lewis, prince of Wuertemberg 95Gibbon 96Boswell 98Corsican affairs 99The feud at Geneva 102Rousseau renounces his citizenship 105The Letters from the Mountain 106Political side 107Consequent persecution at Motiers 107Flight to the isle of St. Peter 108The fifth of the _Reveries_ 109Proscription by the government of Berne 116Rousseau's singular request 116His renewed flight 117Persuaded to seek shelter in England 118CHAPTER III.THE SOCIAL CONTRACT.Rousseau's reaction against perfectibility 119Abandonment of the position of the Discourses 121Doubtful idea of equality 121The Social Contract, a repudiation of the historic method 124Yet it has glimpses of relativity 127Influence of Greek examples 129And of Geneva 131Impression upon Robespierre and Saint Just 132Rousseau's scheme implied a small territory 135Why the Social Contract made fanatics 137Verbal quality of its propositions 138The doctrine of public safety 143The doctrine of the sovereignty of peoples 144Its early phases 144Its history in the sixteenth century 146Hooker and Grotius 148Locke 149Hobbes 151Central propositions of the Social Contract--  1. Origin of society in compact 154     Different conception held by the Physiocrats 156  2. Sovereignty of the body thus constituted 158     Difference from Hobbes and Locke 159     The root of socialism 160     Republican phraseology 161  3. Attributes of sovereignty 162  4. The law-making power 163     A contemporary illustration 164     Hints of confederation 166  5. Forms of government 168     Criticism on the common division 169     Rousseau's preference for elective aristocracy 172  6. Attitude of the state to religion 173     Rousseau's view, the climax of a reaction 176     Its effect at the French Revolution 179     Its futility 180Another method of approaching the philosophy of government--  Origin of society not a compact 183  The true reason of the submission of a minority to a majority 184  Rousseau fails to touch actual problems 186  The doctrine of resistance, for instance 188  Historical illustrations 190  Historical effect of the Social Contract in France and Germany 193  Socialist deductions from it 194CHAPTER IV.EMILIUS.Rousseau touched by the enthusiasm of his time 197Contemporary excitement as to education, part of the revival of  naturalism 199I.--Locke, on education 202    Difference between him and Rousseau 204    Exhortations to mothers 205    Importance of infantile habits 208    Rousseau's protest against reasoning with children 209    Criticised 209    The opposite theory 210    The idea of property 212    Artificially contrived incidents 214    Rousseau's omission of the principle of authority 215    Connected with his neglect of the faculty of sympathy 219II.--Rousseau's ideal of living 221    The training that follows from it 222    The duty of knowing a craft 223    Social conception involved in this moral conception 226III.--Three aims before the instructor 229      Rousseau's omission of training for the social conscience 230      No contemplation of society as a whole 232      Personal interest, the foundation of the morality of Emilius 233      The sphere and definition of the social conscience 235IV.--The study of history 237     Rousseau's notions upon the subject 239V.--Ideals of life for women 241    Rousseau's repudiation of his own principles 242    His oriental and obscurantist position 243    Arising from his want of faith in improvement 244    His reactionary tendencies in this region eventually      neutralised 248VI.--Sum of the merits of Emilius 249     Its influence in France and Germany 251     In England 252CHAPTER V.THE SAVOYARD VICAR.Shallow hopes entertained by the dogmatic atheists 256The good side of the religious reaction 258Its preservation of some parts of Christian influence 259Earlier forms of deism 260The deism of the Savoyard Vicar 264The elevation of man, as well as the restoration of a divinity 265A divinity for fair weather 268Religious self-denial 269The Savoyard Vicar's vital omission 270His position towards Christianity 272Its effectiveness as a solvent 273Weakness of the subjective test 276The Savoyard Vicar's deism not compatible with growing intellectual  conviction 276The true satisfaction of the religious emotion 277CHAPTER VI.ENGLAND.Rousseau's English portrait 281His reception in Paris 282And in London 283Hume's account of him 284Settlement at Wootton 286The quarrel with Hume 287Detail of the charges against Hume 287-291Walpole's pretended letter from Frederick 291Baselessness of the whole delusion 292Hume's conduct in the quarrel 293The war of pamphlets 295Common theory of Rousseau's madness 296Preparatory conditions 297Extension of disorder from the affective life to the intelligence 299The Confessions 301His life at Wootton 306Flight from Derbyshire 306And from England 308CHAPTER VII.THE END.The elder Mirabeau 309Shelters Rousseau at Fleury 311Rousseau at Trye 312In Dauphiny 314Return to Paris 314The _Reveries_ 315Life in Paris 316Bernardin de St. Pierre's account of him 317An Easter excursion 320Rousseau's unsociality 322Poland and Spain 324Withdrawal to Ermenonville 326His death 326ROUSSEAU.CHAPTER I.MONTMORENCY--THE NEW HELOISA.The many conditions of intellectual productiveness are still hidden insuch profound obscurity that we are unable to explain why a period ofstormy moral agitation seems to be in certain natures theindispensable antecedent of their highest creative effort. Byron isone instance, and Rousseau is another, in which the current ofstimulating force made this rapid way from the lower to the higherparts of character, and only expended itself after having traversedthe whole range of emotion and faculty, from their meanest, mostrealistic, most personal forms of exercise, up to the summit of whatis lofty and ideal. No man was ever involved in such an odiouscomplication of moral maladies as beset Rousseau in the winter of1758. Yet within three years of this miserable epoch he had completednot only the New Heloisa, which is the monument of his fall, but theSocial Contract, which was the most influential, and Emilius, whichwas perhaps the most elevated and spiritual, of all the productions ofthe prolific genius of France in the eighteenth century. A poorlight-hearted Marmontel thought that the secret of Rousseau's successlay in the circumstance that he began to write late, and it is truethat no other author, so considerable as Rousseau, waited until theage of fifty for the full vigour of his inspiration. No tale of years,however, could have ripened such fruit without native strength andincommunicable savour. Nor can the mechanical movement of those betterordered characters which keep the balance of the world even, impart toliterature that peculiar quality, peculiar but not the finest, thatcomes from experience of the black unlighted abysses of the soul.The period of actual production was externally calm. The New Heloisawas completed in 1759, and published in 1761. The Social Contract waspublished in the spring of 1762, and Emilius a few weeks later.Throughout this period Rousseau was, for the last time in his life, atpeace with most of his fellows. Though he never relented from hisantipathy to the Holbachians, for the time it slumbered, until a morereal and serious persecution than any which he imputed to them,transformed his antipathy into a gloomy frenzy.The new friends whom he made at Montmorency were among the greatestpeople in the kingdom. The Duke of Luxembourg (1702-64) was a marshalof France, and as intimate a friend of the king as the king wascapable of having. The Marechale de Luxembourg (1707-87) had been oneof the most beautiful, and continued to be one of the most brilliantleaders of the last aristocratic generation that was destined to sporton the slopes of the volcano. The former seems to have been a loyaland homely soul; the latter, restless, imperious, penetrating,unamiable. Their dealings with Rousseau were marked by perfectsincerity and straightforward friendship. They gave him a convenientapartment in a small summer lodge in the park, to which he retreatedwhen he cared for a change from his narrow cottage. He was a constantguest at their table, where he met the highest personages in France.The marshal did not disdain to pay him visits, or to walk with him, orto discuss his private affairs. Unable as ever to shine inconversation, yet eager to show his great friends that they had to dowith no common mortal, Rousseau bethought him of reading the NewHeloisa aloud to them. At ten in the morning he used to wait upon themarechale, and there by her bedside he read the story of the love, thesin, the repentance of Julie, the distraction of Saint Preux, thewisdom of Wolmar, and the sage friendship of Lord Edward, in toneswhich enchanted her both with his book and its author for all the restof the day, as all the women in France were so soon to beenchanted.[1] This, as he expected, amply reconciled her to theuncouthness and clumsiness of his conversation, which was at least asmaladroit and as spiritless in the presence of a duchess as it was inpresences less imposing.One side of character is obviously tested by the way in which a manbears himself in his relations with those of greater socialconsideration. Rousseau was taxed by some of his plebeian enemies witha most unheroic deference to his patrician friends. He had a dog whosename was _Duc_. When he came to sit at a duke's table, he changed hisdog's name to _Turc_.[2] Again, one day in a transport of tendernesshe embraced the old marshal--the duchess embraced Rousseau ten times aday, for the age was effusive--"Ah, monsieur le marechal, I used tohate the great before I knew you, and I hate them still more, sinceyou make me feel so strongly how easy it would be for them to havethemselves adored."[3] On another occasion he happened to be playingat chess with the Prince of Conti, who had come to visit him in hiscottage.[4] In spite of the signs and grimaces of the attendants, heinsisted on beating the prince in a couple of games. Then he said withrespectful gravity, "Monseigneur, I honour your serene highness toomuch not to beat you at chess always."[5] A few days after, thevanquished prince sent him a present of game which Rousseau dulyaccepted. The present was repeated, but this time Rousseau wrote toMadame de Boufflers that he would receive no more, and that he lovedthe prince's conversation better than his gifts.[6] He admits thatthis was an ungracious proceeding, and that to refuse game "from aprince of the blood who throws such good feeling into the present, isnot so much the delicacy of a proud man bent on preserving hisindependence, as the rusticity of an unmannerly person who does notknow his place."[7] Considering the extreme virulence with whichRousseau always resented gifts even of the most trifling kind from hisfriends, one may perhaps find some inconsistency in this condemnationof a sort of conduct to which he tenaciously clung on all otheroccasions. If the fact of the donor being a prince of the blood isallowed to modify the quality of the donation, that is hardly adefensible position in the austere citizen of Geneva. Madame deBoufflers,[8] the intimate friend of our sage Hume, and the yet moreintimate friend of the Prince of Conti, gave him a judicious warningwhen she bade him beware of laying himself open to a charge ofaffectation, lest it should obscure the brightness of his virtue andso hinder its usefulness. "Fabius and Regulus would have accepted suchmarks of esteem, without feeling in them any hurt to theirdisinterestedness and frugality."[9] Perhaps there is a flutter ofself-consciousness that is not far removed from this affectation, inthe pains which Rousseau takes to tell us that after dining at thecastle, he used to return home gleefully to sup with a mason who washis neighbour and his friend.[10] On the whole, however, and so far aswe know, Rousseau conducted himself not unworthily with these highpeople. His letters to them are for the most part marked byself-respect and a moderate graciousness, though now and again hemakes rather too much case of the difference of rank, and asserts hisindependence with something too much of protestation.[11] Theirrelations with him are a curious sign of the interest which themembers of the great world took in the men who were quietly preparingthe destruction both of them and their world. The Marechale deLuxembourg places this squalid dweller in a hovel on her estate in theplace of honour at her table, and embraces his Theresa. The Prince ofConti pays visits of courtesy and sends game to a man whom he employsat a few sous an hour to copy manuscript for him. The Countess ofBoufflers, in sending him the money, insists that he is to count herhis warmest friend.[12] When his dog dies, the countess writes tosympathise with his chagrin, and the prince begs to be allowed toreplace it.[13] And when persecution and trouble and infiniteconfusion came upon him, they all stood as fast by him as their owncomfort would allow. Do we not feel that there must have been in theunhappy man, besides all the recorded pettinesses and perversitieswhich revolt us in him, a vein of something which touched men, andmade women devoted to him, until he splenetically drove both men andwomen away from him? With Madame d'Epinay and Madame d'Houdetot, aswith the dearer and humbler patroness of his youth, we have now partedcompany. But they are instantly succeeded by new devotees. And thelovers of Rousseau, in all degrees, were not silly women led captiveby idle fancy. Madame de Boufflers was one of the most distinguishedspirits of her time. Her friendship for him was such, that hissensuous vanity made Rousseau against all reason or probabilityconfound it with a warmer form of emotion, and he plumes himself in amanner most displeasing on the victory which he won over his ownfeelings on the occasion.[14] As a matter of fact he had no feelingsto conquer, any more than the supposed object of them ever bore himany ill-will for his indifference, as in his mania of suspicion heafterwards believed.There was a calm about the too few years he passed at Montmorency,which leaves us in doubt whether this mania would ever have afflictedhim, if his natural irritation had not been made intense andirresistible by the cruel distractions that followed the publicationof Emilius. He was tolerably content with his present friends. Thesimplicity of their way of dealing with him contrasted singularly, ashe thought, with the never-ending solicitudes, as importunate as theywere officious, of the patronising friends whom he had just castoff.[15] Perhaps, too, he was soothed by the companionship of personswhose rank may have flattered his vanity, while unlike Diderot and hisold literary friends in Paris, they entered into no competition withhim in the peculiar sphere of his own genius. Madame de Boufflers,indeed, wrote a tragedy, but he told her gruffly enough that it was aplagiarism from Southerne's Oroonoko.[16] That Rousseau wasthoroughly capable of this pitiful emotion of sensitive literaryjealousy is proved, if by nothing else, by his readiness to suspectthat other authors were jealous of him. No one suspects others of ameanness of this kind unless he is capable of it himself. Theresounding success which followed the New Heloisa and Emilius put anend to these apprehensions. It raised him to a pedestal in popularesteem as high as that on which Voltaire stood triumphant. That verysuccess unfortunately brought troubles which destroyed Rousseau's lastchance of ending his days in full reasonableness.Meanwhile he enjoyed his final interval of moderate wholesomeness andpeace. He felt his old healthy joy in the green earth. One of theletters commemorates his delight in the great scudding south-westwinds of February, soft forerunners of the spring, so sweet to all wholive with nature.[17] At the end of his garden was a summer-house, andhere even on wintry days he sat composing or copying. It was not musiconly that he copied. He took a curious pleasure in making transcriptsof his romance, and he sold them to the Duchess of Luxembourg andother ladies for some moderate fee.[18] Sometimes he moved from hisown lodging to the quarters in the park which his great friends hadinduced him to accept. "They were charmingly neat; the furniture wasof white and blue. It was in this perfumed and delicious solitude, inthe midst of woods and streams and choirs of birds of every kind,with the fragrance of the orange-flower poured round me, that Icomposed in a continual ecstasy the fifth book of Emilius. With whateagerness did I hasten every morning at sunrise to breathe the balmyair! What good coffee I used to make under the porch in company withmy Theresa! The cat and the dog made up the party. That would havesufficed me for all the days of my life, and I should never have knownweariness." And so to the assurance, so often repeated under so manydifferent circumstances, that here was a true heaven upon earth, whereif fates had only allowed he would have known unbroken innocence andlasting happiness.[19]Yet he had the wisdom to warn others against attempting a life such ashe craved for himself. As on a more memorable occasion, there came tohim a young man who would fain have been with him always, and whom hesent away exceeding sorrowful. "The first lesson I should give youwould be not to surrender yourself to the taste you say you have forthe contemplative life. It is only an indolence of the soul, to becondemned at any age, but especially so at yours. Man is not made tomeditate, but to act. Labour therefore in the condition of life inwhich you have been placed by your family and by providence: that isthe first precept of the virtue which you wish to follow. If residenceat Paris, joined to the business you have there, seems to youirreconcilable with virtue, do better still, and return to your ownprovince. Go live in the bosom of your family, serve and solace yourhonest parents. There you will be truly fulfilling the duties thatvirtue imposes on you."[20] This intermixture of sound sense withunutterable perversities almost suggests a doubt how far theperversities were sincere, until we remember that Rousseau even in themost exalted part of his writings was careful to separate immediatepractical maxims from his theoretical principles of socialphilosophy.[21]Occasionally his good sense takes so stiff and unsympathetic a form asto fill us with a warmer dislike for him than his worst paradoxesinspire. A correspondent had written to him about the frightfulpersecutions which were being inflicted on the Protestants in somedistrict of France. Rousseau's letter is a masterpiece in the style ofEliphaz the Temanite. Our brethren must surely have given some pretextfor the evil treatment to which they were subjected. One who is aChristian must learn to suffer, and every man's conduct ought toconform to his doctrine. Our brethren, moreover, ought to rememberthat the word of God is express upon the duty of obeying the laws setup by the prince. The writer cannot venture to run any risk byinterceding in favour of our brethren with the government. "Every onehas his own calling upon the earth; mine is to tell the public harshbut useful truths. I have preached humanity, gentleness, tolerance, sofar as it depended upon me; 'tis no fault of mine if the world has notlistened. I have made it a rule to keep to general truths; I produceno libels, no satires; I attack no man, but men; not an action, but avice."[22] The worst of the worthy sort of people, wrote Voltaire, isthat they are such cowards: a man groans over a wrong, he holds histongue, he takes his supper, and he forgets all about it.[23] IfVoltaire could not write like Fenelon, at least he could never talklike Tartufe; he responded to no tale of wrong with words about hismission, with strings of antitheses, but always with royal anger andthe spring of alert and puissant endeavour. In an hour of oppressionone would rather have been the friend of the saviour of the Calas andof Sirven, than of the vindicator of theism.Rousseau, however, had good sense enough in less equivocal forms thanthis. For example, in another letter he remonstrates with acorrespondent for judging the rich too harshly. "You do not bear inmind that having from their childhood contracted a thousand wantswhich we are without, then to bring them down to the condition of thepoor, would be to make them more miserable than the poor. We should bejust towards all the world, even to those who are not just to us. Ah,if we had the virtues opposed to the vices which we reproach in them,we should soon forget that such people were in the world. One wordmore. To have any right to despise the rich, we ought ourselves to beprudent and thrifty, so as to have no need of riches."[24] In theobservance of this just precept Rousseau was to the end of his lifeabsolutely without fault. No one was more rigorously careful to makehis independence sure by the fewness of his wants and by minutefinancial probity. This firm limitation of his material desires wasone cause of his habitual and almost invariable refusal to acceptpresents, though no doubt another cause was the stubborn andungracious egoism which made him resent every obligation.It is worth remembering in illustration of the peculiar susceptibilityand softness of his character where women were concerned--it was notquite without exception--that he did not fly into a fit of rage overtheir gifts, as he did over those of men. He remonstrated, but ingentler key. "What could I do with four pullets?" he wrote to a ladywho had presented them to him. "I began by sending two of them topeople to whom I am indifferent. That made me think of the differencethere is between a present and a testimony of friendship. The firstwill never find in me anything but a thankless heart; the second....Ah, if you had only given me news of yourself without sending meanything else, how rich and how grateful you would have made me;instead of that the pullets are eaten, and the best thing I can do isto forget all about them; let us say no more."[25] Rude and repellentas this may seem, and as it is, there is a rough kind of playfulnessabout it, when compared with the truculence which he was not slow toexhibit to men. If a friend presumed to thank him for any service, hewas peremptorily rebuked for his ignorance of the true qualities offriendship, with which thankfulness has no connection. Heostentatiously refused to offer thanks for services himself, even to awoman whom he always treated with so much consideration as theMarechale de Luxembourg. He once declared boldly that modesty is afalse virtue,[26] and though he did not go so far as to make gratitudethe subject of a corresponding formula of denunciation, he alwaysimplied that this too is really one of the false virtues. He confessedto Malesherbes, without the slightest contrition, that he wasungrateful by nature.[27] To Madame d'Epinay he once went stillfurther, declaring that he found it hard not to hate those who hadused him well.[28] Undoubtedly he was right so far as this, thatgratitude answering to a spirit of exaction in a benefactor is nomerit; a service done in expectation of gratitude is from that factstripped of the quality which makes gratitude due, and is a mere pieceof egoism in altruistic disguise. Kindness in its genuine forms is atestimony of good feeling, and conventional speech is perhaps a littletoo hard, as well as too shallow and unreal, in calling the recipientevil names because he is unable to respond to the good feeling.Rousseau protested against a conception of friendship which makes ofwhat ought to be disinterested helpfulness a title to everlastingtribute. His way of expressing this was harsh and unamiable, but itwas not without an element of uprightness and veracity. As in hisgreater themes, so in his paradoxes upon private relations, he hidwholesome ingredients of rebuke to the unquestioning acceptance ofcommon form. "I am well pleased," he said to a friend, "both with theeand thy letters, except the end, where thou say'st thou art more minethan thine own. For there thou liest, and it is not worth while totake the trouble to _thee_ and _thou_ a man as thine intimate, only totell him untruths."[29] Chesterfield was for people with muchself-love of the small sort, probably a more agreeable person to meetthan Doctor Johnson, but Johnson was the more wholesome companion fora man.Occasionally, though not very often, he seems to have let spleen takethe place of honest surliness, and so drifted into clumsy andill-humoured banter, of a sort that gives a dreary shudder to onefresh from Voltaire. "So you have chosen for yourself a tender andvirtuous mistress! I am not surprised; all mistresses are that. Youhave chosen her in Paris! To find a tender and virtuous mistress inParis is to have not such bad luck. You have made her a promise ofmarriage? My friend, you have made a blunder; for if you continue tolove, the promise is superfluous, and if you do not, then it is noavail. You have signed it with your blood? That is all but tragic; butI don't know that the choice of the ink in which he writes, givesanything to the fidelity of the man who signs."[30]We can only add that the health in which a man writes may possiblyexcuse the dismal quality of what he writes, and that Rousseau was nowas always the prey of bodily pain which, as he was conscious, made himdistraught. "My sufferings are not very excruciating just now," hewrote on a later occasion, "but they are incessant, and I am not outof pain a single moment day or night, and this quite drives me mad. Ifeel bitterly my wrong conduct and the baseness of my suspicions; butif anything can excuse me, it is my mournful state, my loneliness,"and so on.[31] This prolonged physical anguish, which was made moreintense towards the end of 1761 by the accidental breaking of asurgical instrument,[32] sometimes so nearly wore his fortitude awayas to make him think of suicide.[33] In Lord Edward's famous letter onsuicide in the New Heloisa, while denying in forcible terms the rightof ending one's days merely to escape from intolerable mentaldistress, he admits that inasmuch as physical disorders only growincessantly worse, violent and incurable bodily pain may be an excusefor a man making away with himself; he ceases to be a human beingbefore dying, and in putting an end to his life he only completes hisrelease from a body that embarrasses him, and contains his soul nolonger.[34] The thought was often present to him in this form.Eighteen months later than our last date, the purpose grew verydeliberate under an aggravation of his malady, and he seriously lookedupon his own case as falling within the conditions of Lord Edward'sexception.[35] It is difficult, in the face of outspoken declarationslike these, to know what writers can be thinking of when, with respectto the controversy on the manner of Rousseau's death, they pronouncehim incapable of such a dereliction of his own most cherishedprinciples as anything like self-destruction would have been.As he sat gnawed by pain, with surgical instruments on his table, andsombre thoughts of suicide in his head, the ray of a little episode ofromance shone in incongruously upon the scene. Two ladies in Paris,absorbed in the New Heloisa, like all the women of the time,identified themselves with the Julie and the Claire of the novel thatnone could resist. They wrote anonymously to the author, claimingtheir identification with characters fondly supposed to be immortal."You will know that Julie is not dead, and that she lives to love you;I am not this Julie, you perceive it by my style; I am only hercousin, or rather her friend, as Claire was." The unfortunate SaintPreux responded as gallantly as he could be expected to do in theintervals of surgery. "You do not know that the Saint Preux to whomyou write is tormented with a cruel and incurable disorder, and thatthe very letter he writes to you is often interrupted by distractionsof a very different kind."[36] He figures rather uncouthly, but theunknown fair were not at first disabused, and one of them never was.Rousseau was deeply suspicious. He feared to be made the victim of amasculine pleasantry. From women he never feared anything. His letterswere found too short, too cold. He replied to the remonstrance by areference of extreme coarseness. His correspondents wrote from theneighbourhood of the Palais Royal, then and for long after the hauntof mercenary women. "You belong to your quarter more than I thought,"he said brutally.[37] The vulgarity of the lackey was never quiteobliterated in him, even when the lackey had written Emilius. Thiswas too much for the imaginary Claire. "I have given myself three goodblows on my breast for the correspondence that I was silly enough toopen between you," she wrote to Julie, and she remained implacable.The Julie, on the contrary, was faithful to the end of Rousseau'slife. She took his part vehemently in the quarrel with Hume, and wrotein defence of his memory after he was dead. She is the most remarkableof all the instances of that unreasoning passion which the New Heloisainflamed in the breasts of the women of that age. Madame Latourpursued Jean Jacques with a devotion that no coldness could repulse.She only saw him three times in all, the first time not until 1766,when he was on his way through Paris to England. The second time, in1772, she visited him without mentioning her name, and he did notrecognise her; she brought him some music to copy, and went awayunknown. She made another attempt, announcing herself: he gave her afrosty welcome, and then wrote to her that she was to come no more.With a strange fidelity she bore him no grudge, but cherished hismemory and sorrowed over his misfortunes to the day of her death. Hewas not an idol of very sublime quality, but we may think kindly ofthe idolatress.[38] Worshippers are ever dearer to us than theirgraven images. Let us turn to the romance which touched women in thisway, and helped to give a new spirit to an epoch.II.As has been already said, it is the business of criticism to separatewhat is accidental in form, transitory in manner, and merely local insuggestion, from the general ideas which live under a casual andparticular literary robe. And so we have to distinguish the externalconditions under which a book like the New Heloisa is produced, fromthe living qualities in the author which gave the external conditionstheir hold upon him, and turned their development in one directionrather than another. We are only encouraging poverty of spirit, whenwe insist on fixing our eyes on a few of the minutiae of construction,instead of patiently seizing larger impressions and more durablemeanings; when we stop at the fortuitous incidents of composition,instead of advancing to the central elements of the writer'scharacter.These incidents in the case of the New Heloisa we know; the sensuouscommunion with nature in her summer mood in the woods of Montmorency,the long hours and days of solitary expansion, the despairing passionfor the too sage Julie of actual experience. But the power of theseimpressions from without depended on secrets of conformation within.An adult with marked character is, consciously or unconsciously, hisown character's victim or sport. It is his whole system of impulses,ideas, pre-occupations, that make those critical situations ready,into which he too hastily supposes that an accident has drawn him. Andthis inner system not only prepares the situation; it forces hisinterpretation of the situation. Much of the interest of the NewHeloisa springs from the fact that it was the outcome, in a sense ofwhich the author himself was probably unconscious, of the generaldoctrine of life and conduct which he only professed to expound inwritings of graver pretension. Rousseau generally spoke of his romancein phrases of depreciation, as the monument of a passing weakness. Itwas in truth as entirely a monument of the strength, no less than theweakness, of his whole scheme, as his weightiest piece. That it wasnot so deliberately, only added to its effect. The slow and musing airwhich underlies all the assumption of ardent passion, made a way forthe doctrine into sensitive natures, that would have been untouched bythe pretended ratiocination of the Discourses, and the didactic mannerof the Emilius.Rousseau's scheme, which we must carefully remember was only presentto his own mind in an informal and fragmentary way, may be shortlydescribed as an attempt to rehabilitate human nature in as much of thesupposed freshness of primitive times, as the hardened crust of civilinstitutions and social use might allow. In this survey, howeverincoherently carried out, the mutual passion of the two sexes was thevery last that was likely to escape Rousseau's attention. Hence it waswith this that he began. The Discourses had been an attack upon thegeneral ordering of society, and an exposition of the mischief thatsociety has done to human nature at large. The romance treated one setof emotions in human nature particularly, though it also touches thewhole emotional sphere indirectly. And this limitation of the fieldwas accompanied by a total revolution in the method. Polemic wasabandoned; the presence of hostility was forgotten in appearance, ifnot in the heart of the writer; instead of discussion, presentation;instead of abstract analysis of principles, concrete drawing ofpersons and dramatic delineation of passion. There is, it is true, amonstrous superfluity of ethical exposition of most doubtful value,but then that, as we have already said, was in the manners of thetime. All people in those days with any pretensions to use theirminds, wrote and talked in a superfine ethical manner, and violentlytranslated the dictates of sensibility into formulas of morality. Theimportant thing to remark is not that this semi-didactic strain ispresent, but that there is much less of it, and that it takes a farmore subordinate place, than the subject and the reigning taste wouldhave led us to expect. It is true, also, that Rousseau declared hisintention in the two characters of Julie and of Wolmar, who eventuallybecame Julie's husband, of leading to a reconciliation between the twogreat opposing parties, the devout and the rationalistic; of teachingthem the lesson of reciprocal esteem, by showing the one that it ispossible to believe in a God without being a hypocrite, and the otherthat it is possible to be an unbeliever without being a scoundrel.[39]This intention, if it was really present to Rousseau's mind while hewas writing, and not an afterthought characteristically welcomed forthe sake of giving loftiness and gravity to a composition of which hewas always a little ashamed, must at any rate have been of a very palekind. It would hardly have occurred to a critic, unless Rousseau hadso emphatically pointed it out, that such a design had presided overthe composition, and contemporary readers saw nothing of it. In thefirst part of the story, which is wholly passionate, it is certainlynot visible, and in the second part neither of the two contendingfactions was likely to learn any lesson with respect to the other.Churchmen would have insisted that Wolmar was really a Christiandressed up as an atheist, and philosophers would hardly have acceptedJulie as a type of the too believing people who broke Calas on thewheel, and cut off La Barre's head.French critics tell us that no one now reads the New Heloisa in Franceexcept deliberate students of the works of Rousseau, and certainly fewin this generation read it in our own country.[40] The action is veryslight, and the play of motives very simple, when contrasted with theingenuity of invention, the elaborate subtleties of psychologicalanalysis, the power of rapid change from one perturbing incident orexcited humour to another, which mark the modern writer of sentimentalfiction. As the title warns us, it is a story of a youthful tutor anda too fair disciple, straying away from the lessons of calm philosophyinto the heated places of passion. The high pride of Julie's fatherforbade all hope of their union, and in very desperation the unhappypair lost the self-control of virtue, and threw themselves into thepit that lies so ready to our feet. Remorse followed with quick step,for Julie had with her purity lost none of the other lovelinesses of adutiful character. Her lover was hurried away from the country by thegenerous solicitude of an English nobleman, one of the bravest,tenderest, and best of men. Julie, left undisturbed by her lover'spresence, stricken with affliction at the death of a sweet andaffectionate mother, and pressed by the importunities of a father whomshe dearly loved, in spite of all the disasters which his will hadbrought upon her, at length consented to marry a foreign baron fromsome northern court. Wolmar was much older than she was; a devotee ofcalm reason, without a system and without prejudices, benevolent,orderly, above all things judicious. The lover meditated suicide, fromwhich he was only diverted by the arguments of Lord Edward, who didmore than argue; he hurried the forlorn man on board the ship ofAdmiral Anson, then just starting for his famous voyage round theworld. And this marks the end of the first episode.Rousseau always urged that his story was dangerous for young girls,and maintained that Richardson was grievously mistaken in supposingthat they could be instructed by romances. It was like setting fire tothe house, he said, for the sake of making the pumps play.[41] As headmitted so much, he is not open to attack on this side, except fromthose who hold the theory that no books ought to be written which maynot prudently be put into the hands of the young,--a puerile andcontemptible doctrine that must emasculate all literature and all art,by excluding the most interesting of human relations and the mostpowerful of human passions. There is not a single composition of thefirst rank outside of science, from the Bible downwards, that couldundergo the test. The most useful standard for measuring thesignificance of a book in this respect is found in the manners of thetime, and the prevailing tone of contemporary literature. In trying toappreciate the meaning of the New Heloisa and its popularity, it iswell to think of it as a delineation of love, in connection not onlywith such a book as the Pucelle, where there is at least wit, but witha story like Duclos's, which all ladies both read and were not in theleast ashamed to acknowledge that they had read; or still worse, suchan abomination as Diderot's first stories; or a story like Laclos's,which came a generation later, and with its infinite briskness anddevilry carried the tradition of artistic impurity to as vigorous amanifestation as it is capable of reaching.[42] To a generation whoseliterature is as pure as the best English, American, and Germanliterature is in the present day, the New Heloisa might without doubtbe corrupting. To the people who read Crebillon and the Pucelle, itwas without doubt elevating.The case is just as strong if we turn from books to manners. Withoutlooking beyond the circle of names that occur in Rousseau's ownhistory, we see how deep the depravity had become. Madame d'Epinay'sgallant sat at table with the husband, and the husband was perfectlyaware of the relations between them. M. d'Epinay had notoriousrelations with two public women, and was not ashamed to refer to themin the presence of his wife, and even to seek her sympathy on anoccasion when one of them was in some trouble. Not only this, buthusband and lover used to pursue their debaucheries in the towntogether in jovial comradeship. An opera dancer presided at the tableof a patrician abbe in his country house, and he passed weeks in herhouse in the town. As for shame, says Barbier on one occasion, "'tistrue the king has a mistress, but who has not?--except the Duke ofOrleans; he has withdrawn to Ste. Genevieve, and is thoroughlydespised in consequence, and rightly."[43] Reeking disorder such asall this illustrates, made the passion of the two imaginary lovers ofthe fair lake seem like a breath from the garden of Eden. One virtuewas lost in that simple paradise, but even that loss was followed bycircumstances of mental pain and far circling distress, which banishedthe sin into a secondary place; and what remained to strike theimagination of the time were delightful pictures of fast union betweentwo enchanting women, of the patience and compassionateness of a gravemother, of the chivalrous warmth and helpfulness of a loyal friend.Any one anxious to pick out sensual strokes and turns of grossnesscould make a small collection of such defilements from the New Heloisawithout any difficulty. They were in Rousseau's character, and so theycame out in his work. Saint Preux afflicts us with touches of thiskind, just as we are afflicted with similar touches in theConfessions. They were not noticed at that day, when people's ears didnot affect to be any chaster than the rest of them.A historian of opinion is concerned with the general effect that wasactually produced by a remarkable book, and with the causes thatproduced it. It is not his easy task to produce a demonstration thatif the readers had all been as wise and as virtuous as the moralistmight desire them to be, or if they had all been discriminating andscientific critics, not this, but a very different impression wouldhave followed. Today we may wonder at the effect of the New Heloisa.A long story told in letters has grown to be a form incomprehensibleand intolerable to us. We find Richardson hard to be borne, and he putfar greater vivacity and wider variety into his letters than Rousseaudid, though he was not any less diffuse, and he abounds in repetitionsas Rousseau does not. Rousseau was absolutely without humour; thatbelongs to the keenly observant natures, and to those who love men inthe concrete, not only humanity in the abstract. The pleasantries ofJulie's cousin, for instance, are heavy and misplaced. Thus the wholebook is in one key, without the dramatic changes of Richardson, toofew even as those are. And who now can endure that antique fashion ofapostrophising men and women, hot with passion and eager with allactive impulses, in oblique terms of abstract qualities, as if theirpassion and their activity were only the inconsiderable embodiment offine general ideas? We have not a single thrill, when Saint Preuxbeing led into the chamber where his mistress is supposed to liedying, murmurs passionately, "What shall I now see in the same placeof refuge where once all breathed the ecstasy that intoxicated mysoul, in this same object who both caused and shared my transports!the image of death, virtue unhappy, beauty expiring!"[44] Thisrhetorical artificiality of phrase, so repulsive to the more realistictaste of a later age, was as natural then as that facility of sheddingtears, which appears so deeply incredible a performance to ageneration that has lost that particular fashion of sensibility,without realising for the honour of its ancestors the physiologicaltruth of the power of the will over the secretions.The characters seem as stiff as some of the language, to us who areaccustomed to an Asiatic luxuriousness of delineation. Yet the NewHeloisa was nothing less than the beginning of that fresh, full,highly-coloured style which has now taught us to find so little charmin the source and original of it. Saint Preux is a personage whom nowidest charity, literary, philosophic, or Christian, can makeendurable. Egoism is made thrice disgusting by a ceaseless redundanceof fine phrases. The exaggerated conceits of love in our old poetsturn graciously on the lover's eagerness to offer every sacrifice atthe feet of his mistress. Even Werther, stricken creature as he was,yet had the stoutness to blow his brains out, rather than be theinstrument of surrounding the life of his beloved with snares. SaintPreux's egoism is unbrightened by a single ray of tender abnegation,or a single touch of the sweet humility of devoted passion. The slaveof his sensations, he has no care beyond their gratification. Withsome rotund nothing on his lips about virtue being the only path tohappiness, his heart burns with sickly desire. He writes first like apedagogue infected by some cantharidean philter, and then like apedagogue without the philter, and that is the worse of the two.Lovelace and the Count of Valmont are manly and hopeful characters incomparison. Werther, again, at least represents a principle ofrebellion, in the midst of all his self-centred despair, and heretains strength enough to know that his weakness is shameful. Hisdespair, moreover, is deeply coloured with repulsed socialambition.[45] He feels the world about him. His French prototype, onthe contrary, represents nothing but the unalloyed selfishness of asensual love for which there is no universe outside of its own feveredpulsation.Julie is much less displeasing, partly perhaps for the reason that shebelongs to the less displeasing sex. At least, she preservesfortitude, self-control, and profound considerateness for others. At acertain point her firmness even moves a measure of enthusiasm. If theNew Heloisa could be said to have any moral intention, it is herewhere women learn from the example of Julie's energetic return toduty, the possibility and the satisfaction of bending character backto comeliness and honour. Excellent as this is from a moral point ofview, the reader may wish that Julie had been less of a preacher, aswell as less of a sinner. And even as sinner, she would have been morereadily forgiven if she had been less deliberate. A maiden whosacrifices her virtue in order that the visible consequences may forceher parents to consent to a marriage, is too strategical to beperfectly touching. As was said by the cleverest, though not thegreatest, of all the women whose youth was fascinated by Rousseau,when one has renounced the charms of virtue, it is at least well tohave all the charms that entire surrender of heart can bestow.[46] Inspite of this, however, Julie struck the imagination of the time, andstruck it in a way that was thoroughly wholesome. The type taught mensome respect for the dignity of women, and it taught women a firmerrespect for themselves. It is useless, even if it be possible, topresent an example too lofty for the comprehension of an age. At thismoment the most brilliant genius in the country was filling Francewith impish merriment at the expense of the greatest heroine thatFrance had then to boast. In such an atmosphere Julie had almost thehalo of saintliness.We may say all we choose about the inconsistency, the excess ofpreaching, the excess of prudence, in the character of Julie. It wassaid pungently enough by the wits of the time.[47] Nothing that couldbe said on all this affected the fact, that the women between 1760and the Revolution were intoxicated by Rousseau's creation to such apitch that they would pay any price for a glass out of which Rousseauhad drunk, they would kiss a scrap of paper that contained a piece ofhis handwriting, and vow that no woman of true sensibility couldhesitate to consecrate her life to him, if she were only certain to berewarded by his attachment.[48] The booksellers were unable to meetthe demand. The book was let out at the rate of twelve sous a volume,and the volume could not be detained beyond an hour. All classesshared the excitement, courtiers, soldiers, lawyers, andbourgeois.[49] Stories were told of fine ladies, dressed for the ball,who took the book up for half an hour until the time should come forstarting; they read until midnight, and when informed that thecarriage waited, answered not a word, and when reminded by and by thatit was two o'clock, still read on, and then at four, having orderedthe horses to be taken out of the carriage, disrobed, went to bed, andpassed the remainder of the night in reading. In Germany the effectwas just as astonishing. Kant only once in his life failed to take hisafternoon walk, and this unexampled omission was due to the witcheryof the New Heloisa. Gallantry was succeeded by passion, expansion,exaltation; moods far more dangerous for society, as all enthusiasm isdangerous, but also far higher and pregnant with better hopes forcharacter. To move the sympathetic faculties is the first step towardskindling all the other energies which make life wiser and morefruitful. It is especially worth noticing that nothing in thecharacter of Julie concentrates this outburst of sympathy insubjective broodings. Julie is the representative of one recalled tothe straight path by practical, wholesome, objective sympathy forothers, not of one expiring in unsatisfied yearnings for the sympathyof others for herself, and in moonstruck subjective aspirations. Thewomen who wept over her romance read in it the lesson of duty, not ofwhimpering introspection. The danger lay in the mischievousintellectual direction which Rousseau imparted to this effusion.The stir which the Julie communicated to the affections in so manyways, marked progress, but in all the elements of reason she was themost perilous of reactionaries. So hard it is with the human mind,constituted as it is, to march forward a space further to the light,without making some fresh swerve obliquely towards old darkness. Thegreat effusion of natural sentiment was in the air before the NewHeloisa appeared, to condense and turn it into definite channels. Onebeautiful character, Vauven argues (1715-1747), had begun to teach theculture of emotional instinct in some sayings of exquisite sweetnessand moderation, as that "Great thoughts come from the heart." But hecame too soon, and, alas for us all, he died young, and he made nomark. Moderation never can make a mark in the epochs when men arebeginning to feel the urgent spirit of a new time. Diderot strove withmore powerful efforts, in the midst of all his herculean labours forthe acquisition and ordering of knowledge, in the same directiontowards the great outer world of nature, and towards the great innerworld of nature in the human breast. His criticisms on the paintingsof each year, mediocre as the paintings were, are admirable even nowfor their richness and freshness. If Diderot had been endowed withemotional tenacity, as he was with tenacity of understanding and ofpurpose, the student of the eighteenth century would probably havebeen spared the not perfectly agreeable task of threading a way alongthe sinuosities of the character and work of Rousseau. But Rousseauhad what Diderot lacked--sustained ecstatic moods, and fervid trances;his literary gesture was so commanding, his apparel so glistening, hisvoice so rich in long-drawn notes of plangent vibration. His wordsare the words of a prophet; a prophet, it is understood, who had livedin Paris, and belonged to the eighteenth century, and wrote in Frenchinstead of Hebrew. The mischief of his work lay in this, that heraised feeling, now passionate, now quietest, into the supreme placewhich it was to occupy alone, and not on an equal throne and in equalalliance with understanding. Instead of supplementing reason, heplaced emotion as its substitute. And he made this evil doctrine comefrom the lips of a fictitious character, who stimulated fancy andfascinated imagination. Voltaire laughed at the _baisers acres_ ofMadame de Wolmar, and declared that a criticism of the Marquis ofXimenes had crushed the wretched romance.[50] But Madame de Wolmar wasso far from crushed, that she turned the flood of feeling which herown charms, passion, remorse, and conversion had raised, in adirection that Voltaire abhorred, and abhorred in vain.It is after the marriage of Julie to Wolmar that the action of thestory takes the turn which sensible men like Voltaire found laughable.Saint Preux is absent with Admiral Anson for some years. On his returnto Europe he is speedily invited by the sage Wolmar, who knows hispast history perfectly well, to pay them a visit. They all meet withleapings on the neck and hearty kisses, the unprejudiced Wolmarpreserving an open, serene, and smiling air. He takes his young friendto a chamber, which is to be reserved for him and for him only. In afew days he takes an opportunity of visiting some distant property,leaving his wife and Saint Preux together, with the sublime ofmagnanimity. At the same time he confides to Claire his intention ofentrusting to Saint Preux the education of his children. All goesperfectly well, and the household presents a picture of contentment,prosperity, moderation, affection, and evenly diffused happiness,which in spite of the disagreeableness of the situation is even nowextremely charming. There is only one cloud. Julie is devoured by asource of hidden chagrin. Her husband, "so sage, so reasonable, so farfrom every kind of vice, so little under the influence of humanpassions, is without the only belief that makes virtue precious, andin the innocence of an irreproachable life he carries at the bottom ofhis heart the frightful peace of the wicked."[51] He is an atheist.Julie is now a pietest, locking herself for hours in her chambers,spending days in self-examination and prayer, constantly reading thepages of the good Fenelon.[52] "I fear," she writes to Saint Preux,"that you do not gain all you might from religion in the conduct ofyour life, and that philosophic pride disdains the simplicity of theChristian. You believe prayers to be of scanty service. That is not,you know, the doctrine of Saint Paul, nor what our Church professes.We are free, it is true, but we are ignorant, feeble, prone to ill.And whence should light and force come, if not from him who is theirvery well-spring?... Let us be humble, to be sage; let us see ourweakness, and we shall be strong."[53] This was the opening of thedeistical reaction; it was thus, associated with everything thatstruck imagination and moved the sentiment of his readers, thatRousseau brought back those sophistical conclusions which Pascal haddrawn from premisses of dark profound truth, and that enervatingdisplacement of reason by celestial contemplation, which Fenelon hadonce made beautiful by the persuasion of virtuous example. He wasjustified in saying, as he afterwards did, that there was nothing inthe Savoyard Vicar's Profession of Faith which was not to be found inthe letters of Julie. These were the effective preparations for thatmore famous manifesto; they surrounded belief with all the attractionsof an interesting and sympathetic preacher, and set it to a harmony ofcircumstance that touched softer fibres.For, curiously enough, while the first half of the romance is a sceneof disorderly passion, the second is the glorification of the family.A modern writer of genius has inveighed with whimsical bitternessagainst the character of Wolmar,--supposed, we may notice in passing,to be partially drawn from D'Holbach,--a man performing so long anexperiment on these two souls, with the terrible curiosity of asurgeon engaged in vivisection.[54] It was, however, much lessdifficult for contemporaries than it is for us to accept sounwholesome and prurient a situation. They forgot all the evil thatwas in it, in the charm of the account of Wolmar's active, peaceful,frugal, sunny household. The influence of this was immense.[55] It maybe that the overstrained scene where Saint Preux waits for Julie inher room, suggested the far lovelier passage of Faust in the chamberof the hapless Margaret. But we may, at least, be sure that Werther(1774) would not have found Charlotte cutting bread and butter, ifSaint Preux had not gone to see Julie take cream and cakes with herchildren and her female servants. And perhaps the other and noblerCharlotte of the _Wahlverwandtschaften_ (1809) would not have detainedus so long with her moss hut, her terrace, her park prospect, if Juliehad not had her elysium, where the sweet freshness of the air, thecool shadows, the shining verdure, flowers diffusing fragrance andcolour, water running with soft whisper, and the song of a thousandbirds, reminded the returned traveller of Tinian and Juan Fernandez.There is an animation, a variety, an accuracy, a realistic brightnessin this picture, which will always make it enchanting, even to thosewho cannot make their way through any other letter in the NewHeloisa.[56] Such qualities place it as an idyllic piece far abovesuch pieces in Goethe's two famous romances. They have a clearnessand spontaneous freshness which are not among the bountiful gifts ofGoethe. There are other admirable landscapes in the New Heloisa,though not too many of them, and the minute and careful way in whichRousseau made their features real to himself, is accidentally shown inhis urgent prayer for exactitude in the engraving of the strikingscene where Saint Preux and Julie visit the monuments of their oldlove for one another.[57] "I have traversed all Rousseau's ground withthe Heloisa before me," said Byron, "and am struck to a degree Icannot express, with the force and accuracy of his descriptions andthe beauty of their reality."[58] They were memories made true by longdreaming, by endless brooding. The painter lived with these scenesever present to the inner eye. They were his real world, of which thetamer world of meadow and woodland actually around him only gavesuggestion. He thought of the green steeps, the rocks, the mountainpines, the waters of the lake, "the populous solitude of bees andbirds," as of some divine presence, too sublime for personality. Andthey were always benign, standing in relief with the malignity orfolly of the hurtful insect, Man. He was never a manichaean towardsnature. To him she was all good and bounteous. The demon forces thatso fascinated Byron were to Rousseau invisible. These were thecompositions that presently inspired the landscapes of _Paul andVirginia_ (1788), of _Atala_ and _Rene_ (1801), and of _Obermann_(1804), as well as those punier imitators who resemble their mastersas the hymns of a methodist negro resemble the psalms of David. Theywere the outcome of eager and spontaneous feeling for nature, and notthe mere hackneyed common-form and inflated description of theliterary pastoral.[59]This leads to another great and important distinction to be drawnbetween Rousseau and the school whom in other respects he inspired.The admirable Sainte Beuve perplexes one by his strange remark, thatthe union of the poetry of the family and the hearth with the poetryof nature is essentially wanting to Rousseau.[60] It only shows thatthe great critic had for the moment forgotten the whole of the secondpart of the New Heloisa, and his failure to identify Cowper's allusionto the _matinee a l'anglaise_ certainly proves that he had at any rateforgotten one of the most striking and delicious scenes of the hearthin French literature.[61] The tendency to read Rousseau only in theByronic sense is one of those foregone conclusions which areconstantly tempting the critic to travel out of his record. Rousseauassuredly had a Byronic side, but he is just as often a Cowper doneinto splendid prose. His pictures are full of social animation anddomestic order. He had exalted the simplicity of the savage state inhis Discourses, but when he came to constitute an ideal life, he foundit in a household that was more, and not less, systematicallydisciplined than those of the common society around him. The paradisein which his Julie moved with Wolmar and Saint Preux, was no more andno less than an establishment of the best kind of the ruralmiddle-class, frugal, decorous, wholesome, tranquilly austere. No mostsentimental savage could have found it endurable, or could himselfwithout profound transformation of his manners have been endured init. The New Heloisa ends by exalting respectability, and putting thespirit of insurrection to shame. Self-control, not revolt, is its lastword.This is what separates Rousseau here and throughout from Senancour,Byron, and the rest. He consummates the triumph of will, while theirreigning mood is grave or reckless protest against impotence of will,the little worth of common aims, the fretting triviality of commonrules. Franklin or Cobbett might have gloried in the regularity ofMadame de Wolmar's establishment. The employment of the day was markedout with precision. By artful adjustment of pursuits, it was contrivedthat the men-servants should be kept apart from the maid-servants,except at their repasts. The women, namely, a cook, a housemaid, and anurse, found their pastime in rambles with their mistress and herchildren, and lived mainly with them. The men were amused by games forwhich their master made regulated provision, now for summer, now forwinter, offering prizes of a useful kind for prowess and adroitness.Often on a Sunday night all the household met in an ample chamber,and passed the evening in dancing. When Saint Preux inquired whetherthis was not a rather singular infraction of puritan rule, Juliewisely answered that pure morality is so loaded with severe duties,that if you add to them the further burden of indifferent forms, itmust always be at the cost of the essential.[62] The servants weretaken from the country, never from the town. They entered thehousehold young, were gradually trained, and never went away except toestablish themselves.The vulgar and obvious criticism on all this is that it is utopian,that such households do not generally exist, because neither mastersnor servants possess the qualities needed to maintain these relationsof unbroken order and friendliness. Perhaps not; and masters andservants will be more and more removed from the possession of suchqualities, and their relations further distant from such order andfriendliness, if writers cease to press the beauty and serviceablenessof a domesticity that is at present only possible in a few rare cases,or to insist on the ugliness, the waste of peace, the deterioration ofcharacter, that are the results of our present system. Undoubtedly itis much easier for Rousseau to draw his picture of semi-patriarchalfelicity, than for the rest of us to realise it. It was his functionto press ideals of sweeter life on his contemporaries, and they may becounted fortunate in having a writer who could fulfil this functionwith Rousseau's peculiar force of masterly persuasion. His scornfuldiatribes against the domestic police of great houses, and theessential inhumanity of the ordinary household relations, are bothexcellent and of permanent interest. There is the full breath of a newhumaneness in them. They were the right way of attacking thedecrepitude of feudal luxury and insolence, and its imitation amongthe great farmers-general. This criticism of the conditions ofdomestic service marks a beginning of true democracy, as distinguishedfrom the mere pulverisation of aristocracy. It rests on the claim ofthe common people to an equal consideration, as equally useful andequally capable of virtue and vice; and it implies the essentialpriority of social over political reform.The story abounds in sumptuary detail. The table partakes of thegeneral plenty, but this plenty is not ruinous. The senses aregratified without daintiness. The food is common, but excellent of itskind. The service is simple, yet exquisite. All that is mere show, allthat depends on vulgar opinion, all fine and elaborate dishes whosevalue comes of their rarity, and whose names you must know beforefinding any goodness in them, are banished without recall. Even insuch delicacies as they permit themselves, our friends abstain everyday from certain things which are reserved for feasts on specialoccasions, and which are thus made more delightful without being morecostly. What do you suppose these delicacies are? Rare game, or fishfrom the sea, or dainties from abroad? Better than all that; somedelicious vegetable of the district, one of the savoury things thatgrow in our garden, some fish from the lake dressed in a peculiar way,some cheese from our mountains. The service is modest and rustic, butclean and smiling. Neither gold-laced liveries in sight of which youdie of hunger, nor tall crystals laden with flowers for your onlydessert, here take the place of honest dishes. Here people have notthe art of nourishing the stomach through the eyes, but they know howto add grace to good cheer, to eat heartily without inconvenience, todrink merrily without losing reason, to sit long at table withoutweariness, and always to rise from it without disgust.[63]One singularity in this ideal household was the avoidance of thosemiddle exchanges between production and consumption, which enrich theshopkeeper but impoverish his customers. Not one of these exchanges ismade without loss, and the multiplication of these losses would weakeneven a man of fortune. Wolmar seeks those real exchanges in which theconvenience of each party to the bargain serves as profit for both.Thus the wool is sent to the factories, from which they receive clothin exchange; wine, oil, and bread are produced in the house; thebutcher pays himself in live cattle; the grocer receives grain inreturn for his goods; the wages of the labourers and thehouse-servants are derived from the produce of the land which theyrender valuable.[64] It was reserved for Fourier, Cabet, and the rest,to carry to its highest point this confusion of what is sofascinating in a book with what is practicable in society.The expatiation on the loveliness of a well-ordered interior maystrike the impatient modern as somewhat long, and the movement as veryslow, just as people complain of the same things in Goethe's_Wahlverwandtschaften_. Such complaint only proves inability, which isor is not justifiable, to seize the spirit of the writer. Theexpatiation was long and the movement slow, because Rousseau was fullof his thoughts; they were a deep and glowing part of himself, and didnot merely skim swiftly and lightly through his mind. Anybody whotakes the trouble may find out the difference between this expressionof long mental brooding, and a merely elaborated diction.[65] Thelength is an essential part of the matter. The whole work is thereflection of a series of slow inner processes, the many carefulweavings of a lonely and miserable man's dreams. And Julie expressedthe spirit and the joy of these dreams when she wrote, "People areonly happy before they are happy. Man, so eager and so feeble, made todesire all and obtain little, has received from heaven a consolingforce which brings all that he desires close to him, which subjects itto his imagination, which makes it sensible and present before him,which delivers it over to him. The land of chimera is the only one inthis world that is worth dwelling in, and such is the nothingness ofthe human lot, that except the being who exists in and by himself,there is nothing beautiful except that which does not exist."[66]Closely connected with the vigorous attempt to fascinate his publicwith the charm of a serene, joyful, and ordered house, is therestoration of marriage in the New Heloisa to a rank among high andhonourable obligations, and its representation as the best support ofan equable life of right conduct and fruitful harmonious emotion.Rousseau even invested it with the mysterious dignity as of somenatural sacrament. "This chaste knot of nature is subject neither tothe sovereign power nor to paternal authority," he cried, "but only tothe authority of the common Father." And he pointed his remark by abitter allusion to a celebrated case in which a great house hadprevailed on the courts to annul the marriage of an elder son with ayoung actress, though her character was excellent, and though she hadbefriended him when he was abandoned by everybody else.[67] This wasone of the countless democratic thrusts in the book. In the case ofits heroine, however, the author associated the sanctity of marriagenot only with equality but with religion. We may imagine the spleenwith which the philosophers, with both their hatred of the faith, andtheir light esteem of marriage bonds, read Julie's eloquent account ofher emotions at the moment of her union with Wolmar. "I seemed tobehold the organ of Providence and to hear the voice of God, as theminister gravely pronounced the words of the holy service. The purity,the dignity, the sanctity of marriage, so vividly set forth in thewords of scripture; its chaste and sublime duties, so important to thehappiness, order, and peace of the human race, so sweet to fulfil evenfor their own sake--all this made such an impression on me that Iseemed to feel within my breast a sudden revolution. An unknown powerseemed all at once to arrest the disorder of my affections, and torestore them to accordance with the law of duty and of nature. Theeternal eye that sees everything, I said to myself, now reads to thedepth of my heart."[68] She has all the well-known fervour of theproselyte, and never wearies of extolling the peace of the weddedstate. Love is no essential to its perfection. "Worth, virtue, acertain accord not so much in condition and age as in character andtemper, are enough between husband and wife; and this does not preventthe growth from such a union of a very tender attachment, which isnone the less sweet for not being exactly love, and is all the morelasting."[69] Years after, when Saint Preux has returned and issettled in the household, she even tries to persuade him to imitateher example, and find contentment in marriage with her cousin. Theearnestness with which she presses the point, the very sensible butnot very delicate references to the hygienic drawbacks of celibacy,and the fact that the cousin whom she would fain have him marry, hadcomplaisantly assisted them in their past loves, naturally drew thefire of Rousseau's critical enemies.Such matters did not affect the general enthusiasm. When people areweary of a certain way of surveying life, and have their faces eagerlyset in some new direction, they read in a book what it pleases them toread; they assimilate as much as falls in with their dominant mood,and the rest passes away unseen. The French public were bewitched byJulie, and were no more capable of criticising her than Julie wascapable of criticising Saint Preux in the height of her passion forhim. When we say that Rousseau was the author of this movement, all wemean is that his book and its chief personage awoke emotion toself-consciousness, gave it a dialect, communicated an impulse infavour of social order, and then very calamitously at the same momentdivorced it from the fundamental conditions of progress, by divorcingit from disciplined intelligence and scientific reason.Apart from the general tendency of the New Heloisa in numberlessindirect ways to bring the manners of the great into contempt, by thepresentation of the happiness of a simple and worthy life, thrifty,self-sufficing, and homely, there is one direct protest of singulareloquence and gravity. Julie's father is deeply revolted at the barenotion of marrying his daughter to a teacher. Rousseau puts hisvigorous remonstrance against pride of birth into the mouth of anEnglish nobleman. This is perhaps an infelicitous piece ofprosopopoeia, but it is interesting as illustrative of the idea ofEngland in the eighteenth century as the home of stout-heartedfreedom. We may quote one piece from the numerous bits of verystraightforward speaking in which our representative expressed hismind as to the significance of birth. "My friend has nobility," criedLord Edward, "not written in ink on mouldering parchments, but gravenin his heart in characters that can never be effaced. For my own part,by God, I should be sorry to have no other proof of my merit but thatof a man who has been in his grave these five hundred years. If youknow the English nobility, you know that it is the most enlightened,the best informed, the wisest, the bravest in Europe. That being so, Idon't care to ask whether it is the oldest or not. We are not, it istrue, the slaves of the prince, but his friends; nor the tyrants ofthe people, but their leaders. We hold the balance true betweenpeople, and monarch. Our first duty is towards the nation, our secondtowards him who governs; it is not his will but his right that weconsider.... We suffer no one in the land to say _God and my sword_,nor more than this, _God and my right_."[70] All this was onlyputting Montesquieu into heroics, it is true, but a great many peopleread the romance who were not likely to read the graver book. Andthere was a wide difference between the calm statement of a number ofpolitical propositions about government, and their transformation intodramatic invective against the arrogance of all social inequality thatdoes not correspond with inequalities of worth.There is no contradiction between this and the social quietism ofother parts of the book. Moral considerations and the paramount placethat they hold in Rousseau's way of thinking, explain at once hiscontempt for the artificial privileges and assumptions of high rank,and his contempt for anything like discontent with the conditions ofhumble rank. Simplicity of life was his ideal. He wishes us to despiseboth those who have departed from it, and those who would depart fromit if they could. So Julie does her best to make the lot of thepeasants as happy as it is capable of being made, without ever helpingthem to change it for another. She teaches them to respect theirnatural condition in respecting themselves. Her prime maxim is todiscourage change of station and calling, but above all to dissuadethe villager, whose life is the happiest of all, from leaving the truepleasures of his natural career for the fever and corruption oftowns.[71] Presently a recollection of the sombre things that he hadseen in his rambles through France crossed Rousseau's pastoralvisions, and he admitted that there were some lands in which thepublican devours the fruits of the earth; where the misery that coversthe fields, the bitter greed of some grasping farmer, the inflexiblerigour of an inhuman master, take something from the charm of hisrural scenes. "Worn-out horses ready to expire under the blows theyreceive, wretched peasants attenuated by hunger, broken by weariness,clad in rags, hamlets all in ruins--these things offer a mournfulspectacle to the eye: one is almost sorry to be a man, as we think ofthe unhappy creatures on whose blood we have to feed."[72]Yet there is no hint in the New Heloisa of the socialism which Morellyand Mably flung themselves upon, as the remedy for all these desperatehorrors. Property, in every page of the New Heloisa, is held in fullrespect; the master has the honourable burden of patriarchal duty; theservant the not less honourable burden of industry and faithfulness;disobedience or vice is promptly punished with paternal rigour andmore than paternal inflexibility. The insurrectionary quality andeffect of Rousseau's work lay in no direct preaching or vehementdenunciation of the abuses that filled France with cruelty on the onehand and sodden misery on the other. It lay in pictures of a socialstate in which abuses and cruelty cannot exist, nor any miseries savethose which are inseparable from humanity. The contrast between thesober, cheerful, prosperous scenes of romance, and the dreariness ofthe reality of the field life of France,--this was the element thatfilled generous souls with an intoxicating transport.Rousseau's way of dealing with the portentous questions that lay aboutthat tragic scene of deserted fields, ruined hamlets, totteringbrutes, and hunger-stricken men, may be gathered from one of the manytraits in Julie which endeared her to that generation, and mightendear her even to our own if it only knew her. Wolmar's house wasnear a great high-road, and so was daily haunted by beggars. Not oneof these was allowed to go empty away. And Julie had as many excellentreasons to give for her charity, as if she had been one of thephilosophers of whom she thought so surpassingly ill. If you look atmendicancy merely as a trade, what is the harm of a calling whose endis to nourish feelings of humanity and brotherly love? From the pointof view of talent, why should I not pay the eloquence of a beggar whostirs my pity, as highly as that of a player who makes me shed tearsover imaginary sorrows? If the great number of beggars is burdensometo the state, of how many other professions that people encourage, mayyou not say the same? How can I be sure that the man to whom I givealms is not an honest soul, whom I may save from perishing? In short,whatever we may think of the poor wretches, if we owe nothing to thebeggar, at least we owe it to ourselves to pay honour to sufferinghumanity or to its image.[73] Nothing could be more admirablyillustrative of the author's confidence that the first thing for us todo is to satisfy our fine feelings, and that then all the rest shallbe added unto us. The doctrine spread so far, that Necker,--a sort ofJulie in a frock-coat, who had never fallen, the incarnation of thisdoctrine on the great stage of affairs,--was hailed to power to wardoff the bankruptcy of the state by means of a good heart and moralsentences, while Turgot with science and firmness for his resourceswas driven away as an economist and a philosopher.At a first glance, it may seem that there was compensation for thetriumph of sentiment over reason, and that if France was ruined by thedreams in which Rousseau encouraged the nation to exult, she was savedby the fervour and resoluteness of the aspirations with which hefilled the most generous of her children. No wide movement, we may besure, is thoroughly understood until we have mastered both itsmaterial and its ideal sides. Materially, Rousseau's work wasinevitably fraught with confusion because in this sphere not to bescientific, not to be careful in tracing effects to their true causes,is to be without any security that the causes with which we try todeal will lead to the effects that we desire. A Roman statesman whohad gone to the Sermon on the Mount for a method of staying theeconomic ruin of the empire, its thinning population, its decreasingcapital, would obviously have found nothing of what he sought. But themoral nature of man is redeemed by teaching that may have no bearingon economics, or even a bearing purely mischievous, and which has tobe corrected by teaching that probably goes equally far in thecontrary direction of moral mischief. In the ideal sphere, theprocesses are very complex. In measuring a man's influence within itwe have to balance. Rousseau's action was undoubtedly excellent inleading men and women to desire simple lives, and a more harmonioussocial order. Was this eminent benefit more than counterbalanced bythe eminent disadvantage of giving a reactionary intellectualdirection? By commending irrational retrogression from active use ofthe understanding back to dreamy contemplation?To one teacher is usually only one task allotted. We do not reproachwant of science to the virtuous and benevolent Channing; his goodnessand effusion stirred women and the young, just as Rousseau did, tosentimental but humane aspiration. It was this kind of influence thatformed the opinion which at last destroyed American slavery. We owe aplace in the temple that commemorates human emancipation, to every manwho has kindled in his generation a brighter flame of moralenthusiasm, and a more eager care for the realisation of good andvirtuous ideals.III.The story of the circumstances of the publication of Emilius and thepersecution which befell its author in consequence, recalls us to thedistinctively evil side of French history in this critical epoch, andcarries us away from light into the thick darkness of politicalintrigue, obscurantist faction, and a misgovernment which was at oncetyrannical and decrepit. It is almost impossible for us to realise theexistence in the same society of such boundless license of thought,and such unscrupulous restraint upon its expression. Not one ofRousseau's three chief works, for instance, was printed in France. Thewhole trade in books was a sort of contraband, and was carried on withthe stealth, subterfuge, daring, and knavery that are demanded incontraband dealings. An author or a bookseller was forced to be ascareful as a kidnapper of coolies or the captain of a slaver would bein our own time. He had to steer clear of the court, of theparliament, of Jansenists, of Jesuits, of the mistresses of the kingand the minister, of the friends of the mistresses, and above all ofthat organised hierarchy of ignorance and oppression in all times andplaces where they raise their masked heads,--the bishops andecclesiastics of every sort and condition. Palissot produced hiscomedy to please the devout at the expense of the philosophers (1760).Madame de Robecq, daughter of Rousseau's marshal of Luxembourg,instigated and protected him, for Diderot had offended her.[74]Morellet replied in a piece in which the keen vision of feminine spitedetected a reference to Madame de Robecq. Though dying, she still hadrelations with Choiseul, and so Morellet was flung into theBastile.[75] Diderot was thrown for three months into Vincennes, wherewe saw him on a memorable occasion, for his Letter on the Blind(1748), nominally because it was held to contain irreligious doctrine,really because he had given offence to D'Argenson's mistress byhinting that she might be very handsome, but that her judgment onscientific experiment was of no value.[76]The New Heloisa could not openly circulate in France so long as itcontained the words, "I would rather be the wife of a charcoal-burnerthan the mistress of a king." The last word was altered to "prince,"and then Rousseau was warned that he would offend the Prince de Contiand Madame de Boufflers.[77] No work of merit could appear withoutmore or less of slavish mutilation, and no amount of slavishmutilation could make the writer secure against the accidental grudgeof people who had influence in high quarters.[78]If French booksellers in the stirring intellectual time of theeighteenth century needed all the craft of a smuggler, their moralitywas reduced to an equally low level in dealing not only with thepolice, but with their own accomplices, the book-writers. They excusedthemselves from paying proper sums to authors, on the ground that theywere robbed of the profits that would enable them to pay such sums, bythe piracy of their brethren in trade. But then they all pirated theworks of one another. The whole commerce was a mass of fraud andchicane, and every prominent author passed his life between two fires.He was robbed, his works were pirated, and, worse than robbery andpiracy, they were defaced and distorted by the booksellers. On theother side he was tormented to death by the suspicion and timidity,alternately with the hatred and active tyranny of the administration.As we read the story of the lives of all these strenuous men, theirstruggles, their incessant mortifications, their constantly revivingand ever irrepressible vigour and interest in the fight, we may wishthat the shabbiness and the pettiness of the daily lives of some ofthem had faded away from memory, and left us nothing to think of inconnection with their names but the alertness, courage, tenacity,self-sacrifice, and faith with which they defended the cause of humanemancipation and progress. Happily the mutual hate of the Christianfactions, to which liberty owes at least as much as charity owes totheir mutual love, prevented a common union for burning thephilosophers as well as their books. All torments short of this theyendured, and they had the great merit of enduring them without anyhope of being rewarded after their death, as truly good men mustalways be capable of doing.Rousseau had no taste for martyrdom, nor any intention of courting itin even its slightest forms. Holland was now the great printing pressof France, and when we are counting up the contributions ofProtestantism to the enfranchisement of Europe, it is just to rememberthe indispensable services rendered by the freedom of the press inHolland to the dissemination of French thought in the eighteenthcentury, as well as the shelter that it gave to the French thinkers inthe seventeenth, including Descartes, the greatest of them all. Themonstrous tediousness of printing a book at Amsterdam or the Hague,the delay, loss, and confusion in receiving and transmitting theproofs, and the subterranean character of the entire process,including the circulation of the book after it was once fairlyprinted, were as grievous to Rousseau as to authors of more impetuoustemper. He agreed with Rey, for instance, the Amsterdam printer, tosell him the Social Contract for 1000 francs. The manuscript had thento be cunningly conveyed to Amsterdam. Rousseau wrote it out in verysmall characters, sealed it carefully up, and entrusted it to the careof the chaplain of the Dutch embassy, who happened to be a native ofVaud. In passing the barrier, the packet fell into the hands of theofficials. They tore it open and examined it, happily unconscious thatthey were handling the most explosive kind of gunpowder that they hadever meddled with. It was not until the chaplain claimed it in thename of ambassadorial privilege, that the manuscript was allowed to goon its way to the press.[79] Rousseau repeats a hundred times, notonly in the Confessions, but also in letters to his friends, howresolutely and carefully he avoided any evasion of the laws of thecountry in which he lived. The French government was anxious enough onall grounds to secure for France the production of the books of whichFrance was the great consumer, but the severity of its censorshipprevented this.[80] The introduction of the books, when printed, wastolerated or connived at, because the country would hardly haveendured to be deprived of the enjoyment of its own literature. By agreater inconsistency the reprinting of a book which had once foundadmission into the country, was also connived at. Thus M. deMalesherbes, out of friendship for Rousseau, wished to have an editionof the New Heloisa printed in France, and sold for the benefit of theauthor. That he should have done so is a curious illustration of thelow morality engendered by a repressive system imperfectly carriedout. For Rousseau had sold the book to Rey. Rey had treated with aFrench bookseller in the usual way, that is, had sent him half theedition printed, the bookseller paying either in cash or other booksfor all the copies he received. Therefore to print an independentedition in Paris was to injure, not Rey the foreigner, but the Frenchbookseller who stood practically in Rey's place. It was setting twoFrench booksellers to ruin one another. Rousseau emphatically declinedto receive any profit from such a transaction. But, said Malesherbes,you sold to Rey a right which you had not got, the right of soleproprietorship, excluding the competition of a pirated reprint. Then,answered Rousseau, if the right which I sold happens to prove lessthan I thought, it is clear that far from taking advantage of mymistake, I owe to Rey compensation for any loss that he maysuffer.[81]The friendship of Malesherbes for the party of reason was shown onnumerous occasions. As director of the book trade he was really thecensor of the literature of the time.[82] The story of his service toDiderot is well known--how he warned Diderot that the police wereabout to visit his house and overhaul his papers, and how when Diderotdespaired of being able to put them out of sight in his narrowquarters, Malesherbes said, "Then send them all to me," and took careof them until the storm was overpast. The proofs of the New Heloisacame through his hands, and now he made himself Rousseau's agent inthe affairs relative to the printing of Emilius. Rousseau entrustedthe whole matter to him and to Madame de Luxembourg, being confidentthat, in acting through persons of such authority and position, heshould be protected against any unwitting illegality. Instead of beingsent to Rey, the manuscript was sold to a bookseller in Paris for sixthousand francs.[83] A long time elapsed before any proofs reached theauthor, and he soon perceived that an edition was being printed inFrance as well as in Holland. Still, as Malesherbes was in some sortthe director of the enterprise, the author felt no alarm. Duclos cameto visit him one day, and Rousseau read aloud to him the SavoyardVicar's Profession of Faith. "What, citizen," he cried, "and that ispart of a book that they are printing at Paris! Be kind enough not totell any one that you read this to me."[84] Still Rousseau remainedsecure. Then the printing came to a standstill, and he could not findout the reason, because Malesherbes was away, and the printer did nottake the trouble to answer his letters. "My natural tendency," hesays, and as the rest of his life only too abundantly proved, "is tobe afraid of darkness; mystery always disturbs me, it is utterlyantipathetic to my character, which is open even to the pitch ofimprudence. The aspect of the most hideous monster would alarm melittle, I verily believe; but if I discern at night a figure in awhite sheet, I am sure to be terrified out of my life."[85] So he atonce fancied that by some means the Jesuits had got possession of hisbook, and knowing him to be at death's door, designed to keep theEmilius back until he was actually dead, when they would publish atruncated version of it to suit their own purposes.[86] He wroteletter upon letter to the printer, to Malesherbes, to Madame deLuxembourg, and if answers did not come, or did not come exactly whenhe expected them, he grew delirious with anxiety. If he dropped hisconviction that the Jesuits were plotting the ruin of his book and thedefilement of his reputation, he lost no time in fastening a similardesign upon the Jansenists, and when the Jansenists were acquitted,then the turn of the philosophers came. We have constantly to rememberthat all this time the unfortunate man was suffering incessant pain,and passing his nights in sleeplessness and fever. He sometimes threwoff the black dreams of unfathomable suspicion, and dreamed in theirstead of some sunny spot in pleasant Touraine, where under a mildclimate and among a gentle people he should peacefully end hisdays.[87] At other times he was fond of supposing M. de Luxembourgnot a duke, nor a marshal of France, but a good country squire livingin some old mansion, and himself not an author, not a maker of books,but with moderate intelligence and slight attainment, finding with thesquire and his dame the happiness of his life, and contributing to thehappiness of theirs.[88] Alas, in spite of all his precautions, he hadunwittingly drifted into the stream of great affairs. He and his bookwere sacrificed to the exigencies of faction; and a persecution setin, which destroyed his last chance of a composed life, by giving hisreason, already disturbed, a final blow from which it never recovered.Emilius appeared in the crisis of the movement against the Jesuits.That formidable order had offended Madame de Pompadour by a refusal torecognise her power and position,--a manly policy, as creditable totheir moral vigour as it was contrary to the maxims which had madethem powerful. They had also offended Choiseul by the part they hadtaken in certain hostile intrigues at Versailles. The parliaments hadalways been their enemies. This was due first to the jealousy withwhich corporations of lawyers always regard corporations ofecclesiastics, and next to their hatred of the bull Unigenitus, whichhad been not only an infraction of French liberties, but the occasionof special humiliation to the parliaments. Then the hostility of theparliaments to the Jesuits was caused by the harshness with which thesystem of confessional tickets was at this time being carried out.Finally, the once powerful house of Austria, the protector of allretrograde interests, was now weakened by the Seven Years' War; andwas unable to bring effective influence to bear on Lewis XV. At lasthe gave his consent to the destruction of the order. The commercialbankruptcy of one of their missions was the immediate occasion oftheir fall, and nothing could save them. "I only know one man," saidGrimm, "in a position to have composed an apology for the Jesuits infine style, if it had been in his way to take the side of that tribe,and this man is M. Rousseau." The parliaments went to work withalacrity, but they were quite as hostile to the philosophers as theywere to the Jesuits, and hence their anxiety to show that they were noallies of the one even when destroying the other.Contemporaries seldom criticise the shades and variations ofinnovating speculation with any marked nicety. Anything with the stampof rationality on its phrases or arguments was roughly set down to theschool of the philosophers, and Rousseau was counted one of theirnumber, like Voltaire or Helvetius. The Emilius appeared in May 1762.On the 11th of June the parliament of Paris ordered the book to beburnt by the public executioner, and the writer to be arrested. ForRousseau always scorned the devices of Voltaire and others; hecourageously insisted on placing his name on the title-page of all hisworks,[89] and so there was none of the usual difficulty inidentifying the author. The grounds of the proceedings were allegedirreligious tendencies to be found in the book.[90]The indecency of the requisition in which the advocate-generaldemanded its proscription, was admitted even by people who were leastlikely to defend Rousseau.[91] The author was charged with saying notonly that man may be saved without believing in God, but even that theChristian religion does not exist--paradox too flagrant even for thewriter of the Discourse on Inequality. No evidence was produced eitherthat the alleged assertions were in the book, or that the name of theauthor was really the name on its title-page. Rousseau fared no worse,but better, than his fellows, for there was hardly a single man ofletters of that time who escaped arbitrary imprisonment.The unfortunate author had news of the ferment which his work wascreating in Paris, and received notes of warning from every hand, buthe could not believe that the only man in France who believed in Godwas to be the victim of the defenders of Christianity.[92] On the 8thof June he spent a merry day with two friends, taking their dinner inthe fields. "Ever since my youth I had a habit of reading at night inmy bed until my eyes grew heavy. Then I put out the candle, and triedto fall asleep for a few minutes, but they seldom lasted long. Myordinary reading at night was the Bible, and I have read itcontinuously through at least five or six times in this way. Thatnight, finding myself more wakeful than usual, I prolonged my reading,and read through the whole of the book which ends with the Levite ofEphraim, and which if I mistake not is the book of Judges. The storyaffected me deeply, and I was busy over it in a kind of dream, whenall at once I was roused by lights and noises."[93]It was two o'clock in the morning. A messenger had come in hot hasteto carry him to Madame de Luxembourg. News had reached her of theproposed decree of the parliament. She knew Rousseau well enough to besure that if he were seized and examined, her own share and that ofMalesherbes in the production of the condemned book would be madepublic, and their position uncomfortably compromised. It was to theirinterest that he should avoid arrest by flight, and they had nodifficulty in persuading him to fall in with their plans. After atearful farewell with Theresa, who had hardly been out of his sightfor seventeen years, and many embraces from the greater ladies of thecastle, he was thrust into a chaise and despatched on the first stageof eight melancholy years of wandering and despair, to be driven fromplace to place, first by the fatuous tyranny of magistrates andreligious doctors, and then by the yet more cruel spectres of his owndiseased imagination, until at length his whole soul became the homeof weariness and torment.FOOTNOTES:[1] _Conf._, x. 62.[2] _Conf._, x.[3] _Ib._ x. 70.[4] Louis Francois de Bourbon, Prince de Conti (1717-1776), wasgreat-grandson of the brother of the Great Conde. He performedcreditable things in the war of the Austrian Succession (in Piedmont1744, in Belgium 1745); had a scheme of foreign policy as director ofthe secret diplomacy of Lewis XV. (1745-1756), which was to makeTurkey, Poland, Sweden, Prussia, a barrier against Russia primarily,and Austria secondarily; lastly went into moderate opposition to thecourt, protesting against the destruction of the _parlements_ (1771),and afterwards opposing the reforms of Turgot (1776). Finally he hadthe honour of refusing the sacraments of the church on his deathbed.See Martin's _Hist. de France_, xv. and xvi.[5] _Conf._, 97. _Corr._, v. 215.[6] _Corr._, ii. 144. Oct. 7, 1760.[7] _Conf._, x. 98.[8] The reader will distinguish this correspondent of Rousseau's,_Comtesse_ de Boufflers-Rouveret (1727-18--), from the _Duchesse_ deBoufflers, which was the title of Rousseau's Marechale de Luxembourgbefore her second marriage. And also from the _Marquise_ de Boufflers,said to be the mistress of the old king Stanislaus at Luneville, andthe mother of the Chevalier de Boufflers (who was the intimate ofVoltaire, sat in the States General, emigrated, did homage toNapoleon, and finally died peaceably under Lewis XVIII.). See Jal's_Dict. Critique_, 259-262. Sainte Beuve has an essay on our presentComtesse de Boufflers (_Nouveaux Lundis_, iv. 163). She is the Madamede Boufflers who was taken by Beauclerk to visit Johnson in his Templechambers, and was conducted to her coach by him in a remarkable manner(Boswell's _Life_, ch. li. p. 467). Also much talked of in H.Walpole's Letters. See D'Alembert to Frederick, April 15, 1768.[9] Streckeisen, ii. 32.[10] _Conf._, x. 71.[11] For instance, _Corr._ ii. 85, 90, 92, etc. 1759.[12] Streckeisen, ii. 28, etc.[13] _Ib._, 29.[14] _Conf._, x. 99.[15] _Ib._, x. 57.[16] _Ib._, xi. 119.[17] _Corr._, ii. 196. Feb. 16, 1761.[18] _Ib._, ii. 102, 176, etc.[19] _Conf._, x. 60.[20] _Corr._, ii. 12.[21] As M. St. Marc Girardin has put it: "There are in all Rousseau'sdiscussions two things to be carefully distinguished from one another;the maxims of the discourse, and the conclusions of the controversy.The maxims are ordinarily paradoxical; the conclusions are full ofgood sense." _Rev. des Deux Mondes_, Aug. 1852, p. 501.[22] _Corr._, ii. 244-246. Oct. 24, 1761.[23] _Ib._, 1766. _Oeuv._, lxxv. 364.[24] _Corr._, ii. 32. (1758.)[25] _Corr._, ii. 63. Jan. 15, 1779.[26] Bernardin de St. Pierre, xii. 102.[27] 4th Letter, p. 375.[28] _Mem._, ii. 299.[29] _Corr._, ii. 98. July 10, 1759.[30] _Corr._, ii. 106. Nov. 10, 1759.[31] _Ib._, ii. 179. Jan. 18, 1761.[32] _Ib._, ii. 268. Dec. 12, 1761.[33] _Ib._, ii. 28. Dec. 23, 1761.[34] _Nouv. Hel._, III. xxii. 147. In 1784 Hume's suppressed essays on"Suicide and the Immortality of the Soul" were published inLondon:--"With Remarks, intended as an Antidote to the Poisoncontained in these Performances, by the Editor; to which is added, TwoLetters on Suicide, from Rousseau's Eloisa." In the preface the readeris told that these "two very masterly letters have been muchcelebrated." See Hume's _Essays_, by Green and Grose, i. 69, 70.[35] _Corr._, iii. 235. Aug. 1, 1763.[36] _Corr._, ii. 226. Sept. 29, 1761.[37] P. 294. Jan. 11, 1762.[38] Madame Latour (Nov. 7, 1730-Sept. 6, 1789) was the wife of a manin the financial world, who used her ill and dissipated as much of herfortune as he could, and from whom she separated in 1775. After thatshe resumed her maiden name and was known as Madame de Franqueville.Musset-Pathay, ii. 182, and Sainte Beuve, _Causeries_, ii. 63.[39] _Corr._, ii. 214. _Conf._, ix. 289.[40] English translations of Rousseau's works appeared very speedilyafter the originals. A second edition of the Heloisa was called for asearly as May 1761. See _Corr._ ii. 223. A German translation of theHeloisa appeared at Leipzig in 1761, in six duodecimos.[41] For instance, _Corr._, ii. 168. Nov. 19, 1762.[42] Choderlos de La Clos: 1741-1803.[43] Journal, iv. 496. (Ed. Charpentier, 1857.)[44] _Nouv. Hel._, III. xiv. 48.[45] _E.g._ Letters, 40-46.[46] Madame de Stael (1765-1817), in her _Lettres sur les ecrits et lecaractere de J.J. Rousseau_, written when she was twenty, and herfirst work of any pretensions. _Oeuv._, i. 41. Ed. 1820.[47] Nowhere more pungently than in a little piece of some half-dozenpages, headed, _Prediction tiree d'un vieux Manuscrit_, the form ofwhich is borrowed from Grimm's squib in the dispute about Frenchmusic, _Le petit Prophete de Boehmischbroda_, though it seems to me tobe superior to Grimm in pointedness. Here are a few verses from thesupposed prophecy of the man who should come--and of what he shoulddo. "Et la multitude courra sur ses pas et plusieurs croiront en lui.Et il leur dira: Vous etes des scelerats et des fripons, vos femmessont toutes des femmes perdues, et je viens vivre parmi vous. Et ilajoutera tous les hommes sont vertueux dans le pays ou je suis ne, etje n'habiterai jamais le pays ou je suis ne.... Et il dira aussi qu'ilest impossible d'avoir des moeurs, et de lire des Romans, et il feraun Roman; et dans son Roman le vice sera en action et la vertu enparoles, et ses personages seront forcenes d'amour et de philosophie.Et dans son Roman on apprendra l'art de suborner philosophiquement unejeune fille. Et l'Ecoliere perdra toute honte et toute pudeur, et ellefera avec son maitre des sottises et des maximes.... Et le bel Amietant dans un Bateau seul avec sa Maitresse voudra le jetter dansl'eau et se precipiter avec elle. Et ils appelleront tout cela de laPhilosophie et de la Vertu," and so on, humorously enough in its way.[48] See passages in Goncourt's _La Femme au 18ieme siecle_, p. 380.[49] Musset-Pathay, II. 361. See Madame Roland's _Mem._, i. 207.[50] _Corr._, March 3, and March 19, 1761. The criticisms of Ximenes,a thoroughly mediocre person in all respects, were entirely literary,and were directed against the too strained and highly coloured qualityof the phrases--"baisers acres"--among them.[51] _Nouv. Hel._, V. v. 115.[52] VI. vii.[53] VI. vi.[54] Michelet's _Louis XV. et Louis XVI._, p. 58.[55] See Hettner's _Literaturgeschichte_, II. 486.[56] IV. xi.[57] IV. xvii. See vol. iii. 423.[58] In 1816. Moore's _Life_, iii. 247; also 285. And the note to thestanzas in the Third Canto,--a note curious for a slight admixture oftranscendentalism, so rare a thing with Byron, who, sentimental thoughhe was, usually rejoiced in a truly Voltairean common sense.[59] "The present fashion in France, of passing some time in thecountry, is new; at this time of the year, and for many weeks past,Paris is, comparatively speaking, empty. Everybody who has a countryseat is at it, and such as have none visit others who have. Thisremarkable revolution in the French manners is certainly one of thebest customs they have taken from England; and its introduction waseffected the easier, being assisted by the magic of Rousseau'swritings. Mankind are much indebted to that splendid genius, who, whenliving, was hunted from country to country, to seek an asylum, with asmuch venom as if he had been a mad dog; thanks to the vile spirit ofbigotry, which has not received its death wound. Women of the firstfashion in France are now ashamed of not nursing their own children;and stays are universally proscribed from the bodies of the poorinfants, which were for so many ages torture to them, as they arestill in Spain. The country residence may not have effects equallyobvious; but they will be no less sure in the end, and in all respectsbeneficial to every class in the state." Arthur Young's _Travels_, i.72.[60] _Causeries_, xi. 195.[61] _Nouv. Hel._, V. iii. "You remember Rousseau's description of anEnglish morning: such are the mornings I spend with these goodpeople."--Cowper to Joseph Hill, Oct. 25, 1765. _Works_, iii. 269. Ina letter to William Unwin (Sept. 21, 1779), speaking of his beingengaged in mending windows, he says, "Rousseau would have been charmedto have seen me so occupied, and would have exclaimed with rapturethat he had found the Emilius who, he supposed, had subsisted only inhis own idea." For a description illustrative of the likeness betweenRousseau and Cowper in their feeling for nature, see letter to Newton(Sept. 18, 1784, v. 78), and compare it with the description of LesCharmettes, making proper allowance for the colour of prose.[62] IV. x. 260.[63] V. ii. 37.[64] V. ii. 47-52.[65] Rousseau considered that the Fourth and Sixth parts of the NewHeloisa were masterpieces of diction. _Conf._ ix. 334.[66] VI. viii.. 298. _Conf._, xi. 106.[67] The La Bedoyere case, which began in 1745. See Barbier, iv. 54,59, etc.[68] III. xviii. 84.[69] III. xx. 116. In the letter to Christopher de Beaumont (p. 102),he fires a double shot against the philosophers on the one hand, andthe church on the other; exalting continence and purity, of which thephilosophers in their reaction against asceticism thought lightly, andexalting marriage over the celibate state, which the churchmenassociated with mysterious sanctity.[70] I. lxii.[71] V. ii.[72] V. vii. 141.[73] V. ii. 31-33.[74] For the Robecq family, see Saint Simon, xviii. 58.[75] Morellet's _Mem._, i. 89-93. Rousseau, _Conf._, x. 85, etc. This_Vision_ is also in the style of Grimm's _Petit Prophete_, like thepiece referred to in a previous note, vol. ii. p. 31.[76] Madame de Vandeul's _Mem. sur Diderot_, p. 27. Rousseau, _Conf._,vii. 130.[77] _Nouv. Hel._, V. xiii. 194. _Conf._, x. 43.[78] The reader will find a fuller mention of the French book trade inmy _Diderot_, ch. vi.[79] _Conf._, xi. 127.[80] See a letter from Rousseau to Malesherbes, Nov. 5, 1760. _Corr._,ii. 157.[81] _Corr._, ii. 157.[82] C.G. de Lamoignon de Malesherbes (p. 1721--guillotined, 1794),son of the chancellor, and one of the best instructed and mostenlightened men of the century--a Turgot of the second rank--wasDirecteur de la Librairie from 1750-1763. The process was this: a bookwas submitted to him; he named a censor for it; on the censor's reportthe director gave or refused permission to print, or requiredalterations. Even after these formalities were complied with, the bookwas liable to a decree of the royal council, a decree of theparliament, or else a _lettre-de-cachet_ might send the author to theBastile. See Barbier, vii. 126.After Lord Shelburne saw Malesherbes, he said, "I have seen for thefirst time in my life what I never thought could exist--a man whosesoul is absolutely free from hope or fear, and yet who is full of lifeand ardour." Mdlle. Lespinasse's _Lettres_, 90.[83] See note, p. 132.[84] _Conf._, xi. 134.[85] _Conf._, xi. 139.[86] _Ib._, xi. 139. _Corr._, ii. 270, etc. Dec. 12, 1761, etc.[87] _Conf._, xi. 150.[88] Fourth Letter to Malesherbes, p. 377.[89] With one trifling exception, the Letter to Grimm on the Opera ofOmphale (1752): _Ecrits sur la Musique_, p. 337.[90] See Barbier's Journal, viii. 45 (Ed. Charpentier, 1857). Asuccinct contemporary account of the general situation is to be foundin D'Alembert's little book, the _Destruction des Jesuites_.[91] Grimm, for instance: _Corr. Lit._, iii. 117.[92] _Corr._, ii. 337. June 7, 1672. _Conf._, xi. 152, 162.[93] _Conf._, xi. 162. The Levite's story is to be read in _Judges_,ch. xix.CHAPTER II.PERSECUTION.[94]Those to whom life consists in the immediate consciousness oftheir own direct relations with the people and circumstances that arein close contact with them, find it hard to follow the moods of a manto whom such consciousness is the least part of himself, and suchrelations the least real part of his life. Rousseau was no sooner inthe post-chaise which was bearing him away towards Switzerland, thanthe troubles of the previous day at once dropped into a pale anddistant past, and he returned to a world where was neither parliament,nor decree for burning books, nor any warrant for personal arrest. Hetook up the thread where harassing circumstances had broken it, andagain fell musing over the tragic tale of the Levite of Ephraim. Hisdream absorbed him so entirely as to take specific literary form, andbefore the journey was at an end he had composed a long impassionedversion of the Bible story. Though it has Rousseau's usual finesonorousness in a high degree, no man now reads it; the author himselfalways preserved a certain tenderness for it.[95] The contrastbetween this singular quietism and the angry stir that markedVoltaire's many flights in post-chaises, points like all else to theprofound difference between the pair. Contrast with Voltaire's shrillcries under any personal vexation, this calm utterance:--"Though theconsequences of this affair have plunged me into a gulf of woes fromwhich I shall never come up again so long as I live, I bear thesegentlemen no grudge. I am aware that their object was not to do me anyharm, but only to reach ends of their own. I know that towards me theyhave neither liking nor hate. I was found in their way, like a pebblethat you thrust aside with the foot without even looking at it. Theyought not to say they have performed their duty, but that they havedone their business."[96] A new note from a persecuted writer.Rousseau, in spite of the belief which henceforth possessed him thathe was the victim of a dark unfathomable plot, and in spite of passingoutbreaks of gloomy rage, was incapable of steady glowing and activeresentments. The world was not real enough to him for this. A throngof phantoms pressed noiselessly before his sight, and dulled all senseof more actual impression. "It is amazing," he wrote, "with what easeI forget past ill, however fresh it may be. In proportion as theanticipation of it alarms and confuses me when I see it coming, sothe memory of it returns feebly to my mind and dies out the momentafter it has arrived. My cruel imagination, which torments itselfincessantly in anticipating woes that are still unborn, makes adiversion for my memory, and hinders me from recalling those whichhave gone. I exhaust disaster beforehand. The more I have suffered inforeseeing it, the more easily do I forget it; while on the contrary,being incessantly busy with my past happiness, I recall it and broodand ruminate over it, so as to enjoy it over again whenever Iwish."[97] The same turn of humour saved him from vindictiveness. "Iconcern myself too little with the offence, to feel much concern aboutthe offender. I only think of the hurt that I have received from him,on account of the hurt that he may still do me; and if I were sure hewould do me no more, what he had already done would be forgottenstraightway." Though he does not carry the analysis any further, wemay easily perceive that the same explanation covers what he calledhis natural ingratitude. Kindness was not much more vividly understoodby him than malice. It was only one form of the troublesomeinterposition of an outer world in his life; he was fain to hurry backfrom it to the real world of his dreams. If any man called practicalis tempted to despise this dreaming creature, as he fares in hischaise from stage to stage, let him remember that one making thatjourney through France less than thirty years later might have seenthe castles of the great flaring in the destruction of a mostrighteous vengeance, the great themselves fleeing ignobly from theland to which their selfishness, and heedlessness, and hatred ofimprovement, and inhuman pride had been a curse, while the legion oftoilers with eyes blinded by the oppression of ages were groping withpassionate uncertain hand for that divine something which they thoughtof as justice and right. And this was what Rousseau both partiallyforesaw and helped to prepare,[98] while the common politicians, likeChoiseul or D'Aiguillon, played their poor game--the elemental forcesrising unseen into tempest around them.He reached the territory of the canton of Berne, and alighted at thehouse of an old friend at Yverdun,[99] where native air, the beauty ofthe spot, and the charms of the season, immediately repaired allweariness and fatigue.[100] Friends at Geneva wrote letters of sincerefeeling, joyful that he had not followed the precedent of Socrates tooclosely by remaining in the power of a government eager to destroyhim.[101] A post or two later brought worse news. The Council atGeneva ordered not only Emilius, but the Social Contract also, to bepublicly burnt, and issued a warrant of arrest against their author,if he should set foot in the territory of the republic (June19).[102] Rousseau could hardly believe it possible that the freeGovernment which he had held up to the reverence of Europe, could havecondemned him unheard, but he took occasion in a highly characteristicmanner to chide severely a friend at Geneva who had publicly taken hispart.[103] Within a fortnight this blow was followed by another. Histwo books were reported to the senate of Berne, and Rousseau wasinformed by one of the authorities that a notification was on its wayadmonishing him to quit the canton within the space of fifteendays.[104] This stroke he avoided by flight to Motiers, a village inthe principality of Neuchatel (July 10), then part of the dominions ofthe King of Prussia.[105] Rousseau had some antipathy to Frederick,both because he had beaten the French, whom Rousseau loved, andbecause his maxims and his conduct alike seemed to trample under footrespect for the natural law and not a few human duties. He hadcomposed a verse to the effect that Frederick thought like aphilosopher and acted like a king, philosopher and king notoriouslybeing words of equally evil sense in his dialect. There was also apassage in Emilius about Adrastus, King of the Daunians, which wascommonly understood to mean Frederick, King of the Prussians. StillRousseau was acute enough to know that mean passions usually only rulethe weak, and have little hold over the strong. He boldly wrote bothto the king and to Lord Marischal, the governor of the principality,informing them that he was there, and asking permission to remain inthe only asylum left for him upon the earth.[106] He compared himselfloftily to Coriolanus among the Volscians, and wrote to the king in avein that must have amused the strong man. "I have said much ill ofyou, perhaps I shall still say more; yet, driven from France, fromGeneva, from the canton of Berne, I am come to seek shelter in yourstates. Perhaps I was wrong in not beginning there; this is eulogy ofwhich you are worthy. Sire, I have deserved no grace from you, and Iseek none, but I thought it my duty to inform your majesty that I amin your power, and that I am so of set design. Your majesty willdispose of me as shall seem good to you."[107] Frederick, though noadmirer of Rousseau or his writings,[108] readily granted the requiredpermission. He also, says Lord Marischal, "gave me orders to furnishhim his small necessaries if he would accept them; and though thatking's philosophy be very different from that of Jean Jacques, yet hedoes not think that a man of an irreproachable life is to bepersecuted because his sentiments are singular. He designs to buildhim a hermitage with a little garden, which I find he will not accept,nor perhaps the rest, which I have not yet offered him."[109] When theoffer of the flour, wine, and firewood was at length made in asdelicate terms as possible, Rousseau declined the gift on groundswhich may raise a smile, but which are not without a rather touchingsimplicity.[110] "I have enough to live on for two or three years," hesaid, "but if I were dying of hunger, I would rather in the presentcondition of your good prince, and not being of any service to him, goand eat grass and grub up roots, than accept a morsel of bread fromhim."[111] Hume might well call this a phenomenon in the world ofletters, and one very honourable for the person concerned.[112] And werecognise its dignity the more when we contrast it with the basenessof Voltaire, who drew his pension from the King of Prussia whileFrederick was in his most urgent straits, and while the poet wassportively exulting to all his correspondents in the maliciousexpectation that he would one day have to allow the King of Prussiahimself a pension.[113] And Rousseau was a poor man, living among thepoor and in their style. His annual outlay at this time was covered bythe modest sum of sixty louis.[114] What stamps his refusal ofFrederick's gifts as true dignity, is the fact that he not only didnot refuse money for any work done, but expected and asked for it.Malesherbes at this very time begged him to collect plants for him.Joyfully, replied Rousseau, "but as I cannot subsist without the aidof my own labour, I never meant, in spite of the pleasure that itmight otherwise have been to me, to offer you the use of my time fornothing."[115] In the same year, we may add, when the tremendousstruggle of the Seven Years' War was closing, the philosopher wrote asecond terse epistle to the king, and with this their directcommunication came to an end. "Sire, you are my protector and mybenefactor; I would fain repay you if I can. You wish to give mebread; is there none of your own subjects in want of it? Take thatsword away from my sight, it dazzles and pains me. It has done itswork only too well; the sceptre is abandoned. Great is the career forkings of your stuff, and you are still far from the term; timepresses, you have not a moment to lose. Fathom well your heart, OFrederick! Can you dare to die without having been the greatest ofmen? Would that I could see Frederick, the just and the redoubtable,covering his states with multitudes of men to whom he should be afather; then will J.J. Rousseau, the foe of kings, hasten to die atthe foot of his throne."[116] Frederick, strong as his interest was inall curious persons who could amuse him, was too busy to answer this,and Rousseau was not yet recognised as Voltaire's rival in power andpopularity.Motiers is one of the half-dozen decent villages standing in the flatbottom of the Val de Travers, a widish valley that lies between thegorges of the Jura and the Lake of Neuchatel, and is famous in our dayfor its production of absinthe and of asphalt. The flat of the valley,with the Reuss making a bald and colourless way through the midst ofit, is nearly treeless, and it is too uniform to be very pleasing. Inwinter the climate is most rigorous, for the level is high, and thesurrounding hills admit the sun's rays late and cut them off early.Rousseau's description, accurate and recognisable as it is,[117]strikes an impartial tourist as too favourable. But when a piece ofscenery is a home to a man, he has an eye for a thousand outlines,changes of light, soft variations of colour; the landscape lives forhim with an unspoken suggestion and intimate association, to all ofwhich the swift passing stranger is very cold.His cottage, which is still shown, was in the midst of the otherhouses, and his walks, which were at least as important to him as thehome in which he dwelt, lay mostly among woody heights with streamingcascades. The country abounded in natural curiosities of a humblesort, and here that interest in plants which had always been strong inhim, began to grow into a passion. Rousseau had so curious a feelingabout them, that when in his botanical expeditions he came across asingle flower of its kind, he could never bring himself to pluck it.His sight, though not good for distant objects, was of the very finestfor things held close; his sense of smell was so acute and subtlethat, according to a good witness, he might have classified plants byodours, if language furnished as many names as nature suppliesvarieties of fragrance.[118] He insisted in all botanising and otherwalking excursions on going bareheaded, even in the heat of thedog-days; he declared that the action of the sun did him good. Whenthe days began to turn, the summer was straightway at an end for him:"My imagination," he said, in a phrase which went further through hislife than he supposed, "at once brings winter." He hated rain as muchas he loved sun, so he must once have lost all the mystic fascinationof the green Savoy lakes gleaming luminous through pale showers, andnow again must have lost the sombre majesty of the pines of his valleydripping in torn edges of cloud, and all those other sights inlandscape that touch subtler parts of us than comforted sense.One of his favourite journeys was to Colombier, the summer retreat ofLord Marischal. For him he rapidly conceived the same warm friendshipwhich he felt for the Duke of Luxembourg, whom he had just left. Andthe sagacious, moderate, silent Scot had as warm a liking for thestrange refugee who had come to him for shelter, or shall we call it akind of shaggy compassion, as of a faithful inarticulate creature. Hisletters, which are numerous enough, abound in expressions of heartygood-will. These, if we reflect on the genuine worth, veracity,penetration, and experience of the old man who wrote them, may fairlybe counted the best testimony that remains to the existence ofsomething sterling at the bottom of Rousseau's character.[119] It ishere no insincere fine lady of the French court, but a homely andweather-beaten Scotchman, who speaks so often of his refugee'srectitude of heart and true sensibility.[120]He insisted on being allowed to settle a small sum on Theresa, whohad joined Rousseau at Motiers, and in other ways he showed a truesolicitude and considerateness both for her and for him.[121] It washis constant dream, that on his return to Scotland, Jean Jacquesshould accompany him, and that with David Hume, they would make a trioof philosophic hermits; that this was no mere cheery pleasantry isshown by the pains he took in settling the route for the journey.[122]The plan only fell through in consequence of Frederick's cordialurgency that his friend should end his days with him; he returned toPrussia and lived at Sans Souci until the close, always retainingsomething of his good-will for "his excellent savage," as he calledthe author of the Discourses. They had some common antipathies,including the fundamental one of dislike to society, and especially tothe society of the people of Neuchatel, the Gascons of Switzerland."Rousseau is gay in company," Lord Marischal wrote to Hume, "polite,and what the French call _aimable_, and gains ground daily in theopinion of even the clergy here. His enemies elsewhere continue topersecute him, and he is pestered with anonymous letters."[123]Some of these were of a humour that disclosed the master hand.Voltaire had been universally suspected of stirring up the feeling ofGeneva against its too famous citizen,[124] though for a man of lessenergy the affair of the Calas, which he was now in the thick of,might have sufficed. Voltaire's letters at this time show how hard hefound it in the case of Rousseau to exercise his usual pity for theunfortunate. He could not forget that the man who was now tastingpersecution had barked at philosophers and stage-plays; that he was afalse brother, who had fatuously insulted the only men who could takehis part; that he was a Judas who had betrayed the sacred cause.[125]On the whole, however, we ought probably to accept his word, thoughnot very categorically given,[126] that he had nothing to do with theaction taken against Rousseau. That action is quite adequatelyexplained, first by the influence of the resident of France at Geneva,which we know to have been exerted against the two fatal books,[127]and second by the anxiety of the oligarchic party to keep out of theirtown a man whose democratic tendencies they now knew so well and sojustly dreaded.[128] Moultou, a Genevese minister, in the full tideof devotion and enthusiasm for the author of Emilius, met Voltaire atthe house of a lady in Geneva. All will turn out well, cried thepatriarch; "the syndics will say M. Rousseau, you have done ill towrite what you have written; promise for the future to respect thereligion of your country. Jean Jacques will promise, and perhaps hewill say that the printer took the liberty of adding a sheet or two tohis book." "Never," cried the ardent Moultou; "Jean Jacques never putshis name to works to disown them after."[129] Voltaire disowned hisown books with intrepid and sustained mendacity, yet he bore no grudgeto Moultou for his vehemence. He sent for him shortly afterwards,professed an extreme desire to be reconciled with Rousseau, and wouldtalk of nothing else. "I swear to you," wrote Moultou, "that I couldnot understand him the least in the world; he is a marvellous actor; Icould have sworn that he loved you."[130] And there really was noacting in it. The serious Genevese did not see that he was dealingwith "one all fire and fickleness, a child."Rousseau soon found out that he had excited not only the band ofprofessed unbelievers, but also the tormenting wasps of orthodoxy. Thedoctors of the Sorbonne, not to be outdone in fervour for truth by thelawyers of the parliament, had condemned Emilius as a matter ofcourse. In the same spirit of generous emulation, Christopher deBeaumont, "by the divine compassion archbishop of Paris, Duke of SaintCloud, peer of France, commander of the order of the Holy Ghost," hadissued (Aug. 20, 1762) one of those hateful documents in whichbishops, Catholic and Protestant, have been wont for the last centuryand a half to hide with swollen bombastic phrase their dead anddecomposing ideas. The windy folly of these poor pieces is usually inproportion to the hierarchic rank of those who promulgate them, and anarchbishop owes it to himself to blaspheme against reason and freedomin superlatives of malignant unction. Rousseau's reply (Nov. 18, 1762)is a masterpiece of dignity and uprightness. Turning to it from themandate which was its provocative, we seem to grasp the hand of a man,after being chased by a nightmare of masked figures. Rousseau nevershowed the substantial quality of his character more surely andunmistakably than in controversy. He had such gravity, such austereself-command, such closeness of grip. Most of us feel pleasure inreading the matchless banter with which Voltaire assailed histheological enemies. Reading Rousseau's letter to De Beaumont werealise the comparative lowness of the pleasure which Voltaire hadgiven us. We understand how it was that Rousseau made fanatics, whileVoltaire only made sceptics. At the very first words, the mitre, thecrosier, the ring, fall into the dust; the Archbishop of Paris, theDuke of Saint Cloud, the peer of France, the commander of the HolyGhost, is restored from the disguises of his enchantment, and becomesa human being. We hear the voice of a man hailing a man. Voltaireoften sank to the level of ecclesiastics. Rousseau raised thearchbishop to his own level, and with magnanimous courtesy addressedhim as an equal. "Why, my lord, have I anything to say to you? Whatcommon tongue can we use? How are we to understand one another? Andwhat is there between me and you?" And he persevered in this distantlofty vein, hardly permitting himself a single moment of acerbity. Wefeel the ever-inspiring breath of seriousness and sincerity. This wasbecause, as we repeat so often, Rousseau's ideas, all engendered ofdreams as they were, yet lived in him and were truly rooted in hischaracter. He did not merely say, as any of us can say so fluently,that he craved reality in human relations, that distinctions of rankand post count for nothing, that our lives are in our own hands andought not to be blown hither and thither by outside opinion and wordsheedlessly scattered; that our faith, whatever it may be, is the mostsacred of our possessions, organic, indissoluble, self-sufficing; thatour passage across the world, if very short, is yet too serious to bewasted in frivolous disrespect for ourselves, and angry disrespect forothers. All this was actually his mind. And hence the littledifficulty he had in keeping his retort to the archbishop, as to hisother antagonists, on a worthy level.Only once or twice does his sense of the reckless injustice with whichhe had been condemned, and of the persecution which was inflicted onhim by one government after another, stir in him a blaze of highremonstrance. "You accuse me of temerity," he cried; "how have Iearned such a name, when I only propounded difficulties, and even thatwith so much reserve; when I only advanced reasons, and even that withso much respect; when I attacked no one, nor even named one? And you,my lord, how do you dare to reproach with temerity a man of whom youspeak with such scanty justice and so little decency, with so smallrespect and so much levity? You call me impious, and of what impietycan you accuse me--me who never spoke of the Supreme Being except topay him the honour and glory that are his due, nor of man except topersuade all men to love one another? The impious are those whounworthily profane the cause of God by making it serve the passions ofmen. The impious are those who, daring to pass for the interpreters ofdivinity, and judges between it and man, exact for themselves thehonours that are due to it only. The impious are those who arrogate tothemselves the right of exercising the power of God upon earth, andinsist on opening and shutting the gates of heaven at their own goodwill and pleasure. The impious are those who have libels read in thechurch. At this horrible idea my blood is enkindled, and tears ofindignation fall from my eyes. Priests of the God of peace, you shallrender an account one day, be very sure, of the use to which you havedared to put his house.... My lord, you have publicly insulted me:you are now convicted of heaping calumny upon me. If you were aprivate person like myself, so that I could cite you before anequitable tribunal, and we could both appear before it, I with mybook, and you with your mandate, assuredly you would be declaredguilty; you would be condemned to make reparation as public as thewrong was public. But you belong to a rank that relieves you from thenecessity of being just, and I am nothing. Yet you who profess thegospel, you, a prelate appointed to teach others their duty, you knowwhat your own duty is in such a case. Mine I have done: I have nothingmore to say to you, and I hold my peace."[131]The letter was as good in dialectic as it was in moral tone. For thisis a little curious, that Rousseau, so diffuse in expounding hisopinions, and so unscientific in his method of coming to them, shouldhave been one of the keenest and most trenchant of thecontroversialists of a very controversial time. Some of his strokes indefence of his first famous assault on civilisation are as hard, asdirect, and as effective as any in the records of polemicalliterature. We will give one specimen from the letter to theArchbishop of Paris; it has the recommendation of touching an argumentthat is not yet quite universally recognised for slain. The SavoyardVicar had dwelt on the difficulty of accepting revelation as the voiceof God, on account of the long distance of time between us, and thequestionableness of the supporting testimony. To which the archbishopthus:--"But is there not then an infinity of facts, even earlier thanthose of the Christian revelation, which it would be absurd to doubt?By what way other than that of human testimony has our author himselfknown the Sparta, the Athens, the Rome, whose laws, manners, andheroes he extols with such assurance? How many generations of menbetween him and the historians who have preserved the memory of theseevents?" First, says Rousseau in answer, "it is in the order of thingsthat human circumstances should be attested by human evidence, andthey can be attested in no other way. I can only know that Rome andSparta existed, because contemporaries assure me that they existed. Insuch a case this intermediate communication is indispensable. But whyis it necessary between God and me? Is it simple or natural that Godshould have gone in search of Moses to speak to Jean Jacques Rousseau?Second, nobody is obliged to believe that Sparta once existed, andnobody will be devoured by eternal flames for doubting it. Every factof which we are not witnesses is only established by moral proofs, andmoral proofs have various degrees of strength. Will the divine justicehurl me into hell for missing the exact point at which a proof becomesirresistible? If there is in the world an attested story, it is thatof vampires; nothing is wanting for judicial proof,--reports andcertificates from notables, surgeons, clergy, magistrates. But whobelieves in vampires, and shall we all be damned for not believing?Third, _my constant experience and that of all men is stronger inreference to prodigies than the testimony of some men_."He then strikes home with a parable. The Abbe Paris had died in theodour of Jansenist sanctity (1727), and extraordinary doings went onat his tomb; the lame walked, men and women sick of the palsy weremade whole, and so forth. Suppose, says Rousseau, that an inhabitantof the Rue St. Jacques speaks thus to the Archbishop of Paris, "Mylord, I know that you neither believe in the beatitude of St. Jean deParis, nor in the miracles which God has been pleased publicly to workupon his tomb in the sight of the most enlightened and most populouscity in the world; but I feel bound to testify to you that I have justseen the saint in person raised from the dead in the spot where hisbones were laid." The man of the Rue St. Jacques gives all the detailof such a circumstance that could strike a beholder. "I am persuadedthat on hearing such strange news, you will begin by interrogating himwho testifies to its truth, as to his position, his feelings, hisconfessor, and other such points; and when from his air, as from hisspeech, you have perceived that he is a poor workman, and when havingno confessional ticket to show you, he has confirmed your notion thathe is a Jansenist, Ah, ah, you will say to him, you are aconvulsionary, and have seen Saint Paris resuscitated. There isnothing wonderful in that; you have seen so many other wonders!" Theman would insist that the miracle had been seen equally by a number ofother people, who though Jansenists, it is true, were persons of soundsense, good character, and excellent reputation. Some would send theman to Bedlam, "but you after a grave reprimand, will be content withsaying: I know that two or three witnesses, good people and of soundsense, may attest the life or the death of a man, but I do not knowhow many more are needed to establish the resurrection of a Jansenist.Until I find that out, go, my son, and try to strengthen your brain: Igive you a dispensation from fasting, and here is something for you tomake your broth with. That is what you would say, and what any othersensible man would say in your place. Whence I conclude that evenaccording to you and to every other sensible man, the moral proofswhich are sufficient to establish facts that are in the order of moralpossibilities, are not sufficient to establish facts of another orderand purely supernatural."[132]Perhaps, however, the formal denunciation by the Archbishop of Pariswas less vexatious than the swarming of the angrier hive of ministersat his gates. "If I had declared for atheism," he says bitterly, "theywould at first have shrieked, but they would soon have left me inpeace like the rest. The people of the Lord would not have kept watchover me; everybody would not have thought he was doing me a highfavour in not treating me as a person cut off from communion, and Ishould have been quits with all the world. The holy women in Israelwould not have written me anonymous letters, and their charity wouldnot have breathed devout insults. They would not have taken thetrouble to assure me in all humility of heart that I was a castaway,an execrable monster, and that the world would have been well off ifsome good soul had been at the pains to strangle me in my cradle.Worthy people on their side would not torment themselves and tormentme to bring me back to the way of salvation; they would not charge atme from right and left, nor stifle me under the weight of theirsermons, nor force me to bless their zeal while I cursed theirimportunity, nor to feel with gratitude that they are obeying a callto lay me in my very grave with weariness."[133]He had done his best to conciliate the good opinion of his vigilantneighbours. Their character for contentious orthodoxy was well known.It was at Neuchatel that the controversy as to the eternal punishmentof the wicked raged with a fury that ended in a civil outbreak. Thepeace of the town was violently disturbed, ministers were suspended,magistrates were interdicted, life was lost, until at last Frederickpromulgated his famous bull:--"Let the parsons who make for themselvesa cruel and barbarous God, be eternally damned as they desire anddeserve; and let those parsons who conceive God gentle and merciful,enjoy the plenitude of his mercy."[134] When Rousseau came within theterritory, preparations were made to imitate the action of Paris,Geneva, and Berne. It was only the king's express permission thatsaved him from a fourth proscription. The minister at Motiers was ofthe less inhuman stamp, and Rousseau, feeling that he could not,without failing in his engagements and his duty as a citizen, neglectthe public profession of the faith to which he had been restored eightyears before, attended the religious services with regularity. He evenwrote to the pastor a letter in vindication of his book, andprotesting the sincerity of his union with the reformedcongregation.[135] The result of this was that the pastor came to tellhim how great an honour he held it to count such a member in hisflock, and how willing he was to admit him without further examinationto partake of the communion.[136] Rousseau went to the ceremony witheyes full of tears and a heart swelling with emotion. We may respecthis mood as little or as much as we please, but it was certainly moreedifying than the sight of Voltaire going through the same rite,merely to harass a priest and fill a bishop with fury.In all other respects he lived a harmless life during the three yearsof his sojourn in the Val de Travers. As he could never endure what hecalls the inactive chattering of the parlour--people sitting in frontof one another with folded hands and nothing in motion except thetongue--he learnt the art of making laces; he used to carry his pillowabout with him, or sat at his own door working like the women of thevillage, and chatting with the passers-by. He made presents of hiswork to young women about to marry, always on the condition that theyshould suckle their children when they came to have them. If a littlewhimsical, it was a harmless and respectable pastime. It is pleasanterto think of a philosopher finding diversion in weaving laces, than ofnoblemen making it the business of their lives to run after ribands. Asociety clothed in breeches was incensed about the same time byRousseau's adoption of the Armenian costume, the vest, the furredbonnet, the caftan, and the girdle. There was nothing very wonderfulin this departure from use. An Armenian tailor used often to visitsome friends at Montmorency. Rousseau knew him, and reflected thatsuch a dress would be of singular comfort to him in the circumstancesof his bodily disorder.[137] Here was a solid practical reason forwhat has usually been counted a demonstration of a turned brain.Rousseau had as good cause for going about in a caftan as Chatham hadfor coming to the House of Parliament wrapped in flannel. Vanity and adesire to attract notice may, we admit, have had something to do withRousseau's adoption of an uncommon way of dressing. Shrewd wits likethe Duke of Luxembourg and his wife did not suppose that it was so.We, living a hundred years after, cannot possibly know whether it wasso or not, and our estimate of Rousseau's strange character would bevery little worth forming, if it only turned on petty singularities ofthis kind. The foolish, equivocally gifted with the quality ofarticulate speech, may, if they choose, satisfy their own self-love byreducing all action out of the common course to a series of variationson the same motive in others. Men blessed by the benignity ofexperience will be thankful not to waste life in guessing evil aboutunknowable trifles.During his stay at Motiers Rousseau's time was hardly ever his own.Visitors of all nations, drawn either by respect for his work or bycuriosity to see a man who had been prescribed by so many governments,came to him in throngs. His partisans at Geneva insisted on sendingpeople to convince themselves how good a man they were persecuting. "Ihad never been free from strangers for six weeks," he writes. "Twodays after, I had a Westphalian gentleman and one from Genoa; six dayslater, two persons from Zurich, who stayed a week; then a Genevese,recovering from an illness, and coming for change of air, fell illagain, and he has only just gone away."[138] One visitor, writing hometo his wife of the philosopher to whom he had come on a pilgrimage,describes his manners in terms which perhaps touch us withsurprise:--"Thou hast no idea how charming his society is, what truepoliteness there is in his manners, what a depth of serenity andcheerfulness in his talk. Didst thou not expect quite a differentpicture, and figure to thyself an eccentric creature, always grave andsometimes even abrupt? Ah, what a mistake! To an expression of greatmildness he unites a glance of fire, and eyes of a vivacity the likeof which never was seen. When you handle any matter in which he takesan interest, then his eyes, his lips, his hands, everything about himspeaks. You would be quite wrong to picture in him an everlastinggrumbler. Not at all; he laughs with those who laugh, he chats andjokes with children, he rallies his housekeeper."[139] He was not socivil to all the world, and occasionally turned upon his pursuers witha word of most sardonic roughness.[140] But he could also be verygenerous. We find him pressing a loan from his scanty store on anoutcast adventurer, and warning him, "When I lend (which happensrarely enough), 'tis my constant maxim never to count on repayment,nor to exact it."[141] He received hundreds of letters, some seekingan application of his views on education to a special case, otherscraving further exposition of his religious doctrines. Before he hadbeen at Motiers nine months he had paid ten louis for the postage ofletters, which after all contained little more than reproaches,insults, menaces, imbecilities.[142]Not the least curious of his correspondence at this time is that withthe Prince of Wuertemberg, then living near Lausanne.[143] The princehad a little daughter four months old, and he was resolved that herupbringing should be carried on as the author of Emilius might pleaseto direct. Rousseau replied courteously that he did not pretend todirect the education of princes or princesses.[144] His undauntedcorrespondent sent him full details of his babe's habits andfaculties, and continued to do so at short intervals, with thefondness of a young mother or an old nurse. Rousseau was interested,and took some trouble to draw up rules for the child's nurture andadmonition. One may smile now and then at the prince's ingenuous zeal,but his fervid respect and devotion for the teacher in whom he thoughthe had found the wisest man that ever lived, and who had at any ratespoken the word that kindled the love of virtue and truth in him, hiseagerness to know what Rousseau thought right, and his equal eagernessin trying to do it, his care to arrange his household in a simple andmethodical way to please his master, his discipular patience whenRousseau told him that his verses were poor, or that he was too fondof his wife,--all this is a little uncommon in a prince, and deservesa place among the ample mass of other evidence of the power whichRousseau's pictures of domestic simplicity and wise and humaneeducation had in the eighteenth century. It gives us a glimpse, closeand direct, of the naturalist revival reaching up into high places.But the trade of philosopher in such times is perhaps an irksome one,and Rousseau was the private victim of his public action. His princesent multitudes of Germans to visit the sage, and his letters, endlesswith their details of the nursery, may well have become a littletedious to a worn-out creature who only wanted to be left alone.[145]The famous Prince Henry, Frederick's brother, thought a man happy whocould have the delight of seeing Rousseau as often as he chose.[146]People forgot the other side of this delight, and the unluckyphilosopher found in a hundred ways alike from enemies and the friendswhose curiosity makes them as bad as enemies, that the pedestal ofglory partakes of the nature of the pillory or the stocks.It is interesting to find the famous English names of Gibbon andBoswell in the list of the multitudes with whom he had to do at thistime.[147] The former was now at Lausanne, whither he had justreturned from that memorable visit to England which persuaded him thathis father would never endure his alliance with the daughter of anobscure Swiss pastor. He had just "yielded to his fate, sighed as alover, and obeyed as a son." "How sorry I am for our poor MademoiselleCurchod," writes Moultou to Rousseau; "Gibbon whom she loves, and towhom she has sacrificed, as I know, some excellent matches, has cometo Lausanne, but cold, insensible, and as entirely cured of his oldpassion as she is far from cure. She has written me a letter thatmakes my heart ache." He then entreats Rousseau to use his influencewith Gibbon, who is on the point of starting for Motiers, by extollingto him the lady's worth and understanding.[148] "I hope Mr. Gibbonwill not come," replied the sage; "his coldness makes me think ill ofhim. I have been looking over his book again [the _Essai sur l'etudede la litterature_, 1761]; he runs after brilliance too much, and isstrained and stilted. Mr. Gibbon is not the man for me, and I do notthink he is the man for Mademoiselle Curchod either."[149] WhetherGibbon went or not, we do not know. He knew in after years what hadbeen said of him by Jean Jacques, and protested with mild pomp thatthis extraordinary man should have been less precipitate incondemning the moral character and the conduct of a stranger.[150]Boswell, as we know, had left Johnson "rolling his majestic frame inhis usual manner" on Harwich beach in 1763, and was now on histravels. Like many of his countrymen, he found his way to LordMarischal, and here his indomitable passion for making the personalacquaintance of any one who was much talked about, naturally led himto seek so singular a character as the man who was now at Motiers.What Rousseau thought of one who was as singular a character ashimself in another direction, we do not know.[151] Lord Marischalwarned Rousseau that his visitor is of excellent disposition, but fullof visionary ideas, even having seen spirits--a serious proof ofunsoundness to a man who had lived in the very positive atmosphere ofFrederick's court at Berlin. "I only hope," says the sage Scot, of theScot who was not sage, "that he may not fall into the hands of peoplewho will turn his head: he was very pleased with the reception yougave him."[152] As it happens, he was the means of sending Boswell toa place where his head was turned, though not very mischievously.Rousseau was at that time full of Corsican projects, of which this isthe proper place for us very briefly to speak.The prolonged struggles of the natives of Corsica to assert theirindependence of the oppressive administration of the Genoese, whichhad begun in 1729, came to end for a moment in 1755, when Paoli(1726-1807) defeated the Genoese, and proceeded to settle thegovernment of the island. In the Social Contract Rousseau had said,"There is still in Europe one country capable of legislation, and thatis the island of Corsica. The valour and constancy with which thisbrave people has succeeded in recovering and defending its liberty,entitle it to the good fortune of having some wise man to teach the