lypromoting his candidacy for the United States Senate, to succeedSenator Young. This was an audacious move, since even if Young werepassed over, there were older men far more justly entitled toconsideration. Nevertheless, Douglas secured in some way the supportof several delegations in the legislature, so that on the first ballotin the Democratic caucus he stood second, receiving only nine votesless than Young. A protracted contest followed. Nineteen ballots weretaken. Douglas's chief competitor proved to be, not Young, but Breese,who finally secured the nomination of the caucus by a majority of fivevotes.[147] The ambition of Judge Douglas had overshot the mark.In view of the young man's absorbing interest in politics, his slenderlegal equipment, and the circumstances under which he received hisappointment, one wonders whether the courts he held could have beenanything but travesties on justice. But the universal testimony ofthose whose memories go back so far, is that justice was on the wholefaithfully administered.[148] The conditions of life in Illinois werestill comparatively simple. The suits instituted at law were not suchas to demand profound knowledge of jurisprudence. The wide-spreadfinancial distress which followed the crisis of 1837, gave rise tomany processes to collect debts and to set aside fraudulentconveyances. "Actions of slander and trespass for assault and battery,engendered by the state of feeling incident to pecuniaryembarrassment, were frequent."[149]The courts were in keeping with the meagre legal attainments of thosewho frequented them. Rude frame, or log houses served the purposes ofbench and bar. The judge sat usually upon a platform with a plaintable, or pine board, for a desk. A larger table below accommodatedthe attorneys who followed the judge in his circuit from county tocounty. "The relations between the Bench and the Bar were free andeasy, and flashes of wit and humor and personal repartee wereconstantly passing from one to the other. The court rooms in thosedays were always crowded. To go to court and listen to the witnessesand lawyers was among the chief amusements of the frontiersettlements."[150] In this little world, popular reputations were madeand unmade.Judge Douglas was thoroughly at home in this primitive environment.His freedom from affectation and false dignity recommended him to thelaity, while his fairness and good-nature put him in quick sympathywith his legal brethren and their clients. Long years afterward, menrecalled the picture of the young judge as he mingled with the crowdduring a recess. "It was not unusual to see him come off the bench, orleave his chair at the bar, and take a seat on the knee of a friend,and with one arm thrown familiarly around a friend's neck, have afriendly talk, or a legal or political discussion."[151] An attorneyrecently from the East witnessed this familiarity with dismay. "Thejudge of our circuit," he wrote, "is S.A. Douglas, a youth of 28....He is a Vermonter, a man of considerable talent, and, in the way ofdespatching business, is a perfect 'steam engine in breeches.' ... Heis the most democratic judge I ever knew.... I have often thought weshould cut a queer figure if one of our Suffolk bar shouldaccidentally drop in."[152]Meantime, changes were taking place in the political map of Illinois,which did not escape the watchful eye of Judge Douglas. By the censusof 1840, the State was entitled to seven, instead of fourrepresentatives in Congress.[153] A reapportionment act was thereforeto be expected from the next legislature. Democrats were already atwork plotting seven Democratic districts on paper, for, with amajority in the legislature, they could redistrict the State at will.A gerrymander was the outcome.[154] If Douglas did not have a hand inthe reapportionment, at least his friends saw to it that a desirabledistrict was carved out, which included the most populous counties inhis circuit. Who would be a likelier candidate for Congress in thisDemocratic constituency than the popular judge of the Fifth CircuitCourt?Seven of the ten counties composing the Fifth Congressional Districtwere within the so-called "military tract," between the Mississippiand Illinois rivers; three counties lay to the east on the lowercourse of the Illinois. Into this frontier region population began toflow in the twenties, from the Sangamo country; and the organizationof county after county attested the rapid expansion northward. Likethe people of southern Illinois, the first settlers were of Southernextraction; but they were followed by Pennsylvanians, New Yorkers, andNew Englanders. In the later thirties, the Northern immigration, towhich Douglas belonged, gave a somewhat different complexion toPeoria, Fulton, and other adjoining counties. Yet there were diverseelements in the district: Peoria had a cosmopolitan population ofIrish, English, Scotch, and German immigrants; Quincy became a city ofrefuge for "Young Germany," after the revolutionary disturbances of1830 in Europe.[155]No sooner had the reapportionment act passed than certain members ofthe legislature, together with Democrats who held no office, took itupon themselves to call a nominating convention, on a basis ofrepresentation determined in an equally arbitrary fashion.[156] Thesummons was obeyed nevertheless. Forty "respectable Democats"assembled at Griggsville, in Pike County, on June 5, 1843. It was amost satisfactory body. The delegates did nothing but what wasexpected of them. On the second ballot, a majority cast their votesfor Douglas as the candidate of the party for Congress. The otheraspirants then graciously withdrew their claims, and pledged theircordial support to the regular nominee of the convention.[157] Suchmachine-like precision warmed the hearts of Democratic politicians.The editor of the _People's Advocate_ declared the integrity ofDouglas to be "as unspotted as the vestal's fame--as untarnished andas pure as the driven snow."The Griggsville convention also supplied the requisite machinery forthe campaign: vigilant precinct committees; county committees; adistrict corresponding committee; a central district committee. Theparty now pinned its faith to the efficiency of its organization, aswell as to the popularity of its candidate.Douglas made a show of declining the nomination on the score ofill-health, but yielded to the urgent solicitations of friends, whowould fain have him believe that he was the only Democrat who couldcarry the district.[158] Secretly pleased to be overruled, Douglasburned his bridges behind him by resigning his office, and plungedinto the thick of the battle. His opponent was O.H. Browning, aKentuckian by birth and a Whig by choice. It was Kentucky againstVermont, South against North, for neither was unwilling to appeal tosectional prejudice. Time has obscured the political issues which theydebated from Peoria to Macoupin and back; but history has probablysuffered no great loss. Men, not measures, were at stake in thiscampaign, for on the only national issue which they seemed to havediscussed--Oregon--they were in practical agreement.[159] Bothcultivated the little arts which relieve the tedium of politics.Douglas talked in heart to heart fashion with his "esteemedfellow-citizens," inquired for the health of their families, expressedgrief when he learned that John had the measles and that Sally wasdown with the chills and fever.[160] And if Browning was lesssuccessful in this gentle method of wooing voters, it was because hehad less genuine interest in the plain common people, not because hedespised the petty arts of the politician.The canvass was short but exhausting. Douglas addressed publicgatherings for forty successive days; and when election day came, hewas prostrated by a fever from which he did not fully recover formonths.[161] Those who gerrymandered the State did their work well.Only one district failed to elect a Democratic Congressman. Douglashad a majority over Browning of four hundred and sixty-one votes.[162]This cheering news hastened his convalescence, so that by November hewas able to visit his mother in Canandaigua. Member of Congress at theage of thirty! He had every reason to be well satisfied with himself.He was fully conscious that he had begun a new chapter in his career.       *       *       *       *       *FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 118: Ford, History of Illinois, pp. 213-214.][Footnote 119: Davidson and Stuve, History of Illinois, pp. 454-455.][Footnote 120: Why McClernand was passed over is not clear. Douglasentered upon the duties of his office November 30, 1840.][Footnote 121: Wheeler, Biographical History of Congress, p. 74.][Footnote 122: Sheahan, Douglas, p. 43.][Footnote 123: Ford, History of Illinois, p. 217.][Footnote 124: _Ibid._, pp. 212-222.][Footnote 125: Davidson and Stuve, History of Illinois, p. 456.][Footnote 126: Illinois _State Register_, January 29, 1841; Ford,History of Illinois, p. 220.][Footnote 127: Davidson and Stuve, History of Illinois, pp. 457-458.][Footnote 128: _Ibid._, pp. 457-458.][Footnote 129: Illinois _State Register_, February 5, 1841. JudgeSmith is put in an unenviable light by contemporary historians. Thereseems to be no reason to doubt that he misinformed Douglas and others.See Davidson and Stuve, History of Illinois, pp. 458-459.][Footnote 130: Chicago _American_, February 18, 1841.][Footnote 131: Sangamo _Journal_, March 19, 1841.][Footnote 132: Chicago _American_, February 18, 1841.][Footnote 133: Wheeler, Biographical History of Congress, p. 74.][Footnote 134: Ford, History of Illinois, pp. 263-265; Linn, Story ofthe Mormons, pp. 236-237.][Footnote 135: Linn, Story of the Mormons, pp. 237-238.][Footnote 136: _Ibid._, p. 244.][Footnote 137: _Times and Seasons_, II, p. 414.][Footnote 138: Illinois _State Register_, August 13, 1841.][Footnote 139: _Ibid._, September 24, 1841.][Footnote 140: _Times and Seasons_, III, p. 651.][Footnote 141: Ford, History of Illinois, p. 269.][Footnote 142: Illinois _State Register_, June 17, 1842. Douglasreplied in a speech of equal tartness. See _Register_, July 1, 1842.][Footnote 143: Illinois _State Register_, June 10, 1842.][Footnote 144: Ford, History of Illinois, pp. 277-278.][Footnote 145: Gregg, History of Hancock County, p. 419.][Footnote 146: Illinois _State Register_, November 4, 1842.][Footnote 147: Illinois _State Register_, December 23, 1842.][Footnote 148: Conkling, Recollections of the Bench and Bar, FergusHistorical Series, No. 22.][Footnote 149: Conkling, Recollections of the Bench and Bar, FergusHistorical Series, No. 22][Footnote 150: Arnold, Reminiscences of the Illinois Bar, FergusHistorical Series, No. 22.][Footnote 151: Arnold, Reminiscences of the Illinois Bar.][Footnote 152: Davidson and Stuve, History of Illinois, p. 698.][Footnote 153: Statute of June 25, 1842.][Footnote 154: A sheet called _The Gerrymander_ was published in March1843, which contained a series of cartoons exhibiting themonstrosities of this apportionment. The Fifth District is called "theNondescript."][Footnote 155: Patterson, Early Society in Southern Illinois, FergusHistorical Series No. 14; Koerner, Das deutsche Element in denVereinigten Staaten, pp. 245, 277; Baker, America as the PoliticalUtopia of Young Germany; Peoria _Register_, June 30, 1838; Ballance,History of Peoria, pp. 201-202.][Footnote 156: Illinois _State Register_, March 10, 1843.][Footnote 157: Illinois _State Register_, June 16, 1843.][Footnote 158: Sheahan, Douglas, p. 55; Wheeler, Biographical Historyof Congress, p. 75.][Footnote 159: _Globe_, 28 Cong. 1 Sess. App. pp. 598 ff.][Footnote 160: Alton _Telegraph_, July 20, 1843.][Footnote 161: Sheahan, Douglas, p. 56; Wheeler, Biographical Historyof Congress, p. 75; Alton _Telegraph_, August 26, 1843.][Footnote 162: According to the returns in the office of the Secretaryof State. The _Whig Almanac_ gives 451 as Douglas's majority.]CHAPTER IVUNDER THE AEGIS OF ANDREW JACKSONIn his own constituency a member of the national House ofRepresentatives may be a marked man; but his office confers noparticular distinction at the national capital. He must achievedistinction either by native talent or through fortuitouscircumstance; rarely is greatness thrust upon him. A newly electedmember labors under a peculiar and immediate necessity to acquireimportance, since the time of his probation is very brief. Therepresentative who takes his seat in December of the odd year, muststand for re-election in the following year. Between these termini,lies only a single session. During his absence eager rivals may beundermining his influence at home, and the very possession of officemay weaken his chances among those disposed to consider rotation inoffice a cardinal principle of democracy. If a newly electedcongressman wishes to continue in office, he is condemned to dosomething great.What qualities had Douglas which would single him out from the crowdand impress his constituents with a sense of his capacity for publicservice? What had he to offset his youth, his rawness, and hislegislative inexperience? None of his colleagues cared a fig about hisrecord in the Illinois Legislature and on the Bench. In Congress, asthen constituted, every man had to stand on his own feet, unsupportedby the dubious props of a local reputation.There was certainly nothing commanding in the figure of the gentlemanfrom Illinois. "He had a herculean frame," writes a contemporary,"with the exception of his lower limbs, which were short and small,dwarfing what otherwise would have been a conspicuous figure.... Hislarge round head surmounted a massive neck, and his features weresymmetrical, although his small nose deprived them of dignity."[163]It was his massive forehead, indeed, that redeemed his appearance fromthe commonplace. Beneath his brow were deep-set, dark eyes that alsochallenged attention.[164] It was not a graceful nor an attractiveexterior surely, but it was the very embodiment of force. Moreover,the Little Giant had qualities of mind and heart that made men forgethis physical shortcomings. His ready wit, his suavity, and hisheartiness made him a general favorite almost at once.[165] He wassoon able to demonstrate his intellectual power.The House was considering a bill to remit the fine imposed uponGeneral Andrew Jackson at New Orleans for contempt of court. It was ahackneyed theme. No new, extenuating circumstances could be adduced toclear the old warrior of high-handed conduct; but a presidentialelection was approaching and there was political capital to be made bydefending "Old Hickory." From boyhood Douglas had idolized AndrewJackson. With much the same boyish indignation which led him to teardown the coffin handbills in old Brandon, he now sprang to the defenseof his hero. The case had been well threshed already. Jackson hadbeen defended eloquently, and sometimes truthfully. A man of lessaudacity would have hesitated to swell this tide of eloquence, and atfirst, it seemed as though Douglas had little but vehemence to add tothe eulogies already pronounced. There was nothing novel in theassertion that Jackson had neither violated the Constitution bydeclaring martial law at New Orleans, nor assumed any authority whichwas not "fully authorized and legalized by his position, his duty, andthe unavoidable necessity of the case." The House was used to thesedogmatic reiterations. But Douglas struck into untrodden ways when hecontended, that even if Jackson had violated the laws and theConstitution, his condemnation for contempt of court was "unjust,irregular and illegal." Every unlawful act is not necessarily acontempt of court, he argued. "The doctrine of contempts only appliesto those acts which obstruct the proceedings of the court, and againstwhich the general laws of the land do not afford adequateprotection.... It is incumbent upon those who defend and applaud theconduct of the judge to point out the specific act done by GeneralJackson which constituted a contempt of court. The mere declaration ofmartial law is not of that character.... It was a matter over whichthe civil tribunals had no jurisdiction, and with which they had noconcern, unless some specific crime had been committed or injury done;and not even then until it was brought before them according to theforms of law."[166]The old hero had never had a more adroit counsel. Like a good lawyer,Douglas seemed to feel himself in duty bound to spar for everytechnical advantage, and to construe the law, wherever possible, infavor of his client. At the same time he did not forget that the Housewas the jury in this case, and capable of human emotions upon which hemight play. At times he became declamatory beyond the point of goodtaste. In voice and manner he betrayed the school in which he had beentrained. "When I hear gentlemen," he cried in strident tones,"attempting to justify this unrighteous fine upon General Jackson uponthe ground of non-compliance with rules of court and mere formalities,I must confess that I cannot appreciate the force of the argument. Incases of war and desolation, in times of peril and disaster, we shouldlook at the substance and not the shadow of things. I envy not thefeelings of the man who can reason coolly and calmly about the forceof precedents and the tendency of examples in the fury of the war-cry,when 'booty and beauty' is the watchword. Talk not to me about rulesand forms in court when the enemy's cannon are pointed at the door,and the flames encircle the cupola! The man whose stoicism wouldenable him to philosophize coolly under these circumstances wouldfiddle while the Capitol was burning, and laugh at the horror andanguish that surrounded him in the midst of the conflagration! I claimnot the possession of these remarkable feelings. I concede them all tothose who think that the savior of New Orleans ought to be treatedlike a criminal for not possessing them in a higher degree. Theircourse in this debate has proved them worthy disciples of the doctrinethey profess. Let them receive all the encomiums which such sentimentsare calculated to inspire."[167]His closing words were marked with much the same perfervid rhetoric,only less objectionable because they were charged with genuineemotion: "Can gentlemen see nothing to admire, nothing to commend, inthe closing scenes, when, fresh from the battlefield, the victoriousgeneral--the idol of his army and the acknowledged savior of hiscountrymen--stood before Judge Hall, and quelled the tumult andindignant murmurs of the multitude by telling him that 'the same armwhich had defended the city from the ravages of a foreign enemy shouldprotect him in the discharge of his duty?' Is this the conduct of alawless desperado, who delights in trampling upon Constitution, andlaw, and right? Is there no reverence for the supremacy of the lawsand the civil institutions of the country displayed on this occasion?If such acts of heroism and moderation, of chivalry and submission,have no charms to excite the admiration or soften the animosities ofgentlemen in the Opposition, I have no desire to see them vote forthis bill. The character of the hero of New Orleans requires noendorsement from such a source. They wish to fix a mark, a stigma ofreproach, upon his character, and send him to his grave branded as acriminal. His stern, inflexible adherence to Democratic principles,his unwavering devotion to his country, and his intrepid opposition toher enemies, have so long thwarted their unhallowed schemes ofambition and power, that they fear the potency of his name on earth,even after his spirit shall have ascended to heaven.""An eloquent, sophistical speech, prodigiously admired by the slaveDemocracy of the House," was the comment of John Quincy Adams; wordsof high praise, for the veteran statesman had little patience withthe style of oratory affected by this "homunculus."[168] Acorrespondent of a Richmond newspaper wrote that this effort had givenDouglas high rank as a debater.[169] Evidence on every hand confirmsthe impression that by a single, happy stroke the young Illinoisan hadachieved enviable distinction; but whether he had qualities whichwould secure an enduring reputation, was still open to question.In the long run, the confidence of party associates is the surestpassport to real influence in the House. It might easily happen,indeed, that Douglas, with all his rough eloquence, would remain animpotent legislator. The history of Congress is strewn with oratoricalderelicts, who have often edified their auditors, but quite as oftenblocked the course of legislation. No one knew better than Douglas,that only as he served his party, could he hope to see his wishescrystallize into laws, and his ambitions assume the guise of reality.His opportunity to render effective service came also in this firstsession.Four States had neglected to comply with the recent act of Congressreapportioning representation, having elected their twenty-one membersby general ticket. The language of the statute was explicit: "In everycase where a State is entitled to more than one Representative, thenumber to which each State shall be entitled under this apportionmentshall be elected by districts composed of contiguous territory equal innumber to the number of Representatives, to which said State may beentitled, no one district electing more than one Representative."[170]Now all but two of these twenty-one Representatives were Democrats.Would a Democratic majority punish this flagrant transgression ofFederal law by unseating the offenders?In self-respect the Democratic members of the House could not do lessthan appoint a committee to investigate whether the representatives inquestion had been elected "in conformity to the Constitution and thelaw."[171] Thereupon it devolved upon the six Democratic members ofthis committee of nine to construct a theory, by which they might seattheir party associates under cover of legality. Not that they held_any_ such explicit mandate from the party, nor that they deliberatelywent to work to pervert the law; they were simply under psychologicalpressure from which only men of the severest impartiality could freethemselves. The work of drafting the majority report (it was aforegone conclusion that the committee would divide), fell to Douglas.It pronounced the law of 1842 "not a _law_ made in pursuance of theConstitution of the United States, and valid, operative, and bindingupon the States." Accordingly, the representatives of the four Statesin question were entitled to their seats.By what process of reasoning had Douglas reached this conclusion? Thereport directed its criticism chiefly against the second section ofthe Act of 1842, which substituted the district for the general ticketin congressional elections. The Constitution provides that "the Times,Places, and Manner of holding elections for Senators andRepresentatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislaturethereof; but the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter suchRegulations." But by the law of 1842, contended the report, Congresshad only partially exercised its power, and had attempted "to subvertthe entire system of legislation adopted by the several States of theUnion, and to compel them to conform to certain rules established byCongress for their government." Congress "may" make or alter suchregulations, but "the right to change State laws or to enact otherswhich shall suspend them, does not imply the right to compel the Statelegislatures to make such change or new enactments." Congress mayexercise the privilege of making such regulations, only when the Statelegislatures refuse to act, or act in a way to subvert theConstitution. If Congress acts at all in fixing times, places, andmanner of elections, it must act exhaustively, leaving nothing for theState legislatures to do. The Act of 1842 was general in its nature,and inoperative without State legislation. The history of theConstitutional Convention of 1787 was cited to prove that it wasgenerally understood that Congress would exercise this power only in afew specified cases.[172]Replying to the attacks which this report evoked, Douglas took stillhigher ground. He was ready to affirm that Congress had no power todistrict the States. To concede to Congress so great a power was todeny those reserved rights of the States, without which theirsovereignty would be an empty title. "Congress may alter, but itcannot supersede these regulations [of the States] till it suppliesothers in their places, so as to leave the right of representationperfect."[173]The argument of the report was bold and ingenious, if not convincing.The minority were ready to admit that the case had been cleverlystated, although hardly a man doubted that political considerationshad weighed most heavily with the chairman of the committee. Douglasresented the suggestion with such warmth, however, that it ischaritable to suppose he was not conscious of the bias under which hehad labored.Upon one auditor, who to be sure was inexpressibly bored by the wholediscussion of the "everlasting general ticket elections," Douglas madean unhappy impression. John Quincy Adams recorded in his diary,--thatdiary which was becoming a sort of Rogues' Gallery: "He now raved outhis hour in abusive invectives upon the members who had pointed outits slanders and upon the Whig party. His face was convulsed, hisgesticulation frantic, and he lashed himself into such a heat that ifhis body had been made of combustible matter, it would have burnt out.In the midst of his roaring, to save himself from choking, he strippedoff and cast away his cravat, and unbuttoned his waist-coat, and hadthe air and aspect of a half-naked pugilist. And this man comes from ajudicial bench, and passes for an eloquent orator."[174]No one will mistake this for an impartial description. Nearly everyDemocrat who spoke upon this tedious question, according to Adams,either "raved" or "foamed at the mouth." The old gentleman was toowearied and disgusted with the affair to be a fair reporter. But as acaricature, this picture of the young man from Illinois certainly hitsoff the style which he affected, in common with most Western orators.Notwithstanding his very substantial services to his party, Douglashad sooner or later to face his constituents with an answer to thecrucial question, "What have you done for us?" It is a hard, brutalquestion, which has blighted many a promising career in Americanpolitics. The interest which Douglas exhibited in the Western Harborsbill was due, in part at least, to his desire to propitiate those byvirtue of whose suffrages he was a member of the House ofRepresentatives. At the same time, he was no doubt sincerely devotedto the measure, because he believed profoundly in its nationalcharacter. Local and national interests were so inseparable in hismind, that he could urge the improvement of the Illinois River as atruly national undertaking. "Through this channel, and this alone," hedeclared all aglow with enthusiasm, "we have a connected anduninterrupted navigation for steamboats and large vessels from theAtlantic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico, to all the northern lakes."Considerations of war and defense, as well as of peace and commerce,counselled the proposed expenditure. "We have no fleet upon the lakes;we have no navy-yard there at which we could construct one, and nochannel through which we could introduce our vessels from thesea-board. In times of war, those lakes must be defended, if defendedat all, by a fleet from the naval depot and a yard on the MississippiRiver." After the State of Illinois had expended millions on theIllinois and Michigan canal, was Congress to begrudge a few thousandsto remove the sand-bars which impeded navigation in this "nationalhighway by an irrevocable ordinance"?[175]This special plea for the Illinois River was prefaced by a lengthyexposition of Democratic doctrine respecting internal improvements,for it was incumbent upon every good Democrat to explain a measurewhich seemed to countenance a broad construction of the powers of theFederal government. Douglas was at particular pains to show that thebill did not depart from the principles laid down in PresidentJackson's famous Maysville Road veto-message.[176] To him Jacksonincarnated the party faith; and his public documents were a veritable,political testament. In the art of reading consistency into his own,or the conduct of another, Douglas had no equal. To the end of hisdays he possessed in an extraordinary degree the subtle power ofredistributing emphasis so as to produce a desired effect. It was themost effective and the most insidious of his many natural gifts, forit often won immediate ends at the permanent sacrifice of hisreputation for candor and veracity. The immediate result of this essayin interpretation of Jacksonian principles, was to bring down uponDouglas's devoted head the withering charge, peculiarly blighting to abudding statesman, that he was conjuring with names to the exclusionof arguments. With biting sarcasm, Representative Holmes drewattention to the gentleman's disposition, after the fashion of littlemen, to advance to the fray under the seven-fold shield of theTelamon Ajax--a classical allusion which was altogether lost on theyoung man from Illinois.The appropriation for the Illinois River was stricken from the WesternHarbors bill much to Douglas's regret.[177] Still, he had evinced agenuine concern for the interests of his constituents and his rewardwas even now at hand. Early in the year the Peoria _Press_ hadrecommended a Democratic convention to nominate a candidate forCongress.[178] The _State Register_, and other journals friendly toDouglas, took up the cry, giving the movement thus all the marks ofspontaneity. The Democratic organization was found to be intact; theconvention was held early in May at Pittsfield; and the HonorableStephen A. Douglas was unanimously re-nominated for Representative toCongress from the Fifth Congressional District.[179]Soon after this well-ordered convention in the little Western town ofPittsfield, came the national convention of the Democratic party atBaltimore, where the unexpected happened. To Douglas, as to the rankand file of the party, the selection of Polk must have come as asurprise; but whatever predilections he may have had for anothercandidate, were speedily suppressed.[180] With the platform, at least,he found himself in hearty accord; and before the end of the sessionhe convinced his associates on the Democratic side of the House, thathe was no lukewarm supporter of the ticket.While the Civil and Diplomatic Appropriations bill was underdiscussion in the House, a desultory debate occurred on the politicsof Colonel Polk. Such digressions were not unusual on the eve of apresidential election. Seizing the opportunity, Douglas obtainedrecognition from the Speaker and launched into a turgid speech indefence of Polk, "the standard-bearer of Democracy and freedom." Ithad been charged that Colonel Polk was "the industrious follower ofAndrew Jackson." Douglas turned the thrust neatly by asserting, "He isemphatically a Young Hickory--the unwavering friend of Old Hickory inall his trials--his bosom companion--his supporter and defender on alloccasions, in public and private, from his early boyhood until thepresent moment. No man living possessed General Jackson's confidencein a greater degree.... That he has been the industrious follower ofGeneral Jackson in those glorious contests for the defence of hiscountry's rights, will not be deemed the unpardonable sin by theAmerican people, so long as their hearts beat and swell with gratitudeto their great benefactor. He is the very man for the times--a 'chipof the old block'--of the true hickory stump. The people want a manwhose patriotism, honesty, ability, and devotion to democraticprinciples, have been tested and tried in the most stormy times of therepublic, and never found wanting. That man is James K. Polk ofTennessee."[181]There could be no better evidence that Douglas felt sure of his ownfences, than his willingness to assist in the general campaign outsideof his own district and State. He not only addressed a mass-meeting ofdelegates from many Western States at Nashville, Tennessee,[182] butjourneyed to St. Louis and back again, in the service of theDemocratic Central Committee, speaking at numerous points along theway with gratifying success, if we may judge from the grateful wordsof appreciation in the Democratic press.[183] It was while he was inattendance on the convention in Nashville that he was brought face toface with Andrew Jackson. The old hero was then living in retirementat the Hermitage. Thither, as to a Mecca, all good Democrats turnedtheir faces after the convention. Douglas received from the old man agreeting which warmed the cockles of his heart, and which, dulyreported by the editor of the Illinois _State Register_, who was hiscompanion, was worth many votes at the cross-roads of Illinois. Thescene was described as follows:"Governor Clay, of Alabama, was near General Jackson, who was himselfsitting on a sofa in the hall, and as each person entered, thegovernor introduced him to the hero and he passed along. When JudgeDouglas was thus introduced, General Jackson raised his stillbrilliant eyes and gazed for a moment in the countenance of the judge,still retaining his hand. 'Are you the Mr. Douglas, of Illinois, whodelivered a speech last session on the subject of the fine imposed onme for declaring martial law at New Orleans?'" asked General Jackson."'I have delivered a speech in the House of Representatives upon thatsubject,' was the modest reply of our friend."'Then stop,' said General Jackson; 'sit down here beside me. I desireto return you my thanks for that speech. You are the first man thathas ever relieved my mind on a subject which has rested upon it forthirty years. My enemies have always charged me with violating theConstitution of my country by declaring martial law at New Orleans,and my friends have always admitted the violation, but have contendedthat circumstances justified me in that violation. I never couldunderstand how it was that the performance of a solemn duty to mycountry--a duty which, if I had neglected, would have made me atraitor in the sight of God and man, could properly be pronounced aviolation of the Constitution. I felt convinced in my own mind that Iwas not guilty of such a heinous offense; but I could never make out alegal justification of my course, nor has it ever been done, sir,until you, on the floor of Congress, at the late session, establishedit beyond the possibility of cavil or doubt. I thank you, sir, forthat speech. It has relieved my mind from the only circumstance thatrested painfully upon it. Throughout my whole life I never performedan official act which I viewed as a violation of the Constitution ofmy country; and I can now go down to the grave in peace, with theperfect consciousness that I have not broken, at any period of mylife, the Constitution or laws of my country.'"Thus spoke the old hero, his countenance brightened by emotions whichit is impossible for us to describe. We turned to look at Douglas--hewas speechless. He could not reply, but convulsively shaking the agedveteran's hand, he rose and left the hall. Certainly General Jacksonhad paid him the highest compliment he could have bestowed on anyindividual."[184]When the August elections had come and gone, Douglas found himselfre-elected by a majority of fourteen hundred votes and by a pluralityover his Whig opponent of more than seventeen hundred.[185] He was tohave another opportunity to serve his constituents; but the questionwas still open, whether his talents were only those of an adroitpolitician intent upon his own advancement, or those of a statesman,capable of conceiving generous national policies which would effacethe eager ambitions of the individual and the grosser ends of party.       *       *       *       *       *FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 163: Poore, Reminiscences, I, pp. 316-317.][Footnote 164: Joseph Wallace in the Illinois _State Register_, April19, 1885.][Footnote 165: Forney, Anecdotes of Public Men, 1, p. 146.][Footnote 166: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 1 Sess., App., p. 44.][Footnote 167: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 1 Sess., App., p. 45.][Footnote 168: J.Q. Adams, Memoirs, XI, p. 478.][Footnote 169: Richmond _Enquirer_, Jan. 6, 1844.][Footnote 170: Act of June 25, 1842; United States Statutes at Large,V, p. 491.][Footnote 171: December 14, 1843. _Globe_, 28 Cong. I Sess. p. 36.][Footnote 172: Niles' _Register_, Vol. 65, pp. 393-396.][Footnote 173: _Globe_, 28 Cong. I Sess. pp. 276-277.][Footnote 174: J.Q. Adams, Memoirs, XI, p. 510.][Footnote 175: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 1 Sess., pp. 549-550. For the trendof public opinion in the district which Douglas represented, seePeoria _Register,_ September 21, 1839.][Footnote 176: _Globe,_28 Cong., 1 Sess., pp. 527-528][Footnote 177: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 534.][Footnote 178: Illinois _State Register_, February 9, 1844.][Footnote 179: _Ibid._, May 17, 1844.][Footnote 180: It was intimated that he had at first aided Tyler inhis forlorn hope of a second term.][Footnote 181: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 1 Sess., pp. 598 ff.][Footnote 182: Illinois _State Register_, August 30, 1844.][Footnote 183: _Ibid._, September 27, 1844.][Footnote 184: Sheahan, Douglas, pp. 70-71.][Footnote 185: Official returns in the office of the Secretary ofState.]CHAPTER VMANIFEST DESTINYThe defeat of President Tyler's treaty in June, 1844, just on the eveof the presidential campaign, gave the Texas question an importancewhich the Democrats in convention had not foreseen, when they insertedthe re-annexation plank in the platform. The hostile attitude of Whigsenators and of Clay himself toward annexation, helped to make Texas aparty issue. While it cannot be said that Polk was elected on thisissue alone, there was some plausibility in the statement of PresidentTyler, that "a controlling majority of the people, and a majority ofthe States, have declared in favor of immediate annexation." At allevents, when Congress reassembled, President Tyler promptly acted onthis supposition. In his annual message, and again in a specialmessage a fortnight later, he urged "prompt and immediate action onthe subject of annexation." Since the two governments had alreadyagreed on terms of annexation, he recommended their adoption byCongress "in the form of a joint resolution, or act, to be perfectedand made binding on the two countries, when adopted in like manner bythe government of Texas."[186] A policy which had not been able tosecure the approval of two-thirds of the Senate was now to be endorsedby a majority of both houses. In short, a legislative treaty was to beenacted by Congress.The Hon. Stephen A. Douglas had taken his seat in the House withaugmented self-assurance. He had not only secured his re-election andthe success of his party in Illinois, but he had served mostacceptably as a campaign speaker in Polk's own State. Surely he wasentitled to some consideration in the councils of his party. In theappointment of standing committees, he could hardly hope for achairmanship. It was reward enough to be made a member of theCommittee of Elections and of the Committee on the Judiciary. On theparamount question before this Congress, he entertained strongconvictions, which he had no hesitation in setting forth in a seriesof resolutions, while older members were still feeling their way. Thepreamble of these "Joint Resolutions for the annexation of Texas" wasin itself a little stump speech: "Whereas the treaty of 1803 hadprovided that the people of Texas should be incorporated into theUnion and admitted as soon as possible to citizenship, and whereas thepresent inhabitants have signified their willingness to be re-annexed;therefore".... Particular interest attaches to the Eighth Resolutionwhich proposed to extend the Missouri Compromise line through Texas,"inasmuch as the compromise had been made prior to the treaty of 1819,by which Texas was ceded to Spain."[187] The resolutions nevercommanded any support worth mentioning, attention being drawn to thejoint resolution of the Committee on Foreign Affairs which was knownto have the sanction of the President. The proposal of Douglas tosettle the matter of slavery in Texas in the act of annexation itself,was perhaps his only contribution to the discussion of ways andmeans. An aggressive Southern group of representatives readily caughtup the suggestion.The debate upon the joint resolution was well under way before Douglassecured recognition from the Speaker. The opposition was led byWinthrop of Massachusetts and motived by reluctance to admit slaveterritory, as well as by constitutional scruples regarding the processof annexation by joint resolution. Douglas spoke largely in rejoinderto Winthrop. A clever retort to Winthrop's reference to "this odiousmeasure devised for sinister purposes by a President not elected bythe people," won for Douglas the good-natured attention of the House.It was President Adams and not President Tyler, Douglas remonstrated,who had first opened negotiations for annexation; but perhaps thegentleman from Massachusetts intended to designate his colleague, Mr.Adams, when he referred to "a president not elected by thepeople"![188] Moreover, it was Mr. Adams, who as Secretary of Statehad urged our claims to all the country as far as the Rio del Norte,under the Treaty of 1803. In spite of these just boundary claims andour solemn promise to admit the inhabitants of the Louisiana purchaseto citizenship, we had violated that pledge by ceding Texas to Spainin 1819. These people had protested against this separation, only afew months after the signing of the treaty; they now asked us toredeem our ancient pledge. Honor and violated faith required theimmediate annexation of Texas.[189] Had Douglas known, or taken painsto ascertain, who these people were, who protested against the treatyof 1819, he would hardly have wasted his commiseration upon them.Enough: the argument served his immediate purpose.To those who contended that Congress had no power to annex territorywith a view to admitting new States, Douglas replied that theConstitution not only grants specific powers to Congress, but alsogeneral power to pass acts necessary and proper to carry out thespecific powers. Congress may admit new States, but in the presentinstance Congress cannot exercise that power without annexingterritory. "The annexation of Texas is a prerequisite without theperformance of which Texas cannot be admitted."[190] The Constitutiondoes not state that the President and Senate may admit new States, northat they shall make laws for the acquisition of territory in order toenable Congress to admit new States. The Constitution declaresexplicitly, "_Congress_ may admit new States." "When the grant ofpower is to Congress, the authority to pass all laws necessary to itsexecution is also in Congress; and the treaty-making power is to beconfined to those cases where the power is not located elsewhere bythe Constitution."[191]With those weaklings who feared lest the extension of the nationaldomain should react unfavorably upon our institutions, and whoapprehended war with Mexico, Douglas had no patience. The States ofthe Union were already drawn closer together than the thirteenoriginal States in the first years of the Union, because of theimproved means of communication. Transportation facilities were nowmultiplying more rapidly than population. "Our federal system," heexclaimed, with a burst of jingoism that won a round of applause fromWestern Democrats as he resumed his seat, "Our federal system isadmirably adapted to the whole continent; and, while I would notviolate the laws of nations, nor treaty stipulations, nor in anymanner tarnish the national honor, I would exert all legal andhonorable means to drive Great Britain and the last vestiges of royalauthority from the continent of North America, and extend the limitsof the republic from ocean to ocean. I would make this an ocean-boundrepublic, and have no more disputes about boundaries, or 'red lines'upon the maps."[192]In this speech there was one notable omission. The slavery questionwas not once touched upon. Those who have eyes only to see plotshatched by the slave power in national politics, are sure to construethis silence as part of an ignoble game. It is possible that Douglaspurposely evaded this question; but it does not by any means followthat he was deliberately playing into the hands of Southern leaders.The simple truth is, that it was quite possible in the early fortiesfor men, in all honesty, to ignore slavery, because they regarded iteither as a side issue or as no issue at all. It was quite possible tothink on large national policies without confusing them with slavery.Men who shared with Douglas the pulsating life of the Northwest wantedTexas as a "theater for enterprise and industry." As an Ohiorepresentative said, they desired "a West for their sons and daughterswhere they would be free from family influences, from associatedwealth and from those thousand things which in the old settled countryhave the tendency of keeping down the efforts and enterprises ofyoung people." The hearts of those who, like Douglas, had carved outtheir fortunes in the new States, responded to that sentiment in a waywhich neither a John Quincy Adams nor a Winthrop could understand.Yet the question of slavery in the proposed State of Texas was thrustupon the attention of Congress by the persistent tactics of AlexanderH. Stephens and a group of Southern associates. They refused to acceptall terms of annexation which did not secure the right of Statesformed south of the Missouri Compromise line to come into the Unionwith slavery, if they desired to do so.[193] Douglas met thisopposition with the suggestion that not more than three States besidesTexas should be created out of the new State, but that such Statesshould be admitted into the Union with or without slavery, as thepeople of each should determine, at the time of their application toCongress for admission. As the germ of the doctrine of PopularSovereignty, this resolution has both a personal and a historicinterest. While it failed to pass,[194] it suggested to Stephens andhis friends a mode of adjustment which might satisfy all sides. It wasat his suggestion that Milton Brown of Tennessee proposed resolutionsproviding for the admission of not more than four States besidesTexas, out of the territory acquired. If these States should be formedsouth of the Missouri Compromise line, they were to be admitted withor without slavery, as the people of each should determine. Northernmen demurred, but Douglas saved the situation by offering as anamendment, "And in such States as shall be formed north of saidMissouri Compromise line, slavery or involuntary servitude, except forcrime, shall be prohibited."[195] The amendment was accepted, and thusamended, the joint resolution passed by an ample margin of votes. Inview of later developments, this extension of the Missouri Compromiseline is a point of great significance in the career of Douglas.Not long after Douglas had voiced his vision of "an ocean-boundrepublic," he was called upon to assist one of the most remarkableemigrations westward, from his own State. The Mormons in HancockCounty had become the most undesirable of neighbors to hisconstituents. Once the allies of the Democrats, they were now held indetestation by all Gentiles of adjoining counties, irrespective ofpolitical affiliations. The announcement of the doctrine of polygamyby the Prophet Smith had been accompanied by acts of defiance andfollowed by depredations, which, while not altogether unprovoked,aroused the non-Mormons to a dangerous pitch of excitement. In themidst of general disorder in Hancock County, Joseph Smith wasmurdered. Every deed of violence was now attributed to the Danites, asthe members of the militant order of the Mormon Church styledthemselves. Early in the year 1845, the Nauvoo Charter was repealed;and Governor Ford warned his quondam friends confidentially that theyhad better betake themselves westward, suggesting California as "afield for the prettiest enterprise that has been undertaken in moderntimes." Disgraceful outrages filled the summer months of 1845 inHancock County. A band of Mormon-haters ravaged the county, burninghouses, barns, and grain stacks, and driving unprotected Mormonsettlers into Nauvoo. To put an end to this state of affairs, GovernorFord sent Judge Douglas and Attorney-General McDougal, with a force ofmilitia under the command of General Hardin, into Hancock County.Public meetings in all the adjoining counties were now demanding theexpulsion of the Mormons in menacing language.[196] While GeneralHardin issued a proclamation bidding Mormons and anti-Mormons todesist from further violence, and promised that his scanty force offour hundred would enforce the laws impartially, the commissionersentered into negotiations with the Mormon authorities. On the pressingdemand of the commissioners and of a deputation from the town ofQuincy, Brigham Young announced that the Mormons purposed to leaveIllinois in the spring, "for some point so remote that there will notneed to be a difficulty with the people and ourselves."There can be little doubt that Douglas's advice weighed heavily withthe Mormons. As a judge, he had administered the law impartiallybetween Mormon and non-Mormon; and this was none too common in thecivic history of the Mormon Church. As an aspirant for office, he hadfrankly courted their suffrages; but times had changed. The reply ofthe commissioners, though not unkindly worded, contained somewholesome advice. "We think that steps should be taken by you to makeit apparent that you are actually preparing to remove in the spring.By carrying out, in good faith, your proposition to remove, assubmitted to us, we think you should be, and will be, permitted todepart peaceably next spring for your destination, west of the RockyMountains.... We recommend to you to place every possible restraint inyour power over the members of your church, to prevent them fromcommitting acts of aggression or retaliation on any citizens of theState, as a contrary course may, and most probably will, bring about acollision which will subvert all efforts to maintain the peace in thiscounty; and we propose making a similar request of your opponents inthis and the surrounding counties."[197]Announcing the result of their negotiations to the anti-Mormon peopleof Hancock County, the commissioners gave equally good advice:"Remember, whatever may be the aggression against you, the sympathy ofthe public may be forfeited. It cannot be denied that the burning ofthe houses of the Mormons ... was an act criminal in itself, anddisgraceful to its perpetrators.... A resort to, or persistence in,such a course under existing circumstances will make you forfeit allthe respect and sympathy of the community."Unhappily this advice was not long heeded by either side. WhileDouglas was giving his vote for men and money for the Mexican War andthe gallant Hardin was serving his country in command of a regiment,"the last Mormon war" broke out, which culminated in the siege andevacuation of Nauvoo. Passing westward into No-man's-land, the Mormonsbecame eventually the founders of one of the Territories by whichDouglas sought to span the continent.It was only in the Northwest that the cry for the re-occupation ofOregon had the ring of sincerity; elsewhere it had been thought of asa response to the re-annexation of Texas,--more or less of avote-catching device. The sentiment in Douglas's constituency wasstrongly in favor of an aggressive policy in Oregon. The first band ofAmericans to go thither, for the single purpose of settlement andoccupation, set out from Peoria.[198] These were "young men of theright sort," in whom the eternal _Wanderlust_ of the race had beenkindled by tales of returned missionaries. Public exercises were heldon their departure, and the community sanctioned this outflow of itsyouthful strength. Dwellers in the older communities of the East hadlittle sympathy with this enterprise. It was ill-timed, many hundredyears in advance of the times. Why emigrate from a region but justreclaimed from barbarism, where good land was still abundant?[199]Perhaps it was in reply to such doubts that an Illinois rhymester badehis New England brother    "Scan the opening glories of the West,      Her boundless prairies and her thousand streams,    The swarming millions who will crowd her breast,      'Mid scenes enchanting as a poet's dreams:    And then bethink you of your own stern land,      Where ceaseless toil will scarce a pittance earn,    And gather quickly to a hopeful band,--      Say parting words,--and to the westward turn."[200]Douglas tingled to his fingers' ends with the sentiment expressed inthese lines. The prospect of forfeiting this Oregon country,--thisgreater Northwest,--to Great Britain, stirred all the belligerentblood in his veins. Had it fallen to him to word the Democraticplatform, he would not have been able to choose a better phrase than"re-occupation of Oregon." The elemental jealousy and hatred of theWestern pioneer for the claim-jumper found its counterpart in hishostile attitude toward Great Britain. He was equally fearful lest alow estimate of the value of Oregon should make Congress indifferentto its future. He had endeavored to have Congress purchase copies ofGreenhow's _History of the Northwest Coast of North America_, so thathis colleagues might inform themselves about this El Dorado.[201]There was, indeed, much ignorance about Oregon, in Congress and out.To the popular mind Oregon was the country drained by the ColumbiaRiver, a vast region on the northwest coast. As defined by theauthority whom Douglas summoned to the aid of his colleagues, Oregonwas the territory west of the Rocky Mountains between the parallels of42 deg. and 54 deg. 40' north latitude.[202] Treaties between Russia and GreatBritain, and between Russia and the United States, had fixed thesouthern boundary of Russian territory on the continent at 54 deg. 40'; atreaty between the United States and Spain had given the forty-secondparallel as the northern boundary of the Spanish possessions; and ajoint treaty of occupation between Great Britain and the United Statesin 1818,--renewed in 1827,--had established a _modus vivendi_ betweenthe rival claimants, which might be terminated by either party ontwelve months' notice. Meantime Great Britain and the United Stateswere silent competitors for exclusive ownership of the mainland andislands between Spanish and Russian America. Whether the technicalquestions involved in these treaties were so easily dismissed, wassomething that did not concern the resolute expansionist. It wasenough for him that, irrespective of title derived from priority ofdiscovery, the United States had, as Greenhow expressed it, a stronger"national right," by virtue of the process by which their people weresettling the Mississippi Valley and the great West. This was butanother way of stating the theory of manifest destiny.No one knew better than Douglas that paper claims lost half theirforce unless followed up by vigorous action. Priority of occupationwas a far better claim than priority of discovery. Hence, thegovernment must encourage actual settlement on the Oregon. Twoisolated bills that Douglas submitted to Congress are full ofsuggestion, when connected by this thought: one provided for theestablishment of the territory of Nebraska;[203] the other, for theestablishment of military posts in the territories of Nebraska andOregon, to protect the commerce of the United States with New Mexicoand California, as well as emigration to Oregon.[204] Though neitherbill seems to have received serious consideration, both were to beforced upon the attention of Congress in after years by theirpersistent author.A bill had already been reported by the Committee on Territories,boldly extending the government of the United States over the wholedisputed area.[205] Conservatives in both parties deprecated suchaction as both hasty and unwise, in view of negotiations then inprogress; but the Hotspurs would listen to no prudentialconsiderations. Sentiments such as those expressed by Morris ofPennsylvania irritated them beyond measure. Why protect this wanderingpopulation in Oregon? he asked. Let them take care of themselves; orif they cannot protect themselves, let the government defend themduring the period of their infancy, and then let them form a republicof their own. He did not wish to imperil the Union by crossingbarriers beyond which nature had intended that we should not go.This frank, if not cynical, disregard of the claims of Americanemigrants,--"wandering and unsettled" people, Morris had calledthem,--brought Douglas to his feet. Memories of a lad who had himselfonce been a wanderer from the home of his fathers, spurred him toresent this thinly veiled contempt for Western emigrants and the partwhich they were manfully playing in the development of the West. Thegentleman should say frankly, retorted Douglas, that he is desirous ofdissolving the Union. Consistency should force him to take the groundthat our Union must be dissolved and divided up into various, separaterepublics by the Alleghanies, the Green and the White Mountains.Besides, to cede the territory of Oregon to its inhabitants would betantamount to ceding it to Great Britain. He, for one, would neveryield an inch of Oregon either to Great Britain or any othergovernment. He looked forward to a time when Oregon would become aconsiderable member of the great American family of States. Wait forthe issue of the negotiations now pending? When had negotiations notbeen pending! Every man in his senses knew that there was no hope ofgetting the country by negotiation. He was for erecting a governmenton this side of the Rockies, extending our settlements under militaryprotection, and then establishing the territorial government ofOregon. Facilitate the means of communication across the RockyMountains, and let the people there know and feel that they are a partof the government of the United States, and under its protection; thatwas his policy.As for Great Britain: she had already run her network of possessionsand fortifications around the United States. She was intriguing forCalifornia, and for Texas, and she had her eye on Cuba; she wasinsidiously trying to check the growth of republican institutions onthis continent and to ruin our commerce. "It therefore becomes us toput this nation in a state of defense; and when we are told that thiswill lead to war, all I have to say is this, violate no treatystipulations, nor any principle of the law of nations; preserve thehonor and integrity of the country, but, at the same time, assert ourright to the last inch, and then, if war comes, let it come. We mayregret the necessity which produced it, but when it does come, I wouldadminister to our citizens Hannibal's oath of eternal enmity, and notterminate the war until the question was settled forever. I would blotout the lines on the map which now mark our national boundaries onthis continent, and make the area of liberty as broad as the continentitself. I would not suffer petty rival republics to grow up here,engendering jealousy of each other, and interfering with each other'sdomestic affairs, and continually endangering their peace. I do notwish to go beyond the great ocean--beyond those boundaries which theGod of nature has marked out, I would limit myself only by thatboundary which is so clearly defined by nature."[206]The vehemence of these words startled the House, although it was notthe only belligerent speech on the Oregon question. Cooler heads, likeJ.Q. Adams, who feared the effect of such imprudent utterances fallingupon British ears, remonstrated at the unseemly haste with which thebill was being "driven through" the House, and counselled with all theweight of years against the puerility of provoking war in thisfashion. But the most that could be accomplished in the way ofmoderation was an amendment, which directed the President to givenotice of the termination of our joint treaty of occupation with GreatBritain. This precaution proved to be unnecessary, as the Senatefailed to act upon the bill.No one expected from the new President any masterful leadership of thepeople as a whole or of his party. Few listened with any markedattention, therefore, to his inaugural address. His references toTexas and Oregon were in accord with the professions of the Democraticparty, except possibly at one point, which was not noted at the timebut afterward widely commented upon. "Our title to the country of theOregon," said he, "is clear and unquestionable." The text of theBaltimore platform read, "Our title to the _whole_ of the territory ofOregon is clear and unquestionable." Did President Polk mean to beambiguous at this point? Had he any reason to swerve from the strictletter of the Democratic creed?In his first message to Congress, President Polk alarmed staunchDemocrats by stating that he had tried to compromise our clear andunquestionable claims, though he assured his party that he had done soonly out of deference to his predecessor in office. Those inheritedpolicies having led to naught, he was now prepared to reassert ourtitle to the whole of Oregon, which was sustained "by irrefragablefacts and arguments." He would therefore recommend that provision bemade for terminating the joint treaty of occupation, for extending thejurisdiction of the United States over American citizens in Oregon,and for protecting emigrants in transit through the Indian country.These were strong measures. They might lead to war; but the temper ofCongress was warlike; and a group of Democrats in both houses wasready to take up the programme which the President had outlined."Fifty-four forty or fight" was the cry with which they sought torally the Chauvinists of both parties to their standard. While Cassled the skirmishing line in the Senate, Douglas forged to the fore inthe House.[207]It is good evidence of the confidence placed in Douglas by hiscolleagues that, when territorial questions of more than ordinaryimportance were pending, he was appointed chairman of the Committee onTerritories.[208] If there was one division of legislative work inwhich he showed both capacity and talent, it was in the organizationof our Western domain and in its preparation for statehood. The visionwhich dazzled his imagination was that of an ocean-bound republic; tothat manifest destiny he had dedicated his talents, not by anyself-conscious surrender, but by the irresistible sweep of hisimagination, always impressed by things in the large and reinforced bycontact with actual Western conditions. Finance, the tariff, andsimilar public questions of a technical nature, he was content toleave to others; but those which directly concerned the making of acontinental republic he mastered with almost jealous eagerness. He hadnow attained a position, which, for fourteen years, was conceded to beindisputably his, for no sooner had he entered the Senate than he wasmade chairman of a similar committee. His career must be measured bythe wisdom of his statesmanship in the peculiar problems which he wascalled upon to solve concerning the public domain. In this sphere helaid claim to expert judgment; from him, therefore, much was required;but it was the fate of nearly every territorial question to be boundup more or less intimately with the slavery question. Upon thisdelicate problem was Douglas also able to bring expert testimony tobear? Time only could tell. Meantime, the House Committee onTerritories had urgent business on hand.Texas was now knocking at the door of the Union, and awaited only aformal invitation to become one of the family of States, as thechairman was wont to say cheerily. Ten days after the opening of thesession Douglas reported from his committee a joint resolution forthe admission of Texas, "on an equal footing with the original statesin all respects whatever."[209] There was a certain pleonasm aboutthis phrasing that revealed the hand of the chairman: the simplestatement must be reinforced both for legal security and forrhetorical effect. Six days later, after but a single speech, theresolution went to a third reading and was passed by a largemajority.[210] Voted upon with equal dispatch by the Senate, andapproved by the President, the joint resolution became law, December29, 1845.While the belligerent spirit of Congress had abated somewhat since thelast session, no such change had passed over the gentleman fromIllinois. No sooner had the Texas resolution been dispatched than hebrought in a bill to protect American settlers in Oregon, while thejoint treaty of occupation continued. He now acquiesced, it is true,in the more temperate course of first giving Great Britain twelvemonths' notice before terminating this treaty; but he was just asaverse as ever to compromise and arbitration. "For one," said he, "Inever will be satisfied with the valley of the Columbia, nor with 49 deg.,nor with 54 deg. 40'; nor will I be, while Great Britain shall holdpossession of one acre on the northwest coast of America. And, Sir, Inever will agree to any arrangement that shall recognize her right toone inch of soil upon the northwest coast; and for this simple reason:Great Britain never did own, she never did have a valid title to oneinch of the country."[211] He moved that the question of title shouldnot be left to arbitration.[212] His countrymen, he felt sure, wouldnever trust their interests to European arbitrators, prejudiced asthey inevitably would be by their monarchical environment.[213] Thisfeeling was, indeed, shared by the President and his cabinet advisers.With somewhat staggering frankness, Douglas laid bare his inmostmotive for unflinching opposition to Great Britain. The value ofOregon was not to be measured by the extent of its seacoast nor by thequality of its soil. "The great point at issue between us and GreatBritain is for the freedom of the Pacific Ocean, for the trade ofChina and Japan, of the East Indies, and for the maritime ascendencyon all these waters." Oregon held a strategic position on the Pacific,controlling the overland route between the Atlantic and the Orient. Ifthis country were yielded to Great Britain--"this power which holdscontrol over all the balance of the globe,"--it would make hermaritime ascendency complete.[214]Stripped of its rhetorical garb, Douglas's speech of January 27, 1846,must be acknowledged to have a substratum of good sense and theelements of a true prophecy. When it is recalled that recentdevelopments in the Orient have indeed made the mastery of the Pacificone of the momentous questions of the immediate future, that theUnited States did not then possess either California or Alaska, andthat Oregon included the only available harbors on the coast,--thepleas of Douglas, which rang false in the ears of his own generation,sound prophetic in ours. Yet all that he said was vitiated by afallacy which a glance at a map of the Northwest will expose. The lineof 49 deg. eventually gave to the United States Puget Sound with itsample harbors.Perhaps it was the same uncompromising spirit that prompted Douglas'sconstituents in far away Illinois to seize the moment to endorse hiscourse in Congress. Early in January, nineteen delegates, defying theinclemency of the season, met in convention at Rushville, andrenominated Douglas for Congress by acclamation.[215] Historymaintains an impenetrable silence regarding these faithful nineteen;it is enough to know that Douglas had no opposition to encounter inhis own bailiwick.When the joint resolution to terminate the treaty of occupation cameto a vote, the intransigeants endeavored to substitute a declarationto the effect that Oregon was no longer a subject for negotiation orcompromise. It was a silly proposition, in view of the circumstances,yet it mustered ten supporters. Among those who passed between thetellers, with cries of "54 deg. 40' forever," amid the laughter of theHouse, were Stephen A. Douglas and four of his Illinoiscolleagues.[216] Against the substitute, one hundred and forty-sixvotes were recorded,--an emphatic rebuke, if only the ten had chosenso to regard it.While the House resolution was under consideration in the Senate, itwas noised abroad that President Polk still considered himself free tocompromise with Great Britain on the line of 49 deg.. Consternation fellupon the Ultras. In the words of Senator Hannegan, they had believedthe President committed to 54 deg. 40' in as strong language as thatwhich makes up the Holy Book. As rumor passed into certainty, thefeelings of Douglas can be imagined, but not described. He hadcommitted himself, and,--so far as in him lay,--his party, to the lineof 54 deg. 40', in full confidence that Polk, party man that he was, wouldstubbornly contest every inch of that territory. He had called on thedogs of war in dauntless fashion, and now to find "the standard-bearerof Democracy," "Young Hickory," and many of his party, disposed tocompromise on 49 deg.,--it was all too exasperating for words. In contrastto the soberer counsels that now prevailed, his impetuous advocacy ofthe whole of Oregon seemed decidedly boyish. It was greatly to hiscredit, however, that, while smarting under the humiliation of themoment, he imposed restraint upon his temper and indulged in no bitterlanguage.Some weeks later, Douglas intimated that some of his party associateshad proved false to the professions of the Baltimore platform. NoDemocrat, he thought, could consistently accept part of Oregon insteadof the whole. "Does the gentleman," asked Seddon, drawing him out forthe edification of the House, "hold that the Democratic party ispledged to 54 deg. 40'?" Douglas replied emphatically that he thought theparty was thus solemnly pledged. "Does the gentleman," persisted hisinterrogator, "understand the President to have violated theDemocratic creed in offering to compromise on 49 deg.?" Douglas repliedthat he did understand Mr. Polk in his inaugural address "as standingup erect to the pledge of the Baltimore Convention." And if evernegotiations were again opened in violation of that pledge, "soonerlet his tongue cleave to the roof of his mouth than he would defendthat party which should yield one inch of Oregon."[217] Evidently hehad made up his mind to maintain his ground. Perhaps he had fainthopes that the administration would not compromise our claims. Hestill clung tenaciously to his bill for extending governmentalprotection over American citizens in Oregon and for encouragingemigration to the Pacific coast; and in the end he had the emptysatisfaction of seeing it pass the House.[218]Meantime a war-cloud had been gathering in the Southwest. On May 11th,President Polk announced that war existed by act of Mexico. From thismoment an amicable settlement with Great Britain was assured. The mostbellicose spirit in Congress dared not offer to prosecute two wars atthe same time. The warlike roar of the fifty-four forty men subsidedinto a murmur of mild disapprobation. Yet Douglas was not among thosewho sulked in their tents. To the surprise of his colleagues, heaccepted the situation, and he was among the first to defend thePresident's course in the Mexico imbroglio.A month passed before Douglas had occasion to call at the White House.He was in no genial temper, for aside from personal grievances in theOregon affair, he had been disappointed in the President's recentappointments to office in Illinois. The President marked hisunfriendly air, and suspecting the cause, took pains to justify hiscourse not only in the matter of the appointments, but in the Oregonaffair. If not convinced, Douglas was at least willing to let bygonesbe bygones. Upon taking his departure, he assured the President thathe would continue to support the administration. The Presidentresponded graciously that Mr. Douglas could lead the Democratic partyin the House if he chose to do so.[219]When President Polk announced to Congress the conclusion of the Oregontreaty with Great Britain, he recommended the organization of aterritorial government for the newly acquired country, at the earliestpracticable moment. Hardly had the President's message been read, whenDouglas offered a bill of this tenor, stating that it had beenprepared before the terms of the treaty had been made public. Hiscommittee had not named the boundaries of the new Territory in thebill, for obvious reasons. He also stated, parenthetically, that hefelt so keenly the humiliation of writing down the boundary of 49 deg.,that he preferred to leave that duty to those who had consented tocompromise our claims. In drafting the bill, he had kept in mind theprovisional government adopted by the people of Oregon: as they had inturn borrowed nearly all the statutes of Iowa, it was to be presumedthat the people knew their own needs better than Congress.[220]Before the bill passed the House it was amended at one notable point.Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude should ever exist in theTerritory, following the provision in the Ordinance of 1787 for theNorthwest Territory. Presumably Douglas was not opposed to thisamendment,[221] though he voted against the famous Wilmot Proviso twodays later. Already Douglas showed a disposition to escape the toilsof the slavery question by a _laissez faire_ policy, which wascompounded of indifference to the institution itself and of a strongattachment to states-rights. When Florida applied for admission intothe Union with a constitution that forbade the emancipation of slavesand permitted the exclusion of free negroes, he denied the right ofCongress to refuse to receive the new State. The framers of theFederal Constitution never intended that Congress should pass upon thepropriety or expediency of each clause in the constitutions of Statesapplying for admission. The great diversity of opinion resulting fromdiversity of climate, soil, pursuits, and customs, made uniformityimpossible. The people of each State were to form their constitutionin their own way, subject to the single restriction that it should berepublican in character. "They are subject to the jurisdiction andcontrol of Congress during their infancy, their minority; but whenthey obtain their majority and obtain admission into the Union, theyare free from all restraints ... except such as the Constitution ofthe United States has imposed."[222]The absorbing interest of Douglas at this point in his career isperfectly clear. To span the continent with States and Territories, tocreate an ocean-bound republic, has often seemed a gross,materialistic ideal. Has a nation no higher destiny than mereterritorial bigness? Must an intensive culture with spiritual aims besacrificed to a vulgar exploitation of physical resources? Yet theends which this strenuous Westerner had in view were not wholly grossand materialistic. To create the body of a great American Commonwealthby removing barriers to its continental expansion, so that the soul ofLiberty might dwell within it, was no vulgar ambition. The conquest ofthe continent must be accounted one of the really great achievementsof the century. In this dramatic exploit Douglas was at times anirresponsible, but never a weak nor a false actor.The session ended where it had begun, so far as Oregon was concerned.The Senate failed to act upon the bill to establish a territorialgovernment; the earlier bill to protect American settlers also failedof adoption; and thus American caravans continued to cross the plainsunprotected and ignored. But Congress had annexed a war.       *       *       *       *       *FOOTNOTES:[Footnote 186: Message of December 3, 1844.][Footnote 187: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 85.][Footnote 188: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 2 Sess., App., p. 65.][Footnote 189: _Ibid._, p. 66.][Footnote 190: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 2 Sess., App., p. 66.][Footnote 191: _Ibid._, p. 67.][Footnote 192: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 2 Sess., App., p. 68.][Footnote 193: _American Historical Review_, VIII, pp. 93-94.][Footnote 194: It was voted down 107 to 96; _Globe_, 28 Cong., 2Sess., p. 192.][Footnote 195: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 193.][Footnote 196: Linn's Story of the Mormons, Chs. 10-20, gives in greatdetail the facts connected with this Mormon emigration. I haveborrowed freely from this account for the following episode.][Footnote 197: Linn, Story of the Mormons, pp. 340-341.][Footnote 198: Lyman, History of Oregon, III, p. 188.][Footnote 199: See the letter of a New England Correspondent in thePeoria _Register_, May, 1839.][Footnote 200: Peoria _Register_, June 8, 1839.][Footnote 201: _Globe_,28 Cong., 2 Sess., pp. 198 and 201.][Footnote 202: Greenhow, Northwest Coast of North America, p. 200.][Footnote 203: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 41.][Footnote 204: _Ibid._, p. 173.][Footnote 205: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 63.][Footnote 206: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 2 Sess., pp. 225-226.][Footnote 207: His capacity for leadership was already recognized. Hiscolleagues conceded that he was "a man of large faculties." SeeHilliard, Politics and Pen Pictures, p. 129.][Footnote 208: _Globe_, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 25.][Footnote 209: _Globe_, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 39.][Footnote 210: _Ibid._, p. 65.][Footnote 211: _Ibid._, p. 259.][Footnote 212: _Ibid._, p. 86.][Footnote 213: _Globe_, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 260.][Footnote 214: _Ibid._, pp. 258-259.][Footnote 215: Illinois _State Register_, Jan. 15, 1846.][Footnote 216: _Globe_, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 347; Wheeler, History ofCongress, pp. 114-115.][Footnote 217: _Globe_, 29 Cong., 1 Sess. p. 497.][Footnote 218: _Ibid._, pp. 85, 189, 395, 690-691.][Footnote 219: Polk, MS. Diary, Entry for June 17, 1846.][Footnote 220: _Globe_, 29 Cong., 1 Sess., p. 1203.][Footnote 221: He voted for a similar amendment in 1844; see _Globe_,28 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 236.][Footnote 222: _Globe_, 28 Cong., 2 Sess., p. 284.]CHAPTER VIWAR AND POLITICSA long and involved diplomatic history preceded President Polk'ssimple announcement that "Mexico has passed the boundary of the UnitedStates, has invaded our territory and shed American blood uponAmerican soil." Rightly to evaluate these words, the reader shouldbear in mind that the mission of John Slidell to Mexico had failed;that the hope of a peaceable adjustment of the Texas boundary and ofAmerican claims against Mexico had vanished; and that General Taylorhad been ordered to the Rio Grande in disregard of Mexican claims tothat region. One should also know that, from the beginning of hisadministration, Polk had hoped to secure from our bankrupt neighborthe cession of California as an indemnity.[223] A motive forforbearance in dealing with the distraught Mexican government was thuswholly absent from the mind of President Polk.Such of these facts as were known at the time, supplied the Whigopposition in Congress with an abundance of ammunition against theadministration. Language was used which came dangerously near beingunparliamentary. So the President was willing to sacrifice Oregon toprosecute this "illegal, unrighteous and damnable war" for Texas,sneered Delano. "Where did the gentleman from Illinois stand now? Washe still in favor of 61?" This sally brought Douglas to his feet andelicited one of his cleverest extempore speeches. He believed thatsuch words as the gentleman had uttered could come only from one whodesired defeat for our arms. "All who, after war is declared, condemnthe justice of our cause, are traitors in their hearts. And would toGod that they would commit some overt act for which they could bedealt with according to their deserts." Patriots might differ as tothe expediency of entering upon war; but duty and honor forbadedivided counsels after American blood had been shed on American soil.Had he foreseen the extraordinary turn of the discussion, he assuredhis auditors, he could have presented "a catalogue of aggressions andinsults; of outrages on our national flag--on persons and property ofour citizens; of the violation of treaty stipulations, and the murder,robbery, and imprisonment of our countrymen." These were all anteriorto the annexation of Texas, and perhaps alone would have justified adeclaration of war; but "magnanimity and forbearance toward a weak andimbecile neighbor" prevented hostilities. The recent outrages left thecountry no choice but war. The invasion of the country was the last ofthe cumulative causes for war.But was the invaded territory properly "our country"? This was the_crux_ of the whole matter. On this point Douglas was equallyconfident and explicit. Waiving the claims which the treaty of SanIldefonso may have given to the boundary of the Rio Grande, he restedthe whole case upon "an immutable principle"--the Republic of Texasheld the country on the left bank of that river by virtue of asuccessful revolution. The United States had received Texas as a Statewith all her territory, and had no right to surrender any portion ofit.[224]The evidence which Douglas presented to confirm these claims is highlyinteresting. The right of Texas to have and to hold the territory fromthe Nueces to the Rio Grande was, in his opinion, basedincontrovertibly on the treaty made by Santa Anna after the battle ofSan Jacinto, which acknowledged the independence of Texas andrecognized the Rio Grande as its boundary. To an inquiry whether thetreaty was ever ratified by the government of Mexico, Douglas repliedthat he was not aware that it had been ratified by anyone except SantaAnna, for the very good reason that he was the government at the time."Has not that treaty with Santa Anna been since discarded by theMexican government?" asked the venerable J.Q. Adams. "I presume ithas," replied Douglas, "for I am not aware of any treaty or compactwhich that government ever entered into that has not either beenviolated or repudiated by them afterwards." But Santa Anna, asrecognized dictator, was the _de facto_ government, and the acts of a_de facto_ government were binding on the nation as against foreignnations. "It is immaterial, therefore, whether Mexico has or has notsince repudiated Santa Anna's treaty with Texas. It was executed atthe time by competent authority. She availed herself of all itsbenefits." Forthwith Texas established counties beyond the Nueces,even to the Rio Grande, and extended her jurisdiction over thatregion, while in a later armistice Mexico recognized the Rio Grande asthe boundary. It was in the clear light of these facts that Congresshad passed an act extending the revenue laws of the United Statesover the country between the Rio Grande and the Nueces--the verycountry in which American soldiers had been slain by an invadingforce.All things considered, Douglas's line of argument was as wellsustained as any presented by the supporters of the war. The absenceof any citations to substantiate important points was of course due tothe impromptu nature of the speech. Two years later,[225] in acarefully prepared speech constructed on much the same principles, hemade good these omissions, but without adding much, it must beconfessed, to the strength of his argument. The chain of evidence wasin fact no stronger than its weakest link, which was the so-calledtreaty of Santa Anna with the President of the Republic of Texas.Nowhere in the articles, public or secret, is there an expressrecognition of the independence of the Republic, nor of the boundary.Santa Anna simply pledged himself to do his utmost to bring about arecognition of independence, and an acknowledgment of the claims ofTexas to the Rio Grande as a boundary.[226] Did Douglas misinterpretthese articles, or did he chance upon an unauthentic version of them?In the subsequent speech to which reference has been made, he citedspecific articles which supported his contention. These citations donot tally with either the public or secret treaty. It may be doubtedwhether the secret articles were generally known at this time; but theopen treaty had been published in Niles' _Register_ correctly, and hadbeen cited by President Polk.[227] The inference would seem to bethat Douglas unwittingly used an unauthenticated version, and found init a conclusive argument for the claim of Texas to the disputedterritory.Mr. John Quincy Adams had followed Douglas with the keenest interest,for with all the vigor which his declining strength permitted, he haddenounced the war as an aggression upon a weaker neighbor. He hadrepeatedly interrupted Douglas, so that the latter almost insensiblyaddressed his remarks to him. They presented a striking contrast: thefeeble, old man and the ardent, young Westerner. When Douglas alludedto the statement of Mr. Adams in 1819, that "our title to the Rio delNorte is as clear as to the island of New Orleans," the old manreplied testily, "I never said that our title was good to the Rio delNorte from its mouth to its source." But the gentleman surely didclaim the Rio del Norte in general terms as the boundary under theLouisiana treaty, persisted Douglas. "I have the official evidenceover his own signature.... It is his celebrated dispatch to Don Onis,the Spanish minister." "I wrote that dispatch as Secretary of State,"responded Mr. Adams, somewhat disconcerted by evidence from his ownpen, "and endeavored to make out the best case I could for my owncountry, as it was my duty; but I utterly deny that I claimed the Riodel Norte in its whole extent. I only claimed it as the line a shortdistance up, and then took a line northward, some distance from theriver." "I have heard of this line to which the gentleman refers,"replied Douglas. "It followed a river near the gorge of the mountains,certainly more than a hundred miles above Matamoras. Consequently,taking the gentleman on his own claim, the position occupied byGeneral Taylor opposite Matamoras, and every inch of the ground uponwhich an American soldier has planted his foot, were clearly withinour own territory as claimed by him in 1819."[228]It seemed to an eyewitness of this encounter that the veteranstatesman was decidedly worsted. "The House was divided betweenadmiration for the new actor on the great stage of national affairsand reverence for the retiring chief," wrote a friend in after years,with more loyalty than accuracy.[229] The Whig side of the chamber wascertainly in no mood to waste admiration on any Democrat who defended"Polk the Mendacious."Hardly had the war begun when there was a wild scramble amongDemocrats for military office. It seemed to the distressed Presidentas though every Democratic civilian became an applicant for somecommission. Particularly embarrassing was the passion for office thatseized upon members of Congress. Even Douglas felt the spark ofmilitary genius kindling within him. His friends, too, were convincedthat he possessed qualities which would make him an intrepid leaderand a tactician of no mean order. The entire Illinois delegationunited to urge his appointment as Brigadier Major of the Illinoisvolunteers. Happily for the President, his course in this instance wasclearly marked out by a law, which required him to select onlyofficers already in command of State militia.[230] Douglas was keenlydisappointed. He even presented himself in person to overrule thePresident's objection. The President was kind, but firm. He advisedDouglas to withdraw his application. In his judgment, Mr. Douglascould best serve his country in Congress. Shortly afterward Douglassent a letter to the President, withdrawing his application--"like asensible man," commented the relieved Executive.[231] It is not likelythat the army lost a great commander by this decision.In a State like Illinois, which had been staunchly Democratic for manyyears, elections during a war waged by a Democratic administrationwere not likely to yield any surprises. There was perhaps even lessdoubt of the result of the election in the Fifth CongressionalDistrict. By the admission of his opponents Douglas was stronger thanhe had been before.[232] Moreover, the war was popular in the countiesupon whose support he had counted in other years. He had committed noact for which he desired general oblivion; his warlike utterances onOregon, which had cost him some humiliation at Washington, so far fromforfeiting the confidence of his followers, seem rather to haveenhanced his popularity. Douglas carried every county in his districtbut one, and nearly all by handsome majorities. He had been first sentto Congress by a majority over Browning of less than five hundredvotes; in the following canvass he had tripled his majority; and nowhe was returned to Congress by a majority of over twenty-seven hundredvotes.[233] He had every reason to feel gratified with this showing,even though some of his friends were winning military glory on Mexicanbattlefields. So long as he remained content with his seat in theHouse, there were no clouds in his political firmament. Not even theagitation of Abolitionists and Native Americans need cause him anyanxiety, for the latter were wholly a negligible political quantityand the former practically so.[234] Everywhere but in the SeventhDistrict, from which Lincoln was returned, Democratic Congressmen werechosen; and to make the triumph complete, a Democratic State ticketwas elected and a Democratic General Assembly again assured.Early in the fall, on his return from a Southern trip, Douglas calledupon the President in Washington. He was cordially welcomed, and not alittle flattered by Polk's readiness to talk over the politicalsituation before Congress met.[235] Evidently his support wasearnestly desired for the contemplated policies of the administration.It was needed, as events proved. No sooner was Congress assembled thanthe opposition charged Polk with having exceeded his authority inorganizing governments in the territory wrested from Mexico. Douglassprang at once to the President's defense. He would not presume tospeak with authority in the matter, but an examination of theaccessible official papers had convinced him that the course of thePresident and of the commanders of the army was altogether defensible."In conducting the war, conquest was effected, and the right growingout of conquest was to govern the subdued provinces in a temporary andprovisional manner, until the home government should establish agovernment in another form."[236] And more to this effect, uttered inthe heated language of righteous indignation.For thus throwing himself into the breach, Douglas was rewarded byfurther confidences. Before Polk replied to the resolution of inquirywhich the House had voted, he summoned Douglas and a colleague to theWhite House, to acquaint them with the contents of his message andwith the documents which would accompany it, so "that they might beprepared to meet any attacks." And again, with four other members ofthe House, Douglas was asked to advise the President in the matter ofappointing Colonel Benton to the office of lieutenant-general incommand of the armies in the field. At the same time, the Presidentlaid before them his project for an appropriation of two millions topurchase peace; _i.e._ to secure a cession of territory from Mexico.With one accord Douglas and his companions advised the President notto press Benton's appointment, but all agreed that the desiredappropriation should be pushed through Congress with all possiblespeed.[237] Yet all knew that such a bill must run the gauntlet ofamendment by those who had attached the Wilmot Proviso to thetwo-million-dollar bill of the last session.While Douglas was thus rising rapidly to the leadership of his partyin the House, the Legislature of his State promoted him to the Senate.For six years he had been a potential candidate for the office,despite his comparative youth.[238] What transpired in the Democraticcaucus which named him as the candidate of the party, history does notrecord. That there was jealousy on the part of older men, muchheart-burning among the younger aspirants, and bargaining on allsides, may be inferred from an incident recorded in Polk's diary.[239]Soon after his election, Douglas repaired to the President's office tourge the appointment of Richard M. Young of Illinois as Commissionerof the General Land Office. This was not the first time that Douglashad urged the appointment, it would seem. The President now inquiredof Senator Breese, who had accompanied Douglas and seconded hisrequest, whether the appointment would be satisfactory to the Illinoisdelegation. Both replied that it would, if Mr. Hoge, a member of thepresent Congress, who had been recommended at the last session, couldnot be appointed. The President repeated his decision not to appointmembers of Congress to office, except in special cases, and suggestedanother candidate. Neither Douglas nor Breese would consent. Polk thenspoke of a diplomatic charge for Young, but they would not hear of it.Next morning Douglas returned to the attack, and the President, underpressure, sent the nomination of Young to the Senate; before fiveo'clock of the same day, Polk was surprised to receive a notificationfrom the Secretary of the Senate that the nomination had beenconfirmed. The President was a good deal mystified by this unusualpromptness, until three members of the Illinois delegation called somehours later, in a state of great excitement, saying that Douglas andBreese had taken advantage of them. They had no knowledge that Young'snomination was being pressed, and McClernand in high dudgeon intimatedthat this was all a bargain between Young and the two Senators.Douglas and Breese had sought to prevent Young from contesting theirseats in the Senate, by securing a fat office for him. All this is _exparte_ evidence against Senator Douglas; but there is nothingintrinsically improbable in the story. In these latter days, socomparatively innocent a deal would pass without comment.Immediately upon taking his seat in the Senate, Douglas was appointedchairman of the Committee on Territories. It was then a position ofthe utmost importance, for every question of territorial organizationtouched the peculiar interests of the South. The varying currents ofpublic opinion crossed in this committee. Senator Bright of Indiana iswell described by the hackneyed and often misapplied designation, aNorthern Democrat with Southern principles; Butler was Calhoun'scolleague; Clayton of Delaware was a Whig and represented a borderState which was vacillating between slavery and freedom; while Daviswas a Massachusetts Whig. Douglas was placed, as it appeared, in thevery storm center of politics, where his well-known fighting qualitieswould be in demand. It was not so clear to those who knew him, that hepossessed the not less needful qualities of patience and tact foroccasions when battles are not won by fighting. Still, life at thecapital had smoothed his many little asperities of manner. He hadlearned to conform to the requirements of a social etiquette to whichhe had been a stranger; yet without losing the heartiness of mannerand genial companionableness with all men which was, indeed, hisgreatest personal charm. His genuineness and large-hearted regard forhis friends grappled them to him and won respect even from those whowere not of his political faith.[240]An incident at the very outset of his career in the Senate, betrayedsome little lack of self-restraint. When Senator Cass introduced theso-called Ten Regiments bill, Calhoun asked that its considerationmight be postponed, in order to give him opportunity to discussresolutions on the prospective annexation of Mexico. Cass was disposedto yield for courtesy's sake; but Douglas resented the interruption.He failed to see why public business should be suspended in order todiscuss abstract propositions. He believed that this doctrine ofcourtesy was being carried to great lengths.[241] Evidently the youngSenator, fresh from the brisk atmosphere of the House, was restiveunder the conventional restraints of the more sedate Senate. He hadnot yet become acclimated.Douglas made his first formal speech in the Senate on February 1,1848. Despite his disclaimers, he had evidently made carefulpreparation, for his desk was strewn with books and he referredfrequently to his authorities. The Ten Regiments bill was known to bea measure of the administration; and for this reason, if for no other,it was bitterly opposed. The time seemed opportune for a vindicationof the President's policy. Douglas indignantly repelled the chargethat the war had from the outset been a war of conquest. "It is a warof self-defense, forced upon us by our enemy, and prosecuted on ourpart in vindication of our honor, and the integrity of our territory.The enemy invaded our territory, and we repelled the invasion, anddemanded satisfaction for all our grievances. In order to compelMexico to do us justice, it was necessary to follow her retreatingarmies into her territory ... and inasmuch as it was certain that shewas unable to make indemnity in money, we must necessarily take it inland. Conquest was not the motive for the prosecution of the war;satisfaction, indemnity, security, was the motive--conquest andterritory the means."[242]Once again Douglas reviewed the origin of the war re-arguing the casefor the administration. If the arguments employed were now well-worn,they were repeated with an incisiveness that took away much of theirstaleness. This speech must be understood as complementary to thatwhich he had made in the House at the opening of hostilities. But hehad not changed his point of view, nor moderated his contentions. Timeseemed to have served only to make him surer of his evidence. Douglasexhibited throughout his most conspicuous excellencies and his mostglaring defects. From first to last he was an attorney, making thebest possible defense of his client. Nothing could excel his adroitselection of evidence, and his disposition and massing of tellingtestimony. Form and presentation were admirably calculated to disarmand convince. It goes without saying that Douglas's mental attitudewas the opposite of the scientific and historic spirit. Having aproposition to establish, he cared only for pertinent evidence. Herarely inquired into the character of the authorities from which heculled his data.That this attitude of mind and these unscholarly habits often were hisundoing, was inevitable. He was often betrayed by fallacies and hastyinferences. The speech before us illustrates this lamentable mentaldefect. With the utmost assurance Douglas pointed out that Texas hadactually extended her jurisdiction over the debatable land between theNueces and the Rio Grande, fixing by law the times of holding court inthe counties of San Patricio and Bexar. This was in the year 1838. Theconclusion was almost unavoidable that when Texas came into the Union,her actual sovereignty extended to the Rio Grande. But furtherexamination would have shown Douglas, that the only inhabited portionof the so-called counties were the towns on the right bank of theNueces: beyond, lay a waste which was still claimed by Mexico. Was hemisinformed, or had he hastily selected the usable portion of theevidence? Once again, in his eagerness to show that Mexico, sorecently as 1842, had tacitly recognized the Rio Grande as a boundaryin her military operations, he controverted his own argument thatTexas had been in undisturbed possession of the country. Hecorroborated the conviction of those who from the first had assertedthat, in annexing Texas, the United States had annexed a war. Thisfrom the man who had