to identify her, or to throw theslightest light upon the mystery which hung around her death."Against that, quite a crowd of idlers--genuinely interested ornot--obtained admission to view the body, on the pretext of having lostor mislaid a relative or a friend. At about 8.30 p.m. a young man, verywell dressed, drove up to the station in a hansom, and sent in his cardto the superintendent. It was Mr. Hazeldene, shipping agent, of 11,Crown Lane, E.C., and No. 19, Addison Row, Kensington."The young man looked in a pitiable state of mental distress; his handclutched nervously a copy of the _St. James's Gazette_, which containedthe fatal news. He said very little to the superintendent except that aperson who was very dear to him had not returned home that evening."He had not felt really anxious until half an hour ago, when suddenly hethought of looking at his paper. The description of the deceased lady,though vague, had terribly alarmed him. He had jumped into a hansom, andnow begged permission to view the body, in order that his worst fearsmight be allayed."You know what followed, of course," continued the man in the corner,"the grief of the young man was truly pitiable. In the woman lying therein a public mortuary before him, Mr. Hazeldene had recognized his wife."I am waxing melodramatic," said the man in the corner, who looked up atPolly with a mild and gentle smile, while his nervous fingers vainlyendeavoured to add another knot on the scrappy bit of string with whichhe was continually playing, "and I fear that the whole story savours ofthe penny novelette, but you must admit, and no doubt you remember, thatit was an intensely pathetic and truly dramatic moment."The unfortunate young husband of the deceased lady was not much worriedwith questions that night. As a matter of fact, he was not in a fitcondition to make any coherent statement. It was at the coroner'sinquest on the following day that certain facts came to light, which forthe time being seemed to clear up the mystery surrounding Mrs.Hazeldene's death, only to plunge that same mystery, later on, intodenser gloom than before."The first witness at the inquest was, of course, Mr. Hazeldene himself.I think every one's sympathy went out to the young man as he stoodbefore the coroner and tried to throw what light he could upon themystery. He was well dressed, as he had been the day before, but helooked terribly ill and worried, and no doubt the fact that he had notshaved gave his face a careworn and neglected air."It appears that he and the deceased had been married some six years orso, and that they had always been happy in their married life. They hadno children. Mrs. Hazeldene seemed to enjoy the best of health tilllately, when she had had a slight attack of influenza, in which Dr.Arthur Jones had attended her. The doctor was present at this moment,and would no doubt explain to the coroner and the jury whether hethought that Mrs. Hazeldene had the slightest tendency to heart disease,which might have had a sudden and fatal ending."The coroner was, of course, very considerate to the bereaved husband.He tried by circumlocution to get at the point he wanted, namely, Mrs.Hazeldene's mental condition lately. Mr. Hazeldene seemed loath to talkabout this. No doubt he had been warned as to the existence of the smallbottle found in his wife's satchel."'It certainly did seem to me at times,' he at last reluctantlyadmitted, 'that my wife did not seem quite herself. She used to be verygay and bright, and lately I often saw her in the evening sitting, as ifbrooding over some matters, which evidently she did not care tocommunicate to me.'"Still the coroner insisted, and suggested the small bottle."'I know, I know,' replied the young man, with a short, heavy sigh. 'Youmean--the question of suicide--I cannot understand it at all--it seemsso sudden and so terrible--she certainly had seemed listless andtroubled lately--but only at times--and yesterday morning, when I wentto business, she appeared quite herself again, and I suggested that weshould go to the opera in the evening. She was delighted, I know, andtold me she would do some shopping, and pay a few calls in theafternoon.'"'Do you know at all where she intended to go when she got into theUnderground Railway?'"'Well, not with certainty. You see, she may have meant to get out atBaker Street, and go down to Bond Street to do her shopping. Then,again, she sometimes goes to a shop in St. Paul's Churchyard, in whichcase she would take a ticket to Aldersgate Street; but I cannot say.'"'Now, Mr. Hazeldene,' said the coroner at last very kindly, 'will youtry to tell me if there was anything in Mrs. Hazeldene's life which youknow of, and which might in some measure explain the cause of thedistressed state of mind, which you yourself had noticed? Did thereexist any financial difficulty which might have preyed upon Mrs.Hazeldene's mind; was there any friend--to whose intercourse with Mrs.Hazeldene--you--er--at any time took exception? In fact,' added thecoroner, as if thankful that he had got over an unpleasant moment, 'canyou give me the slightest indication which would tend to confirm thesuspicion that the unfortunate lady, in a moment of mental anxiety orderangement, may have wished to take her own life?'"There was silence in the court for a few moments. Mr. Hazeldene seemedto every one there present to be labouring under some terrible moraldoubt. He looked very pale and wretched, and twice attempted to speakbefore he at last said in scarcely audible tones:"'No; there were no financial difficulties of any sort. My wife had anindependent fortune of her own--she had no extravagant tastes--'"'Nor any friend you at any time objected to?' insisted the coroner."'Nor any friend, I--at any time objected to,' stammered the unfortunateyoung man, evidently speaking with an effort."I was present at the inquest," resumed the man in the corner, after hehad drunk a glass of milk and ordered another, "and I can assure youthat the most obtuse person there plainly realized that Mr. Hazeldenewas telling a lie. It was pretty plain to the meanest intelligence thatthe unfortunate lady had not fallen into a state of morbid dejection fornothing, and that perhaps there existed a third person who could throwmore light on her strange and sudden death than the unhappy, bereavedyoung widower."That the death was more mysterious even than it had at first appearedbecame very soon apparent. You read the case at the time, no doubt, andmust remember the excitement in the public mind caused by the evidenceof the two doctors. Dr. Arthur Jones, the lady's usual medical man, whohad attended her in a last very slight illness, and who had seen her ina professional capacity fairly recently, declared most emphatically thatMrs. Hazeldene suffered from no organic complaint which could possiblyhave been the cause of sudden death. Moreover, he had assisted Mr.Andrew Thornton, the district medical officer, in making a postmortemexamination, and together they had come to the conclusion that death wasdue to the action of prussic acid, which had caused instantaneousfailure of the heart, but how the drug had been administered neither henor his colleague were at present able to state."'Do I understand, then, Dr. Jones, that the deceased died, poisonedwith prussic acid?'"'Such is my opinion,' replied the doctor."'Did the bottle found in her satchel contain prussic acid?'"'It had contained some at one time, certainly.'"'In your opinion, then, the lady caused her own death by taking a doseof that drug?'"'Pardon me, I never suggested such a thing; the lady died poisoned bythe drug, but how the drug was administered we cannot say. By injectionof some sort, certainly. The drug certainly was not swallowed; there wasnot a vestige of it in the stomach.'"'Yes,' added the doctor in reply to another question from the coroner,'death had probably followed the injection in this case almostimmediately; say within a couple of minutes, or perhaps three. It wasquite possible that the body would not have more than one quick andsudden convulsion, perhaps not that; death in such cases is absolutelysudden and crushing.'"I don't think that at the time any one in the room realized howimportant the doctor's statement was, a statement which, by the way, wasconfirmed in all its details by the district medical officer, who hadconducted the postmortem. Mrs. Hazeldene had died suddenly from aninjection of prussic acid, administered no one knew how or when. Shehad been travelling in a first-class railway carriage in a busy time ofthe day. That young and elegant woman must have had singular nerve andcoolness to go through the process of a self-inflicted injection of adeadly poison in the presence of perhaps two or three other persons."Mind you, when I say that no one there realized the importance of thedoctor's statement at that moment, I am wrong; there were three persons,who fully understood at once the gravity of the situation, and theastounding development which the case was beginning to assume."Of course, I should have put myself out of the question," added theweird old man, with that inimitable self-conceit peculiar to himself. "Iguessed then and there in a moment where the police were going wrong,and where they would go on going wrong until the mysterious death on theUnderground Railway had sunk into oblivion, together with the othercases which they mismanage from time to time."I said there were three persons who understood the gravity of the twodoctors' statements--the other two were, firstly, the detective who hadoriginally examined the railway carriage, a young man of energy andplenty of misguided intelligence, the other was Mr. Hazeldene."At this point the interesting element of the whole story was firstintroduced into the proceedings, and this was done through the humblechannel of Emma Funnel, Mrs. Hazeldene's maid, who, as far as was knownthen, was the last person who had seen the unfortunate lady alive andhad spoken to her."'Mrs. Hazeldene lunched at home,' explained Emma, who was shy, andspoke almost in a whisper; 'she seemed well and cheerful. She went outat about half-past three, and told me she was going to Spence's, in St.Paul's Churchyard, to try on her new tailor-made gown. Mrs. Hazeldenehad meant to go there in the morning, but was prevented as Mr. Erringtoncalled.'"'Mr. Errington?' asked the coroner casually. 'Who is Mr. Errington?'"But this Emma found difficult to explain. Mr. Errington was--Mr.Errington, that's all."'Mr. Errington was a friend of the family. He lived in a flat in theAlbert Mansions. He very often came to Addison Row, and generally stayedlate.'"Pressed still further with questions, Emma at last stated that latterlyMrs. Hazeldene had been to the theatre several times with Mr. Errington,and that on those nights the master looked very gloomy, and was verycross."Recalled, the young widower was strangely reticent. He gave forth hisanswers very grudgingly, and the coroner was evidently absolutelysatisfied with himself at the marvellous way in which, after a quarterof an hour of firm yet very kind questionings, he had elicited from thewitness what information he wanted."Mr. Errington was a friend of his wife. He was a gentleman of means,and seemed to have a great deal of time at his command. He himself didnot particularly care about Mr. Errington, but he certainly had nevermade any observations to his wife on the subject."'But who is Mr. Errington?' repeated the coroner once more. 'What doeshe do? What is his business or profession?'"'He has no business or profession."'What is his occupation, then?"He has no special occupation. He has ample private means. But he has agreat and very absorbing hobby.'"'What is that?'"'He spends all his time in chemical experiments, and is, I believe, asan amateur, a very distinguished toxicologist.'"CHAPTER XIMR. ERRINGTON"Did you ever see Mr. Errington, the gentleman so closely connected withthe mysterious death on the Underground Railway?" asked the man in thecorner as he placed one or two of his little snap-shot photos beforeMiss Polly Burton."There he is, to the very life. Fairly good-looking, a pleasant faceenough, but ordinary, absolutely ordinary."It was this absence of any peculiarity which very nearly, but notquite, placed the halter round Mr. Errington's neck."But I am going too fast, and you will lose the thread."The public, of course, never heard how it actually came about that Mr.Errington, the wealthy bachelor of Albert Mansions, of the Grosvenor,and other young dandies' clubs, one fine day found himself before themagistrates at Bow Street, charged with being concerned in the death ofMary Beatrice Hazeldene, late of No. 19, Addison Row."I can assure you both press and public were literally flabbergasted.You see, Mr. Errington was a well-known and very popular member of acertain smart section of London society. He was a constant visitor atthe opera, the racecourse, the Park, and the Carlton, he had a greatmany friends, and there was consequently quite a large attendance at thepolice court that morning."What had transpired was this:"After the very scrappy bits of evidence which came to light at theinquest, two gentlemen bethought themselves that perhaps they had someduty to perform towards the State and the public generally. Accordinglythey had come forward, offering to throw what light they could upon themysterious affair on the Underground Railway."The police naturally felt that their information, such as it was, camerather late in the day, but as it proved of paramount importance, andthe two gentlemen, moreover, were of undoubtedly good position in theworld, they were thankful for what they could get, and actedaccordingly; they accordingly brought Mr. Errington up before themagistrate on a charge of murder."The accused looked pale and worried when I first caught sight of him inthe court that day, which was not to be wondered at, considering theterrible position in which he found himself."He had been arrested at Marseilles, where he was preparing to start forColombo."I don't think he realized how terrible his position really was untillater in the proceedings, when all the evidence relating to the arresthad been heard, and Emma Funnel had repeated her statement as to Mr.Errington's call at 19, Addison Row, in the morning, and Mrs. Hazeldenestarting off for St. Paul's Churchyard at 3.30 in the afternoon."Mr. Hazeldene had nothing to add to the statements he had made at thecoroner's inquest. He had last seen his wife alive on the morning of thefatal day. She had seemed very well and cheerful."I think every one present understood that he was trying to say aslittle as possible that could in any way couple his deceased wife's namewith that of the accused."And yet, from the servant's evidence, it undoubtedly leaked out thatMrs. Hazeldene, who was young, pretty, and evidently fond of admiration,had once or twice annoyed her husband by her somewhat open, yetperfectly innocent, flirtation with Mr. Errington."I think every one was most agreeably impressed by the widower'smoderate and dignified attitude. You will see his photo there, amongthis bundle. That is just how he appeared in court. In deep black, ofcourse, but without any sign of ostentation in his mourning. He hadallowed his beard to grow lately, and wore it closely cut in a point."After his evidence, the sensation of the day occurred. A tall,dark-haired man, with the word 'City' written metaphorically all overhim, had kissed the book, and was waiting to tell the truth, and nothingbut the truth."He gave his name as Andrew Campbell, head of the firm of Campbell &Co., brokers, of Throgmorton Street."In the afternoon of March 18th Mr. Campbell, travelling on theUnderground Railway, had noticed a very pretty woman in the samecarriage as himself. She had asked him if she was in the right train forAldersgate. Mr. Campbell replied in the affirmative, and then buriedhimself in the Stock Exchange quotations of his evening paper."At Gower Street, a gentleman in a tweed suit and bowler hat got intothe carriage, and took a seat opposite the lady."She seemed very much astonished at seeing him, but Mr. Andrew Campbelldid not recollect the exact words she said."The two talked to one another a good deal, and certainly the ladyappeared animated and cheerful. Witness took no notice of them; he wasvery much engrossed in some calculations, and finally got out atFarringdon Street. He noticed that the man in the tweed suit also gotout close behind him, having shaken hands with the lady, and said in apleasant way: '_Au revoir_! Don't be late to-night.' Mr. Campbell didnot hear the lady's reply, and soon lost sight of the man in the crowd."Every one was on tenter-hooks, and eagerly waiting for the palpitatingmoment when witness would describe and identify the man who last hadseen and spoken to the unfortunate woman, within five minutes probablyof her strange and unaccountable death."Personally I knew what was coming before the Scotch stockbroker spoke."I could have jotted down the graphic and lifelike description he wouldgive of a probable murderer. It would have fitted equally well the manwho sat and had luncheon at this table just now; it would certainly havedescribed five out of every ten young Englishmen you know."The individual was of medium height, he wore a moustache which was notvery fair nor yet very dark, his hair was between colours. He wore abowler hat, and a tweed suit--and--and--that was all--Mr. Campbell mightperhaps know him again, but then again, he might not--he was not payingmuch attention--the gentleman was sitting on the same side of thecarriage as himself--and he had his hat on all the time. He himself wasbusy with his newspaper--yes--he might know him again--but he reallycould not say."Mr. Andrew Campbell's evidence was not worth very much, you will say.No, it was not in itself, and would not have justified any arrest wereit not for the additional statements made by Mr. James Verner, managerof Messrs. Rodney & Co., colour printers."Mr. Verner is a personal friend of Mr. Andrew Campbell, and it appearsthat at Farringdon Street, where he was waiting for his train, he sawMr. Campbell get out of a first-class railway carriage. Mr. Verner spoketo him for a second, and then, just as the train was moving off, hestepped into the same compartment which had just been vacated by thestockbroker and the man in the tweed suit. He vaguely recollects a ladysitting in the opposite corner to his own, with her face turned awayfrom him, apparently asleep, but he paid no special attention to her. Hewas like nearly all business men when they are travelling--engrossed inhis paper. Presently a special quotation interested him; he wished tomake a note of it, took out a pencil from his waistcoat pocket, andseeing a clean piece of paste-board on the floor, he picked it up, andscribbled on it the memorandum, which he wished to keep. He thenslipped the card into his pocket-book."'It was only two or three days later,' added Mr. Verner in the midst ofbreathless silence, 'that I had occasion to refer to these same notesagain."'In the meanwhile the papers had been full of the mysterious death onthe Underground Railway, and the names of those connected with it werepretty familiar to me. It was, therefore, with much astonishment that onlooking at the paste-board which I had casually picked up in the railwaycarriage I saw the name on it, "Frank Errington."'"There was no doubt that the sensation in court was almostunprecedented. Never since the days of the Fenchurch Street mystery, andthe trial of Smethurst, had I seen so much excitement. Mind you, I wasnot excited--I knew by now every detail of that crime as if I hadcommitted it myself. In fact, I could not have done it better, althoughI have been a student of crime for many years now. Many peoplethere--his friends, mostly--believed that Errington was doomed. I thinkhe thought so, too, for I could see that his face was terribly white,and he now and then passed his tongue over his lips, as if they wereparched."You see he was in the awful dilemma--a perfectly natural one, by theway--of being absolutely incapable of _proving_ an _alibi_. Thecrime--if crime there was--had been committed three weeks ago. A manabout town like Mr. Frank Errington might remember that he spent certainhours of a special afternoon at his club, or in the Park, but it is verydoubtful in nine cases out of ten if he can find a friend who couldpositively swear as to having seen him there. No! no! Mr. Errington wasin a tight corner, and he knew it. You see, there were--besides theevidence--two or three circumstances which did not improve matters forhim. His hobby in the direction of toxicology, to begin with. The policehad found in his room every description of poisonous substances,including prussic acid."Then, again, that journey to Marseilles, the start for Colombo, was,though perfectly innocent, a very unfortunate one. Mr. Errington hadgone on an aimless voyage, but the public thought that he had fled,terrified at his own crime. Sir Arthur Inglewood, however, here againdisplayed his marvellous skill on behalf of his client by the masterlyway in which he literally turned all the witnesses for the Crown insideout."Having first got Mr. Andrew Campbell to state positively that in theaccused he certainly did _not_ recognize the man in the tweed suit, theeminent lawyer, after twenty minutes' cross-examination, had socompletely upset the stockbroker's equanimity that it is very likely hewould not have recognized his own office-boy."But through all his flurry and all his annoyance Mr. Andrew Campbellremained very sure of one thing; namely, that the lady was alive andcheerful, and talking pleasantly with the man in the tweed suit up tothe moment when the latter, having shaken hands with her, left her witha pleasant '_Au revoir_! Don't be late to-night.' He had heard neitherscream nor struggle, and in his opinion, if the individual in the tweedsuit had administered a dose of poison to his companion, it must havebeen with her own knowledge and free will; and the lady in the trainmost emphatically neither looked nor spoke like a woman prepared for asudden and violent death."Mr. James Verner, against that, swore equally positively that he hadstood in full view of the carriage door from the moment that Mr.Campbell got out until he himself stepped into the compartment, thatthere was no one else in that carriage between Farringdon Street andAldgate, and that the lady, to the best of his belief, had made nomovement during the whole of that journey."No; Frank Errington was _not_ committed for trial on the capitalcharge," said the man in the corner with one of his sardonic smiles,"thanks to the cleverness of Sir Arthur Inglewood, his lawyer. Heabsolutely denied his identity with the man in the tweed suit, and sworehe had not seen Mrs. Hazeldene since eleven o'clock in the morning ofthat fatal day. There was no _proof_ that he had; moreover, according toMr. Campbell's opinion, the man in the tweed suit was in all probabilitynot the murderer. Common sense would not admit that a woman could have adeadly poison injected into her without her knowledge, while chattingpleasantly to her murderer."Mr. Errington lives abroad now. He is about to marry. I don't think anyof his real friends for a moment believed that he committed thedastardly crime. The police think they know better. They do know thismuch, that it could not have been a case of suicide, that if the man whoundoubtedly travelled with Mrs. Hazeldene on that fatal afternoon had nocrime upon his conscience he would long ago have come forward and thrownwhat light he could upon the mystery."As to who that man was, the police in their blindness have not thefaintest doubt. Under the unshakable belief that Errington is guiltythey have spent the last few months in unceasing labour to try and findfurther and stronger proofs of his guilt. But they won't find them,because there are none. There are no positive proofs against the actualmurderer, for he was one of those clever blackguards who think ofeverything, foresee every eventuality, who know human nature well, andcan foretell exactly what evidence will be brought against them, and actaccordingly."This blackguard from the first kept the figure, the personality, ofFrank Errington before his mind. Frank Errington was the dust which thescoundrel threw metaphorically in the eyes of the police, and you mustadmit that he succeeded in blinding them--to the extent even of makingthem entirely forget the one simple little sentence, overheard by Mr.Andrew Campbell, and which was, of course, the clue to the wholething--the only slip the cunning rogue made--'_Au revoir_! Don't be lateto-night.' Mrs. Hazeldene was going that night to the opera with herhusband--"You are astonished?" he added with a shrug of the shoulders, "you donot see the tragedy yet, as I have seen it before me all along. Thefrivolous young wife, the flirtation with the friend?--all a blind, allpretence. I took the trouble which the police should have takenimmediately, of finding out something about the finances of theHazeldene _menage_. Money is in nine cases out of ten the keynote to acrime."I found that the will of Mary Beatrice Hazeldene had been proved bythe husband, her sole executor, the estate being sworn at L15,000. Ifound out, moreover, that Mr. Edward Sholto Hazeldene was a poorshipper's clerk when he married the daughter of a wealthy builder inKensington--and then I made note of the fact that the disconsolatewidower had allowed his beard to grow since the death of his wife."There's no doubt that he was a clever rogue," added the strangecreature, leaning excitedly over the table, and peering into Polly'sface. "Do you know how that deadly poison was injected into the poorwoman's system? By the simplest of all means, one known to everyscoundrel in Southern Europe. A ring--yes! a ring, which has a tinyhollow needle capable of holding a sufficient quantity of prussic acidto have killed two persons instead of one. The man in the tweed suitshook hands with his fair companion--probably she hardly felt the prick,not sufficiently in any case to make her utter a scream. And, mind you,the scoundrel had every facility, through his friendship with Mr.Errington, of procuring what poison he required, not to mention hisfriend's visiting card. We cannot gauge how many months ago he began totry and copy Frank Errington in his style of dress, the cut of hismoustache, his general appearance, making the change probably sogradual, that no one in his own _entourage_ would notice it. Heselected for his model a man his own height and build, with the samecoloured hair.""But there was the terrible risk of being identified by hisfellow-traveller in the Underground," suggested Polly."Yes, there certainly was that risk; he chose to take it, and he waswise. He reckoned that several days would in any case elapse before thatperson, who, by the way, was a business man absorbed in his newspaper,would actually see him again. The great secret of successful crime is tostudy human nature," added the man in the corner, as he began lookingfor his hat and coat. "Edward Hazeldene knew it well.""But the ring?""He may have bought that when he was on his honeymoon," he suggestedwith a grim chuckle; "the tragedy was not planned in a week, it may havetaken years to mature. But you will own that there goes a frightfulscoundrel unhung. I have left you his photograph as he was a year ago,and as he is now. You will see he has shaved his beard again, but alsohis moustache. I fancy he is a friend now of Mr. Andrew Campbell."He left Miss Polly Burton wondering, not knowing what to believe.And that is why she missed her appointment with Mr. Richard Frobisher(of the _London Mail_) to go and see Maud Allan dance at the PalaceTheatre that afternoon.CHAPTER XIITHE LIVERPOOL MYSTERY"A title--a foreign title, I mean--is always very useful for purposes ofswindles and frauds," remarked the man in the corner to Polly one day."The cleverest robberies of modern times were perpetrated lately inVienna by a man who dubbed himself Lord Seymour; whilst over here thesame class of thief calls himself Count Something ending in 'o,' orPrince the other, ending in 'off.'""Fortunately for our hotel and lodging-house keepers over here," shereplied, "they are beginning to be more alive to the ways of foreignswindlers, and look upon all titled gentry who speak broken English aspossible swindlers or thieves.""The result sometimes being exceedingly unpleasant to the real _grandsseigneurs_ who honour this country at times with their visits," repliedthe man in the corner. "Now, take the case of Prince Semionicz, a manwhose sixteen quarterings are duly recorded in Gotha, who carried enoughluggage with him to pay for the use of every room in an hotel for atleast a week, whose gold cigarette case with diamond and turquoiseornament was actually stolen without his taking the slightest trouble totry and recover it; that same man was undoubtedly looked upon withsuspicion by the manager of the Liverpool North-Western Hotel from themoment that his secretary--a dapper, somewhat vulgar littleFrenchman--bespoke on behalf of his employer, with himself and a valet,the best suite of rooms the hotel contained."Obviously those suspicions were unfounded, for the little secretary, assoon as Prince Semionicz had arrived, deposited with the manager a pileof bank notes, also papers and bonds, the value of which would exceedtenfold the most outrageous bill that could possibly be placed beforethe noble visitor. Moreover, M. Albert Lambert explained that thePrince, who only meant to stay in Liverpool a few days, was on his wayto Chicago, where he wished to visit Princess Anna Semionicz, hissister, who was married to Mr. Girwan, the great copper king andmulti-millionaire."Yet, as I told you before, in spite of all these undoubted securities,suspicion of the wealthy Russian Prince lurked in the minds of mostLiverpudlians who came in business contact with him. He had been at theNorth-Western two days when he sent his secretary to Window andVassall, the jewellers of Bold Street, with a request that they wouldkindly send a representative round to the hotel with some nice pieces ofjewellery, diamonds and pearls chiefly, which he was desirous of takingas a present to his sister in Chicago."Mr. Winslow took the order from M. Albert with a pleasant bow. Then hewent to his inner office and consulted with his partner, Mr. Vassall, asto the best course to adopt. Both the gentlemen were desirous of doingbusiness, for business had been very slack lately: neither wished torefuse a possible customer, or to offend Mr. Pettitt, the manager of theNorth-Western, who had recommended them to the Prince. But that foreigntitle and the vulgar little French secretary stuck in the throats of thetwo pompous and worthy Liverpool jewellers, and together they agreed,firstly, that no credit should be given; and, secondly, that if a chequeor even a banker's draft were tendered, the jewels were not to be givenup until that cheque or draft was cashed."Then came the question as to who should take the jewels to the hotel.It was altogether against business etiquette for the senior partners todo such errands themselves; moreover, it was thought that it would beeasier for a clerk to explain, without giving undue offence, that hecould not take the responsibility of a cheque or draft, without havingcashed it previously to giving up the jewels."Then there was the question of the probable necessity of conferring ina foreign tongue. The head assistant, Charles Needham, who had been inthe employ of Winslow and Vassall for over twelve years, was, in trueBritish fashion, ignorant of any language save his own; it was thereforedecided to dispatch Mr. Schwarz, a young German clerk lately arrived, onthe delicate errand."Mr. Schwarz was Mr. Winslow's nephew and godson, a sister of thatgentleman having married the head of the great German firm of Schwarz &Co., silversmiths, of Hamburg and Berlin."The young man had soon become a great favourite with his uncle, whoseheir he would presumably be, as Mr. Winslow had no children."At first Mr. Vassall made some demur about sending Mr. Schwarz with somany valuable jewels alone in a city which he had not yet had the timeto study thoroughly; but finally he allowed himself to be persuaded byhis senior partner, and a fine selection of necklaces, pendants,bracelets, and rings, amounting in value to over L16,000, having beenmade, it was decided that Mr. Schwarz should go to the North-Western ina cab the next day at about three o'clock in the afternoon. This heaccordingly did, the following day being a Thursday."Business went on in the shop as usual under the direction of the headassistant, until about seven o'clock, when Mr. Winslow returned from hisclub, where he usually spent an hour over the papers every afternoon,and at once asked for his nephew. To his astonishment Mr. Needhaminformed him that Mr. Schwarz had not yet returned. This seemed a littlestrange, and Mr. Winslow, with a slightly anxious look in his face, wentinto the inner office in order to consult his junior partner. Mr.Vassall offered to go round to the hotel and interview Mr. Pettitt."'I was beginning to get anxious myself,' he said, 'but did not quitelike to say so. I have been in over half an hour, hoping every momentthat you would come in, and that perhaps you could give me somereassuring news. I thought that perhaps you had met Mr. Schwarz, andwere coming back together.'"However, Mr. Vassall walked round to the hotel and interviewed the hallporter. The latter perfectly well remembered Mr. Schwarz sending in hiscard to Prince Semionicz."'At what time was that?' asked Mr. Vassall."'About ten minutes past three, sir, when he came; it was about an hourlater when he left.'"'When he left?' gasped, more than said, Mr. Vassall."'Yes, sir. Mr. Schwarz left here about a quarter before four, sir.'"'Are you quite sure?'"'Quite sure. Mr. Pettitt was in the hall when he left, and he asked himsomething about business. Mr. Schwarz laughed and said, "not bad." Ihope there's nothing wrong, sir,' added the man."'Oh--er--nothing--thank you. Can I see Mr. Pettitt?'"'Certainly, sir.'"Mr. Pettitt, the manager of the hotel, shared Mr. Vassall's anxiety,immediately he heard that the young German had not yet returned home."'I spoke to him a little before four o'clock. We had just switched onthe electric light, which we always do these winter months at that hour.But I shouldn't worry myself, Mr. Vassall; the young man may have seento some business on his way home. You'll probably find him in when yougo back.'"Apparently somewhat reassured, Mr. Vassall thanked Mr. Pettitt andhurried back to the shop, only to find that Mr. Schwarz had notreturned, though it was now close on eight o'clock."Mr. Winslow looked so haggard and upset that it would have been cruelto heap reproaches upon his other troubles or to utter so much as thefaintest suspicion that young Schwarz's permanent disappearance withL16,000 in jewels and money was within the bounds of probability."There was one chance left, but under the circumstances a very slightone indeed. The Winslows' private house was up the Birkenhead end of thetown. Young Schwarz had been living with them ever since his arrival inLiverpool, and he may have--either not feeling well or for some otherreason--gone straight home without calling at the shop. It was unlikely,as valuable jewellery was never kept at the private house, but--it justmight have happened."It would be useless," continued the man in the corner, "and decidedlyuninteresting, were I to relate to you Messrs. Winslow's and Vassall'sfurther anxieties with regard to the missing young man. Suffice it tosay that on reaching his private house Mr. Winslow found that his godsonhad neither returned nor sent any telegraphic message of any kind."Not wishing to needlessly alarm his wife, Mr. Winslow made an attemptat eating his dinner, but directly after that he hurried back to theNorth-Western Hotel, and asked to see Prince Semionicz. The Prince wasat the theatre with his secretary, and probably would not be home untilnearly midnight."Mr. Winslow, then, not knowing what to think, nor yet what to fear, andin spite of the horror he felt of giving publicity to his nephew'sdisappearance, thought it his duty to go round to the police-station andinterview the inspector. It is wonderful how quickly news of that typetravels in a large city like Liverpool. Already the morning papers ofthe following day were full of the latest sensation: 'Mysteriousdisappearance of a well-known tradesman.'"Mr. Winslow found a copy of the paper containing the sensationalannouncement on his breakfast-table. It lay side by side with a letteraddressed to him in his nephew's handwriting, which had been posted inLiverpool."Mr. Winslow placed that letter, written to him by his nephew, into thehands of the police. Its contents, therefore, quickly became publicproperty. The astounding statements made therein by Mr. Schwarz created,in quiet, businesslike Liverpool, a sensation which has seldom beenequalled."It appears that the young fellow did call on Prince Semionicz at aquarter past three on Wednesday, December 10th, with a bag full ofjewels, amounting in value to some L16,000. The Prince duly admired, andfinally selected from among the ornaments a necklace, pendant, andbracelet, the whole being priced by Mr. Schwarz, according to hisinstructions, at L10,500. Prince Semionicz was most prompt andbusinesslike in his dealings."'You will require immediate payment for these, of course,' he said inperfect English, 'and I know you business men prefer solid cash tocheques, especially when dealing with foreigners. I always providemyself with plenty of Bank of England notes in consequence,' he addedwith a pleasant smile, 'as L10,500 in gold would perhaps be a littleinconvenient to carry. If you will kindly make out the receipt, mysecretary, M. Lambert, will settle all business matters with you.'"He thereupon took the jewels he had selected and locked them up in hisdressing-case, the beautiful silver fillings of which Mr. Schwarz justcaught a short glimpse of. Then, having been accommodated with paper andink, the young jeweller made out the account and receipt, whilst M.Lambert, the secretary, counted out before him 105 crisp Bank of Englandnotes of L100 each. Then, with a final bow to his exceedingly urbane andeminently satisfactory customer, Mr. Schwarz took his leave. In the hallhe saw and spoke to Mr. Pettitt, and then he went out into the street."He had just left the hotel and was about to cross towards St. George'sHall when a gentleman, in a magnificent fur coat, stepped quickly out ofa cab which had been stationed near the kerb, and, touching him lightlyupon the shoulder, said with an unmistakable air of authority, at thesame time handing him a card:"'That is my name. I must speak with you immediately.""Schwarz glanced at the card, and by the light of the arc lamps abovehis head read on it the name of 'Dimitri Slaviansky Burgreneff, de laIIIe Section de la Police Imperial de S.M. le Czar.'"Quickly the owner of the unpronounceable name and the significant titlepointed to the cab from which he had just alighted, and Schwarz, whoseevery suspicion with regard to his princely customer bristled up in onemoment, clutched his bag and followed his imposing interlocutor; as soonas they were both comfortably seated in the cab the latter began, withcourteous apology in broken but fluent English:"'I must ask your pardon, sir, for thus trespassing upon your valuabletime, and I certainly should not have done so but for the certainty thatour interests in a certain matter which I have in hand are practicallyidentical, in so far that we both should wish to outwit a clever rogue.'"Instinctively, and his mind full of terrible apprehension, Mr.Schwarz's hand wandered to his pocket-book, filled to overflowing withthe bank-notes which he had so lately received from the Prince."'Ah, I see,' interposed the courteous Russian with a smile, 'he hasplayed the confidence trick on you, with the usual addition of so manyso-called bank-notes.'"'So-called,' gasped the unfortunate young man."'I don't think I often err in my estimate of my own countrymen,'continued M. Burgreneff; 'I have vast experience, you must remember.Therefore, I doubt if I am doing M.--er--what does he callhimself?--Prince something--an injustice if I assert, even withouthandling those crisp bits of paper you have in your pocket-book, that nobank would exchange them for gold.'"Remembering his uncle's suspicions and his own, Mr. Schwarz cursedhimself for his blindness and folly in accepting notes so easily withoutfor a moment imagining that they might be false. Now, with every one ofthose suspicions fully on the alert, he felt the bits of paper withnervous, anxious fingers, while the imperturbable Russian calmly strucka match."'See here,' he said, pointing to one of the notes, 'the shape of that"w" in the signature of the chief cashier. I am not an English policeofficer, but I could pick out that spurious "w" among a thousand genuineones. You see, I have seen a good many.'"Now, of course, poor young Schwarz had not seen very many Bank ofEngland notes. He could not have told whether one 'w' in Mr. Bowen'ssignature is better than another, but, though he did not speak Englishnearly as fluently as his pompous interlocutor, he understood every wordof the appalling statement the latter had just made."'Then that Prince,' he said, 'at the hotel--'"'Is no more Prince than you and I, my dear sir,' concluded thegentleman of His Imperial Majesty's police calmly."'And the jewels? Mr. Winslow's jewels?'"'With the jewels there may be a chance--oh! a mere chance. These forgedbank-notes, which you accepted so trustingly, may prove the means ofrecovering your property.'"'How?'"'The penalty of forging and circulating spurious bank-notes is veryheavy. You know that. The fear of seven years' penal servitude will actas a wonderful sedative upon the--er--Prince's joyful mood. He will giveup the jewels to me all right enough, never you fear. He knows,' addedthe Russian officer grimly, 'that there are plenty of old scores tosettle up, without the additional one of forged bank-notes. Ourinterests, you see, are identical. May I rely on your co-operation?'"'Oh, I will do as you wish,' said the delighted young German. 'Mr.Winslow and Mr. Vassall, they trusted me, and I have been such a fool. Ihope it is not too late.'"'I think not,' said M. Burgreneff, his hand already on the door of thecab. 'Though I have been talking to you I have kept an eye on the hotel,and our friend the Prince has not yet gone out. We are accustomed, youknow, to have eyes everywhere, we of the Russian secret police. I don'tthink that I will ask you to be present at the confrontation. Perhapsyou will wait for me in the cab. There is a nasty fog outside, and youwill be more private. Will you give me those beautiful bank-notes? Thankyou! Don't be anxious. I won't be long.'"He lifted his hat, and slipped the notes into the inner pocket of hismagnificent fur coat. As he did so, Mr. Schwarz caught sight of a richuniform and a wide sash, which no doubt was destined to carry additionalmoral weight with the clever rogue upstairs."Then His Imperial Majesty's police officer stepped quickly out of thecab, and Mr. Schwarz was left alone."CHAPTER XIIIA CUNNING RASCAL"Yes, left severely alone," continued the man in the corner with asarcastic chuckle. "So severely alone, in fact, that one quarter of anhour after another passed by and still the magnificent police officer inthe gorgeous uniform did not return. Then, when it was too late, Schwarzcursed himself once again for the double-dyed idiot that he was. He hadbeen only too ready to believe that Prince Semionicz was a liar and arogue, and under these unjust suspicions he had fallen an all too easyprey to one of the most cunning rascals he had ever come across."An inquiry from the hall porter at the North-Western elicited the factthat no such personage as Mr. Schwarz described had entered the hotel.The young man asked to see Prince Semionicz, hoping against hope thatall was not yet lost. The Prince received him most courteously; he wasdictating some letters to his secretary, while the valet was in the nextroom preparing his master's evening clothes. Mr. Schwarz found it verydifficult to explain what he actually did want."There stood the dressing-case in which the Prince had locked up thejewels, and there the bag from which the secretary had taken thebank-notes. After much hesitation on Schwarz's part and much impatienceon that of the Prince, the young man blurted out the whole story of theso-called Russian police officer whose card he still held in his hand."The Prince, it appears, took the whole thing wonderfullygood-naturedly; no doubt he thought the jeweller a hopeless fool. Heshowed him the jewels, the receipt he held, and also a large bundle ofbank-notes similar to those Schwarz had with such culpable folly givenup to the clever rascal in the cab."'I pay all my bills with Bank of England notes, Mr. Schwarz. It wouldhave been wiser, perhaps, if you had spoken to the manager of the hotelabout me before you were so ready to believe any cock-and-bull storyabout my supposed rogueries.'"Finally he placed a small 16mo volume before the young jeweller, andsaid with a pleasant smile:"'If people in this country who are in a large way of business, and aretherefore likely to come in contact with people of foreign nationality,were to study these little volumes before doing business with anyforeigner who claims a title, much disappointment and a great loss wouldoften be saved. Now in this case had you looked up page 797 of thislittle volume of Gotha's Almanach you would have seen my name in it andknown from the first that the so-called Russian detective was a liar.'"There was nothing more to be said, and Mr. Schwarz left the hotel. Nodoubt, now that he had been hopelessly duped he dared not go home, andhalf hoped by communicating with the police that they might succeed inarresting the thief before he had time to leave Liverpool. Heinterviewed Detective-Inspector Watson, and was at once confronted withthe awful difficulty which would make the recovery of the bank-notespractically hopeless. He had never had the time or opportunity ofjotting down the numbers of the notes."Mr. Winslow, though terribly wrathful against his nephew, did not wishto keep him out of his home. As soon as he had received Schwarz'sletter, he traced him, with Inspector Watson's help, to his lodgings inNorth Street, where the unfortunate young man meant to remain hiddenuntil the terrible storm had blown over, or perhaps until the thief hadbeen caught red-handed with the booty still in his hands."This happy event, needless to say, never did occur, though the policemade every effort to trace the man who had decoyed Schwarz into the cab.His appearance was such an uncommon one; it seemed most unlikely that noone in Liverpool should have noticed him after he left that cab. Thewonderful fur coat, the long beard, all must have been noticeable, eventhough it was past four o'clock on a somewhat foggy December afternoon."But every investigation proved futile; no one answering Schwarz'sdescription of the man had been seen anywhere. The papers continued torefer to the case as 'the Liverpool Mystery.' Scotland Yard sent Mr.Fairburn down--the celebrated detective--at the request of the Liverpoolpolice, to help in the investigations, but nothing availed."Prince Semionicz, with his suite, left Liverpool, and he who hadattempted to blacken his character, and had succeeded in robbing Messrs.Winslow and Vassall of L10,500, had completely disappeared."The man in the corner readjusted his collar and necktie, which, duringthe narrative of this interesting mystery, had worked its way up hislong, crane-like neck under his large flappy ears. His costume ofchecked tweed of a peculiarly loud pattern had tickled the fancy of someof the waitresses, who were standing gazing at him and giggling in onecorner. This evidently made him nervous. He gazed up very meekly atPolly, looking for all the world like a bald-headed adjutant dressed fora holiday."Of course, all sorts of theories of the theft got about at first. Oneof the most popular, and at the same time most quickly exploded, beingthat young Schwarz had told a cock-and-bull story, and was the actualthief himself."However, as I said before, that was very quickly exploded, as Mr.Schwarz senior, a very wealthy merchant, never allowed his son'scarelessness to be a serious loss to his kind employers. As soon as hethoroughly grasped all the circumstances of the extraordinary case, hedrew a cheque for L10,500 and remitted it to Messrs. Winslow andVassall. It was just, but it was also high-minded."All Liverpool knew of the generous action, as Mr. Winslow took carethat it should; and any evil suspicion regarding young Mr. Schwarzvanished as quickly as it had come."Then, of course, there was the theory about the Prince and his suite,and to this day I fancy there are plenty of people in Liverpool, andalso in London, who declare that the so-called Russian police officerwas a confederate. No doubt that theory was very plausible, and Messrs.Winslow and Vassall spent a good deal of money in trying to prove a caseagainst the Russian Prince."Very soon, however, that theory was also bound to collapse. Mr.Fairburn, whose reputation as an investigator of crime waxes in directinverted ratio to his capacities, did hit upon the obvious course ofinterviewing the managers of the larger London and Liverpool _agents dechange_. He soon found that Prince Semionicz had converted a great dealof Russian and French money into English bank-notes since his arrival inthis country. More than L30,000 in good solid, honest money was tracedto the pockets of the gentleman with the sixteen quarterings. It seemed,therefore, more than improbable that a man who was obviously fairlywealthy would risk imprisonment and hard labour, if not worse, for thesake of increasing his fortune by L10,000."However, the theory of the Prince's guilt has taken firm root in thedull minds of our police authorities. They have had every informationwith regard to Prince Semionicz's antecedents from Russia; his position,his wealth, have been placed above suspicion, and yet they suspect andgo on suspecting him or his secretary. They have communicated with thepolice of every European capital; and while they still hope to obtainsufficient evidence against those they suspect, they calmly allow theguilty to enjoy the fruit of his clever roguery.""The guilty?" said Polly. "Who do you think--""Who do I think knew at that moment that young Schwarz had money in hispossession?" he said excitedly, wriggling in his chair like aJack-in-the-box. "Obviously some one was guilty of that theft who knewthat Schwarz had gone to interview a rich Russian, and would in allprobability return with a large sum of money in his possession?""Who, indeed, but the Prince and his secretary?" she argued. "But justnow you said--""Just now I said that the police were determined to find the Prince andhis secretary guilty; they did not look further than their own stumpynoses. Messrs. Winslow and Vassall spent money with a free hand in thoseinvestigations. Mr. Winslow, as the senior partner, stood to lose overL9000 by that robbery. Now, with Mr. Vassall it was different."When I saw how the police went on blundering in this case I took thetrouble to make certain inquiries, the whole thing interested me somuch, and I learnt all that I wished to know. I found out, namely, thatMr. Vassall was very much a junior partner in the firm, that he onlydrew ten per cent of the profits, having been promoted lately to apartnership from having been senior assistant."Now, the police did not take the trouble to find that out.""But you don't mean that--""I mean that in all cases where robbery affects more than one person thefirst thing to find out is whether it affects the second party equallywith the first. I proved that to you, didn't I, over that robbery inPhillimore Terrace? There, as here, one of the two parties stood tolose very little in comparison with the other--""Even then--" she began."Wait a moment, for I found out something more. The moment I hadascertained that Mr. Vassall was not drawing more than about L500 a yearfrom the business profits I tried to ascertain at what rate he lived andwhat were his chief vices. I found that he kept a fine house in AlbertTerrace. Now, the rents of those houses are L250 a year. Thereforespeculation, horse-racing or some sort of gambling, must help to keep upthat establishment. Speculation and most forms of gambling aresynonymous with debt and ruin. It is only a question of time. WhetherMr. Vassall was in debt or not at the time, that I cannot say, but thisI do know, that ever since that unfortunate loss to him of about L1000he has kept his house in nicer style than before, and he now has a goodbanking account at the Lancashire and Liverpool bank, which he opened ayear after his 'heavy loss.'""But it must have been very difficult--" argued Polly."What?" he said. "To have planned out the whole thing? For carrying itout was mere child's play. He had twenty-four hours in which to put hisplan into execution. Why, what was there to do? Firstly, to go to alocal printer in some out-of-the-way part of the town and get him toprint a few cards with the high-sounding name. That, of course, is done'while you wait.' Beyond that there was the purchase of a goodsecond-hand uniform, fur coat, and a beard and a wig from a costumier's."No, no, the execution was not difficult; it was the planning of it all,the daring that was so fine. Schwarz, of course, was a foreigner; he hadonly been in England a little over a fortnight. Vassall's broken Englishmisled him; probably he did not know the junior partner very intimately.I have no doubt that but for his uncle's absurd British prejudice andsuspicions against the Russian Prince, Schwarz would not have been soready to believe in the latter's roguery. As I said, it would be a greatboon if English tradesmen studied Gotha more; but it was clever, wasn'tit? I couldn't have done it much better myself."That last sentence was so characteristic. Before Polly could think ofsome plausible argument against his theory he was gone, and she wastrying vainly to find another solution to the Liverpool mystery.CHAPTER XIVTHE EDINBURGH MYSTERYThe man in the corner had not enjoyed his lunch. Miss Polly Burton couldsee that he had something on his mind, for, even before he began to talkthat morning, he was fidgeting with his bit of string, and setting allher nerves on the jar."Have you ever felt real sympathy with a criminal or a thief?" he askedher after a while."Only once, I think," she replied, "and then I am not quite sure thatthe unfortunate woman who did enlist my sympathies was the criminal youmake her out to be.""You mean the heroine of the York mystery?" he replied blandly. "I knowthat you tried very hard that time to discredit the only possibleversion of that mysterious murder, the version which is my own. Now, Iam equally sure that you have at the present moment no more notion as towho killed and robbed poor Lady Donaldson in Charlotte Square,Edinburgh, than the police have themselves, and yet you are fullyprepared to pooh-pooh my arguments, and to disbelieve my version of themystery. Such is the lady journalist's mind.""If you have some cock-and-bull story to explain that extraordinarycase," she retorted, "of course I shall disbelieve it. Certainly, if youare going to try and enlist my sympathies on behalf of Edith Crawford, Ican assure you you won't succeed.""Well, I don't know that that is altogether my intention. I see you areinterested in the case, but I dare say you don't remember all thecircumstances. You must forgive me if I repeat that which you knowalready. If you have ever been to Edinburgh at all, you will have heardof Graham's bank, and Mr. Andrew Graham, the present head of the firm,is undoubtedly one of the most prominent notabilities of 'modernAthens.'"The man in the corner took two or three photos from his pocket-book andplaced them before the young girl; then, pointing at them with his longbony finger--"That," he said, "is Mr. Elphinstone Graham, the eldest son, a typicalyoung Scotchman, as you see, and this is David Graham, the second son."Polly looked more closely at this last photo, and saw before her a youngface, upon which some lasting sorrow seemed already to have left itsmark. The face was delicate and thin, the features pinched, and theeyes seemed almost unnaturally large and prominent."He was deformed," commented the man in the corner in answer to thegirl's thoughts, "and, as such, an object of pity and even of repugnanceto most of his friends. There was also a good deal of talk in Edinburghsociety as to his mental condition, his mind, according to many intimatefriends of the Grahams, being at times decidedly unhinged. Be that as itmay, I fancy that his life must have been a very sad one; he had losthis mother when quite a baby, and his father seemed, strangely enough,to have an almost unconquerable dislike towards him."Every one got to know presently of David Graham's sad position in hisfather's own house, and also of the great affection lavished upon him byhis godmother, Lady Donaldson, who was a sister of Mr. Graham's."She was a lady of considerable wealth, being the widow of Sir GeorgeDonaldson, the great distiller; but she seems to have been decidedlyeccentric. Latterly she had astonished all her family--who were rigidPresbyterians--by announcing her intention of embracing the RomanCatholic faith, and then retiring to the convent of St. Augustine's atNewton Abbot in Devonshire."She had sole and absolute control of the vast fortune which a dotinghusband had bequeathed to her. Clearly, therefore, she was at libertyto bestow it upon a Devonshire convent if she chose. But this evidentlywas not altogether her intention."I told you how fond she was of her deformed godson, did I not? Being abundle of eccentricities, she had many hobbies, none more pronouncedthan the fixed determination to see--before retiring from the worldaltogether--David Graham happily married."Now, it appears that David Graham, ugly, deformed, half-demented as hewas, had fallen desperately in love with Miss Edith Crawford, daughterof the late Dr. Crawford, of Prince's Gardens. The young lady,however--very naturally, perhaps--fought shy of David Graham, who, aboutthis time, certainly seemed very queer and morose, but Lady Donaldson,with characteristic determination, seems to have made up her mind tomelt Miss Crawford's heart towards her unfortunate nephew."On October the 2nd last, at a family party given by Mr. Graham in hisfine mansion in Charlotte Square, Lady Donaldson openly announced herintention of making over, by deed of gift, to her nephew, David Graham,certain property, money, and shares, amounting in total value to the sumof L100,000, and also her magnificent diamonds, which were worthL50,000, for the use of the said David's wife. Keith Macfinlay, a lawyerof Prince's Street, received the next day instructions for drawing upthe necessary deed of gift, which she pledged herself to sign the day ofher godson's wedding."A week later _The Scotsman_ contained the following paragraph:--"'A marriage is arranged and will shortly take place between David,younger son of Andrew Graham, Esq., of Charlotte Square, Edinburgh, andDochnakirk, Perthshire, and Edith Lillian, only surviving daughter ofthe late Dr. Kenneth Crawford, of Prince's Gardens.'"In Edinburgh society comments were loud and various upon theforthcoming marriage, and, on the whole, these comments were far fromcomplimentary to the families concerned. I do not think that the Scotchare a particularly sentimental race, but there was such obvious buying,selling, and bargaining about this marriage that Scottish chivalry rosein revolt at the thought."Against that the three people most concerned seemed perfectlysatisfied. David Graham was positively transformed; his moroseness wasgone from him, he lost his queer ways and wild manners, and becamegentle and affectionate in the midst of this great and unexpectedhappiness. Miss Edith Crawford ordered her trousseau, and talked of thediamonds to her friends, and Lady Donaldson was only waiting for theconsummation of this marriage--her heart's desire--before she finallyretired from the world, at peace with it and with herself."The deed of gift was ready for signature on the wedding day, which wasfixed for November 7th, and Lady Donaldson took up her abode temporarilyin her brother's house in Charlotte Square."Mr. Graham gave a large ball on October 23rd. Special interest isattached to this ball, from the fact that for this occasion LadyDonaldson insisted that David's future wife should wear the magnificentdiamonds which were soon to become hers."They were, it seems, superb, and became Miss Crawford's stately beautyto perfection. The ball was a brilliant success, the last guest leavingat four a.m. The next day it was the universal topic of conversation,and the day after that, when Edinburgh unfolded the late editions of itsmorning papers, it learned with horror and dismay that Lady Donaldsonhad been found murdered in her room, and that the celebrated diamondshad been stolen."Hardly had the beautiful little city, however, recovered from thisawful shock, than its newspapers had another thrilling sensation readyfor their readers."Already all Scotch and English papers had mysteriously hinted at'startling information' obtained by the Procurator Fiscal, and at an'impending sensational arrest.'"Then the announcement came, and every one in Edinburgh read,horror-struck and aghast, that the 'sensational arrest' was none otherthan that of Miss Edith Crawford, for murder and robbery, both so daringand horrible that reason refused to believe that a young lady, born andbred in the best social circle, could have conceived, much lessexecuted, so heinous a crime. She had been arrested in London at theMidland Hotel, and brought to Edinburgh, where she was judiciallyexamined, bail being refused."CHAPTER XVA TERRIBLE PLIGHT"Little more than a fortnight after that, Edith Crawford was dulycommitted to stand her trial before the High Court of Justiciary. Shehad pleaded 'Not Guilty' at the pleading diet, and her defence wasentrusted to Sir James Fenwick, one of the most eminent advocates at theCriminal Bar."Strange to say," continued the man in the corner after a while, "publicopinion from the first went dead against the accused. The public isabsolutely like a child, perfectly irresponsible and wholly illogical;it argued that since Miss Crawford had been ready to contract a marriagewith a half-demented, deformed creature for the sake of his L100,000 shemust have been equally ready to murder and rob an old lady for the sakeof L50,000 worth of jewellery, without the encumbrance of so undesirablea husband."Perhaps the great sympathy aroused in the popular mind for David Grahamhad much to do with this ill-feeling against the accused. David Grahamhad, by this cruel and dastardly murder, lost the best--if not theonly--friend he possessed. He had also lost at one fell swoop the largefortune which Lady Donaldson had been about to assign to him."The deed of gift had never been signed, and the old lady's vast wealth,instead of enriching her favourite nephew, was distributed--since shehad made no will--amongst her heirs-at-law. And now to crown this longchapter of sorrow David Graham saw the girl he loved accused of theawful crime which had robbed him of friend and fortune."It was, therefore, with an unmistakable thrill of righteoussatisfaction that Edinburgh society saw this 'mercenary girl' in soterrible a plight."I was immensely interested in the case, and journeyed down to Edinburghin order to get a good view of the chief actors in the thrilling dramawhich was about to be unfolded there."I succeeded--I generally do--in securing one of the front seats amongthe audience, and was already comfortably installed in my place in courtwhen through the trap door I saw the head of the prisoner emerge. Shewas very becomingly dressed in deep black, and, led by two policemen,she took her place in the dock. Sir James Fenwick shook hands with hervery warmly, and I could almost hear him instilling words of comfortinto her."The trial lasted six clear days, during which time more than fortypersons were examined for the prosecution, and as many for the defence.But the most interesting witnesses were certainly the two doctors, themaid Tremlett, Campbell, the High Street jeweller, and David Graham."There was, of course, a great deal of medical evidence to go through.Poor Lady Donaldson had been found with a silk scarf tied tightly roundher neck, her face showing even to the inexperienced eye every symptomof strangulation."Then Tremlett, Lady Donaldson's confidential maid, was called. Closelyexamined by Crown Counsel, she gave an account of the ball at CharlotteSquare on the 23rd, and the wearing of the jewels by Miss Crawford onthat occasion."'I helped Miss Crawford on with the tiara over her hair,' she said;'and my lady put the two necklaces round Miss Crawford's neck herself.There were also some beautiful brooches, bracelets, and earrings. Atfour o'clock in the morning when the ball was over, Miss Crawfordbrought the jewels back to my lady's room. My lady had already gone tobed, and I had put out the electric light, as I was going, too. Therewas only one candle left in the room, close to the bed."'Miss Crawford took all the jewels off, and asked Lady Donaldson forthe key of the safe, so that she might put them away. My lady gave herthe key and said to me, "You can go to bed, Tremlett, you must be deadtired." I was glad to go, for I could hardly stand up--I was so tired. Isaid "Good night!" to my lady and also to Miss Crawford, who was busyputting the jewels away. As I was going out of the room I heard LadyDonaldson saying: "Have you managed it, my dear?" Miss Crawford said: "Ihave put everything away very nicely."'"In answer to Sir James Fenwick, Tremlett said that Lady Donaldsonalways carried the key of her jewel safe on a ribbon round her neck, andhad done so the whole day preceding her death."'On the night of the 24th,' she continued, 'Lady Donaldson still seemedrather tired, and went up to her room directly after dinner, and whilethe family were still sitting in the dining-room. She made me dress herhair, then she slipped on her dressing-gown and sat in the arm-chairwith a book. She told me that she then felt strangely uncomfortable andnervous, and could not account for it."'However, she did not want me to sit with her, so I thought that thebest thing I could do was to tell Mr. David Graham that her ladyship didnot seem very cheerful. Her ladyship was so fond of Mr. David; it alwaysmade her happy to have him with her. I then went to my room, and athalf-past eight Mr. David called me. He said: "Your mistress does seem alittle restless to-night. If I were you I would just go and listen ather door in about an hour's time, and if she has not gone to bed I wouldgo in and stay with her until she has." At about ten o'clock I did asMr. David suggested, and listened at her ladyship's door. However, allwas quiet in the room, and, thinking her ladyship had gone to sleep, Iwent back to bed."'The next morning at eight o'clock, when I took in my mistress's cup oftea, I saw her lying on the floor, her poor dear face all purple anddistorted. I screamed, and the other servants came rushing along. ThenMr. Graham had the door locked and sent for the doctor and the police.'"The poor woman seemed to find it very difficult not to break down. Shewas closely questioned by Sir James Fenwick, but had nothing further tosay. She had last seen her mistress alive at eight o'clock on theevening of the 24th."'And when you listened at her door at ten o'clock,' asked Sir James,'did you try to open it?'"'I did, but it was locked,' she replied."'Did Lady Donaldson usually lock her bedroom at night?'"'Nearly always.'"'And in the morning when you took in the tea?'"'The door was open. I walked straight in.'"'You are quite sure?' insisted Sir James."'I swear it,' solemnly asserted the woman."After that we were informed by several members of Mr. Graham'sestablishment that Miss Crawford had been in to tea at Charlotte Squarein the afternoon of the 24th, that she told every one she was going toLondon by the night mail, as she had some special shopping she wished todo there. It appears that Mr. Graham and David both tried to persuadeher to stay to dinner, and then to go by the 9.10 p.m. from theCaledonian Station. Miss Crawford however had refused, saying she alwayspreferred to go from the Waverley Station. It was nearer to her ownrooms, and she still had a good deal of writing to do."In spite of this, two witnesses saw the accused in Charlotte Squarelater on in the evening. She was carrying a bag which seemed heavy, andwas walking towards the Caledonian Railway Station."But the most thrilling moment in that sensational trial was reached onthe second day, when David Graham, looking wretchedly ill, unkempt, andhaggard, stepped into the witness-box. A murmur of sympathy went roundthe audience at sight of him, who was the second, perhaps, most deeplystricken victim of the Charlotte Square tragedy."David Graham, in answer to Crown Counsel, gave an account of his lastinterview with Lady Donaldson."'Tremlett had told me that she seemed anxious and upset, and I went tohave a chat with her; she soon cheered up and....'"There the unfortunate young man hesitated visibly, but after a whileresumed with an obvious effort."'She spoke of my marriage, and of the gift she was about to bestow uponme. She said the diamonds would be for my wife, and after that for mydaughter, if I had one. She also complained that Mr. Macfinlay had beenso punctilious about preparing the deed of gift, and that it was a greatpity the L100,000 could not just pass from her hands to mine without somuch fuss."'I stayed talking with her for about half an hour; then I left her, asshe seemed ready to go to bed; but I told her maid to listen at the doorin about an hour's time.'"There was deep silence in the court for a few moments, a silence whichto me seemed almost electrical. It was as if, some time before it wasuttered, the next question put by Crown Counsel to the witness hadhovered in the air."'You were engaged to Miss Edith Crawford at one time, were you not?'"One felt, rather than heard, the almost inaudible 'Yes' which escapedfrom David Graham's compressed lips."'Under what circumstances was that engagement broken off?'"Sir James Fenwick had already risen in protest, but David Graham hadbeen the first to speak."'I do not think that I need answer that question.'"'I will put it in a different form, then,' said Crown Counselurbanely--'one to which my learned friend cannot possibly takeexception. Did you or did you not on October 27th receive a letter fromthe accused, in which she desired to be released from her promise ofmarriage to you?'"Again David Graham would have refused to answer, and he certainly gaveno audible reply to the learned counsel's question; but every one in theaudience there present--aye, every member of the jury and of thebar--read upon David Graham's pale countenance and large, sorrowful eyesthat ominous 'Yes!' which had failed to reach his trembling lips."CHAPTER XVI"NON PROVEN""There is no doubt," continued the man in the corner, "that what littlesympathy the young girl's terrible position had aroused in the publicmind had died out the moment that David Graham left the witness-box onthe second day of the trial. Whether Edith Crawford was guilty of murderor not, the callous way in which she had accepted a deformed lover, andthen thrown him over, had set every one's mind against her."It was Mr. Graham himself who had been the first to put the ProcuratorFiscal in possession of the fact that the accused had written to Davidfrom London, breaking off her engagement. This information had, nodoubt, directed the attention of the Fiscal to Miss Crawford, and thepolice soon brought forward the evidence which had led to her arrest."We had a final sensation on the third day, when Mr. Campbell, jeweller,of High Street, gave his evidence. He said that on October 25th a ladycame to his shop and offered to sell him a pair of diamond earrings.Trade had been very bad, and he had refused the bargain, although thelady seemed ready to part with the earrings for an extraordinarily lowsum, considering the beauty of the stones."In fact it was because of this evident desire on the lady's part tosell at _any_ cost that he had looked at her more keenly than heotherwise would have done. He was now ready to swear that the lady thatoffered him the diamond earrings was the prisoner in the dock."I can assure you that as we all listened to this apparently damnatoryevidence, you might have heard a pin drop amongst the audience in thatcrowded court. The girl alone, there in the dock, remained calm andunmoved. Remember that for two days we had heard evidence to prove thatold Dr. Crawford had died leaving his daughter penniless, that having nomother she had been brought up by a maiden aunt, who had trained her tobe a governess, which occupation she had followed for years, and thatcertainly she had never been known by any of her friends to be inpossession of solitaire diamond earrings."The prosecution had certainly secured an ace of trumps, but Sir JamesFenwick, who during the whole of that day had seemed to take littleinterest in the proceedings, here rose from his seat, and I knew at oncethat he had got a tit-bit in the way of a 'point' up his sleeve. Gaunt,and unusually tall, and with his beak-like nose, he always looksstrangely impressive when he seriously tackles a witness. He did it thistime with a vengeance, I can tell you. He was all over the pompouslittle jeweller in a moment."'Had Mr. Campbell made a special entry in his book, as to the visit ofthe lady in question?'"'No.'"'Had he any special means of ascertaining when that visit did actuallytake place?'"'No--but--'"'What record had he of the visit?'"Mr. Campbell had none. In fact, after about twenty minutes ofcross-examination, he had to admit that he had given but little thoughtto the interview with the lady at the time, and certainly not inconnection with the murder of Lady Donaldson, until he had read in thepapers that a young lady had been arrested."Then he and his clerk talked the matter over, it appears, and togetherthey had certainly recollected that a lady had brought some beautifulearrings for sale on a day which _must have been_ the very morning afterthe murder. If Sir James Fenwick's object was to discredit this specialwitness, he certainly gained his point."All the pomposity went out of Mr. Campbell, he became flurried, thenexcited, then he lost his temper. After that he was allowed to leave thecourt, and Sir James Fenwick resumed his seat, and waited like avulture for its prey."It presented itself in the person of Mr. Campbell's clerk, who, beforethe Procurator Fiscal, had corroborated his employer's evidence in everyrespect. In Scotland no witness in any one case is present in courtduring the examination of another, and Mr. Macfarlane, the clerk, was,therefore, quite unprepared for the pitfalls which Sir James Fenwick hadprepared for him. He tumbled into them, head foremost, and the eminentadvocate turned him inside out like a glove."Mr. Macfarlane did not lose his temper; he was of too humble a frame ofmind to do that, but he got into a hopeless quagmire of mixedrecollections, and he too left the witness-box quite unprepared to swearas to the day of the interview with the lady with the diamond earrings."I dare say, mind you," continued the man in the corner with a chuckle,"that to most people present, Sir James Fenwick's cross-questioningseemed completely irrelevant. Both Mr. Campbell and his clerk were quiteready to swear that they had had an interview concerning some diamondearrings with a lady, of whose identity with the accused they wereperfectly convinced, and to the casual observer the question as to thetime or even the day when that interview took place could make butlittle difference in the ultimate issue."Now I took in, in a moment, the entire drift of Sir James Fenwick'sdefence of Edith Crawford. When Mr. Macfarlane left the witness-box, thesecond victim of the eminent advocate's caustic tongue, I could read asin a book the whole history of that crime, its investigation, and themistakes made by the police first and the Public Prosecutor afterwards."Sir James Fenwick knew them, too, of course, and he placed a fingerupon each one, demolishing--like a child who blows upon a house ofcards--the entire scaffolding erected by the prosecution."Mr. Campbell's and Mr. Macfarlane's identification of the accused withthe lady who, on some date--admitted to be uncertain--had tried to sella pair of diamond earrings, was the first point. Sir James had plenty ofwitnesses to prove that on the 25th, the day after the murder, theaccused was in London, whilst, the day before, Mr. Campbell's shop hadbeen closed long before the family circle had seen the last of LadyDonaldson. Clearly the jeweller and his clerk must have seen some otherlady, whom their vivid imagination had pictured as being identical withthe accused."Then came the great question of time. Mr. David Graham had beenevidently the last to see Lady Donaldson alive. He had spoken to her aslate as 8.30 p.m. Sir James Fenwick had called two porters at theCaledonian Railway Station who testified to Miss Crawford having takenher seat in a first-class carriage of the 9.10 train, some minutesbefore it started."'Was it conceivable, therefore,' argued Sir James, 'that in the spaceof half an hour the accused--a young girl--could have found her waysurreptitiously into the house, at a time when the entire household wasstill astir, that she should have strangled Lady Donaldson, forced openthe safe, and made away with the jewels? A man--an experienced burglarmight have done it, but I contend that the accused is physicallyincapable of accomplishing such a feat."'With regard to the broken engagement,' continued the eminent counselwith a smile, 'it may have seemed a little heartless, certainly, butheartlessness is no crime in the eyes of the law. The accused has statedin her declaration that at the time she wrote to Mr. David Graham,breaking off her engagement, she had heard nothing of the Edinburghtragedy."'The London papers had reported the crime very briefly. The accused wasbusy shopping; she knew nothing of Mr. David Graham's altered position.In no case was the breaking off of the engagement a proof that theaccused had obtained possession of the jewels by so foul a deed.'"It is, of course, impossible for me," continued the man in the cornerapologetically, "to give you any idea of the eminent advocate'seloquence and masterful logic. It struck every one, I think, just as itdid me, that he chiefly directed his attention to the fact that therewas absolutely no _proof_ against the accused."Be that as it may, the result of that remarkable trial was a verdict of'Non Proven.' The jury was absent forty minutes, and it appears that inthe mind of every one of them there remained, in spite of Sir James'arguments, a firmly rooted conviction--call it instinct, if youlike--that Edith Crawford had done away with Lady Donaldson in order tobecome possessed of those jewels, and that in spite of the pompousjeweller's many contradictions, she had offered him some of thosediamonds for sale. But there was not enough proof to convict, and shewas given the benefit of the doubt."I have heard English people argue that in England she would have beenhanged. Personally I doubt that. I think that an English jury, nothaving the judicial loophole of 'Non Proven,' would have been bound toacquit her. What do you think?"CHAPTER XVIIUNDENIABLE FACTSThere was a moment's silence, for Polly did not reply immediately, andhe went on making impossible knots in his bit of string. Then she saidquietly--"I think that I agree with those English people who say that an Englishjury would have condemned her.... I have no doubt that she was guilty.She may not have committed that awful deed herself. Some one in theCharlotte Square house may have been her accomplice and killed androbbed Lady Donaldson while Edith Crawford waited outside for thejewels. David Graham left his godmother at 8.30 p.m. If the accomplicewas one of the servants in the house, he or she would have had plenty oftime for any amount of villainy, and Edith Crawford could have yetcaught the 9.10 p.m. train from the Caledonian Station.""Then who, in your opinion," he asked sarcastically, and cocking hisfunny birdlike head on one side, "tried to sell diamond earrings to Mr.Campbell, the jeweller?""Edith Crawford, of course," she retorted triumphantly; "he and hisclerk both recognized her.""When did she try to sell them the earrings?""Ah, that is what I cannot quite make out, and there to my mind lies theonly mystery in this case. On the 25th she was certainly in London, andit is not very likely that she would go back to Edinburgh in order todispose of the jewels there, where they could most easily be traced.""Not very likely, certainly," he assented drily."And," added the young girl, "on the day before she left for London,Lady Donaldson was alive.""And pray," he said suddenly, as with comic complacency he surveyed abeautiful knot he had just twisted up between his long fingers, "whathas that fact got to do with it?""But it has everything to do with it!" she retorted."Ah, there you go," he sighed with comic emphasis. "My teachings don'tseem to have improved your powers of reasoning. You are as bad as thepolice. Lady Donaldson has been robbed and murdered, and you immediatelyargue that she was robbed and murdered by the same person.""But--" argued Polly."There is no but," he said, getting more and more excited. "See howsimple it is. Edith Crawford wears the diamonds one night, then shebrings them back to Lady Donaldson's room. Remember the maid'sstatement: 'My lady said: "Have you put them back, my dear?"--a simplestatement, utterly ignored by the prosecution. But what did it mean?That Lady Donaldson could not see for herself whether Edith Crawford hadput back the jewels or not, _since she asked the question_.""Then you argue--""I never argue," he interrupted excitedly; "I state undeniable facts.Edith Crawford, who wanted to steal the jewels, took them then andthere, when she had the opportunity. Why in the world should she havewaited? Lady Donaldson was in bed, and Tremlett, the maid, had gone."The next day--namely, the 25th--she tries to dispose of a pair ofearrings to Mr. Campbell; she fails, and decides to go to London, whereshe has a better chance. Sir James Fenwick did not think it desirable tobring forward witnesses to prove what I have since ascertained is afact, namely, that on the 27th of October, three days before her arrest,Miss Crawford crossed over to Belgium, and came back to London the nextday. In Belgium, no doubt, Lady Donaldson's diamonds, taken out of theirsettings, calmly repose at this moment, while the money derived fromtheir sale is safely deposited in a Belgian bank.""But then, who murdered Lady Donaldson, and why?" gasped Polly."Cannot you guess?" he queried blandly. "Have I not placed the caseclearly enough before you? To me it seems so simple. It was a daring,brutal murder, remember. Think of one who, not being the thief himself,would, nevertheless, have the strongest of all motives to shield thethief from the consequences of her own misdeed: aye! and the powertoo--since it would be absolutely illogical, nay, impossible, that heshould be an accomplice.""Surely----""Think of a curious nature, warped morally, as well as physically--doyou know how those natures feel? A thousand times more strongly than theeven, straight natures in everyday life. Then think of such a naturebrought face to face with this awful problem."Do you think that such a nature would hesitate a moment beforecommitting a crime to save the loved one from the consequences of thatdeed? Mind you, I don't assert for a moment that David Graham had any_intention_ of murdering Lady Donaldson. Tremlett tells him that sheseems strangely upset; he goes to her room and finds that she hasdiscovered that she has been robbed. She naturally suspects EdithCrawford, recollects the incidents of the other night, and probablyexpresses her feelings to David Graham, and threatens immediateprosecution, scandal, what you will."I repeat it again, I dare say he had no wish to kill her. Probably hemerely threatened to. A medical gentleman who spoke of sudden heartfailure was no doubt right. Then imagine David Graham's remorse, hishorror and his fears. The empty safe probably is the first object thatsuggested to him the grim tableau of robbery and murder, which hearranges in order to ensure his own safety."But remember one thing: no miscreant was seen to enter or leave thehouse surreptitiously; the murderer left no signs of entrance, and noneof exit. An armed burglar would have left some trace--_some one_ wouldhave heard _something_. Then who locked and unlocked Lady Donaldson'sdoor that night while she herself lay dead?"Some one in the house, I tell you--some one who left no trace--some oneagainst whom there could be no suspicion--some one who killed withoutapparently the slightest premeditation, and without the slightestmotive. Think of it--I know I am right--and then tell me if I have atall enlisted your sympathies in the author of the Edinburgh Mystery."He was gone. Polly looked again at the photo of David Graham. Did acrooked mind really dwell in that crooked body, and were there in theworld such crimes that were great enough to be deemed sublime?CHAPTER XVIIITHE THEFT AT THE ENGLISH PROVIDENT BANK"That question of motive is a very difficult and complicated one attimes," said the man in the corner, leisurely pulling off a huge pair offlaming dog-skin gloves from his meagre fingers. "I have knownexperienced criminal investigators declare, as an infallible axiom, thatto find the person interested in the committal of the crime is to findthe criminal."Well, that may be so in most cases, but my experience has proved to methat there is one factor in this world of ours which is the mainspringof human actions, and that factor is human passions. For good or evilpassions rule this poor humanity of ours. Remember, there are the women!French detectives, who are acknowledged masters in their craft, neverproceed till after they have discovered the feminine element in a crime;whether in theft, murder, or fraud, according to their theory, there isalways a woman."Perhaps the reason why the Phillimore Terrace robbery was neverbrought home to its perpetrators is because there was no woman in anyway connected with it, and I am quite sure, on the other hand, that thereason why the thief at the English Provident Bank is still unpunishedis because a clever woman has escaped the eyes of our police force."He had spoken at great length and very dictatorially. Miss Polly Burtondid not venture to contradict him, knowing by now that whenever he wasirritable he was invariably rude, and she then had the worst of it."When I am old," he resumed, "and have nothing more to do, I think Ishall take professionally to the police force; they have much to learn."Could anything be more ludicrous than the self-satisfaction, theabnormal conceit of this remark, made by that shrivelled piece ofmankind, in a nervous, hesitating tone of voice? Polly made no comment,but drew from her pocket a beautiful piece of string, and knowing hiscustom of knotting such an article while unravelling his mysteries, shehanded it across the table to him. She positively thought that heblushed."As an adjunct to thought," she said, moved by a conciliatory spirit.He looked at the invaluable toy which the young girl had tantalisinglyplaced close to his hand: then he forced himself to look all round thecoffee-room: at Polly, at the waitresses, at the piles of pallid bunsupon the counter. But, involuntarily, his mild blue eyes wandered backlovingly to the long piece of string, on which his playful imaginationno doubt already saw a series of knots which would be equallytantalising to tie and to untie."Tell me about the theft at the English Provident Bank," suggested Pollycondescendingly.He looked at her, as if she had proposed some mysterious complicity inan unheard-of crime. Finally his lean fingers sought the end of thepiece of string, and drew it towards him. His face brightened up in amoment."There was an element of tragedy in that particular robbery," he began,after a few moments of beatified knotting, "altogether different to thatconnected with most crimes; a tragedy which, as far as I am concerned,would seal my lips for ever, and forbid them to utter a word, whichmight lead the police on the right track.""Your lips," suggested Polly sarcastically, "are, as far as I can see,usually sealed before our long-suffering, incompetent police and--""And you should be the last to grumble at this," he quietly interrupted,"for you have spent some very pleasant half-hours already, listening towhat you have termed my 'cock-and-bull' stories. You know the EnglishProvident Bank, of course, in Oxford Street; there were plenty ofsketches of it at the time in the illustrated papers. Here is a photo ofthe outside. I took it myself some time ago, and only wish I had beencheeky or lucky enough to get a snap-shot of the interior. But you seethat the office has a separate entrance from the rest of the house,which was, and still is, as is usual in such cases, inhabited by themanager and his family."Mr. Ireland was the manager then; it was less than six months ago. Helived over the bank, with his wife and family, consisting of a son, whowas clerk in the business, and two or three younger children. The houseis really smaller than it looks on this photo, for it has no depth, andonly one set of rooms on each floor looking out into the street, theback of the house being nothing but the staircase. Mr. Ireland and hisfamily, therefore, occupied the whole of it."As for the business premises, they were, and, in fact, are, of theusual pattern; an office with its rows of desks, clerks, and cashiers,and beyond, through a glass door, the manager's private room, with theponderous safe, and desk, and so on."The private room has a door into the hall of the house, so that themanager is not obliged to go out into the street in order to go tobusiness. There are no living-rooms on the ground floor, and the househas no basement."I am obliged to put all these architectural details before you, thoughthey may sound rather dry and uninteresting, but they are reallynecessary in order to make my argument clear."At night, of course, the bank premises are barred and bolted againstthe street, and as an additional precaution there is always a nightwatchman in the office. As I mentioned before, there is only a glassdoor between the office and the manager's private room. This, of course,accounted for the fact that the night watchman heard all that he didhear, on that memorable night, and so helped further to entangle thethread of that impenetrable mystery."Mr. Ireland as a rule went into his office every morning a littlebefore ten o'clock, but on that particular morning, for some reasonwhich he never could or would explain, he went down before having hisbreakfast at about nine o'clock. Mrs. Ireland stated subsequently that,not hearing him return, she sent the servant down to tell the masterthat breakfast was getting cold. The girl's shrieks were the firstintimation that something alarming had occurred."Mrs. Ireland hastened downstairs. On reaching the hall she found thedoor of her husband's room open, and it was from there that the girl'sshrieks proceeded."'The master, mum--the poor master--he is dead, mum--I am sure he isdead!'--accompanied by vigorous thumps against the glass partition, andnot very measured language on the part of the watchman from the outeroffice, such as--'Why don't you open the door instead of making thatrow?'"Mrs. Ireland is not the sort of woman who, under any circumstances,would lose her presence of mind. I think she proved that throughout themany trying circumstances connected with the investigation of the case.She gave only one glance at the room and realized the situation. On thearm-chair, with head thrown back and eyes closed, lay Mr. Ireland,apparently in a dead faint; some terrible shock must have very suddenlyshattered his nervous system, and rendered him prostrate for the moment.What that shock had been it was pretty easy to guess."The door of the safe was wide open, and Mr. Ireland had evidentlytottered and fainted before some awful fact which the open safe hadrevealed to him; he had caught himself against a chair which lay on thefloor, and then finally sunk, unconscious, into the arm-chair."All this, which takes some time to describe," continued the man in thecorner, "took, remember, only a second to pass like a flash throughMrs. Ireland's mind; she quickly turned the key of the glass door,which was on the inside, and with the help of James Fairbairn, thewatchman, she carried her husband upstairs to his room, and immediatelysent both for the police and for a doctor."As Mrs. Ireland had anticipated, her husband had received a severemental shock which had completely prostrated him. The doctor prescribedabsolute quiet, and forbade all worrying questions for the present. Thepatient was not a young man; the shock had been very severe--it was acase, a very slight one, of cerebral congestion--and Mr. Ireland'sreason, if not his life, might be gravely jeopardised by any attempt torecall before his enfeebled mind the circumstances which had precededhis collapse."The police therefore could proceed but slowly in their investigations.The detective who had charge of the case was necessarily handicapped,whilst one of the chief actors concerned in the drama was unable to helphim in his work."To begin with, the robber or robbers had obviously not found their wayinto the manager's inner room through the bank premises. James Fairbairnhad been on the watch all night, with the electric light full on, andobviously no one could have crossed the outer office or forced theheavily barred doors without his knowledge."There remained the other access to the room, that is, the one throughthe hall of the house. The hall door, it appears, was always barred andbolted by Mr. Ireland himself when he came home, whether from thetheatre or his club. It was a duty he never allowed any one to performbut himself. During his annual holiday, with his wife and family, hisson, who usually had the sub-manager to stay with him on thoseoccasions, did the bolting and barring--but with the distinctunderstanding that this should be done by ten o'clock at night."As I have already explained to you, there is only a glass partitionbetween the general office and the manager's private room, and,according to James Fairbairn's account, this was naturally always leftwide open so that he, during his night watch, would of necessity hearthe faintest sound. As a rule there was no light left in the manager'sroom, and the other door--that leading into the hall--was bolted fromthe inside by James Fairbairn the moment he had satisfied himself thatthe premises were safe, and he had begun his night-watch. An electricbell in both the offices communicated with Mr. Ireland's bedroom andthat of his son, Mr. Robert Ireland, and there was a telephone installedto the nearest district messengers' office, with an understood signalwhich meant 'Police.'"At nine o'clock in the morning it was the night watchman's duty, assoon as the first cashier had arrived, to dust and tidy the manager'sroom, and to undo the bolts; after that he was free to go home to hisbreakfast and rest."You will see, of course, that James Fairbairn's position in the EnglishProvident Bank is one of great responsibility and trust; but then inevery bank and business house there are men who hold similar positions.They are always men of well-known and tried characters, often oldsoldiers with good-conduct records behind them. James Fairbairn is afine, powerful Scotchman; he had been night watchman to the EnglishProvident Bank for fifteen years, and was then not more than forty-threeor forty-four years old. He is an ex-guardsman, and stands six feetthree inches in his socks."It was his evidence, of course, which was of such paramount importance,and which somehow or other managed, in spite of the utmost careexercised by the police, to become public property, and to cause thewildest excitement in banking and business circles."James Fairbairn stated that at eight o'clock in the evening of March25th, having bolted and barred all the shutters and the door of the backpremises, he was about to lock the manager's door as usual, when Mr.Ireland called to him from the floor above, telling him to leave thatdoor open, as he might want to go into the office again for a minutewhen he came home at eleven o'clock. James Fairbairn asked if he shouldleave the light on, but Mr. Ireland said: 'No, turn it out. I can switchit on if I want it.'"The night watchman at the English Provident Bank has permission tosmoke, he also is allowed a nice fire, and a tray consisting of a plateof substantial sandwiches and one glass of ale, which he can take whenhe likes. James Fairbairn settled himself in front of the fire, lit hispipe, took out his newspaper, and began to read. He thought he had heardthe street door open and shut at about a quarter to ten; he supposedthat it was Mr. Ireland going out to his club, but at ten minutes to teno'clock the watchman heard the door of the manager's room open, and someone enter, immediately closing the glass partition door and turning thekey."He naturally concluded it was Mr. Ireland himself."From where he sat he could not see into the room, but he noticed thatthe electric light had not been switched on, and that the managerseemingly had no light but an occasional match."'For the minute,' continued James Fairbairn, 'a thought did just crossmy mind that something might perhaps be wrong, and I put my newspaperaside and went to the other end of the room towards the glass partition.The manager's room was still quite dark, and I could not clearly seeinto it, but the door into the hall was open, and there was, of course,a light through there. I had got quite close to the partition, when Isaw Mrs. Ireland standing in the doorway, and heard her saying in a veryastonished tone of voice: 'Why, Lewis, I thought you had gone to yourclub ages ago. What in the world are you doing here in the dark?'"'Lewis is Mr. Ireland's Christian name,' was James Fairbairn's furtherstatement. 'I did not hear the manager's reply, but quite satisfied nowthat nothing was wrong, I went back to my pipe and my newspaper. Almostdirectly afterwards I heard the manager leave his room, cross the halland go out by the street door. It was only after he had gone that Irecollected that he must have forgotten to unlock the glass partitionand that I could not therefore bolt the door into the hall the same asusual, and I suppose that is how those confounded thieves got the betterof me.'"CHAPTER XIXCONFLICTING EVIDENCE"By the time the public had been able to think over James Fairbairn'sevidence, a certain disquietude and unrest had begun to make itself feltboth in the bank itself and among those of our detective force who hadcharge of the case. The newspapers spoke of the matter with very obviouscaution, and warned all their readers to await the further developmentof this sad case."While the manager of the English Provident Bank lay in such aprecarious condition of health, it was impossible to arrive at anydefinite knowledge as to what the thief had actually made away with. Thechief cashier, however, estimated the loss at about L5000 in gold andnotes of the bank money--that was, of course, on the assumption that Mr.Ireland had no private money or valuables of his own in the safe."Mind you, at this point public sympathy was much stirred in favour ofthe poor man who lay ill, perhaps dying, and yet whom, strangelyenough, suspicion had already slightly touched with its poisoned wing."Suspicion is a strong word, perhaps, to use at this point in the story.No one suspected anybody at present. James Fairbairn had told his story,and had vowed that some thief with false keys must have sneaked throughthe house into the inner office."Public excitement, you will remember, lost nothing by waiting. Hardlyhad we all had time to wonder over the night watchman's singularevidence, and, pending further and fuller detail, to check our growingsympathy for the man who was ill, than the sensational side of thismysterious case culminated in one extraordinary, absolutely unexpectedfact. Mrs. Ireland, after a twenty-four hours' untiring watch beside herhusband's sick bed, had at last been approached by the detective, andbeen asked to reply to a few simple questions, and thus help to throwsome light on the mystery which had caused Mr. Ireland's illness and herown consequent anxiety."She professed herself quite ready to reply to any questions put to her,and she literally astounded both inspector and detective when she firmlyand emphatically declared that James Fairbairn must have been dreamingor asleep when he thought he saw her in the doorway at ten o'clock thatnight, and fancied he heard her voice."She may or may not have been down in the hall at that particular hour,for she usually ran down herself to see if the last post had brought anyletters, but most certainly she had neither seen nor spoken to Mr.Ireland at that hour, for Mr. Ireland had gone out an hour before, sheherself having seen him to the front door. Never for a moment did sheswerve from this extraordinary statement. She spoke to James Fairbairnin the presence of the detective, and told him he _must_ absolutely havebeen mistaken, that she had _not_ seen Mr. Ireland, and that she had_not_ spoken to him."One other person was questioned by the police, and that was Mr. RobertIreland, the manager's eldest son. It was presumed that he would knowsomething of his father's affairs; the idea having now taken firm holdof the detective's mind that perhaps grave financial difficulties hadtempted the unfortunate manager to appropriate some of the firm's money."Mr. Robert Ireland, however, could not say very much. His father didnot confide in him to the extent of telling him all his private affairs,but money never seemed scarce at home certainly, and Mr. Ireland had, tohis son's knowledge, not a single extravagant habit. He himself had beendining out with a friend on that memorable evening, and had gone on withhim to the Oxford Music Hall. He met his father on the doorstep of thebank at about 11.30 p.m. and they went in together. There certainly wasnothing remarkable about Mr. Ireland then, his son averred; he appearedin no way excited, and bade his son good night quite cheerfully."There was the extraordinary, the remarkable hitch," continued the manin the corner, waxing more and more excited every moment. "Thepublic--who is at times very dense--saw it clearly nevertheless: ofcourse, every one at once jumped to the natural conclusion that Mrs.Ireland was telling a lie--a noble lie, a self-sacrificing lie, a lieendowed with all the virtues if you like, but still a lie."She was trying to save her husband, and was going the wrong way towork. James Fairbairn, after all, could not have dreamt quite all thathe declared he had seen and heard. No one suspected James Fairbairn;there was no occasion to do that; to begin with he was a great heavyScotchman with obviously no powers of invention, such as Mrs. Ireland'sstrange assertion credited him with; moreover, the theft of thebank-notes could not have been of the slightest use to him."But, remember, there was the hitch; without it the public mind wouldalready have condemned the sick man upstairs, without hope ofrehabilitation. This fact struck every one."Granting that Mr. Ireland had gone into his office at ten minutes toten o'clock at night for the purpose of extracting L5000 worth of notesand gold from the bank safe, whilst giving the theft the appearance of anight burglary; granting that he was disturbed in his nefarious projectby his wife, who, failing to persuade him to make restitution, took hisside boldly, and very clumsily attempted to rescue him out of hisdifficult position--why should he, at nine o'clock the followingmorning, fall in a dead faint and get cerebral congestion at sight of adefalcation he knew had occurred? One might simulate a fainting fit, butno one can assume a high temperature and a congestion, which the mostordinary practitioner who happened to be called in would soon see werenon-existent."Mr. Ireland, according to James Fairbairn's evidence, must have goneout soon after the theft, come in again with his son an hour and a halflater, talked to him, gone quietly to bed, and waited for nine hoursbefore he fell ill at sight of his own crime. It was not logical, youwill admit. Unfortunately, the poor man himself was unable to give anyexplanation of the night's tragic adventures."He was still very weak, and though under strong suspicion, he was left,by the doctor's orders, in absolute ignorance of the heavy charges whichwere gradually accumulating against him. He had made many anxiousinquiries from all those who had access to his bedside as to the resultof the investigation, and the probable speedy capture of the burglars,but every one had strict orders to inform him merely that the police sofar had no clue of any kind."You will admit, as every one did, that there was something verypathetic about the unfortunate man's position, so helpless to defendhimself, if defence there was, against so much overwhelming evidence.That is why I think public sympathy remained with him. Still, it wasterrible to think of his wife presumably knowing him to be guilty, andanxiously waiting whilst dreading the moment when, restored to health,he would have to face the doubts, the suspicions, probably the openaccusations, which were fast rising up around him."CHAPTER XXAN _ALIBI_"It was close on six weeks before the doctor at last allowed his patientto attend to the grave business which had prostrated him for so long."In the meantime, among the many people who directly or indirectly weremade to suffer in this mysterious affair, no one, I think, was morepitied, and more genuinely sympathised with, than Robert Ireland, themanager's eldest son."You remember that he had been clerk in the bank? Well, naturally, themoment suspicion began to fasten on his father his position in thebusiness became untenable. I think every one was very kind to him. Mr.Sutherland French, who was made acting manager 'during Mr. LewisIreland's regrettable absence,' did everything in his power to show hisgoodwill and sympathy to the young man, but I don't think that he or anyone else was much astonished when, after Mrs. Ireland's extraordinaryattitude in the case had become public property, he quietly intimatedto the acting manager that he had determined to sever his connectionwith the bank."The best of recommendations was, of course, placed at his disposal, andit was finally understood that, as soon as his father was completelyrestored to health and would no longer require his presence in London,he would try to obtain employment somewhere abroad. He spoke of the newvolunteer corps organized for the military policing of the new colonies,and, truth to tell, no one could blame him that he should wish to leavefar behind him all London banking connections. The son's attitudecertainly did not tend to ameliorate the father's position. It waspretty evident that his own family had ceased to hope in the poormanager's innocence."And yet he was absolutely innocent. You must remember how that fact wasclearly demonstrated as soon as the poor man was able to say a word forhimself. And he said it to some purpose, too."Mr. Ireland was, and is, very fond of music. On the evening inquestion, while sitting in his club, he saw in one of the daily papersthe announcement of a peculiarly attractive programme at the Queen'sHall concert. He was not dressed, but nevertheless felt an irresistibledesire to hear one or two of these attractive musical items, and hestrolled down to the Hall. Now, this sort of alibi is usually verydifficult to prove, but Dame Fortune, oddly enough, favoured Mr. Irelandon this occasion, probably to compensate him for the hard knocks she hadbeen dealing him pretty freely of late."It appears that there was some difficulty about his seat, which wassold to him at the box office, and which he, nevertheless, foundwrongfully occupied by a determined lady, who refused to move. Themanagement had to be appealed to; the attendants also remembered notonly the incident, but also the face and appearance of the gentleman whowas the innocent cause of the altercation."As soon as Mr. Ireland could speak for himself he mentioned theincident and the persons who had been witness to it. He was identifiedby them, to the amazement, it must be confessed, of police and publicalike, who had comfortably decided that no one _could_ be guilty savethe manager of the Provident Bank himself. Moreover, Mr. Ireland was afairly wealthy man, with a good balance at the Union Bank, and plenty ofprivate means, the result of years of provident living."He had but to prove that if he really had been in need of an immediateL5000--which was all the amount extracted from the bank safe thatnight--he had plenty of securities on which he could, at an hour'snotice, have raised twice that sum. His life insurances had been fullypaid up; he had not a debt which a L5 note could not easily havecovered."On the fatal night he certainly did remember asking the watchman not tobolt the door to his office, as he thought he might have one or twoletters to write when he came home, but later on he had forgotten allabout this. After the concert he met his son in Oxford Street, justoutside the house, and thought no more about the office, the door ofwhich was shut, and presented no unusual appearance."Mr. Ireland absolutely denied having been in his office at the hourwhen James Fairbairn positively asserted he heard Mrs. Ireland say in anastonished tone of voice: 'Why, Lewis, what in the world are you doinghere?' It became pretty clear therefore that James Fairbairn's view ofthe manager's wife had been a mere vision."Mr. Ireland gave up his position as manager of the English Provident:both he and his wife felt no doubt that on the whole, perhaps, there hadbeen too much talk, too much scandal connected with their name, to bealtogether advantageous to the bank. Moreover, Mr. Ireland's health wasnot so good as it had been. He has a pretty house now at Sittingbourne,and amuses himself during his leisure hours with amateur horticulture,and I, who alone in London besides the persons directly connected withthis mysterious affair, know the true solution of the enigma, oftenwonder how much of it is known to the ex-manager of the EnglishProvident Bank."The man in the corner had been silent for some time. Miss Polly Burton,in her presumption, had made up her mind, at the commencement of histale, to listen attentively to every point of the evidence in connectionwith the case which he recapitulated before her, and to follow thepoint, in order to try and arrive at a conclusion of her own, andoverwhelm the antediluvian scarecrow with her sagacity.She said nothing, for she had arrived at no conclusion; the case puzzledevery one, and had amazed the public in its various stages, from themoment when opinion began to cast doubt on Mr. Ireland's honesty to thatwhen his integrity was proved beyond a doubt. One or two people hadsuspected Mrs. Ireland to have been the actual thief, but that idea hadsoon to be abandoned.Mrs. Ireland had all the money she wanted; the theft occurred six monthsago, and not a single bank-note was ever traced to her pocket; moreover,she must have had an accomplice, since some one else was in themanager's room that night; and if that some one else was her accomplice,why did she risk betraying him by speaking loudly in the presence ofJames Fairbairn, when it would have been so much simpler to turn outthe light and plunge the hall into darkness?"You are altogether on the wrong track," sounded a sharp voice in directanswer to Polly's thoughts--"altogether wrong. If you want to acquire mymethod of induction, and improve your reasoning power, you must followmy system. First think of the one absolutely undisputed, positive fact.You must have a starting-point, and not go wandering about in the realmsof suppositions.""But there are no positive facts," she said irritably."You don't say so?" he said quietly. "Do you not call it a positive factthat the bank safe was robbed of L5000 on the evening of March 25thbefore 11.30 p.m.""Yes, that is all which is positive and--""Do you not call it a positive fact," he interrupted quietly, "that thelock of the safe not being picked, it must have been opened by its ownkey?""I know that," she rejoined crossly, "and that is why every one agreedthat James Fairbairn could not possibly--""And do you not call it a positive fact, then, that James Fairbairncould not possibly, etc., etc., seeing that the glass partition door waslocked from the inside; Mrs. Ireland herself let James Fairbairn intoher husband's office when she saw him lying fainting before the opensafe. Of course that was a positive fact, and so was the one that provedto any thinking mind that if that safe was opened with a key, it couldonly have been done by a person having access to that key.""But the man in the private office--""Exactly! the man in the private office. Enumerate his points, if youplease," said the funny creature, marking each point with one of hisfavourite knots. "He was a man who might that night have had access tothe key of the safe, unsuspected by the manager or even his wife, and aman for whom Mrs. Ireland was willing to tell a downright lie. Are theremany men for whom a woman of the better middle class, and anEnglishwoman, would be ready to perjure herself? Surely not! She mightdo it for her husband. The public thought she had. It never struck themthat she might have done it for her son!""Her son!" exclaimed Polly."Ah! she was a clever woman," he ejaculated enthusiastically, "one withcourage and presence of mind, which I don't think I have ever seenequalled. She runs downstairs before going to bed in order to seewhether the last post has brought any letters. She sees the door of herhusband's office ajar, she pushes it open, and there, by the suddenflash of a hastily struck match she realizes in a moment that a thiefstands before the open safe, and in that thief she has alreadyrecognized her son. At that very moment she hears the watchman's stepapproaching the partition. There is no time to warn her son; she doesnot know the glass door is locked; James Fairbairn may switch on theelectric light and see the young man in the very act of robbing hisemployers' safe."One thing alone can reassure the watchman. One person alone had theright to be there at that hour of the night, and without hesitation shepronounces her husband's name."Mind you, I firmly believe that at the time the poor woman only wishedto gain time, that she had every hope that her son had not yet had theopportunity to lay so heavy a guilt upon his conscience."What passed between mother and son we shall never know, but this muchwe do know, that the young villain made off with his booty, and trustedthat his mother would never betray him. Poor woman! what a night of itshe must have spent; but she was clever and far-seeing. She knew thather husband's character could not suffer through her action.Accordingly, she took the only course open to her to save her son evenfrom his father's wrath, and boldly denied James Fairbairn's statement."Of course, she was fully aware that her husband could easily clearhimself, and the worst that could be said of her was that she hadthought him guilty and had tried to save him. She trusted to the futureto clear her of any charge of complicity in the theft."By now every one has forgotten most of the circumstances; the policeare still watching the career of James Fairbairn and Mrs. Ireland'sexpenditure. As you know, not a single note, so far, has been traced toher. Against that, one or two of the notes have found their way back toEngland. No one realizes how easy it is to cash English bank-notes atthe smaller _agents de change_ abroad. The _changeurs_ are only too gladto get them; what do they care where they come from as long as they aregenuine? And a week or two later _M. le Changeur_ could not swear whotendered him any one particular note."You see, young Robert Ireland went abroad, he will come back some dayhaving made a fortune. There's his photo. And this is his mother--aclever woman, wasn't she?"And before Polly had time to reply he was gone. She really had neverseen any one move across a room so quickly. But he always left aninteresting trail behind: a piece of string knotted from end to end anda few photos.CHAPTER XXITHE DUBLIN MYSTERY"I always thought that the history of that forged will was about asinteresting as any I had read," said the man in the corner that day. Hehad been silent for some time, and was meditatively sorting and lookingthrough a packet of small photographs in his pocket-book. Polly guessedthat some of these would presently be placed before her forinspection--and she had not long to wait."That is old Brooks," he said, pointing to one of the photographs,"Millionaire Brooks, as he was called, and these are his two sons,Percival and Murray. It was a curious case, wasn't it? Personally Idon't wonder that the police were completely at sea. If a member of thathighly estimable force happened to be as clever as the clever author ofthat forged will, we should have very few undetected crimes in thiscountry.""That is why I always try to persuade you to give our poor ignorantpolice the benefit of your great insight and wisdom," said Polly, witha smile."I know," he said blandly, "you have been most kind in that way, but Iam only an amateur. Crime interests me only when it resembles a clevergame of chess, with many intricate moves which all tend to one solution,the checkmating of the antagonist--the detective force of the country.Now, confess that, in the Dublin mystery, the clever police there wereabsolutely checkmated.""Absolutely.""Just as the public was. There were actually two crimes committed in onecity which have completely baffled detection: the murder of PatrickWethered the lawyer, and the forged will of Millionaire Brooks. Thereare not many millionaires in Ireland; no wonder old Brooks was anotability in his way, since his business--bacon curing, I believe itis--is said to be worth over L2,000,000 of solid money."His younger son Murray was a refined, highly educated man, and was,moreover, the apple of his father's eye, as he was the spoilt darling ofDublin society; good-looking, a splendid dancer, and a perfect rider, hewas the acknowledged 'catch' of the matrimonial market of Ireland, andmany a very aristocratic house was opened hospitably to the favouriteson of the millionaire."Of course, Percival Brooks, the eldest son, would inherit the bulk ofthe old man's property and also probably the larger share in thebusiness; he, too, was good-looking, more so than his brother; he, too,rode, danced, and talked well, but it was many years ago that mammaswith marriageable daughters had given up all hopes of Percival Brooks asa probable son-in-law. That young man's infatuation for MaisieFortescue, a lady of undoubted charm but very doubtful antecedents, whohad astonished the London and Dublin music-halls with her extravagantdances, was too well known and too old-established to encourage anyhopes in other quarters."Whether Percival Brooks would ever marry Maisie Fortescue was thoughtto be very doubtful. Old Brooks had the full disposal of all his wealth,and it would have fared ill with Percival if he introduced anundesirable wife into the magnificent Fitzwilliam Place establishment."That is how matters stood," continued the man in the corner, "whenDublin society one morning learnt, with deep regret and dismay, that oldBrooks had died very suddenly at his residence after only a few hours'illness. At first it was generally understood that he had had anapoplectic stroke; anyway, he had been at business hale and hearty asever the day before his death, which occurred late on the evening ofFebruary 1st."It was the morning papers of February 2nd which told the sad news totheir readers, and it was those selfsame papers which on that eventfulmorning contained another even more startling piece of news, that provedthe prelude to a series of sensations such as tranquil, placid Dublinhad not experienced for many years. This was, that on that veryafternoon which saw the death of Dublin's greatest millionaire, Mr.Patrick Wethered, his solicitor, was murdered in Phoenix Park at fiveo'clock in the afternoon while actually walking to his own house fromhis visit to his client in Fitzwilliam Place."Patrick Wethered was as well known as the proverbial town pump; hismysterious and tragic death filled all Dublin with dismay. The lawyer,who was a man sixty years of age, had been struck on the back of thehead by a heavy stick, garrotted, and subsequently robbed, for neithermoney, watch, or pocket-book were found upon his person, whilst thepolice soon gathered from Patrick Wethered's household that he had lefthome at two o'clock that afternoon, carrying both watch and pocket-book,and undoubtedly money as well."An inquest was held, and a verdict of wilful murder was found againstsome person or persons unknown."But Dublin had not exhausted its stock of sensations yet. MillionaireBrooks had been buried with due pomp and magnificence, and his will hadbeen proved (his business and personalty being estimated at L2,500,000)by Percival Gordon Brooks, his eldest son and sole executor. The youngerson, Murray, who had devoted the best years of his life to being afriend and companion to his father, while Percival ran afterballet-dancers and music-hall stars--Murray, who had avowedly been theapple of his father's eye in consequence--was left with a miserlypittance of L300 a year, and no share whatever in the gigantic businessof Brooks & Sons, bacon curers, of Dublin."Something had evidently happened within the precincts of the Brooks'town mansion, which the public and Dublin society tried in vain tofathom. Elderly mammas and blushing _debutantes_ were already thinkingof the best means whereby next season they might more easily show thecold shoulder to young Murray Brooks, who had so suddenly become ahopeless 'detrimental' in the marriage market, when all these sensationsterminated in one gigantic, overwhelming bit of scandal, which for thenext three months furnished food for gossip in every drawing-room inDublin."Mr. Murray Brooks, namely, had entered a claim for probate of a will,made by his father in 1891, declaring that the later will made the veryday of his father's death and proved by his brother as sole executor,was null and void, that will being a forgery."CHAPTER XXIIFORGERY"The facts that transpired in connection with this extraordinary casewere sufficiently mysterious to puzzle everybody. As I told you before,all Mr. Brooks' friends never quite grasped the idea that the old manshould so completely have cut off his favourite son with the proverbialshilling."You see, Percival had always been a thorn in the old man's flesh.Horse-racing, gambling, theatres, and music-halls were, in the oldpork-butcher's eyes, so many deadly sins which his son committed everyday of his life, and all the Fitzwilliam Place household could testifyto the many and bitter quarrels which had arisen between father and sonover the latter's gambling or racing debts. Many people asserted thatBrooks would sooner have left his money to charitable institutions thanseen it squandered upon the brightest stars that adorned the music-hallstage."The case came up for hearing early in the autumn. In the meanwhilePercival Brooks had given up his racecourse associates, settled down inthe Fitzwilliam Place mansion, and conducted his father's business,without a manager, but with all the energy and forethought which he hadpreviously devoted to more unworthy causes."Murray had elected not to stay on in the old house; no doubtassociations were of too painful and recent a nature; he was boardingwith the family of a Mr. Wilson Hibbert, who was the late PatrickWethered's, the murdered lawyer's, partner. They were quiet, homelypeople, who lived in a very pokey little house in Kilkenny Street, andpoor Murray must, in spite of his grief, have felt very bitterly thechange from his luxurious quarters in his father's mansion to hispresent tiny room and homely meals."Percival Brooks, who was now drawing an income of over a hundredthousand a year, was very severely criticised for adhering so strictlyto the letter of his father's will, and only paying his brother thatpaltry L300 a year, which was very literally but the crumbs off his ownmagnificent dinner table."The issue of that contested will case was therefore awaited with eagerinterest. In the meanwhile the police, who had at first seemed fairlyloquacious on the subject of the murder of Mr. Patrick Wethered,suddenly became strangely reticent, and by their very reticence arouseda certain amount of uneasiness in the public mind, until one day the_Irish Times_ published the following extraordinary, enigmaticparagraph:"'We hear on authority which cannot be questioned, that certainextraordinary developments are expected in connection with the brutalmurder of our distinguished townsman Mr. Wethered; the police, in fact,are vainly trying to keep it secret that they hold a clue which is asimportant as it is sensational, and that they only await the impendingissue of a well-known litigation in the probate court to effect anarrest.'"The Dublin public flocked to the court to hear the arguments in thegreat will case. I myself journeyed down to Dublin. As soon as Isucceeded in fighting my way to the densely crowded court, I took stockof the various actors in the drama, which I as a spectator was preparedto enjoy. There were Percival Brooks and Murray his brother, the twolitigants, both good-looking and well dressed, and both striving, bykeeping up a running conversation with their lawyer, to appearunconcerned and confident of the issue. With Percival Brooks was HenryOranmore, the eminent Irish K.C., whilst Walter Hibbert, a rising youngbarrister, the son of Wilson Hibbert, appeared for Murray."The will of which the latter claimed probate was one dated 1891, andhad been made by Mr. Brooks during a severe illness which threatened toend his days. This will had been deposited in the hands of Messrs.Wethered and Hibbert, solicitors to the deceased, and by it Mr. Brooksleft his personalty equally divided between his two sons, but had lefthis business entirely to his youngest son, with a charge of L2000 a yearupon it, payable to Percival. You see that Murray Brooks therefore had avery deep interest in that second will being found null and void."Old Mr. Hibbert had very ably instructed his son, and Walter Hibbert'sopening speech was exceedingly clever. He would show, he said, on behalfof his client, that the will dated February 1st, 1908, could never havebeen made by the late Mr. Brooks, as it was absolutely contrary to hisavowed intentions, and that if the late Mr. Brooks did on the day inquestion make any fresh will at all, it certainly was _not_ the oneproved by Mr. Percival Brooks, for that was absolutely a forgery frombeginning to end. Mr. Walter Hibbert proposed to call several witnessesin support of both these points."On the other hand, Mr. Henry Oranmore, K.C., very ably and courteouslyreplied that he too had several witnesses to prove that Mr. Brookscertainly did make a will on the day in question, and that, whatever hisintentions may have been in the past, he must have modified them on theday of his death, for the will proved by Mr. Percival Brooks was foundafter his death under his pillow, duly signed and witnessed and in everyway legal."Then the battle began in sober earnest. There were a great manywitnesses to be called on both sides, their evidence being of more orless importance--chiefly less. But the interest centred round theprosaic figure of John O'Neill, the butler at Fitzwilliam Place, who hadbeen in Mr. Brooks' family for thirty years."'I was clearing away my breakfast things,' said John, 'when I heard themaster's voice in the study close by. Oh my, he was that angry! I couldhear the words "disgrace," and "villain," and "liar," and"ballet-dancer," and one or two other ugly words as applied to somefemale lady, which I would not like to repeat. At first I did not takemuch notice, as I was quite used to hearing my poor dear master havingwords with Mr. Percival. So I went downstairs carrying my breakfastthings; but I had just started cleaning my silver when the study bellgoes ringing violently, and I hear Mr. Percival's voice shouting in thehall: "John! quick! Send for Dr. Mulligan at once. Your master is notwell! Send one of the men, and you come up and help me to get Mr. Brooksto bed.""'I sent one of the grooms for the doctor,' continued John, who seemedstill affected at the recollection of his poor master, to whom he hadevidently been very much attached, 'and I went up to see Mr. Brooks. Ifound him lying on the study floor, his head supported in Mr. Percival'sarms. "My father has fallen in a faint," said the young master; "help meto get him up to his room before Dr. Mulligan comes.""'Mr. Percival looked very white and upset, which was only natural; andwhen we had got my poor master to bed, I asked if I should not go andbreak the news to Mr. Murray, who had gone to business an hour ago.However, before Mr. Percival had time to give me an order the doctorcame. I thought I had seen death plainly writ in my master's face, andwhen I showed the doctor out an hour later, and he told me that he wouldbe back directly, I knew that the end was near."'Mr. Brooks rang for me a minute or two later. He told me to send atonce for Mr. Wethered, or else for Mr. Hibbert, if Mr. Wethered couldnot come. "I haven't many hours to live, John," he says to me--"my heartis broke, the doctor says my heart is broke. A man shouldn't marry andhave children, John, for they will sooner or later break his heart." Iwas so upset I couldn't speak; but I sent round at once for Mr.Wethered, who came himself just about three o'clock that afternoon."'After he had been with my master about an hour I was called in, andMr. Wethered said to me that Mr. Brooks wished me and one other of usservants to witness that he had signed a paper which was on a table byhis bedside. I called Pat Mooney, the head footman, and before us bothMr. Brooks put his name at the bottom of that paper. Then Mr. Wetheredgive me the pen and told me to write my name as a witness, and that PatMooney was to do the same. After that we were both told that we couldgo.'"The old butler went on to explain that he was present in his latemaster's room on the following day when the undertakers, who had come tolay the dead man out, found a paper underneath his pillow. John O'Neill,who recognized the paper as the one to which he had appended hissignature the day before, took it to Mr. Percival, and gave it into hishands."In answer to Mr. Walter Hibbert, John asserted positively that he tookthe paper from the undertaker's hand and went straight with it to Mr.Percival's room."'He was alone,' said John; 'I gave him the paper. He just glanced atit, and I thought he looked rather astonished, but he said nothing, andI at once left the room.'"'When you say that you recognized the paper as the one which you hadseen your master sign the day before, how did you actually recognizethat it was the same paper?' asked Mr. Hibbert amidst breathlessinterest on the part of the spectators. I narrowly observed thewitness's face."'It looked exactly the same paper to me, sir,' replied John, somewhatvaguely."'Did you look at the contents, then?'"'No, sir; certainly not.'"'Had you done so the day before?'"'No, sir, only at my master's signature.'"'Then you only thought by the _outside_ look of the paper that it wasthe same?'"'It looked the same thing, sir,' persisted John obstinately."You see," continued the man in the corner, leaning eagerly forwardacross the narrow marble table, "the contention of Murray Brooks'adviser was that Mr. Brooks, having made a will and hidden it--for somereason or other under his pillow--that will had fallen, through themeans related by John O'Neill, into the hands of Mr. Percival Brooks,who had destroyed it and substituted a forged one in its place, whichadjudged the whole of Mr. Brooks' millions to himself. It was a terribleand very daring accusation directed against a gentleman who, in spite ofhis many wild oats sowed in early youth, was a prominent and importantfigure in Irish high life."All those present were aghast at what they heard, and the whisperedcomments I could hear around me showed me that public opinion, atleast, did not uphold Mr. Murray Brooks' daring accusation against hisbrother."But John O'Neill had not finished his evidence, and Mr. Walter Hibberthad a bit of sensation still up his sleeve. He had, namely, produced apaper, the will proved by Mr. Percival Brooks, and had asked JohnO'Neill if once again he recognized the paper."'Certainly, sir,' said John unhesitatingly, 'that is the one theundertaker found under my poor dead master's pillow, and which I took toMr. Percival's room immediately.'"Then the paper was unfolded and placed before the witness."'Now, Mr. O'Neill, will you tell me if that is your signature?'"John looked at it for a moment; then he said: 'Excuse me, sir,' andproduced a pair of spectacles which he carefully adjusted before heagain examined the paper. Then he thoughtfully shook his head."'It don't look much like my writing, sir,' he said at last. 'That is tosay,' he added, by way of elucidating the matter, 'it does look like mywriting, but then I don't think it is.'"There was at that moment a look in Mr. Percival Brooks' face,"continued the man in the corner quietly, "which then and there gave methe whole history of that quarrel, that illness of Mr. Brooks, of thewill, aye! and of the murder of Patrick Wethered too."All I wondered at was how every one of those learned counsel on bothsides did not get the clue just the same as I did, but went on arguing,speechifying, cross-examining for nearly a week, until they arrived atthe one conclusion which was inevitable from the very first, namely,that the will _was_ a forgery--a gross, clumsy, idiotic forgery, sinceboth John O'Neill and Pat Mooney, the two witnesses, absolutelyrepudiated the signatures as their own. The only successful bit ofcaligraphy the forger had done was the signature of old Mr. Brooks."It was a very curious fact, and one which had undoubtedly aided theforger in accomplishing his work quickly, that Mr. Wethered the lawyerhaving, no doubt, realized that Mr. Brooks had not many moments in lifeto spare, had not drawn up the usual engrossed, magnificent documentdear to the lawyer heart, but had used for his client's will one ofthose regular printed forms which can be purchased at any stationer's."Mr. Percival Brooks, of course, flatly denied the serious allegationbrought against him. He admitted that the butler had brought him thedocument the morning after his father's death, and that he certainly, onglancing at it, had been very much astonished to see that that documentwas his father's will. Against that he declared that its contents didnot astonish him in the slightest degree, that he himself knew of thetestator's intentions, but that he certainly thought his father hadentrusted the will to the care of Mr. Wethered, who did all his businessfor him."'I only very cursorily glanced at the signature,' he concluded,speaking in a perfectly calm, clear voice; 'you must understand that thethought of forgery was very far from my mind, and that my father'ssignature is exceedingly well imitated, if, indeed, it is not his own,which I am not at all prepared to believe. As for the two witnesses'signatures, I don't think I had ever seen them before. I took thedocument to Messrs. Barkston and Maud, who had often done business forme before, and they assured me that the will was in perfect form andorder.'"Asked why he had not entrusted the will to his father's solicitors, hereplied:"'For the very simple reason that exactly half an hour before the willwas placed in my hands, I had read that Mr. Patrick Wethered had beenmurdered the night before. Mr. Hibbert, the junior partner, was notpersonally known to me.'"After that, for form's sake, a good deal of expert evidence was heardon the subject of the dead man's signature. But that was quiteunanimous, and merely went to corroborate what had already beenestablished beyond a doubt, namely, that the will dated February 1st,1908, was a forgery, and probate of the will dated 1891 was thereforegranted to Mr. Murray Brooks, the sole executor mentioned therein."CHAPTER XXIIIA MEMORABLE DAY"Two days later the police applied for a warrant for the arrest of Mr.Percival Brooks on a charge of forgery."The Crown prosecuted, and Mr. Brooks had again the support of Mr.Oranmore, the eminent K.C. Perfectly calm, like a man conscious of hisown innocence and unable to grasp the idea that justice does sometimesmiscarry, Mr. Brooks, the son of the millionaire, himself still thepossessor of a very large fortune under the former will, stood up in thedock on that memorable day in October, 1908, which still no doubt livesin the memory of his many friends."All the evidence with regard to Mr. Brooks' last moments and the forgedwill was gone through over again. That will, it was the contention ofthe Crown, had been forged so entirely in favour of the accused, cuttingout every one else, that obviously no one but the beneficiary under thatfalse will would have had any motive in forging it."Very pale, and with a frown between his deep-set, handsome Irish eyes,Percival Brooks listened to this large volume of evidence piled upagainst him by the Crown."At times he held brief consultations with Mr. Oranmore, who seemed ascool as a cucumber. Have you ever seen Oranmore in court? He is acharacter worthy of Dickens. His pronounced brogue, his fat, podgy,clean-shaven face, his not always immaculately clean large hands, haveoften delighted the caricaturist. As it very soon transpired during thatmemorable magisterial inquiry, he relied for a verdict in favour of hisclient upon two main points, and he had concentrated all his skill uponmaking these two points as telling as he possibly could."The first point was the question of time, John O'Neill, cross-examinedby Oranmore, stated without hesitation that he had given the will to Mr.Percival at eleven o'clock in the morning. And now the eminent K.C.brought forward and placed in the witness-box the very lawyers intowhose hands the accused had then immediately placed the will. Now, Mr.Barkston, a very well-known solicitor of King Street, declaredpositively that Mr. Percival Brooks was in his office at a quarterbefore twelve; two of his clerks testified to the same time exactly, andit was _impossible_, contended Mr. Oranmore, that within three-quartersof an hour Mr. Brooks could have gone to a stationer's, bought a willform, copied Mr. Wethered's writing, his father's signature, and thatof John O'Neill and Pat Mooney."Such a thing might have been planned, arranged, practised, andultimately, after a great deal of trouble, successfully carried out, buthuman intelligence could not grasp the other as a possibility."Still the judge wavered. The eminent K.C. had shaken but not shatteredhis belief in the prisoner's guilt. But there was one point more, andthis Oranmore, with the skill of a dramatist, had reserved for the fallof the curtain."He noted every sign in the judge's face, he guessed that his client wasnot yet absolutely safe, then only did he produce his last twowitnesses."One of them was Mary Sullivan, one of the housemaids in the Fitzwilliammansion. She had been sent up by the cook at a quarter past four o'clockon the afternoon of February 1st with some hot water, which the nursehad ordered, for the master's room. Just as she was about to knock atthe door Mr. Wethered was coming out of the room. Mary stopped with thetray in her hand, and at the door Mr. Wethered turned and said quiteloudly: 'Now, don't fret, don't be anxious; do try and be calm. Yourwill is safe in my pocket, nothing can change it or alter one word of itbut yourself.'"It was, of course, a very ticklish point in law whether thehousemaid's evidence could be accepted. You see, she was quoting thewords of a man since dead, spoken to another man also dead. There is nodoubt that had there been very strong evidence on the other side againstPercival Brooks, Mary Sullivan's would have counted for nothing; but, asI told you before, the judge's belief in the prisoner's guilt wasalready very seriously shaken, and now the final blow aimed at it by Mr.Oranmore shattered his last lingering doubts."Dr. Mulligan, namely, had been placed by Mr. Oranmore into thewitness-box. He was a medical man of unimpeachable authority, in fact,absolutely at the head of his profession in Dublin. What he saidpractically corroborated Mary Sullivan's testimony. He had gone in tosee Mr. Brooks at half-past four, and understood from him that hislawyer had just left him."Mr. Brooks certainly, though terribly weak, was calm and more composed.He was dying from a sudden heart attack, and Dr. Mulligan foresaw thealmost immediate end. But he was still conscious and managed to murmurfeebly: 'I feel much easier in my mind now, doctor--have made mywill--Wethered has been--he's got it in his pocket--it is safethere--safe from that--' But the words died on his lips, and after thathe spoke but little. He saw his two sons before he died, but hardlyknew them or even looked at them."You see," concluded the man in the corner, "you see that theprosecution was bound to collapse. Oranmore did not give it a leg tostand on. The will was forged, it is true, forged in the favour ofPercival Brooks and of no one else, forged for him and for his benefit.Whether he knew and connived at the forgery was never proved or, as faras I know, even hinted, but it was impossible to go against all theevidence, which pointed that, as far as the act itself was concerned, heat least was innocent. You see, Dr. Mulligan's evidence was not to beshaken. Mary Sullivan's was equally strong."There were two witnesses swearing positively that old Brooks' will wasin Mr. Wethered's keeping when that gentleman left the Fitzwilliammansion at a quarter past four. At five o'clock in the afternoon thelawyer was found dead in Phoenix Park. Between a quarter past four andeight o'clock in the evening Percival Brooks never left the house--thatwas subsequently proved by Oranmore up to the hilt and beyond a doubt.Since the will found under old Brooks' pillow was a forged will, wherethen was the will he did make, and which Wethered carried away with himin his pocket?""Stolen, of course," said Polly, "by those who murdered and robbed him;it may have been of no value to them, but they naturally would destroyit, lest it might prove a clue against them.""Then you think it was mere coincidence?" he asked excitedly."What?""That Wethered was murdered and robbed at the very moment that hecarried the will in his pocket, whilst another was being forged in itsplace?""It certainly would be very curious, if it _were_ a coincidence," shesaid musingly."Very," he repeated with biting sarcasm, whilst nervously his bonyfingers played with the inevitable bit of string. "Very curious indeed.Just think of the whole thing. There was the old man with all hiswealth, and two sons, one to whom he is devoted, and the other with whomhe does nothing but quarrel. One day there is another of these quarrels,but more violent, more terrible than any that have previously occurred,with the result that the father, heartbroken by it all, has an attack ofapoplexy and practically dies of a broken heart. After that he altershis will, and subsequently a will is proved which turns out to be aforgery."Now everybody--police, press, and public alike--at once jump to theconclusion that, as Percival Brooks benefits by that forged will,Percival Brooks must be the forger.""Seek for him whom the crime benefits, is your own axiom," argued thegirl."I beg your pardon?""Percival Brooks benefited to the tune of L2,000,000.""I beg your pardon. He did nothing of the sort. He was left with lessthan half the share that his younger brother inherited.""Now, yes; but that was a former will and--""And that forged will was so clumsily executed, the signature socarelessly imitated, that the forgery was bound to come to light. Did_that_ never strike you?""Yes, but--""There is no but," he interrupted. "It was all as clear as daylight tome from the very first. The quarrel with the old man, which broke hisheart, was not with his eldest son, with whom he was used toquarrelling, but with the second son whom he idolised, in whom hebelieved. Don't you remember how John O'Neill heard the words 'liar' and'deceit'? Percival Brooks had never deceived his father. His sins wereall on the surface. Murray had led a quiet life, had pandered to hisfather, and fawned upon him, until, like most hypocrites, he at last gotfound out. Who knows what ugly gambling debt or debt of honour, suddenlyrevealed to old Brooks, was the cause of that last and deadly quarrel?"You remember that it was Percival who remained beside his father andcarried him up to his room. Where was Murray throughout that long andpainful day, when his father lay dying--he, the idolised son, the appleof the old man's eye? You never hear his name mentioned as being presentthere all that day. But he knew that he had offended his fathermortally, and that his father meant to cut him off with a shilling. Heknew that Mr. Wethered had been sent for, that Wethered left the housesoon after four o'clock."And here the cleverness of the man comes in. Having lain in wait forWethered and knocked him on the back of the head with a stick, he couldnot very well make that will disappear altogether. There remained thefaint chance of some other witnesses knowing that Mr. Brooks had made afresh will, Mr. Wethered's partner, his clerk, or one of theconfidential servants in the house. Therefore _a_ will must bediscovered after the old man's death."Now, Murray Brooks was not an expert forger, it takes years of trainingto become that. A forged will executed by himself would be sure to befound out--yes, that's it, sure to be found out. The forgery will bepalpable--let it be palpable, and then it will be found out, branded assuch, and the original will of 1891, so favourable to the youngblackguard's interests, would be held as valid. Was it devilry ormerely additional caution which prompted Murray to pen that forged willso glaringly in Percival's favour? It is impossible to say."Anyhow, it was the cleverest touch in that marvellously devised crime.To plan that evil deed was great, to execute it was easy enough. He hadseveral hours' leisure in which to do it. Then at night it wassimplicity itself to slip the document under the dead man's pillow.Sacrilege causes no shudder to such natures as Murray Brooks. The restof the drama you know already--""But Percival Brooks?""The jury returned a verdict of 'Not guilty.' There was no evidenceagainst him.""But the money? Surely the scoundrel does not have the enjoyment of itstill?""No; he enjoyed it for a time, but he died, about three months ago, andforgot to take the precaution of making a will, so his brother Percivalhas got the business after all. If you ever go to Dublin, I should ordersome of Brooks' bacon if I were you. It is very good."CHAPTER XXIVAN UNPARALLELED OUTRAGE"Do you care for the seaside?" asked the man in the corner when he hadfinished his lunch. "I don't mean the seaside at Ostend or Trouville,but honest English seaside with nigger minstrels, three-shillingexcursionists, and dirty, expensive furnished apartments, where theycharge you a shilling for lighting the hall gas on Sundays and sixpenceon other evenings. Do you care for that?""I prefer the country.""Ah! perhaps it is preferable. Personally I only liked one of ourEnglish seaside resorts once, and that was for a week, when EdwardSkinner was up before the magistrate, charged with what was known as the'Brighton Outrage.' I don't know if you remember the memorable day inBrighton, memorable for that elegant town, which deals more inamusements than mysteries, when Mr. Francis Morton, one of its mostnoted residents, disappeared. Yes! disappeared as completely as anyvanishing lady in a music-hall. He was wealthy, had a fine house,servants, a wife and children, and he disappeared. There was no gettingaway from that."Mr. Francis Morton lived with his wife in one of the large houses inSussex Square at the Kemp Town end of Brighton. Mrs. Morton was wellknown for her Americanisms, her swagger dinner parties, and beautifulParis gowns. She was the daughter of one of the many Americanmillionaires (I think her father was a Chicago pork-butcher), whoconveniently provide wealthy wives for English gentlemen; and she hadmarried Mr. Francis Morton a few years ago and brought him her quarterof a million, for no other reason but that she fell in love with him. Hewas neither good-looking nor distinguished, in fact, he was one of thosemen who seem to have CITY stamped all over their person."He was a gentleman of very regular habits, going up to London everymorning on business and returning every afternoon by the 'husband'strain.' So regular was he in these habits that all the servants at theSussex Square house were betrayed into actual gossip over the fact thaton Wednesday, March 17th, the master was not home for dinner. Hales, thebutler, remarked that the mistress seemed a bit anxious and didn't eatmuch food. The evening wore on and Mr. Morton did not appear. At nineo'clock the young footman was dispatched to the station to makeinquiries whether his master had been seen there in the afternoon, orwhether--which Heaven forbid--there had been an accident on the line.The young man interviewed two or three porters, the bookstall boy, andticket clerk; all were agreed that Mr. Morton did not go up to Londonduring the day; no one had seen him within the precincts of the station.There certainly had been no accident reported either on the up or downline."But the morning of the 18th came, with its initial postman's knock, butneither Mr. Morton nor any sign or news from him. Mrs. Morton, whoevidently had spent a sleepless night, for she looked sadly changed andhaggard, sent a wire to the hall porter at the large building in CannonStreet, where her husband had his office. An hour later she had thereply: 'Not seen Mr. Morton all day yesterday, not here to-day.' By theafternoon every one in Brighton knew that a fellow-resident hadmysteriously disappeared from or in the city."A couple of days, then another, elapsed, and still no sign of Mr.Morton. The police were doing their best. The gentleman was so wellknown in Brighton--as he had been a resident two years--that it was notdifficult to firmly establish the one fact that he had not left thecity, since no one saw him in the station on the morning of the 17th,nor at any time since then. Mild excitement prevailed throughout thetown. At first the newspapers took the matter somewhat jocosely. 'Whereis Mr. Morton?' was the usual placard on the evening's contents bills,but after three days had gone by and the worthy Brighton resident wasstill missing, while Mrs. Morton was seen to look more haggard andcareworn every day, mild excitement gave place to anxiety."There were vague hints now as to foul play. The news had leaked outthat the missing gentleman was carrying a large sum of money on the dayof his disappearance. There were also vague rumours of a scandal notunconnected with Mrs. Morton herself and her own past history, which inher anxiety for her husband she had been forced to reveal to thedetective-inspector in charge of the case."Then on Saturday the news which the late evening papers contained wasthis:"'Acting on certain information received, the police to-day forced anentrance into one of the rooms of Russell House, a high-class furnishedapartment on the King's Parade, and there they discovered our missingdistinguished townsman, Mr. Francis Morton, who had been robbed andsubsequently locked up in that room since Wednesday, the 17th. Whendiscovered he was in the last stages of inanition; he was tied into anarm-chair with ropes, a thick wool shawl had been wound round his mouth,and it is a positive marvel that, left thus without food and verylittle air, the unfortunate gentleman survived the horrors of these fourdays of incarceration."'He has been conveyed to his residence in Sussex Square, and we arepleased to say that Doctor Mellish, who is in attendance, has declaredhis patient to be out of serious danger, and that with care and rest hewill be soon quite himself again."'At the same time our readers will learn with unmixed satisfaction thatthe police of our city, with their usual acuteness and activity, havealready discovered the identity and whereabouts of the cowardly ruffianwho committed this unparalleled outrage.'"CHAPTER XXVTHE PRISONER"I really don't know," continued the man in the corner blandly, "what itwas that interested me in the case from the very first. Certainly it hadnothing very out of the way or mysterious about it, but I journeyed downto Brighton nevertheless, as I felt that something deeper and moresubtle lay behind that extraordinary assault, following a robbery, nodoubt."I must tell you that the police had allowed it to be freely circulatedabroad that they held a clue. It had been easy enough to ascertain whothe lodger was who had rented the furnished room in Russell House. Hisname was supposed to be Edward Skinner, and he had taken the room abouta fortnight ago, but had gone away ostensibly for two or three days onthe very day of Mr. Morton's mysterious disappearance. It was on the20th that Mr. Morton was found, and thirty-six hours later the publicwere gratified to hear that Mr. Edward Skinner had been traced to Londonand arrested on the charge of assault upon the person of Mr. FrancisMorton and of robbing him of the sum of L10,000."Then a further sensation was added to the already bewildering case bythe startling announcement that Mr. Francis Morton refused to prosecute."Of course, the Treasury took up the case and subpoenaed Mr. Morton as awitness, so that gentleman--if he wished to hush the matter up, or hadbeen in any way terrorised into a promise of doing so--gained nothing byhis refusal, except an additional amount of curiosity in the public mindand further sensation around the mysterious case."It was all this, you see, which had interested me and brought me downto Brighton on March 23rd to see the prisoner Edward Skinner arraignedbefore the beak. I must say that he was a very ordinary-lookingindividual. Fair, of ruddy complexion, with snub nose and the beginningof a bald place on the top of his head, he, too, looked the embodimentof a prosperous, stodgy 'City gent.'"I took a quick survey of the witnesses present, and guessed that thehandsome, stylish woman sitting next to Mr. Reginald Pepys, the notedlawyer for the Crown, was Mrs. Morton."There was a large crowd in court, and I heard whispered comments amongthe feminine portion thereof as to the beauty of Mrs. Morton's gown,the value of her large picture hat, and the magnificence of her diamondrings."The police gave all the evidence required with regard to the finding ofMr. Morton in the room at Russell House and also to the arrest ofSkinner at the Langham Hotel in London. It appears that the prisonerseemed completely taken aback at the charge preferred against him, anddeclared that though he knew Mr. Francis Morton slightly in business heknew nothing as to his private life."'Prisoner stated,' continued Inspector Buckle, 'that he was not evenaware Mr. Morton lived in Brighton, but I have evidence here, which Iwill place before your Honour, to prove that the prisoner was seen inthe company of Mr. Morton at 9.30 o'clock on the morning of theassault.'"Cross-examined by Mr. Matthew Quiller, the detective-inspector admittedthat prisoner merely said that he did not know that Mr. Morton was a_resident_ of Brighton--he never denied having met him there."The witness, or rather witnesses, referred to by the police were twoBrighton tradesmen who knew Mr. Morton by sight and had seen him on themorning of the 17th walking with the accused."In this instance Mr. Quiller had no question to ask of the witnesses,and it was generally understood that the prisoner did not wish tocontradict their statement."Constable Hartrick told the story of the finding of the unfortunateMr. Morton after his four days' incarceration. The constable had beensent round by the chief inspector, after certain information given byMrs. Chapman, the landlady of Russell House. He had found the doorlocked and forced it open. Mr. Morton was in an arm-chair, with severalyards of rope wound loosely round him; he was almost unconscious, andthere was a thick wool shawl tied round his mouth which must havedeadened any cry or groan the poor gentleman might have uttered. But, asa matter of fact, the constable was under the impression that Mr. Mortonhad been either drugged or stunned in some way at first, which had lefthim weak and faint and prevented him from making himself heard orextricating himself from his bonds, which were very clumsily, evidentlyvery hastily, wound round his body."The medical officer who was called in, and also Dr. Mellish whoattended Mr. Morton, both said that he seemed dazed by some stupefyingdrug, and also, of course, terribly weak and faint with the want offood."The first witness of real importance was Mrs. Chapman, the proprietressof Russell House, whose original information to the police led to thediscovery of Mr. Morton. In answer to Mr. Pepys, she said that on March1st the accused called at her house and gave his name as Mr. EdwardSkinner."'He required, he said, a furnished room at a moderate rental for apermanency, with full attendance when he was in, but he added that hewould often be away for two or three days, or even longer, at a time."'He told me that he was a traveller for a tea-house,' continued Mrs.Chapman, 'and I showed him the front room on the third floor, as he didnot want to pay more than twelve shillings a week. I asked him for areference, but he put three sovereigns in my hand, and said with a laughthat he supposed paying for his room a month in advance was sufficientreference; if I didn't like him after that, I could give him a week'snotice to quit.'"'You did not think of asking him the name of the firm for which hetravelled?' asked Mr. Pepys."'No, I was quite satisfied as he paid me for the room. The next day hesent in his luggage and took possession of the room. He went out mostmornings on business, but was always in Brighton for Saturday andSunday. On the 16th he told me that he was going to Liverpool for acouple of days; he slept in the house that night, and went off early onthe 17th, taking his portmanteau with him.'"'At what time did he leave?' asked Mr. Pepys."'I couldn't say exactly,' replied Mrs. Chapman with some hesitation.'You see this is the off season here. None of my rooms are let, exceptthe one to Mr. Skinner, and I only have one servant. I keep four duringthe summer, autumn, and winter season,' she added with conscious pride,fearing that her former statement might prejudice the reputation ofRussell House. 'I thought I had heard Mr. Skinner go out about nineo'clock, but about an hour later the girl and I were both in thebasement, and we heard the front door open and shut with a bang, andthen a step in the hall."'"That's Mr. Skinner," said Mary. "So it is," I said, "why, I thoughthe had gone an hour ago." "He did go out then," said Mary, "for he lefthis bedroom door open and I went in to do his bed and tidy his room.""Just go and see if that's him, Mary," I said, and Mary ran up to thehall and up the stairs, and came back to tell me that that was Mr.Skinner all right enough; he had gone straight up to his room. Marydidn't see him, but he had another gentleman with him, as she could hearthem talking in Mr. Skinner's room.'"'Then you can't tell us at what time the prisoner left the housefinally?'"'No, that I can't. I went out shopping soon after that. When I came init was twelve o'clock. I went up to the third floor and found that Mr.Skinner had locked his door and taken the key with him. As I knew Maryhad already done, the room I did not trouble more about it, though I didthink it strange for a gentleman to look up his room and not leave thekey with me.'"'And, of course, you heard no noise of any kind in the room then?'"'No. Not that day or the next, but on the third day Mary and I boththought we heard a funny sound. I said that Mr. Skinner had left hiswindow open, and it was the blind flapping against the window-pane; butwhen we heard that funny noise again I put my ear to the keyhole and Ithought I could hear a groan. I was very frightened, and sent Mary forthe police.'"Mrs. Chapman had nothing more of interest to say. The prisonercertainly was her lodger. She had last seen him on the evening of the16th going up to his room with his candle. Mary the servant had much thesame story to relate as her mistress."'I think it was 'im, right enough,' said Mary guardedly. 'I didn't see'im, but I went up to 'is landing and stopped a moment outside 'is door.I could 'ear loud voices in the room--gentlemen talking.'"'I suppose you would not do such a thing as to listen, Mary?' queriedMr. Pepys with a smile."'No, sir,' said Mary with a bland smile, 'I didn't catch what thegentlemen said, but one of them spoke so loud I thought they must bequarrelling.'"'Mr. Skinner was the only person in possession of a latch-key, Ipresume. No one else could have come in without ringing at the door?'"'Oh no, sir.'"That was all. So far, you see, the case was progressing splendidly forthe Crown against the prisoner. The contention, of course, was thatSkinner had met Mr. Morton, brought him home with him, assaulted,drugged, then gagged and bound him, and finally robbed him of whatevermoney he had in his possession, which, according to certain affidavitswhich presently would be placed before the magistrate, amounted toL10,000 in notes."But in all this there still remained the great element of mystery forwhich the public and the magistrate would demand an explanation: namely,what were the relationships between Mr. Morton and Skinner, which hadinduced the former to refuse the prosecution of the man who had not onlyrobbed him, but had so nearly succeeded in leaving him to die a terribleand lingering death?"Mr. Morton was too ill as yet to appear in person. Dr. Mellish hadabsolutely forbidden his patient to undergo the fatigue and excitementof giving evidence himself in court that day. But his depositions hadbeen taken at his bedside, were sworn to by him, and were now placedbefore the magistrate by the prosecuting counsel, and the facts theyrevealed were certainly as remarkable as they were brief andenigmatical."As they were read by Mr. Pepys, an awed and expectant hush seemed todescend over the large crowd gathered there, and all necks were strainedeagerly forward to catch a glimpse of a tall, elegant woman, faultlesslydressed and wearing exquisite jewellery, but whose handsome face wore,as the prosecuting counsel read her husband's deposition, a more andmore ashen hue."'This, your Honour, is the statement made upon oath by Mr. FrancisMorton,' commenced Mr. Pepys in that loud, sonorous voice of his whichsounds so impressive in a crowded and hushed court. '"I was obliged, forcertain reasons which I refuse to disclose, to make a payment of a largesum of money to a man whom I did not know and have never seen. It was ina matter of which my wife was cognisant and which had entirely to dowith her own affairs. I was merely the go-between, as I thought it wasnot fit that she should see to this matter herself. The individual inquestion had made certain demands, of which she kept me in ignorance aslong as she could, not wishing to unnecessarily worry me. At last shedecided to place the whole matter before me, and I agreed with her thatit would be best to satisfy the man's demands."'"I then wrote to that individual whose name I do not wish to disclose,addressing the letter, as my wife directed me to do, to the Brightonpost office, saying that I was ready to pay the L10,000 to him, at anyplace or time and in what manner he might appoint. I received a replywhich bore the Brighton postmark, and which desired me to be outsideFurnival's, the drapers, in West Street, at 9.30 on the morning of March17th, and to bring the money (L10,000) in Bank of England notes."'"On the 16th my wife gave me a cheque for the amount and I cashed itat her bank--Bird's in Fleet Street. At half-past nine the followingmorning I was at the appointed place. An individual wearing a greyovercoat, bowler hat, and red tie accosted me by name and requested meto walk as far as his lodgings in the King's Parade. I followed him.Neither of us spoke. He stopped at a house which bore the name 'RussellHouse,' and which I shall be able to swear to as soon as I am able to goout. He let himself in with a latch-key, and asked me to follow him upto his room on the third floor. I thought I noticed when we were in theroom that he locked the door; however, I had nothing of any value aboutme except the L10,000, which I was ready to give him. We had notexchanged the slightest word."'"I gave him the notes, and he folded them and put them in hispocket-book. Then I turned towards the door, and, without the slightestwarning, I felt myself suddenly gripped by the shoulder, while ahandkerchief was pressed to my nose and mouth. I struggled as best Icould, but the handkerchief was saturated with chloroform, and I soonlost consciousness. I hazily remember the man saying to me in short,jerky sentences, spoken at intervals while I was still weaklystruggling:"'"What a fool you must think me, my dear sir! Did you really thinkthat I was going to let you quietly walk out of here, straight to thepolice-station, eh? Such dodges have been done before, I know, when aman's silence has to be bought for money. Find out who he is, see wherehe lives, give him the money, then inform against him. No you don't! notthis time. I am off to the continent with this L10,000, and I can getto Newhaven in time for the midday boat, so you'll have to keep quietuntil I am the other side of the Channel, my friend. You won't be muchinconvenienced; my landlady will hear your groans presently and releaseyou, so you'll be all right. There, now, drink this--that's better.' Heforced something bitter down my throat, then I remember nothing more."'"When I regained consciousness I was sitting in an arm-chair with somerope tied round me and a wool shawl round my mouth. I hadn't thestrength to make the slightest effort to disentangle myself or to uttera scream. I felt terribly sick and faint."'"Mr. Reginald Pepys had finished reading, and no one in that crowdedcourt had thought of uttering a sound; the magistrate's eyes were fixedupon the handsome lady in the magnificent gown, who was mopping her eyeswith a dainty lace handkerchief."The extraordinary narrative of the victim of so daring an outrage hadkept every one in suspense; one thing was still expected to make themeasure of sensation as full as it had ever been over any criminal case,and that was Mrs. Morton's evidence. She was called by the prosecutingcounsel, and slowly, gracefully, she entered the witness-box. There wasno doubt that she had felt keenly the tortures which her husband hadundergone, and also the humiliation of seeing her name dragged forciblyinto this ugly, blackmailing scandal."Closely questioned by Mr. Reginald Pepys, she was forced to admit thatthe man who blackmailed her was connected with her early life in a waywhich would have brought terrible disgrace upon her and upon herchildren. The story she told, amidst many tears and sobs, and much useof her beautiful lace handkerchief and beringed hands, was exceedinglypathetic."It appears that when she was barely seventeen she was inveigled into asecret marriage with one of those foreign adventurers who swarm in everycountry, and who styled himself Comte Armand de la Tremouille. He seemsto have been a blackguard of unusually low pattern, for, after he hadextracted from her some L200 of her pin money and a few diamondbrooches, he left her one fine day with a laconic word to say that hewas sailing for Europe by the _Argentina_, and would not be back forsome time. She was in love with the brute, poor young soul, for when, aweek later, she read that the _Argentina_ was wrecked, and presumablyevery soul on board had perished, she wept very many bitter tears overher early widowhood."Fortunately her father, a very wealthy pork-butcher of Chicago, hadknown nothing of his daughter's culpable foolishness. Four years laterhe took her to London, where she met Mr. Francis Morton and married him.She led six or seven years of very happy married life when one day, likea thunderbolt from a clear, blue sky, she received a typewritten letter,signed 'Armand de la Tremouille,' full of protestations of undying love,telling a long and pathetic tale of years of suffering in a foreignland, whither he had drifted after having been rescued almostmiraculously from the wreck of the _Argentina_, and where he never hadbeen able to scrape a sufficient amount of money to pay for his passagehome. At last fate had favoured him. He had, after many vicissitudes,found the whereabouts of his dear wife, and was now ready to forgive allthat was past and take her to his loving arms once again."What followed was the usual course of events when there is a blackguardand a fool of a woman. She was terrorised and did not dare to tell herhusband for some time; she corresponded with the Comte de la Tremouille,begging him for her sake and in memory of the past not to attempt to seeher. She found him amenable to reason in the shape of several hundredpounds which passed through the Brighton post office into his hands. Atlast one day, by accident, Mr. Morton came across one of the Comte de laTremouille's interesting letters. She confessed everything, throwingherself upon her husband's mercy."Now, Mr. Francis Morton was a business man, who viewed life practicallyand soberly. He liked his wife, who kept him in luxury, and wished tokeep her, whereas the Comte de la Tremouille seemed willing enough togive her up for a consideration. Mrs. Morton, who had the sole andabsolute control of her fortune, on the other hand, was willing enoughto pay the price and hush up the scandal, which she believed--since shewas a bit of a fool--would land her in prison for bigamy. Mr. FrancisMorton wrote to the Comte de la Tremouille that his wife was ready topay him the sum of L10,000 which he demanded in payment for her absoluteliberty and his own complete disappearance out of her life now and forever. The appointment was made, and Mr. Morton left his house at 9 a.m.on March 17th with the L10,000 in his pocket."The public and the magistrate had hung breathless upon her words. Therewas nothing but sympathy felt for this handsome woman, who throughouthad been more sinned against than sinning, and whose gravest fault seemsto have been a total lack of intelligence in dealing with her own life.But I can assure you of one thing, that in no case within myrecollection was there ever such a sensation in a court as when themagistrate, after a few minutes' silence, said gently to Mrs. Morton:"'And now, Mrs. Morton, will you kindly look at the prisoner, and tellme if in him you recognize your former husband?'"And she, without even turning to look at the accused, said quietly:"'Oh no! your Honour! of course that man is _not_ the Comte de laTremouille.'"CHAPTER XXVIA SENSATION"I can assure you that the situation was quite dramatic," continued theman in the corner, whilst his funny, claw-like hands took up a bit ofstring with renewed feverishness."In answer to further questions from the magistrate, she declared thatshe had never seen the accused; he might have been the go-between,however, that she could not say. The letters she received were alltypewritten, but signed 'Armand de la Tremouille,' and certainly thesignature was identical with that on the letters she used to receivefrom him years ago, all of which she had kept."'And did it _never_ strike you,' asked the magistrate with a smile,'that the letters you received might be forgeries?'"'How could they be?' she replied decisively; no one knew of my marriageto the Comte de la Tremouille, no one in England certainly. And,besides, if some one did know the Comte intimately enough to forge hishandwriting and to blackmail me, why should that some one have waitedall these years? I have been married seven years, your Honour.'"That was true enough, and there the matter rested as far as she wasconcerned. But the identity of Mr. Francis Morton's assailant had to befinally established, of course, before the prisoner was committed fortrial. Dr. Mellish promised that Mr. Morton would be allowed to come tocourt for half an hour and identify the accused on the following day,and the case was adjourned until then. The accused was led away betweentwo constables, bail being refused, and Brighton had perforce tomoderate its impatience until the Wednesday."On that day the court was crowded to overflowing; actors, playwrights,literary men of all sorts had fought for admission to study forthemselves the various phases and faces in connection with the case.Mrs. Morton was not present when the prisoner, quiet and self-possessed,was brought in and placed in the dock. His solicitor was with him, and asensational defence was expected."Presently there was a stir in the court, and that certain sound, halfrustle, half sigh, which preludes an expected palpitating event. Mr.Morton, pale, thin, wearing yet in his hollow eyes the stamp of thosefive days of suffering, walked into court leaning on the arm of hisdoctor--Mrs. Morton was not with him."He was at once accommodated with a chair in the witness-box, and themagistrate, after a few words of kindly sympathy, asked him if he hadanything to add to his written statement. On Mr. Morton replying in thenegative, the magistrate added:"'And now, Mr. Morton, will you kindly look at the accused in the dockand tell me whether you recognize the person who took you to the room inRussell House and then assaulted you?'"Slowly the sick man turned towards the prisoner and looked at him; thenhe shook his head and replied quietly:"'No, sir, that certainly was not the man.'"'You are quite sure?' asked the magistrate in amazement, while thecrowd literally gasped with wonder."'I swear it,' asserted Mr. Morton."'Can you describe the man who assaulted you?'"'Certainly. He was dark, of swarthy complexion, tall, thin, with bushyeyebrows and thick black hair and short beard. He spoke English withjust the faintest suspicion of a foreign accent.'"The prisoner, as I told you before, was English in every feature.English in his ruddy complexion, and absolutely English in his speech."After that the case for the prosecution began to collapse. Every onehad expected a sensational defence, and Mr. Matthew Quiller, counselfor Skinner, fully justified all these expectations. He had no fewerthan four witnesses present who swore positively that at 9.45 a.m. onthe morning of Wednesday, March 17th, the prisoner was in the expresstrain leaving Brighton for Victoria."Not being endowed with the gift of being in two places at once, and Mr.Morton having added the whole weight of his own evidence in Mr. EdwardSkinner's favour, that gentleman was once more remanded by themagistrate, pending further investigation by the police, bail beingallowed this time in two sureties of L50 each."CHAPTER XXVIITWO BLACKGUARDS"Tell me what you think of it," said the man in the corner, seeing thatPolly remained silent and puzzled."Well," she replied dubiously, "I suppose that the so-called Armand dela Tremouille's story was true in substance. That he did not perish onthe _Argentina_, but drifted home, and blackmailed his former wife.""Doesn't it strike you that there are at least two very strong pointsagainst that theory?" he asked, making two gigantic knots in his pieceof string."Two?""Yes. In the first place, if the blackmailer was the 'Comte de laTremouille' returned to life, why should he have been content to takeL10,000 from a lady who was his lawful wife, and who could keep him inluxury for the rest of his natural life upon her large fortune, whichwas close upon a quarter of a million? The real Comte de la Tremouille,remember, had never found it difficult to get money out of his wifeduring their brief married life, whatever Mr. Morton's subsequentexperience in the same direction might have been. And, secondly, whyshould he have typewritten his letters to his wife?""Because--""That was a point which, to my mind, the police never made the most of.Now, my experience in criminal cases has invariably been that when atypewritten letter figures in one, that letter is a forgery. It is notvery difficult to imitate a signature, but it is a jolly sight moredifficult to imitate a handwriting throughout an entire letter.""Then, do you think--""I think, if you will allow me," he interrupted excitedly, "that we willgo through the points--the sensible, tangible points of the case.Firstly: Mr. Morton disappears with L10,000 in his pocket for fourentire days; at the end of that time he is discovered loosely tied to anarm-chair, and a wool shawl round his mouth. Secondly: A man namedSkinner is accused of the outrage. Mr. Morton, although he himself isable, mind you, to furnish the best defence possible for Skinner, bydenying his identity with the man who assaulted him, refuses toprosecute. Why?""He did not wish to drag his wife's name into the case.""He must have known that the Crown would take up the case. Then, again,how is it no one saw him in the company of the swarthy foreigner hedescribed?""Two witnesses did see Mr. Morton in company with Skinner," arguedPolly."Yes, at 9.20 in West Street; that would give Edward Skinner time tocatch the 9.45 at the station, and to entrust Mr. Morton with thelatch-key of Russell House," remarked the man in the corner dryly."What nonsense!" Polly ejaculated."Nonsense, is it?" he said, tugging wildly at his bit of string; "is itnonsense to affirm that if a man wants to make sure that his victimshall not escape, he does not usually wind rope 'loosely' round hisfigure, nor does he throw a wool shawl lightly round his mouth. Thepolice were idiotic beyond words; they themselves discovered that Mortonwas so 'loosely' fastened to his chair that very little movement wouldhave disentangled him, and yet it never struck them that nothing waseasier for that particular type of scoundrel to sit down in an arm-chairand wind a few yards of rope round himself, then, having wrapped a woolshawl round his throat, to slip his two arms inside the ropes.""But what object would a man in Mr. Morton's position have for playingsuch extraordinary pranks?""Ah, the motive! There you are! What do I always tell you? Seek themotive! Now, what was Mr. Morton's position? He was the husband of alady who owned a quarter of a million of money, not one penny of whichhe could touch without her consent, as it was settled on herself, andwho, after the terrible way in which she had been plundered and thenabandoned in her early youth, no doubt kept a very tight hold upon thepurse-strings. Mr. Morton's subsequent life has proved that he hadcertain expensive, not altogether avowable, tastes. One day he discoversthe old love letters of the 'Comte Armand de la Tremouille.'"Then he lays his plans. He typewrites a letter, forges the signature ofthe erstwhile Count, and awaits events. The fish does rise to the bait.He gets sundry bits of money, and his success makes him daring. He looksround him for an accomplice--clever, unscrupulous, greedy--and selectsMr. Edward Skinner, probably some former pal of his wild oats days."The plan was very neat, you must confess. Mr. Skinner takes the room inRussell House, and studies all the manners and customs of his landladyand her servant. He then draws the full attention of the police uponhimself. He meets Morton in West Street, then disappears ostensiblyafter the 'assault.' In the meanwhile Morton goes to Russell House. Hewalks upstairs, talks loudly in the room, then makes elaboratepreparations for his comedy.""Why! he nearly died of starvation!""That, I dare say, was not a part of his reckoning. He thought, nodoubt, that Mrs. Chapman or the servant would discover and rescue himpretty soon. He meant to appear just a little faint, and endured quietlythe first twenty-four hours of inanition. But the excitement and want offood told on him more than he expected. After twenty-four hours heturned very giddy and sick, and, falling from one fainting fit intoanother, was unable to give the alarm."However, he is all right again now, and concludes his part of adownright blackguard to perfection. Under the plea that his consciencedoes not allow him to live with a lady whose first husband is stillalive, he has taken a bachelor flat in London, and only pays afternooncalls on his wife in Brighton. But presently he will tire of hisbachelor life, and will return to his wife. And I'll guarantee that theComte de la Tremouille will never be heard of again."And that afternoon the man in the corner left Miss Polly Burton alonewith a couple of photos of two uninteresting, stodgy, quiet-lookingmen--Morton and Skinner--who, if the old scarecrow was right in histheories, were a pair of the finest blackguards unhung.CHAPTER XXVIIITHE REGENT'S PARK MURDERBy this time Miss Polly Burton had become quite accustomed to herextraordinary _vis-a-vis_ in the corner.He was always there, when she arrived, in the selfsame corner, dressedin one of his remarkable check tweed suits; he seldom said good morning,and invariably when she appeared he began to fidget with increasednervousness, with some tattered and knotty piece of string."Were you ever interested in the Regent's Park murder?" he asked her oneday.Polly replied that she had forgotten most of the particulars connectedwith that curious murder, but that she fully remembered the stir andflutter it had caused in a certain section of London Society."The racing and gambling set, particularly, you mean," he said. "All thepersons implicated in the murder, directly or indirectly, were of thetype commonly called 'Society men,' or 'men about town,' whilst theHarewood Club in Hanover Square, round which centred all the scandal inconnection with the murder, was one of the smartest clubs in London."Probably the doings of the Harewood Club, which was essentially agambling club, would for ever have remained 'officially' absent from theknowledge of the police authorities but for the murder in the Regent'sPark and the revelations which came to light in connection with it."I dare say you know the quiet square which lies between Portland Placeand the Regent's Park and is called Park Crescent at its south end, andsubsequently Park Square East and West. The Marylebone Road, with allits heavy traffic, cuts straight across the large square and its prettygardens, but the latter are connected together by a tunnel under theroad; and of course you must remember that the new tube station in thesouth portion of the Square had not yet been planned."February 6th, 1907, was a very foggy night, nevertheless Mr. AaronCohen, of 30, Park Square West, at two o'clock in the morning, havingfinally pocketed the heavy winnings which he had just swept off thegreen table of the Harewood Club, started to walk home alone. An hourlater most of the inhabitants of Park Square West were aroused fromtheir peaceful slumbers by the sounds of a violent altercation in theroad. A man's angry voice was heard shouting violently for a minute ortwo, and was followed immediately by frantic screams of 'Police' and'Murder.' Then there was the double sharp report of firearms, andnothing more."The fog was very dense, and, as you no doubt have experienced yourself,it is very difficult to locate sound in a fog. Nevertheless, not morethan a minute or two had elapsed before Constable F 18, the pointpoliceman at the corner of Marylebone Road, arrived on the scene, and,having first of all whistled for any of his comrades on the beat, beganto grope his way about in the fog, more confused than effectuallyassisted by contradictory directions from the inhabitants of the housesclose by, who were nearly falling out of the upper windows as theyshouted out to the constable."'By the railings, policeman.'"'Higher up the road.'"'No, lower down.'"'It was on this side of the pavement I am sure.'"No, the other.'"At last it was another policeman, F 22, who, turning into Park SquareWest from the north side, almost stumbled upon the body of a man lyingon the pavement with his head against the railings of the Square. Bythis time quite a little crowd of people from the different houses inthe road had come down, curious to know what had actually happened."The policeman turned the strong light of his bull's-eye lantern on theunfortunate man's face."'It looks as if he had been strangled, don't it?' he murmured to hiscomrade."And he pointed to the swollen tongue, the eyes half out of theirsockets, bloodshot and congested, the purple, almost black, hue of theface."At this point one of the spectators, more callous to horrors, peeredcuriously into the dead man's face. He uttered an exclamation ofastonishment."'Why, surely, it's Mr. Cohen from No. 30!'"The mention of a name familiar down the length of the street had causedtwo or three other men to come forward and to look more closely into thehorribly distorted mask of the murdered man."'Our next-door neighbour, undoubtedly,' asserted Mr. Ellison, a youngbarrister, residing at No. 31."'What in the world was he doing this foggy night all alone, and onfoot?' asked somebody else."'He usually came home very late. I fancy he belonged to some gamblingclub in town. I dare say he couldn't get a cab to bring him out here.Mind you, I don't know much about him. We only knew him to nod to.'"'Poor beggar! it looks almost like an old-fashioned case ofgarroting.'"'Anyway, the blackguardly murderer, whoever he was, wanted to make surehe had killed his man!' added Constable F 18, as he picked up an objectfrom the pavement. 'Here's the revolver, with two cartridges missing.You gentlemen heard the report just now?'"'He don't seem to have hit him though. The poor bloke was strangled, nodoubt.'"'And tried to shoot at his assailant, obviously,' asserted the youngbarrister with authority."'If he succeeded in hitting the brute, there might be a chance oftracing the way he went.'"'But not in the fog.'"Soon, however, the appearance of the inspector, detective, and medicalofficer, who had quickly been informed of the tragedy, put an end tofurther discussion."The bell at No. 30 was rung, and the servants--all four of themwomen--were asked to look at the body."Amidst tears of horror and screams of fright, they all recognized inthe murdered man their master, Mr. Aaron Cohen. He was thereforeconveyed to his own room pending the coroner's inquest."The police had a pretty difficult task, you will admit; there were sovery few indications to go by, and at first literally no clue."The inquest revealed practically nothing. Very little was known in theneighbourhood about Mr. Aaron Cohen and his affairs. His female servantsdid not even know the name or whereabouts of the various clubs hefrequented."He had an office in Throgmorton Street and went to business every day.He dined at home, and sometimes had friends to dinner. When he was alonehe invariably went to the club, where he stayed until the small hours ofthe morning."The night of the murder he had gone out at about nine o'clock. That wasthe last his servants had seen of him. With regard to the revolver, allfour servants swore positively that they had never seen it before, andthat, unless Mr. Cohen had bought it that very day, it did not belong totheir master."Beyond that, no trace whatever of the murderer had been found, but onthe morning after the crime a couple of keys linked together by a shortmetal chain were found close to a gate at the opposite end of theSquare, that which immediately faced Portland Place. These were provedto be, firstly, Mr. Cohen's latch-key, and, secondly, his gate-key ofthe Square."It was therefore presumed that the murderer, having accomplished hisfell design and ransacked his victim's pockets, had found the keys andmade good his escape by slipping into the Square, cutting under thetunnel, and out again by the further gate. He then took the precautionnot to carry the keys with him any further, but threw them away anddisappeared in the fog."The jury returned a verdict of wilful murder against some person orpersons unknown, and the police were put on their mettle to discover theunknown and daring murderer. The result of their investigations,conducted with marvellous skill by Mr. William Fisher, led, about a weekafter the crime, to the sensational arrest of one of London's smartestyoung bucks."The case Mr. Fisher had got up against the accused briefly amounted tothis:"On the night of February 6th, soon after midnight, play began to runvery high at the Harewood Club, in Hanover Square. Mr. Aaron Cohen heldthe bank at roulette against some twenty or thirty of his friends,mostly young fellows with no wits and plenty of money. 'The Bank' waswinning heavily, and it appears that this was the third consecutivenight on which Mr. Aaron Cohen had gone home richer by several hundredsthan he had been at the start of play."Young John Ashley, who is the son of a very worthy county gentleman whois M.F.H. somewhere in the Midlands, was losing heavily, and in his casealso it appears that it was the third consecutive night that Fortunehad turned her face against him."Remember," continued the man in the corner, "that when I tell you allthese details and facts, I am giving you the combined evidence ofseveral witnesses, which it took many days to collect and to classify."It appears that young Mr. Ashley, though very popular in society, wasgenerally believed to be in what is vulgarly termed 'low water'; up tohis eyes in debt, and mortally afraid of his dad, whose younger son hewas, and who had on one occasion threatened to ship him off to Australiawith a L5 note in his pocket if he made any further extravagant callsupon his paternal indulgence."It was also evident to all John Ashley's many companions that theworthy M.F.H. held the purse-strings in a very tight grip. The youngman, bitten with the desire to cut a smart figure in the circles inwhich he moved, had often recourse to the varying fortunes which now andagain smiled upon him across the green tables in the Harewood Club."Be that as it may, the general consensus of opinion at the Club wasthat young Ashley had changed his last 'pony' before he sat down to aturn of roulette with Aaron Cohen on that particular night of February6th."It appears that all his friends, conspicuous among whom was Mr. WalterHatherell, tried their very best to dissuade him from pitting his luckagainst that of Cohen, who had been having a most unprecedented run ofgood fortune. But young Ashley, heated with wine, exasperated at his ownbad luck, would listen to no one; he tossed one L5 note after another onthe board, he borrowed from those who would lend, then played on parolefor a while. Finally, at half-past one in the morning, after a run ofnineteen on the red, the young man found himself without a penny in hispockets, and owing a debt--gambling debt--a debt of honour of L1500 toMr. Aaron Cohen."Now we must render this much maligned gentleman that justice which waspersistently denied to him by press and public alike; it was positivelyasserted by all those present that Mr. Cohen himself repeatedly tried toinduce young Mr. Ashley to give up playing. He himself was in a delicateposition in the matter, as he was the winner, and once or twice thetaunt had risen to the young man's lips, accusing the holder of the bankof the wish to retire on a competence before the break in his luck."Mr. Aaron Cohen, smoking the best of Havanas, had finally shrugged hisshoulders and said: 'As you please!'"But at half-past one he had had enough of the player, who always lostand never paid--never could pay, so Mr. Cohen probably believed. Hetherefore at that hour refused to accept Mr. John Ashley's 'promissory'stakes any longer. A very few heated words ensued, quickly checked bythe management, who are ever on the alert to avoid the least suspicionof scandal."In the meanwhile Mr. Hatherell, with great good sense, persuaded youngAshley to leave the Club and all its temptations and go home; ifpossible to bed."The friendship of the two young men, which was very well known insociety, consisted chiefly, it appears, in Walter Hatherell being thewilling companion and helpmeet of John Ashley in his mad and extravagantpranks. But to-night the latter, apparently tardily sobered by histerrible and heavy losses, allowed himself to be led away by his friendfrom the scene of his disasters. It was then about twenty minutes totwo."Here the situation becomes interesting," continued the man in thecorner in his nervous way. "No wonder that the police interrogated atleast a dozen witnesses before they were quite satisfied that everystatement was conclusively proved."Walter Hatherell, after about ten minutes' absence, that is to say atten minutes to two, returned to the club room. In reply to severalinquiries, he said that he had parted with his friend at the corner ofNew Bond Street, since he seemed anxious to be alone, and that Ashleysaid he would take a turn down Piccadilly before going home--he thoughta walk would do him good."At two o'clock or thereabouts Mr. Aaron Cohen, satisfied with hisevening's work, gave up his position at the bank and, pocketing hisheavy winnings, started on his homeward walk, while Mr. Walter Hatherellleft the club half an hour later."At three o'clock precisely the cries of 'Murder' and the report offire-arms were heard in Park Square West, and Mr. Aaron Cohen was foundstrangled outside the garden railings."CHAPTER XXIXTHE MOTIVE"Now at first sight the murder in the Regent's Park appeared both topolice and public as one of those silly, clumsy crimes, obviously thework of a novice, and absolutely purposeless, seeing that it could butinevitably lead its perpetrators, without any difficulty, to thegallows."You see, a motive had been established. 'Seek him whom the crimebenefits,' say our French _confreres_. But there was something more thanthat."Constable James Funnell, on his beat, turned from Portland Place intoPark Crescent a few minutes after he had heard the clock at Holy TrinityChurch, Marylebone, strike half-past two. The fog at that moment wasperhaps not quite so dense as it was later on in the morning, and thepoliceman saw two gentlemen in overcoats and top-hats leaning arm in armagainst the railings of the Square, close to the gate. He could not, ofcourse, distinguish their faces because of the fog, but he heard one ofthem saying to the other:"'It is but a question of time, Mr. Cohen. I know my father will paythe money for me, and you will lose nothing by waiting.'"To this the other apparently made no reply, and the constable passedon; when he returned to the same spot, after having walked over hisbeat, the two gentlemen had gone, but later on it was near this verygate that the two keys referred to at the inquest had been found."Another interesting fact," added the man in the corner, with one ofthose sarcastic smiles of his which Polly could not quite explain, "wasthe finding of the revolver upon the scene of the crime. That revolver,shown to Mr. Ashley's valet, was sworn to by him as being the propertyof his master."All these facts made, of course, a very remarkable, so far quiteunbroken, chain of circumstantial evidence against Mr. John Ashley. Nowonder, therefore, that the police, thoroughly satisfied with Mr.Fisher's work and their own, applied for a warrant against the youngman, and arrested him in his rooms in Clarges Street exactly a weekafter the committal of the crime."As a matter of fact, you know, experience has invariably taught me thatwhen a murderer seems particularly foolish and clumsy, and proofsagainst him seem particularly damning, that is the time when the policeshould be most guarded against pitfalls."Now in this case, if John Ashley had indeed committed the murder inRegent's Park in the manner suggested by the police, he would have beena criminal in more senses than one, for idiocy of that kind is to mymind worse than many crimes."The prosecution brought its witnesses up in triumphal array one afteranother. There were the members of the Harewood Club--who had seen theprisoner's excited condition after his heavy gambling losses to Mr.Aaron Cohen; there was Mr. Hatherell, who, in spite of his friendshipfor Ashley, was bound to admit that he had parted from him at the cornerof Bond Street at twenty minutes to two, and had not seen him again tillhis return home at five a.m."Then came the evidence of Arthur Chipps, John Ashley's valet. It provedof a very sensational character."He deposed that on the night in question his master came home at aboutten minutes to two. Chipps had then not yet gone to bed. Five minuteslater Mr. Ashley went out again, telling the valet not to sit up forhim. Chipps could not say at what time either of the young gentlemen hadcome home."That short visit home--presumably to fetch the revolver--was thought tobe very important, and Mr. John Ashley's friends felt that his case waspractically hopeless."The valet's evidence and that of James Funnell, the constable, who hadoverheard the conversation near the park railings, were certainly thetwo most damning proofs against the accused. I assure you I was having arare old time that day. There were two faces in court to watch which wasthe greatest treat I had had for many a day. One of these was Mr. JohnAshley's."Here's his photo--short, dark, dapper, a little 'racy' in style, butotherwise he looks a son of a well-to-do farmer. He was very quiet andplacid in court, and addressed a few words now and again to hissolicitor. He listened gravely, and with an occasional shrug of theshoulders, to the recital of the crime, such as the police hadreconstructed it, before an excited and horrified audience."Mr. John Ashley, driven to madness and frenzy by terrible financialdifficulties, had first of all gone home in search of a weapon, thenwaylaid Mr. Aaron Cohen somewhere on that gentleman's way home. Theyoung man had begged for delay. Mr. Cohen perhaps was obdurate; butAshley followed him with his importunities almost to his door."There, seeing his creditor determined at last to cut short the painfulinterview, he had seized the unfortunate man at an unguarded moment frombehind, and strangled him; then, fearing that his dastardly work was notfully accomplished, he had shot twice at the already dead body, missingit both times from sheer nervous excitement. The murderer then must haveemptied his victim's pockets, and, finding the key of the garden,thought that it would be a safe way of evading capture by cutting acrossthe squares, under the tunnel, and so through the more distant gatewhich faced Portland Place."The loss of the revolver was one of those unforeseen accidents which aretributive Providence places in the path of the miscreant, deliveringhim by his own act of folly into the hands of human justice."Mr. John Ashley, however, did not appear the least bit impressed by therecital of his crime. He had not engaged the services of one of the mosteminent lawyers, expert at extracting contradictions from witnesses byskilful cross-examinations--oh, dear me, no! he had been contented withthose of a dull, prosy, very second-rate limb of the law, who, as hecalled his witnesses, was completely innocent of any desire to create asensation."He rose quietly from his seat, and, amidst breathless silence, calledthe first of three witnesses on behalf of his client. He calledthree--but he could have produced twelve--gentlemen, members of theAshton Club in Great Portland Street, all of whom swore that at threeo'clock on the morning of February 6th, that is to say, at the verymoment when the cries of 'Murder' roused the inhabitants of Park SquareWest, and the crime was being committed, Mr. John Ashley was sittingquietly in the club-rooms of the Ashton playing bridge with the threewitnesses. He had come in a few minutes before three--as the hall porterof the Club testified--and stayed for about an hour and a half."I need not tell you that this undoubted, this fully proved, _alibi_ wasa positive bombshell in the stronghold of the prosecution. The mostaccomplished criminal could not possibly be in two places at once, andthough the Ashton Club transgresses in many ways against the gamblinglaws of our very moral country, yet its members belong to the best, mostunimpeachable classes of society. Mr. Ashley had been seen and spoken toat the very moment of the crime by at least a dozen gentlemen whosetestimony was absolutely above suspicion."Mr. John Ashley's conduct throughout this astonishing phase of theinquiry remained perfectly calm and correct. It was no doubt theconsciousness of being able to prove his innocence with such absoluteconclusion that had steadied his nerves throughout the proceedings."His answers to the magistrate were clear and simple, even on theticklish subject of the revolver."'I left the club, sir,' he explained, 'fully determined to speak withMr. Cohen alone in order to ask him for a delay in the settlement of mydebt to him. You will understand that I should not care to do this inthe presence of other gentlemen. I went home for a minute or two--not inorder to fetch a revolver, as the police assert, for I always carry arevolver about with me in foggy weather--but in order to see if a veryimportant business letter had come for me in my absence."'Then I went out again, and met Mr. Aaron Cohen not far from theHarewood Club. I walked the greater part of the way with him, and ourconversation was of the most amicable character. We parted at the top ofPortland Place, near the gate of the Square, where the policeman saw us.Mr. Cohen then had the intention of cutting across the Square, as beinga shorter way to his own house. I thought the Square looked dark anddangerous in the fog, especially as Mr. Cohen was carrying a large sumof money."'We had a short discussion on the subject, and finally I persuaded himto take my revolver, as I was going home only through very frequentedstreets, and moreover carried nothing that was worth stealing. After alittle demur Mr. Cohen accepted the loan of my revolver, and that ishow it came to be found on the actual scene of the crime; finally Iparted from Mr. Cohen a very few minutes after I had heard the churchclock striking a quarter before three. I was at the Oxford Street end ofGreat Portland Street at five minutes to three, and it takes at leastten minutes to walk from where I was to the Ashton Club.'"This explanation was all the more credible, mind you, because thequestion of the revolver had never been very satisfactorily explained bythe prosecution. A man who has effectually strangled his victim wouldnot discharge two shots of his revolver for, apparently, no otherpurpose than that of rousing the attention of the nearest passer-by. Itwas far more likely that it was Mr. Cohen who shot--perhaps wildly intothe air, when suddenly attacked from behind. Mr. Ashley's explanationtherefore was not only plausible, it was the only possible one."You will understand therefore how it was that, after nearly half anhour's examination, the magistrate, the police, and the public werealike pleased to proclaim that the accused left the court without astain upon his character."CHAPTER XXXFRIENDS"Yes," interrupted Polly eagerly, since, for once, her acumen had beenat least as sharp as his, "but suspicion of that horrible crime onlyshifted its taint from one friend to another, and, of course, I know--""But that's just it," he quietly interrupted, "you don't know--Mr.Walter Hatherell, of course, you mean. So did every one else at once.The friend, weak and willing, committing a crime on behalf of hiscowardly, yet more assertive friend who had tempted him to evil. It wasa good theory; and was held pretty generally, I fancy, even by thepolice."I say 'even' because they worked really hard in order to build up acase against young Hatherell, but the great difficulty was that of time.At the hour when the policeman had seen the two men outside Park Squaretogether, Walter Hatherell was still sitting in the Harewood Club, whichhe never left until twenty minutes to two. Had he wished to waylay androb Aaron Cohen he would not have waited surely till the time whenpresumably the latter would already have reached home."Moreover, twenty minutes was an incredibly short time in which to walkfrom Hanover Square to Regent's Park without the chance of cuttingacross the squares, to look for a man, whose whereabouts you could notdetermine to within twenty yards or so, to have an argument with him,murder him, and ransack his pockets. And then there was the totalabsence of motive.""But--" said Polly meditatively, for she remembered now that theRegent's Park murder, as it had been popularly called, was one of thosewhich had remained as impenetrable a mystery as any other crime had everbeen in the annals of the police.The man in the corner cocked his funny birdlike head well on one sideand looked at her, highly amused evidently at her perplexity."You do not see how that murder was committed?" he asked with a grin.Polly was bound to admit that she did not."If you had happened to have been in Mr. John Ashley's predicament," hepersisted, "you do not see how you could conveniently have done awaywith Mr. Aaron Cohen, pocketed his winnings, and then led the police ofyour country entirely by the nose, by proving an indisputable _alibi_?""I could not arrange conveniently," she retorted, "to be in twodifferent places half a mile apart at one and the same time.""No! I quite admit that you could not do this unless you also had afriend--""A friend? But you say--""I say that I admired Mr. John Ashley, for his was the head whichplanned the whole thing, but he could not have accomplished thefascinating and terrible drama without the help of willing and ablehands.""Even then--" she protested."Point number one," he began excitedly, fidgeting with his inevitablepiece of string. "John Ashley and his friend Walter Hatherell leave theclub together, and together decide on the plan of campaign. Hatherellreturns to the club, and Ashley goes to fetch the revolver--the revolverwhich played such an important part in the drama, but not the partassigned to it by the police. Now try to follow Ashley closely, as hedogs Aaron Cohen's footsteps. Do you believe that he entered intoconversation with him? That he walked by his side? That he asked fordelay? No! He sneaked behind him and caught him by the throat, as thegarroters used to do in the fog. Cohen was apoplectic, and Ashley isyoung and powerful. Moreover, he meant to kill--""But the two men talked together outside the Square gates," protestedPolly, "one of whom was Cohen, and the other Ashley.""Pardon me," he said, jumping up in his seat like a monkey on a stick,"there were not two men talking outside the Square gates. According tothe testimony of James Funnell, the constable, two men were leaning armin arm against the railings and _one_ man was talking.""Then you think that--""At the hour when James Funnell heard Holy Trinity clock strikinghalf-past two Aaron Cohen was already dead. Look how simple the wholething is," he added eagerly, "and how easy after that--easy, but oh,dear me! how wonderfully, how stupendously clever. As soon as JamesFunnell has passed on, John Ashley, having opened the gate, lifts thebody of Aaron Cohen in his arms and carries him across the Square. TheSquare is deserted, of course, but the way is easy enough, and we mustpresume that Ashley had been in it before. Anyway, there was no fear ofmeeting any one."In the meantime Hatherell has left the club: as fast as his athleticlegs can carry him he rushes along Oxford Street and Portland Place. Ithad been arranged between the two miscreants that the Square gate shouldbe left on the latch."Close on Ashley's heels now, Hatherell too cuts across the Square, andreaches the further gate in good time to give his confederate a hand indisposing the body against the railings. Then, without another instant'sdelay, Ashley runs back across the gardens, straight to the Ashton Club,throwing away the keys of the dead man, on the very spot where he hadmade it a point of being seen and heard by a passer-by."Hatherell gives his friend six or seven minutes' start, then he beginsthe altercation which lasts two or three minutes, and finally rouses theneighbourhood with cries of 'Murder' and report of pistol in order toestablish that the crime was committed at the hour when its perpetratorhas already made out an indisputable _alibi_.""I don't know what you think of it all, of course," added the funnycreature as he fumbled for his coat and his gloves, "but I call theplanning of that murder--on the part of novices, mind you--one of thecleverest pieces of strategy I have ever come across. It is one of thosecases where there is no possibility whatever now of bringing the crimehome to its perpetrator or his abettor. They have not left a singleproof behind them; they foresaw everything, and each acted his part witha coolness and courage which, applied to a great and good cause, wouldhave made fine statesmen of them both."As it is, I fear, they are just a pair of young blackguards, who haveescaped human justice, and have only deserved the full and ungrudgingadmiration of yours very sincerely."He had gone. Polly wanted to call him back, but his meagre person was nolonger visible through the glass door. There were many things she wouldhave wished to ask of him--what were his proofs, his facts? His weretheories, after all, and yet, somehow, she felt that he had solved onceagain one of the darkest mysteries of great criminal London.CHAPTER XXXITHE DE GENNEVILLE PEERAGEThe man in the corner rubbed his chin thoughtfully, and looked out uponthe busy street below."I suppose," he said, "there is some truth in the saying that Providencewatches over bankrupts, kittens, and lawyers.""I didn't know there was such a saying," replied Polly, with guardeddignity."Isn't there? Perhaps I am misquoting; anyway, there should be. Kittens,it seems, live and thrive through social and domestic upheavals whichwould annihilate a self-supporting tom-cat, and to-day I read in themorning papers the account of a noble lord's bankruptcy, and in thesociety ones that of his visit at the house of a Cabinet minister, wherehe is the most honoured guest. As for lawyers, when Providence hadexhausted all other means of securing their welfare, it brought forththe peerage cases.""I believe, as a matter of fact, that this special dispensation ofProvidence, as you call it, requires more technical knowledge than anyother legal complication that comes before the law courts," she said."And also a great deal more money in the client's pocket than any othercomplication. Now, take the Brockelsby peerage case. Have you any ideahow much money was spent over that soap bubble, which only burst aftermany hundreds, if not thousands, of pounds went in lawyers' andcounsels' fees?""I suppose a great deal of money was spent on both sides," she replied,"until that sudden, awful issue--""Which settled the dispute effectually," he interrupted with a drychuckle. "Of course, it is very doubtful if any reputable solicitorwould have taken up the case. Timothy Beddingfield, the Birminghamlawyer, is a gentleman who--well--has had some misfortunes, shall wesay? He is still on the rolls, mind you, but I doubt if any case wouldhave its chances improved by his conducting it. Against that there isjust this to be said, that some of these old peerages have such peculiarhistories, and own such wonderful archives, that a claim is always worthinvestigating--you never know what may be the rights of it."I believe that, at first, every one laughed over the pretensions of theHon. Robert Ingram de Genneville to the joint title and part revenues ofthe old barony of Genneville, but, obviously, he _might_ have got hiscase. It certainly sounded almost like a fairy-tale, this claim basedupon the supposed validity of an ancient document over 400 years old. Itwas _then_ that a mediaeval Lord de Genneville, more endowed with musclethan common sense, became during his turbulent existence muchembarrassed and hopelessly puzzled through the presentation made to himby his lady of twin-born sons."His embarrassment chiefly arose from the fact that my lady'sattendants, while ministering to the comfort of the mother, had, in amoment of absent-mindedness, so placed the two infants in their cot thatsubsequently no one, not even--perhaps least of all--the mother, couldtell which was the one who had been the first to make his appearanceinto this troublesome and puzzling world."After many years of cogitation, during which the Lord de Gennevilleapproached nearer to the grave and his sons to man's estate, he gave uptrying to solve the riddle as to which of the twins should succeed tohis title and revenues; he appealed to his Liege Lord and King--Edward,fourth of that name--and with the latter's august sanction he drew up acertain document, wherein he enacted that both his sons should, afterhis death, share his titles and goodly revenues, and that the first sonborn in wedlock of _either_ father should subsequently be the sole heir."In this document was also added that if in future times should anyLords de Genneville be similarly afflicted with twin sons, who had equalrights to be considered the eldest born, the same rule should apply asto the succession."Subsequently a Lord de Genneville was created Earl of Brockelsby by oneof the Stuart kings, but for four hundred years after its enactment theextraordinary deed of succession remained a mere tradition, theCountesses of Brockelsby having, seemingly, no predilection for twins.But in 1878 the mistress of Brockelsby Castle presented her lord withtwin-born sons."Fortunately, in modern times, science is more wide-awake, andattendants more careful. The twin brothers did not get mixed up, and oneof them was styled Viscount Tirlemont, and was heir to the earldom,whilst the other, born two hours later, was that fascinating, dashingyoung Guardsman, well known at Hurlingham, Goodwood, London, and in hisown county--the Hon. Robert Ingram de Genneville."It certainly was an evil day for this brilliant young scion of theancient race when he lent an ear to Timothy Beddingfield. This man, andhis family before him, had been solicitors to the Earls of Brockelsbyfor many generations, but Timothy, owing to certain 'irregularities,'had forfeited the confidence of his client, the late earl."He was still in practice in Birmingham, however, and, of course, knewthe ancient family tradition anent the twin succession. Whether he wasprompted by revenge or merely self-advertisement no one knows."Certain it is that he did advise the Hon. Robert de Genneville--whoapparently had more debts than he conveniently could pay, and moreextravagant tastes than he could gratify on a younger son's portion--tolay a claim, on his father's death, to the joint title and a moiety ofthe revenues of the ancient barony of Genneville, that claim being basedupon the validity of the fifteenth-century document."You may gather how extensive were the pretensions of the Hon. Robertfrom the fact that the greater part of Edgbaston is now built upon landbelonging to the old barony. Anyway, it was the last straw in an oceanof debt and difficulties, and I have no doubt that Beddingfield had notmuch trouble in persuading the Hon. Robert to commence litigation atonce."The young Earl of Brockelsby's attitude, however, remained one ofabsolute quietude in his nine points of the law. He was in possessionboth of the title and of the document. It was for the other side toforce him to produce the one or to share the other."It was at this stage of the proceedings that the Hon. Robert wasadvised to marry, in order to secure, if possible, the first male heirof the next generation, since the young earl himself was still abachelor. A suitable _fiancee_ was found for him by his friends in theperson of Miss Mabel Brandon, the daughter of a rich Birminghammanufacturer, and the marriage was fixed to take place at Birmingham onThursday, September 15th, 1907."On the 13th the Hon. Robert Ingram de Genneville arrived at the CastleHotel in New Street for his wedding, and on the 14th, at eight o'clockin the morning, he was discovered lying on the floor of hisbedroom--murdered."The sensation which the awful and unexpected sequel to the DeGenneville peerage case caused in the minds of the friends of bothlitigants was quite unparalleled. I don't think any crime of moderntimes created quite so much stir in all classes of society. Birminghamwas wild with excitement, and the employes of the Castle Hotel had realdifficulty in keeping off the eager and inquisitive crowd who throngeddaily to the hall, vainly hoping to gather details of news relating tothe terrible tragedy."At present there was but little to tell. The shrieks of thechambermaid, who had gone into the Hon. Robert's room with his shavingwater at eight o'clock, had attracted some of the waiters. Soon themanager and his secretary came up, and immediately sent for the police."It seemed at first sight as if the young man had been the victim of ahomicidal maniac, so brutal had been the way in which he had beenassassinated. The head and body were battered and bruised by some heavystick or poker, almost past human shape, as if the murderer had wishedto wreak some awful vengeance upon the body of his victim. In fact, itwould be impossible to recount the gruesome aspect of that room and ofthe murdered man's body such as the police and the medical officer tooknote of that day."It was supposed that the murder had been committed the evening before,as the victim was dressed in his evening clothes, and all the lights inthe room had been left fully turned on. Robbery, also, must have had alarge share in the miscreant's motives, for the drawers and cupboards,the portmanteau and dressing-bag had been ransacked as if in search ofvaluables. On the floor there lay a pocket-book torn in half and onlycontaining a few letters addressed to the Hon. Robert de Genneville."The Earl of Brockelsby, next-of-kin to the deceased, was alsotelegraphed for. He drove over from Brockelsby Castle, which is aboutseven miles from Birmingham. He was terribly affected by the awfulnessof the tragedy, and offered a liberal reward to stimulate the activityof the police in search of the miscreant."The inquest was fixed for the 17th, three days later, and the publicwas left wondering where the solution lay of the terrible and gruesomemurder at the Castle Hotel."CHAPTER XXXIIA HIGH-BRED GENTLEMAN"The central figure in the coroner's court that day was undoubtedly theEarl of Brockelsby in deep black, which contrasted strongly with hisflorid complexion and fair hair. Sir Marmaduke Ingersoll, his solicitor,was with him, and he had already performed the painful duty ofidentifying the deceased as his brother. This had been an exceedinglypainful duty owing to the terribly mutilated state of the body and face;but the clothes and various trinkets he wore, including a signet ring,had fortunately not tempted the brutal assassin, and it was through themchiefly that Lord Brockelsby was able to swear to the identity of hisbrother."The various employes at the hotel gave evidence as to the discovery ofthe body, and the medical officer gave his opinion as to the immediatecause of death. Deceased had evidently been struck at the back of thehead with a poker or heavy stick, the murderer then venting his blindfury upon the body by battering in the face and bruising it in a waythat certainly suggested the work of a maniac."Then the Earl of Brockelsby was called, and was requested by thecoroner to state when he had last seen his brother alive."'The morning before his death,' replied his lordship, 'he came up toBirmingham by an early train, and I drove up from Brockelsby to see him.I got to the hotel at eleven o'clock and stayed with him for about anhour.'"'And that is the last you saw of the deceased?'"'That is the last I saw of him,' replied Lord Brockelsby."He seemed to hesitate for a moment or two as if in thought whether heshould speak or not, and then to suddenly make up his mind to speak, forhe added: 'I stayed in town the whole of that day, and only drove backto Brockelsby late in the evening. I had some business to transact, andput up at the Grand, as I usually do, and dined with some friends.'"'Would you tell us at what time you returned to Brockelsby Castle?'"'I think it must have been about eleven o'clock. It is a seven-miledrive from here.'"'I believe,' said the coroner after a slight pause, during which theattention of all the spectators was riveted upon the handsome figure ofthe young man as he stood in the witness-box, the very personificationof a high-bred gentleman, 'I believe that I am right in stating thatthere was an unfortunate legal dispute between your lordship and yourbrother?'"'That is so.'"The coroner stroked his chin thoughtfully for a moment or two, then headded:"'In the event of the deceased's claim to the joint title and revenuesof De Genneville being held good in the courts of law, there would be agreat importance, would there not, attached to his marriage, which wasto have taken place on the 15th?'"'In that event, there certainly would be.'"'Is the jury to understand, then, that you and the deceased parted onamicable terms after your interview with him in the morning?'"The Earl of Brockelsby hesitated again for a minute or two, while thecrowd and the jury hung breathless on his lips."'There was no enmity between us,' he replied at last."'From which we may gather that there may have been--shall I say--aslight disagreement at that interview?'"'My brother had unfortunately been misled by the misrepresentations orperhaps the too optimistic views of his lawyer. He had been dragged intolitigation on the strength of an old family document which he had neverseen, which, moreover, is antiquated, and, owing to certain wording init, invalid. I thought that it would be kinder and more considerate ifI were to let my brother judge of the document for himself. I knew thatwhen he had seen it he would be convinced of the absolutely futile basisof his claim, and that it would be a terrible disappointment to him.That is the reason why I wished to see him myself about it, rather thanto do it through the more formal--perhaps more correct--medium of ourrespective lawyers. I placed the facts before him with, on my part, aperfectly amicable spirit.'"The young Earl of Brockelsby had made this somewhat lengthy, perfectlyvoluntary explanation of the state of affairs in a calm, quiet voice,with much dignity and perfect simplicity, but the coroner did not seemimpressed by it, for he asked very drily:"'Did you part good friends?'"'On my side absolutely so.'"'But not on his?' insisted the coroner."'I think he felt naturally annoyed that he had been so ill-advised byhis solicitors.'"'And you made no attempt later on in the day to adjust any ill-feelingthat may have existed between you and him?' asked the coroner, markingwith strange, earnest emphasis every word he uttered."'If you mean did I go and see my brother again that day--no, I didnot.'"'And your lordship can give us no further information which mightthrow some light upon the mystery which surrounds the Hon. Robert deGenneville's death?' still persisted the coroner."'I am sorry to say I cannot,' replied the Earl of Brockelsby with firmdecision."The coroner still looked puzzled and thoughtful. It seemed at first asif he wished to press his point further; every one felt that some deepimport had lain behind his examination of the witness, and all were ontenter-hooks as to what the next evidence might bring forth. The Earl ofBrockelsby had waited a minute or two, then, at a sign from the coroner,had left the witness-box in order to have a talk with his solicitor."At first he paid no attention to the depositions of the cashier andhall porter of the Castle Hotel, but gradually it seemed to strike himthat curious statements were being made by these witnesses, and a frownof anxious wonder settled between his brows, whilst his young face lostsome of its florid hue."Mr. Tremlett, the cashier at the hotel, had been holding the attentionof the court. He stated that the Hon. Robert Ingram de Genneville hadarrived at the hotel at eight o'clock on the morning of the 13th; he hadthe room which he usually occupied when he came to the 'Castle,' namely,No. 21, and he went up to it immediately on his arrival, ordering somebreakfast to be brought up to him."At eleven o'clock the Earl of Brockelsby called to see his brother andremained with him until about twelve. In the afternoon the deceased wentout, and returned for his dinner at seven o'clock in company with agentleman whom the cashier knew well by sight, Mr. Timothy Beddingfield,the lawyer, of Paradise Street. The gentlemen had their dinnerdownstairs, and after that they went up to the Hon. Mr. de Genneville'sroom for coffee and cigars."'I could not say at what time Mr. Beddingfield left,' continued thecashier, 'but I rather fancy I saw him in the hall at about 9.15 p.m. Hewas wearing an Inverness cape over his dress clothes and a Glengarrycap. It was just at the hour when the visitors who had come down for thenight from London were arriving thick and fast; the hall was very full,and there was a large party of Americans monopolising most of our_personnel_, so I could not swear positively whether I did see Mr.Beddingfield or not then, though I am quite sure that it was Mr. TimothyBeddingfield who dined and spent the evening with the Hon. Mr. deGenneville, as I know him quite well by sight. At ten o'clock I am offduty, and the night porter remains alone in the hall.'"Mr. Tremlett's evidence was corroborated in most respects by a waiterand by the hall porter. They had both seen the deceased come in at seveno'clock in company with a gentleman, and their description of thelatter coincided with that of the appearance of Mr. TimothyBeddingfield, whom, however, they did not actually know."At this point of the proceedings the foreman of the jury wished to knowwhy Mr. Timothy Beddingfield's evidence had not been obtained, and wasinformed by the detective-inspector in charge of the case that thatgentleman had seemingly left Birmingham, but was expected home shortly.The coroner suggested an adjournment pending Mr. Beddingfield'sappearance, but at the earnest request of the detective he consented tohear the evidence of Peter Tyrrell, the night porter at the CastleHotel, who, if you remember the case at all, succeeded in creating thebiggest sensation of any which had been made through this extraordinaryand weirdly gruesome case."'It was the first time I had been on duty at "The Castle," he said,'for I used to be night porter at "Bright's," in Wolverhampton, but justafter I had come on duty at ten o'clock a gentleman came and asked if hecould see the Hon. Robert de Genneville. I said that I thought he wasin, but would send up and see. The gentleman said: "It doesn't matter.Don't trouble; I know his room. Twenty-one, isn't it?" And up he wentbefore I could say another word.'"'Did he give you any name?' asked the coroner."'No, sir.'"'What was he like?'"'A young gentleman, sir, as far as I can remember, in an Inverness capeand Glengarry cap, but I could not see his face very well as he stoodwith his back to the light, and the cap shaded his eyes, and he onlyspoke to me for a minute.'"'Look all round you,' said the coroner quietly. 'Is there any one inthis court at all like the gentleman you speak of?'"An awed hush fell over the many spectators there present as PeterTyrrell, the night porter of the Castle Hotel, turned his head towardsthe body of the court and slowly scanned the many faces there present;for a moment he seemed to hesitate--only for a moment though, then, asif vaguely conscious of the terrible importance his next words mighthave, he shook his head gravely and said:"'I wouldn't like to swear.'"The coroner tried to press him, but with true British stolidity herepeated: 'I wouldn't like to say.'"'Well, then, what happened?' asked the coroner, who had perforce toabandon his point."'The gentleman went upstairs, sir, and about a quarter of an hour laterhe come down again, and I let him out. He was in a great hurry then, hethrew me a half-crown and said: "Good night."'"'And though you saw him again then, you cannot tell us if you wouldknow him again?'"Once more the hall porter's eyes wandered as if instinctively to acertain face in the court; once more he hesitated for many seconds whichseemed like so many hours, during which a man's honour, a man's life,hung perhaps in the balance."Then Peter Tyrrell repeated slowly: 'I wouldn't swear.'"But coroner and jury alike, aye, and every spectator in that crowdedcourt, had seen that the man's eyes had rested during that one moment ofhesitation upon the face of the Earl of Brockelsby."CHAPTER XXXIIITHE LIVING AND THE DEADThe man in the corner blinked across at Polly with his funny mild blueeyes."No wonder you are puzzled," he continued, "so was everybody in thecourt that day, every one save myself. I alone could see in my mind'seye that gruesome murder such as it had been committed, with all itsdetails, and, above all, its motive, and such as you will see itpresently, when I place it all clearly before you."But before you see daylight in this strange case, I must plunge youinto further darkness, in the same manner as the coroner and jury wereplunged on the following day, the second day of that remarkable inquest.It had to be adjourned, since the appearance of Mr. Timothy Beddingfieldhad now become of vital importance. The public had come to regard hisabsence from Birmingham at this critical moment as decidedly remarkable,to say the least of it, and all those who did not know the lawyer bysight wished to see him in his Inverness cape and Glengarry cap such ashe had appeared before the several witnesses on the night of the awfulmurder."When the coroner and jury were seated, the first piece of informationwhich the police placed before them was the astounding statement thatMr. Timothy Beddingfield's whereabouts had not been ascertained, thoughit was confidently expected that he had not gone far and could easily betraced. There was a witness present who, the police thought, might throwsome light as to the lawyer's probable destination, for obviously he hadleft Birmingham directly after his interview with the deceased."This witness was Mrs. Higgins, who was Mr. Beddingfield's housekeeper.She stated that her master was in the constant habit--especiallylatterly--of going up to London on business. He usually left by a lateevening train on those occasions, and mostly was only absent thirty-sixhours. He kept a portmanteau always ready packed for the purpose, for heoften left at a few moments' notice. Mrs. Higgins added that her masterstayed at the Great Western Hotel in London, for it was there that shewas instructed to wire if anything urgent required his presence back inBirmingham."'On the night of the 14th,' she continued, 'at nine o'clock orthereabouts, a messenger came to the door with the master's card, andsaid that he was instructed to fetch Mr. Beddingfield's portmanteau, andthen to meet him at the station in time to catch the 9.35 p.m. up train.I gave him the portmanteau, of course, as he had brought the card, andI had no idea there could be anything wrong; but since then I have heardnothing of my master, and I don't know when he will return.'"Questioned by the coroner, she added that Mr. Beddingfield had neverstayed away quite so long without having his letters forwarded to him.There was a large pile waiting for him now; she had written to the GreatWestern Hotel, London, asking what she should do about the letters, buthad received no reply. She did not know the messenger by sight who hadcalled for the portmanteau. Once or twice before Mr. Beddingfield hadsent for his things in that manner when he had been dining out."Mr. Beddingfield certainly wore his Inverness cape over his dressclothes when he went out at about six o'clock in the afternoon. He alsowore a Glengarry cap."The messenger had so far not yet been found, and from thispoint--namely, the sending for the portmanteau--all traces of Mr.Timothy Beddingfield seem to have been lost. Whether he went up toLondon by that 9.35 train or not could not be definitely ascertained.The police had questioned at least a dozen porters at the railway, aswell as ticket collectors; but no one had any special recollection of agentleman in an Inverness cape and Glengarry cap, a costume worn bymore than one first-class passenger on a cold night in September."There was the hitch, you see; it all lay in this. Mr. TimothyBeddingfield, the lawyer, had undoubtedly made himself scarce. He waslast seen in company with the deceased, and wearing an Inverness capeand Glengarry cap; two or three witnesses saw him leaving the hotel atabout 9.15. Then the messenger calls at the lawyer's house for theportmanteau, after which Mr. Timothy Beddingfield seems to vanish intothin air; but--and that is a great 'but'--the night porter at the'Castle' seems to have seen some one wearing the momentous Inverness andGlengarry half an hour or so later on, and going up to deceased's room,where he stayed about a quarter of an hour."Undoubtedly you will say, as every one said to themselves that dayafter the night porter and Mrs. Higgins had been heard, that there was avery ugly and very black finger which pointed unpleasantly at Mr.Timothy Beddingfield, especially as that gentleman, for some reasonwhich still required an explanation, was not there to put matters rightfor himself. But there was just one little thing--a mere trifle,perhaps--which neither the coroner nor the jury dared to overlook,though, strictly speaking, it was not evidence."You will remember that when the night porter was asked if he could,among the persons present in court, recognize the Hon. Robert deGenneville's belated visitor, every one had noticed his hesitation, andmarked that the man's eyes had rested doubtingly upon the face andfigure of the young Earl of Brockelsby."Now, if that belated visitor had been Mr. Timothy Beddingfield--tall,lean, dry as dust, with a bird-like beak and clean-shaven chin--no onecould for a moment have mistaken his face--even if they only saw it verycasually and recollected it but very dimly--with that of young LordBrockelsby, who was florid and rather short--the only point in commonbetween them was their Saxon hair."You see that it was a curious point, don't you?" added the man in thecorner, who now had become so excited that his fingers worked like longthin tentacles round and round his bit of string. "It weighed veryheavily in favour of Timothy Beddingfield. Added to which you must alsoremember that, as far as he was concerned, the Hon. Robert de Gennevillewas to him the goose with the golden eggs."The 'De Genneville peerage case' had brought Beddingfield's name ingreat prominence. With the death of the claimant all hopes of prolongingthe litigation came to an end. There was a total lack of motive as faras Beddingfield was concerned.""Not so with the Earl of Brockelsby," said Polly, "and I've oftenmaintained--""What?" he interrupted. "That the Earl of Brockelsby changed clotheswith Beddingfield in order more conveniently to murder his own brother?Where and when could the exchange of costume have been effected,considering that the Inverness cape and Glengarry cap were in the hallof the Castle Hotel at 9.15, and at that hour and until ten o'clock LordBrockelsby was at the Grand Hotel finishing dinner with some friends?That was subsequently proved, remember, and also that he was back atBrockelsby Castle, which is seven miles from Birmingham, at eleveno'clock sharp. Now, the visit of the individual in the Glengarryoccurred some time after 10 p.m.""Then there was the disappearance of Beddingfield," said the girlmusingly. "That certainly points very strongly to him. He was a man ingood practice, I believe, and fairly well known.""And has never been heard of from that day to this," concluded the oldscarecrow with a chuckle. "No wonder you are puzzled. The police werequite baffled, and still are, for a matter of that. And yet see howsimple it is! Only the police would not look further than these twomen--Lord Brockelsby with a strong motive and the night porter'shesitation against him, and Beddingfield without a motive, but withstrong circumstantial evidence and his own disappearance as condemnatorysigns."If only they would look at the case as I did, and think a little aboutthe dead as well as about the living. If they had remembered thatpeerage case, the Hon. Robert's debts, his last straw which proved afutile claim."Only that very day the Earl of Brockelsby had, by quietly showing theoriginal ancient document to his brother, persuaded him how futile wereall his hopes. Who knows how many were the debts contracted, thepromises made, the money borrowed and obtained on the strength of thatclaim which was mere romance? Ahead nothing but ruin, enmity with hisbrother, his marriage probably broken off, a wasted life, in fact."Is it small wonder that, though ill-feeling against the Earl ofBrockelsby may have been deep, there was hatred, bitter, deadly hatredagainst the man who with false promises had led him into so hopeless aquagmire? Probably the Hon. Robert owed a great deal of money toBeddingfield, which the latter hoped to recoup at usurious interest,with threats of scandal and what not."Think of all that," he added, "and then tell me if you believe that astronger motive for the murder of such an enemy could well be found.""But what you suggest is impossible," said Polly, aghast."Allow me," he said, "it is more than possible--it is very easy andsimple. The two men were alone together in the Hon. Robert deGenneville's room after dinner. You, as representing the public, and thepolice say that Beddingfield went away and returned half an hour laterin order to kill his client. I say that it was the lawyer who wasmurdered at nine o'clock that evening, and that Robert de Genneville,the ruined man, the hopeless bankrupt, was the assassin.""Then--""Yes, of course, now you remember, for I have put you on the track. Theface and the body were so battered and bruised that they were pastrecognition. Both men were of equal height. The hair, which alone couldnot be disfigured or obliterated, was in both men similar in colour."Then the murderer proceeds to dress his victim in his own clothes. Withthe utmost care he places his own rings on the fingers of the dead man,his own watch in the pocket; a gruesome task, but an important one, andit is thoroughly well done. Then he himself puts on the clothes of hisvictim, with finally the Inverness cape and Glengarry, and when the hallis full of visitors he slips out unperceived. He sends the messenger forBeddingfield's portmanteau and starts off by the night express.""But then his visit at the Castle Hotel at ten o'clock--" she urged."How dangerous!""Dangerous? Yes! but oh, how clever. You see, he was the Earl ofBrockelsby's twin brother, and twin brothers are always somewhat alike.He wished to appear dead, murdered by some one, he cared not whom, butwhat he did care about was to throw clouds of dust in the eyes of thepolice, and he succeeded with a vengeance. Perhaps--who knows?--hewished to assure himself that he had forgotten nothing in the _mise enscene_, that the body, battered and bruised past all semblance of anyhuman shape save for its clothes, really would appear to every one asthat of the Hon. Robert de Genneville, while the latter disappeared forever from the old world and started life again in the new."Then you must always reckon with the practically invariable rule that amurderer always revisits, if only once, the scene of his crime."Two years have elapsed since the crime; no trace of TimothyBeddingfield, the lawyer, has ever been found, and I can assure you thatit will never be, for his plebeian body lies buried in the aristocraticfamily vault of the Earl of Brockelsby."He was gone before Polly could say another word. The faces of TimothyBeddingfield, of the Earl of Brockelsby, of the Hon. Robert deGenneville seemed to dance before her eyes and to mock her for thehopeless bewilderment in which she found herself plunged because ofthem; then all the faces vanished, or, rather, were merged in one long,thin, bird-like one, with bone-rimmed spectacles on the top of itsbeak, and a wide, rude grin beneath it, and, still puzzled, stilldoubtful, the young girl too paid for her scanty luncheon and went herway.CHAPTER XXXIVTHE MYSTERIOUS DEATH IN PERCY STREETMiss Polly Burton had had many an argument with Mr. Richard Frobisherabout that old man in the corner, who seemed far more interesting anddeucedly more mysterious than any of the crimes over which hephilosophised.Dick thought, moreover, that Miss Polly spent more of her leisure timenow in that A.B.C. shop than she had done in his own company before, andtold her so, with that delightful air of sheepish sulkiness which themale creature invariably wears when he feels jealous and won't admit it.Polly liked Dick to be jealous, but she liked that old scarecrow in theA.B.C. shop very much too, and though she made sundry vague promisesfrom time to time to Mr. Richard Frobisher, she nevertheless driftedback instinctively day after day to the tea-shop in Norfolk Street,Strand, and stayed there sipping coffee for as long as the man in thecorner chose to talk.On this particular afternoon she went to the A.B.C. shop with a fixedpurpose, that of making him give her his views of Mrs. Owen's mysteriousdeath in Percy Street.The facts had interested and puzzled her. She had had countlessarguments with Mr. Richard Frobisher as to the three great possiblesolutions of the puzzle--"Accident, Suicide, Murder?""Undoubtedly neither accident nor suicide," he said dryly.Polly was not aware that she had spoken. What an uncanny habit thatcreature had of reading her thoughts!"You incline to the idea, then, that Mrs. Owen was murdered. Do you knowby whom?"He laughed, and drew forth the piece of string he always fidgeted withwhen unravelling some mystery."You would like to know who murdered that old woman?" he asked at last."I would like to hear your views on the subject," Polly replied."I have no views," he said dryly. "No one can know who murdered thewoman, since no one ever saw the person who did it. No one can give thefaintest description of the mysterious man who alone could havecommitted that clever deed, and the police are playing a game of blindman's buff.""But you must have formed some theory of your own," she persisted.It annoyed her that the funny creature was obstinate about this point,and she tried to nettle his vanity."I suppose that as a matter of fact your original remark that 'there areno such things as mysteries' does not apply universally. There is amystery--that of the death in Percy Street, and you, like the police,are unable to fathom it."He pulled up his eyebrows and looked at her for a minute or two."Confess that that murder was one of the cleverest bits of workaccomplished outside Russian diplomacy," he said with a nervous laugh."I must say that were I the judge, called upon to pronounce sentence ofdeath on the man who conceived that murder, I could not bring myself todo it. I would politely request the gentleman to enter our ForeignOffice--we have need of such men. The whole _mise en scene_ was trulyartistic, worthy of its _milieu_--the Rubens Studios in Percy Street,Tottenham Court Road."Have you ever noticed them? They are only studios by name, and aremerely a set of rooms in a corner house, with the windows slightlyenlarged, and the rents charged accordingly in consideration of thatadditional five inches of smoky daylight, filtering through dustywindows. On the ground floor there is the order office of some stainedglass works, with a workshop in the rear, and on the first floor landinga small room allotted to the caretaker, with gas, coal, and fifteenshillings a week, for which princely income she is deputed to keep tidyand clean the general aspect of the house."Mrs. Owen, who was the caretaker there, was a quiet, respectable woman,who eked out her scanty wages by sundry--mostly very meagre--tips doledout to her by impecunious artists in exchange for promiscuous domesticservices in and about the respective studios."But if Mrs. Owen's earnings were not large, they were very regular, andshe had no fastidious tastes. She and her cockatoo lived on her wages;and all the tips added up, and never spent, year after year, went toswell a very comfortable little account at interest in the BirkbeckBank. This little account had mounted up to a very tidy sum, and thethrifty widow--or old maid--no one ever knew which she was--wasgenerally referred to by the young artists of the Rubens Studios as a'lady of means.' But this is a digression."No one slept on the premises except Mrs. Owen and her cockatoo. Therule was that one by one as the tenants left their rooms in the eveningthey took their respective keys to the caretaker's room. She would then,in the early morning, tidy and dust the studios and the officedownstairs, lay the fire and carry up coals."The foreman of the glass works was the first to arrive in the morning.He had a latch-key, and let himself in, after which it was the custom ofthe house that he should leave the street door open for the benefit ofthe other tenants and their visitors."Usually, when he came at about nine o'clock, he found Mrs. Owen busyabout the house doing her work, and he had often a brief chat with herabout the weather, but on this particular morning of February 2nd heneither saw nor heard her. However, as the shop had been tidied and thefire laid, he surmised that Mrs. Owen had finished her work earlier thanusual, and thought no more about it. One by one the tenants of thestudios turned up, and the day sped on without any one's attention beingdrawn noticeably to the fact that the caretaker had not appeared uponthe scene."It had been a bitterly cold night, and the day was even worse; acutting north-easterly gale was blowing, there had been a great deal ofsnow during the night which lay quite thick on the ground, and at fiveo'clock in the afternoon, when the last glimmer of the pale winterdaylight had disappeared, the confraternity of the brush put palette andeasel aside and prepared to go home. The first to leave was Mr. CharlesPitt; he locked up his studio and, as usual, took his key into thecaretaker's room."He had just opened the door when an icy blast literally struck him inthe face; both the windows were wide open, and the snow and sleet werebeating thickly into the room, forming already a white carpet upon thefloor."The room was in semi-obscurity, and at first Mr. Pitt saw nothing, butinstinctively realizing that something was wrong, he lit a match, andsaw before him the spectacle of that awful and mysterious tragedy whichhas ever since puzzled both police and public. On the floor, alreadyhalf covered by the drifting snow, lay the body of Mrs. Owen facedownwards, in a nightgown, with feet and ankles bare, and these and herhands were of a deep purple colour; whilst in a corner of the room,huddled up with the cold, the body of the cockatoo lay stark and stiff."CHAPTER XXXVSUICIDE OR MURDER?"At first there was only talk of a terrible accident, the result of someinexplicable carelessness which perhaps the evidence at the inquestwould help to elucidate."Medical assistance came too late; the unfortunate woman was indeeddead, frozen to death, inside her own room. Further examination showedthat she had received a severe blow at the back of the head, which musthave stunned her and caused her to fall, helpless, beside the openwindow. Temperature at five degrees below zero had done the rest.Detective Inspector Howell discovered close to the window a wrought-irongas bracket, the height of which corresponded exactly with the bruise atthe back of Mrs. Owen's head."Hardly however had a couple of days elapsed when public curiosity waswhetted by a few startling headlines, such as the halfpenny eveningpapers alone know how to concoct."'The mysterious death in Percy Street.' 'Is it Suicide or Murder?''Thrilling details--Strange developments.' 'Sensational Arrest.'"What had happened was simply this:"At the inquest a few certainly very curious facts connected with Mrs.Owen's life had come to light, and this had led to the apprehension of ayoung man of very respectable parentage on a charge of being concernedin the tragic death of the unfortunate caretaker."To begin with, it happened that her life, which in an ordinary wayshould have been very monotonous and regular, seemed, at any ratelatterly, to have been more than usually chequered and excited. Everywitness who had known her in the past concurred in the statement thatsince October last a great change had come over the worthy and honestwoman."I happen to have a photo of Mrs. Owen as she was before this greatchange occurred in her quiet and uneventful life, and which led, as faras the poor soul was concerned, to such disastrous results."Here she is to the life," added the funny creature, placing the photobefore Polly--"as respectable, as stodgy, as uninteresting as it is wellpossible for a member of your charming sex to be; not a face, you willadmit, to lead any youngster to temptation or to induce him to commit acrime."Nevertheless one day all the tenants of the Rubens Studios weresurprised and shocked to see Mrs. Owen, quiet, respectable Mrs. Owen,sallying forth at six o'clock in the afternoon, attired in anextravagant bonnet and a cloak trimmed with imitation astrakhanwhich--slightly open in front--displayed a gold locket and chain ofastonishing proportions."Many were the comments, the hints, the bits of sarcasm levelled at theworthy woman by the frivolous confraternity of the brush."The plot thickened when from that day forth a complete change came overthe worthy caretaker of the Rubens Studios. While she appeared day afterday before the astonished gaze of the tenants and the scandalized looksof the neighbours, attired in new and extravagant dresses, her work washopelessly neglected, and she was always 'out' when wanted."There was, of course, much talk and comment in various parts of theRubens Studios on the subject of Mrs. Owen's 'dissipations.' The tenantsbegan to put two and two together, and after a very little while thegeneral consensus of opinion became firmly established that the honestcaretaker's demoralisation coincided week for week, almost day for day,with young Greenhill's establishment in No. 8 Studio."Every one had remarked that he stayed much later in the evening thanany one else, and yet no one presumed that he stayed for purposes ofwork. Suspicions soon rose to certainty when Mrs. Owen and ArthurGreenhill were seen by one of the glass workmen dining together atGambia's Restaurant in Tottenham Court Road."The workman, who was having a cup of tea at the counter, noticedparticularly that when the bill was paid the money came out of Mrs.Owen's purse. The dinner had been sumptuous--veal cutlets, a cut fromthe joint, dessert, coffee and liqueurs. Finally the pair left therestaurant apparently very gay, young Greenhill smoking a choice cigar."Irregularities such as these were bound sooner or later to come to theears and eyes of Mr. Allman, the landlord of the Rubens Studios; and amonth after the New Year, without further warning, he gave her a week'snotice to quit his house."'Mrs. Owen did not seem the least bit upset when I gave her notice,'Mr. Allman declared in his evidence at the inquest; 'on the contrary,she told me that she had ample means, and had only worked latterly forthe sake of something to do. She added that she had plenty of friendswho would look after her, for she had a nice little pile to leave to anyone who would know how "to get the right side of her."'"Nevertheless, in spite of this cheerful interview, Miss Bedford, thetenant of No. 6 Studio, had stated that when she took her key to thecaretaker's room at 6.30 that afternoon she found Mrs. Owen in tears.The caretaker refused to be comforted, nor would she speak of hertrouble to Miss Bedford."Twenty-four hours later she was found dead."The coroner's jury returned an open verdict, and Detective-InspectorJones was charged by the police to make some inquiries about young Mr.Greenhill, whose intimacy with the unfortunate woman had beenuniversally commented upon."The detective, however, pushed his investigations as far as theBirkbeck Bank. There he discovered that after her interview with Mr.Allman, Mrs. Owen had withdrawn what money she had on deposit, someL800, the result of twenty-five years' saving and thrift."But the immediate result of Detective-Inspector Jones's labours wasthat Mr. Arthur Greenhill, lithographer, was brought before themagistrate at Bow Street on the charge of being concerned in the deathof Mrs. Owen, caretaker of the Rubens Studios, Percy Street."Now that magisterial inquiry is one of the few interesting ones which Ihad the misfortune to miss," continued the man in the corner, with anervous shake of the shoulders. "But you know as well as I do how theattitude of the young prisoner impressed the magistrate and police sounfavourably that, with every new witness brought forward, his positionbecame more and more unfortunate."Yet he was a good-looking, rather coarsely built young fellow, withone of those awful Cockney accents which literally make one jump. But helooked painfully nervous, stammered at every word spoken, and repeatedlygave answers entirely at random."His father acted as lawyer for him, a rough-looking elderly man, whohad the appearance of a common country attorney rather than of a Londonsolicitor."The police had built up a fairly strong case against the lithographer.Medical evidence revealed nothing new: Mrs. Owen had died from exposure,the blow at the back of the head not being sufficiently serious to causeanything but temporary disablement. When the medical officer had beencalled in, death had intervened for some time; it was quite impossibleto say how long, whether one hour or five or twelve."The appearance and state of the room, when the unfortunate woman wasfound by Mr. Charles Pitt, were again gone over in minute detail. Mrs.Owen's clothes, which she had worn during the day, were folded neatly ona chair. The key of her cupboard was in the pocket of her dress. Thedoor had been slightly ajar, but both the windows were wide open; one ofthem, which had the sash-line broken, had been fastened up mostscientifically with a piece of rope."Mrs. Owen had obviously undressed preparatory to going to bed, and themagistrate very naturally soon made the remark how untenable the theoryof an accident must be. No one in their five senses would undress with atemperature at below zero, and the windows wide open."After these preliminary statements the cashier of the Birkbeck wascalled and he related the caretaker's visit at the bank."'It was then about one o'clock,' he stated. 'Mrs. Owen called andpresented a cheque to self for L827, the amount of her balance. Sheseemed exceedingly happy and cheerful, and talked about needing plentyof cash, as she was going abroad to join her nephew, for whom she wouldin future keep house. I warned her about being sufficiently careful withso large a sum, and parting from it injudiciously, as women of her classare very apt to do. She laughingly declared that not only was shecareful of it in the present, but meant to be so for the far-off future,for she intended to go that very day to a lawyer's office and to make awill.'"The cashier's evidence was certainly startling in the extreme, since inthe widow's room no trace of any kind was found of any money; againstthat, two of the notes handed over by the bank to Mrs. Owen on that daywere cashed by young Greenhill on the very morning of her mysteriousdeath. One was handed in by him to the West End Clothiers Company, inpayment for a suit of clothes, and the other he changed at the PostOffice in Oxford Street."After that all the evidence had of necessity to be gone through againon the subject of young Greenhill's intimacy with Mrs. Owen. He listenedto it all with an air of the most painful nervousness, his cheeks werepositively green, his lips seemed dry and parched, for he repeatedlypassed his tongue over them, and when Constable E 18 deposed that at 2a.m. on the morning of February 2nd he had seen the accused and spokento him at the corner of Percy Street and Tottenham Court Road, youngGreenhill all but fainted."The contention of the police was that the caretaker had been murderedand robbed during that night before she went to bed, that youngGreenhill had done the murder, seeing that he was the only person knownto have been intimate with the woman, and that it was, moreover, provedunquestionably that he was in the immediate neighbourhood of the RubensStudios at an extraordinarily late hour of the night."His own account of himself, and of that same night, could certainly notbe called very satisfactory. Mrs. Owen was a relative of his latemother's, he declared. He himself was a lithographer by trade, with agood deal of time and leisure on his hands. He certainly had employedsome of that time in taking the old woman to various places ofamusement. He had on more than one occasion suggested that she shouldgive up menial work, and come and live with him, but, unfortunately, shewas a great deal imposed upon by her nephew, a man of the name of Owen,who exploited the good-natured woman in every possible way, and who hadon more than one occasion made severe attacks upon her savings at theBirkbeck Bank."Severely cross-examined by the prosecuting counsel about this supposedrelative of Mrs. Owen, Greenhill admitted that he did not know him--had,in fact, never seen him. He knew that his name was Owen and that wasall. His chief occupation consisted in sponging on the kind-hearted oldwoman, but he only went to see her in the evenings, when he presumablyknew that she would be alone, and invariably after all the tenants ofthe Rubens Studios had left for the day."I don't know whether at this point it strikes you at all, as it didboth magistrate and counsel, that there was a direct contradiction inthis statement and the one made by the cashier of the Birkbeck on thesubject of his last conversation with Mrs. Owen. 'I am going abroad tojoin my nephew, for whom I am going to keep house,' was what theunfortunate woman had said."Now Greenhill, in spite of his nervousness and at times contradictoryanswers, strictly adhered to his point, that there was a nephew inLondon, who came frequently to see his aunt."Anyway, the sayings of the murdered woman could not be taken asevidence in law. Mr. Greenhill senior put the objection, adding: 'Theremay have been two nephews,' which the magistrate and the prosecutionwere bound to admit."With regard to the night immediately preceding Mrs. Owen's death,Greenhill stated that he had been with her to the theatre, had seen herhome, and had had some supper with her in her room. Before he left her,at 2 a.m., she had of her own accord made him a present of L10, saying:'I am a sort of aunt to you, Arthur, and if you don't have it, Bill issure to get it.'"She had seemed rather worried in the early part of the evening, butlater on she cheered up."'Did she speak at all about this nephew of hers or about her moneyaffairs? asked the magistrate."Again the young man hesitated, but said, 'No! she did not mentioneither Owen or her money affairs.'"If I remember rightly," added the man in the corner, "for recollect Iwas not present, the case was here adjourned. But the magistrate wouldnot grant bail. Greenhill was removed looking more dead thanalive--though every one remarked that Mr. Greenhill senior lookeddetermined and not the least worried. In the course of his examinationon behalf of his son, of the medical officer and one or two otherwitnesses, he had very ably tried to confuse them on the subject of thehour at which Mrs. Owen was last known to be alive."He made a very great point of the fact that the usual morning's workwas done throughout the house when the inmates arrived. Was itconceivable, he argued, that a woman would do that kind of workovernight, especially as she was going to the theatre, and thereforewould wish to dress in her smarter clothes? It certainly was a very nicepoint levelled against the prosecution, who promptly retorted: Just asconceivable as that a woman in those circumstances of life should,having done her work, undress beside an open window at nine o'clock inthe morning with the snow beating into the room."Now it seems that Mr. Greenhill senior could produce any amount ofwitnesses who could help to prove a conclusive _alibi_ on behalf of hisson, if only some time subsequent to that fatal 2 a.m. the murderedwoman had been seen alive by some chance passer-by."However, he was an able man and an earnest one, and I fancy themagistrate felt some sympathy for his strenuous endeavours on his son'sbehalf. He granted a week's adjournment, which seemed to satisfy Mr.Greenhill completely."In the meanwhile the papers had talked of and almost exhausted thesubject of the mystery in Percy Street. There had been, as you no doubtknow from personal experience, innumerable arguments on the puzzlingalternatives:--"Accident?"Suicide?"Murder?"A week went by, and then the case against young Greenhill was resumed.Of course the court was crowded. It needed no great penetration toremark at once that the prisoner looked more hopeful, and his fatherquite elated."Again a great deal of minor evidence was taken, and then came the turnof the defence. Mr. Greenhill called Mrs. Hall, confectioner, of PercyStreet, opposite the Rubens Studios. She deposed that at 8 o'clock inthe morning of February 2nd, while she was tidying her shop window, shesaw the caretaker of the Studios opposite, as usual, on her knees, herhead and body wrapped in a shawl, cleaning her front steps. Her husbandalso saw Mrs. Owen, and Mrs. Hall remarked to her husband how thankfulshe was that her own shop had tiled steps, which did not need scrubbingon so cold a morning."Mr. Hall, confectioner, of the same address, corroborated thisstatement, and Mr. Greenhill, with absolute triumph, produced a thirdwitness, Mrs. Martin, of Percy Street, who from her window on the secondfloor had, at 7.30 a.m., seen the caretaker shaking mats outside herfront door. The description this witness gave of Mrs. Owen's get-up,with the shawl round her head, coincided point by point with that givenby Mr. and Mrs. Hall."After that Mr. Greenhill's task became an easy one; his son was at homehaving his breakfast at 8 o'clock that morning--not only himself, buthis servants would testify to that."The weather had been so bitter that the whole of that day Arthur hadnot stirred from his own fireside. Mrs. Owen was murdered after 8 a.m.on that day, since she was seen alive by three people at that hour,therefore his son could not have murdered Mrs. Owen. The police mustfind the criminal elsewhere, or else bow to the opinion originallyexpressed by the public that Mrs. Owen had met with a terrible untowardaccident, or that perhaps she may have wilfully sought her own death inthat extraordinary and tragic fashion."Before young Greenhill was finally discharged one or two witnesses wereagain examined, chief among these being the foreman of the glassworks.He had turned up at the Rubens Studios at 9 o'clock, and been inbusiness all day. He averred positively that he did not specially noticeany suspicious-looking individual crossing the hall that day. 'But,' heremarked with a smile, 'I don't sit and watch every one who goes up anddownstairs. I am too busy for that. The street door is always left open;any one can walk in, up or down, who knows the way.'"That there was a mystery in connection with Mrs. Owen's death--of thatthe police have remained perfectly convinced; whether young Greenhillheld the key of that mystery or not they have never found out to thisday."I could enlighten them as to the cause of the young lithographer'sanxiety at the magisterial inquiry, but, I assure you, I do not care todo the work of the police for them. Why should I? Greenhill will neversuffer from unjust suspicions. He and his father alone--besidesmyself--know in what a terribly tight corner he all but found himself."The young man did not reach home till nearly _five_ o'clock thatmorning. His last train had gone; he had to walk, lost his way, andwandered about Hampstead for hours. Think what his position would havebeen if the worthy confectioners of Percy Street had not seen Mrs. Owen'wrapped up in a shawl, on her knees, doing the front steps.'"Moreover, Mr. Greenhill senior is a solicitor, who has a small officein John Street, Bedford Row. The afternoon before her death Mrs. Owenhad been to that office and had there made a will by which she left allher savings to young Arthur Greenhill, lithographer. Had that will beenin other than paternal hands, it would have been proved, in the naturalcourse of such things, and one other link would have been added to thechain which nearly dragged Arthur Greenhill to the gallows--'the link ofa very strong motive.'"Can you wonder that the young man turned livid, until such time as itwas proved beyond a doubt that the murdered woman was alive hours afterhe had reached the safe shelter of his home?"I saw you smile when I used the word 'murdered,'" continued the man inthe corner, growing quite excited now that he was approaching the_denouement_ of his story. "I know that the public, after the magistratehad discharged Arthur Greenhill, were quite satisfied to think that themystery in Percy Street was a case of accident--or suicide.""No," replied Polly, "there could be no question of suicide, for twovery distinct reasons."He looked at her with some degree of astonishment. She supposed that hewas amazed at her venturing to form an opinion of her own."And may I ask what, in your opinion, these reasons are?" he asked verysarcastically."To begin with, the question of money," she said--"has any more of itbeen traced so far?""Not another L5 note," he said with a chuckle; "they were all cashed inParis during the Exhibition, and you have no conception how easy a thingthat is to do, at any of the hotels or smaller _agents de change_.""That nephew was a clever blackguard," she commented."You believe, then, in the existence of that nephew?""Why should I doubt it? Some one must have existed who was sufficientlyfamiliar with the house to go about in it in the middle of the daywithout attracting any one's attention.""In the middle of the day?" he said with a chuckle."Any time after 8.30 in the morning.""So you, too, believe in the 'caretaker, wrapped up in a shawl,'cleaning her front steps?" he queried."But--""It never struck you, in spite of the training your intercourse with memust have given you, that the person who carefully did all the work inthe Rubens Studios, laid the fires and carried up the coals, merely didit in order to gain time; in order that the bitter frost might reallyand effectually do its work, and Mrs. Owen be not missed until she wastruly dead.""But--" suggested Polly again."It never struck you that one of the greatest secrets of successfulcrime is to lead the police astray with regard to the time when thecrime was committed. That was, if you remember, the great point in theRegent's Park murder."In this case the 'nephew,' since we admit his existence, would--even ifhe were ever found, which is doubtful--be able to prove as good an_alibi_ as young Greenhill.""But I don't understand--""How the murder was committed?" he said eagerly. "Surely you can see itall for yourself, since you admit the 'nephew'--a scamp, perhaps--whosponges on the good-natured woman. He terrorises and threatens her, somuch so that she fancies her money is no longer safe even in theBirkbeck Bank. Women of that class are apt at times to mistrust the Bankof England. Anyway, she withdraws her money. Who knows what she meant todo with it in the immediate future?"In any case, she wishes to secure it after her death to a young manwhom she likes, and who has known how to win her good graces. Thatafternoon the nephew begs, entreats for more money; they have a row; thepoor woman is in tears, and is only temporarily consoled by a pleasantvisit at the theatre."At 2 o'clock in the morning young Greenhill parts from her. Two minuteslater the nephew knocks at the door. He comes with a plausible tale ofhaving missed his last train, and asks for a 'shake down' somewhere inthe house. The good-natured woman suggests a sofa in one of the studios,and then quietly prepares to go to bed. The rest is very simple andelementary. The nephew sneaks into his aunt's room, finds her standingin her nightgown; he demands money with threats of violence; terrified,she staggers, knocks her head against the gas bracket, and falls on thefloor stunned, while the nephew seeks for her keys and takes possessionof the L800. You will admit that the subsequent _mise en scene_--isworthy of a genius."No struggle, not the usual hideous accessories round a crime. Only theopen windows, the bitter north-easterly gale, and the heavily fallingsnow--two silent accomplices, as silent as the dead."After that the murderer, with perfect presence of mind, busies himselfin the house, doing the work which will ensure that Mrs. Owen shall notbe missed, at any rate, for some time. He dusts and tidies; some fewhours later he even slips on his aunt's skirt and bodice, wraps hishead in a shawl, and boldly allows those neighbours who are astir to seewhat they believe to be Mrs. Owen. Then he goes back to her room,resumes his normal appearance and quietly leaves the house.""He may have been seen.""He undoubtedly _was_ seen by two or three people, but no one thoughtanything of seeing a man leave the house at that hour. It was very cold,the snow was falling thickly, and as he wore a muffler round the lowerpart of his face, those who saw him would not undertake to know himagain.""That man was never seen nor heard of again?" Polly asked."He has disappeared off the face of the earth. The police are searchingfor him, and perhaps some day they will find him--then society will berid of one of the most ingenious men of the age."CHAPTER XXXVITHE ENDHe had paused, absorbed in meditation. The young girl also was silent.Some memory too vague as yet to take a definite form was persistentlyhaunting her--one thought was hammering away in her brain, and playinghavoc with her nerves. That thought was the inexplicable feeling withinher that there was something in connection with that hideous crime whichshe ought to recollect, something which--if she could only remember whatit was--would give her the clue to the tragic mystery, and for onceensure her triumph over this self-conceited and sarcastic scarecrow inthe corner.He was watching her through his great bone-rimmed spectacles, and shecould see the knuckles of his bony hands, just above the top of thetable, fidgeting, fidgeting, fidgeting, till she wondered if thereexisted another set of fingers in the world which could undo the knotshis lean ones made in that tiresome piece of string.Then suddenly--_a propos_ of nothing, Polly _remembered_--the wholething stood before her, short and clear like a vivid flash oflightning:--Mrs. Owen lying dead in the snow beside her open window; oneof them with a broken sash-line, tied up most scientifically with apiece of string. She remembered the talk there had been at the timeabout this improvised sash-line.That was after young Greenhill had been discharged, and the question ofsuicide had been voted an impossibility.Polly remembered that in the illustrated papers photographs appeared ofthis wonderfully knotted piece of string, so contrived that the weightof the frame could but tighten the knots, and thus keep the window open.She remembered that people deduced many things from that improvisedsash-line, chief among these deductions being that the murderer was asailor--so wonderful, so complicated, so numerous were the knots whichsecured that window-frame.But Polly knew better. In her mind's eye she saw those fingers, rendereddoubly nervous by the fearful cerebral excitement, grasping at firstmechanically, even thoughtlessly, a bit of twine with which to securethe window; then the ruling habit strongest through all, the girl couldsee it; the lean and ingenious fingers fidgeting, fidgeting with thatpiece of string, tying knot after knot, more wonderful, morecomplicated, than any she had yet witnessed."If I were you," she said, without daring to look into that cornerwhere he sat, "I would break myself of the habit of perpetually makingknots in a piece of string."He did not reply, and at last Polly ventured to look up--the corner wasempty, and through the glass door beyond the desk, where he had justdeposited his few coppers, she saw the tails of his tweed coat, hisextraordinary hat, his meagre, shrivelled-up personality, fastdisappearing down the street.Miss Polly Burton (of the _Evening Observer_) was married the other dayto Mr. Richard Frobisher (of the _London Mail_). She has never set eyeson the man in the corner from that day to this.FINISEnd of Project Gutenberg's The Old Man in the Corner, by Baroness Orczy*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE OLD MAN IN THE CORNER ******** This file should be named 10556.txt or 10556.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/5/5/10556/Produced by Steven desJardins and PG Distributed ProofreadersUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS," WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALLThe Project Gutenberg EBook of Comrades of the Saddle, by Frank V. WebsterThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: Comrades of the Saddle       The Young Rough Riders of the PlainsAuthor: Frank V. WebsterRelease Date: April 3, 2004 [EBook #11890]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COMRADES OF THE SADDLE ***Produced by Al HainesCOMRADES OF THE SADDLEOrThe Young Rough Riders of the PlainsBYFRANK V.  WEBSTERAUTHOR OF "ONLY A FARM BOY," "THE YOUNG TREASURE HUNTER,""THE BOYS OF BELLWOOD SCHOOL," "TOM THE TELEPHONE BOY," ETC.ILLUSTRATEDNEW YORKCUPPLES & LEON COMPANYBOOKS FOR BOYSBy FRANK V. WEBSTERONLY A FARM BOY  Or Dan Hardy's Rise in LifeTOM THE TELEPHONE BOY  Or The Mystery of a MessageTHE BOY FROM THE RANCH  Or Roy Bradner's City ExperiencesTHE YOUNG TREASURE HUNTER  Or Fred Stanley's Trip to AlaskaBOB THE CASTAWAY  Or The Wreck of the EagleTHE YOUNG FIREMEN OF LAKEVILLE  Or Herbert Dare's PluckTHE NEWSBOY PARTNERS  Or Who Was Dick Box?THE BOY PILOT OF THE LAKES  Or Nat Morton's PerilsTWO BOY GOLD MINERS  Or Lost in the MountainsJACK THE RUNAWAY  Or On the Road with a CircusTHE BOYS OP BELLWOOD SCHOOL  Or Frank Jordan's TriumphCOMRADES OF THE SADDLE  Or The Young Rough Riders of the PlainsCopyright, 1910, byCUPPLES & LEON COMPANYCOMRADES OF THE SADDLEPrinted in U. S. ACONTENTSCHAPTER    I  AN EXCITING ESCAPE   II  MR.  ALDEN BRINGS NEWS  III  WORD FROM THE WEST   IV  GUS MEGGET    V  THE HALF-MOON RANCH   VI  IN THE SADDLE  VII  A RACE IN THE MOONLIGHT VIII  HORACE IN DANGER   IX  THE MESSAGE FROM CROSS-EYED PETE    X  THE RETURN TO THE RANCH   XI  PREPARATIONS FOB PURSUIT  XII  WHAT NAILS LEARNED XIII  OUT ON THE PLAINS  XIV  ANOTHER DISCOVERY   XV  THE CONTESTED TRAIL  XVI  WHAT JEFFREYS KNEW XVII  LOST!XVIII  A MYSTERIOUS CALL  XIX  A TERRIBLE PLOT   XX  THE PRAIRIE FIRE  XXI  A RIDE FOR LIFE XXII  LAWRENCE'S PLANXXIII  IN THE MOUNTAINS XXIV  CAPTURING THE CATTLE THIEVES  XXV  HOMEWARDCOMRADES OF THE SADDLECHAPTER IAN EXCITING ESCAPETwilight was settling on the land.  The forms of trees and housesloomed big and black, their sharp outlines suggesting fancifulforms to the minds of two boys hurrying along the road which like aribbon wound In and out among the low hills surrounding the town ofBramley, in south-western Ohio.As the darkness increased lights began to twinkle from the windowsof the distant farmhouses."We're later than usual, Tom," said the larger of the two boys.  "Ihope we'll get home before father does.""Then let's hurry.  The last time we kept supper waiting he saidwe'd have to give up playing ball after school if we couldn't gethome before meal time.""And that means that we won't make the team and will only get achance to substitute," returned the first speaker.As though such a misfortune were too great to be borne, the twoyoung ball players broke into a dog trot.The boys were brothers, Tom and Larry Alden.  Larry, the larger,was sixteen and Tom was a year younger.  Both were healthy andstrong and would have been thought older, so large were they.The only children of Theodore Alden, a wealthy farmer who livedabout three miles from Bramley, unlike many brothers, they werechums.  They were prime favorites, and their popularity, togetherwith their natural ability and cool-headedness at critical moments,made them leaders in all sports.As it grew darker and darker, the brothers quickened their pace.Talking was out of the question, so fast were they going.  But asthey rounded a turn in the road, which enabled them to see thelights in their home, a quarter of a mile away, Larry gasped:"There's no light in the dining-room yet.  Father hasn't gottenhome!""Come on then for a final spurt," returned Tom.Willingly Larry responded, and the boys dashed forward as thoughthey were just starting out instead of ending a two-mile run.On the right-hand side of the road a fringe of bushes hedged aswamp.The patter of the boys' feet on the hard clay road was the onlysound that broke the stillness.Their goal, with the bright lights shining from the windows, wasonly about three hundred yards away when suddenly from thedirection of the swamp sounded a sullen snarl."Did you hear anything?" asked Larry."I thought so."As though to settle all doubt, the growl rang out again.  This timeit was nearer and sounded more ominous.For a moment the boys looked at each other, then, as with oneaccord, turned their heads and looked in the direction whence thestartling noise had come.Just as they did so there came another howl, and an instant later abig black form, for all the world like a large dog, leaped from thebushes into the road."Quick, quick!" cried Larry, seizing his brother's arm and pullinghim along, for Tom had slackened his speed, as though fascinated bythe sight of the strange animal.  "It must be that wolf father readabout, the one that got away when the circus train was passingthrough Husted."And, Larry was right.  The animal was indeed a wolf that hadescaped from its cage through the door, the fastener on which hadbeen jarred out of place by the motion of the train, and had leapedto liberty.The circus people had reported the loss as soon as it had beendiscovered and it had been duly announced in the papers.Mr. Alden had read about it, but all had laughed at the thought ofa wolf in placid Ohio and dismissed the story as a circus man'sjoke.Rejoicing in its freedom, the beast had wandered about till itstruck the swamp and now the air brought to its keen nose the scentof the boys passing.  Ravenously hungry, the wolf hastened towardthe lads.As it bounded into the road the glare from the lights of thefarmhouse momentarily blinded it and it stood blinking.But only for an instant.  Instinctively realizing that it mustcatch them before they reached the lights, the wolf uttered asavage snarl and bounded forward.Larry's words to his brother had roused the boy, and together theywere racing toward the welcome lights of their home.But the wolf with its leaps covered three yards to their one, andas the older of the boys looked over his shoulder he saw that thebeast was gaining on them.Fifty yards ahead was the house and thirty yards behind them wasthe wolf.Well did the boys know they could not win the race.  But they didnot lose their heads."Father! Harry!" yelled Larry.  "Joe! The wolf! the wolf!  Get therifle!""The wolf! the wolf!" added Tom.  "Shoot the wolf!"The yells, breaking the stillness of the night, startled Mrs. Aldenand the hired men, who were awaiting the coming of Mr. Alden andthe boys.Unable to distinguish the words, the hired men rushed to the doorand threw it open.  Peering along the path of the light, they sawthe forms of the boys."Quick!  The rifle!  The wolf's after us!" shouted Tom.Fortunately Mr. Alden always kept a loaded rifle on a rack on thekitchen wall with which to shoot foxes that attempted to raid hishen-roost.Hastily the hired man named Joe sprang for the weapon, seized itand dashed from the door, shouting:"Where is it?  Where is it?"Before the boys could answer, however, his keen eyes espied theblack form.Joe had often amused himself shooting at a target with Larry andTom and was able to make four bull's-eyes out of five, but neverbefore had the opportunity to aim at a live mark come to him, andas he raised the rifle his hands trembled."Shoot! shoot!" yelled Larry.  "No matter if you don't hit it,shoot!"Bang! went the gun, and as the report of the firearm died away thewolf was seen to stagger and fall.  Soon the beast arose again, butby that time the hired man was ready for another shot.  Thisfinished the beast, and with a yelp it rolled over and breathed itslast.CHAPTER IIMR. ALDEN BRINGS NEWSExhausted by their run and the excitement of their escape, Larryand Tom staggered into the house and dropped into chairs, theirmother and the hired men pressing about and plying them withquestions.  But it was several minutes before the boys recoveredtheir breath sufficiently to speak.Tom was the first to get over his fright, and, as soon as he couldcontrol his voice, gave a vivid account of their attempt to reachhome before their father, their hearing the uncanny sound from theswamp, the sudden appearance of the wolf behind them and theirdesperate race to get to the house before the beast should overtakethem."It's a good thing I practiced shooting last winter," exclaimed Joeas the story ended.  He was proud of what he had accomplished."There's father," declared Mrs. Alden as a "whoa!" sounded from theyard.Quickly Larry picked up a lantern, and, followed by all but hismother, went out to help unhitch the horses and take them into thebarn."What's been going on?" demanded the farmer as the others joinedhim.  "I heard the rifle shot."Eagerly they all started to tell."Don't all speak at once," interposed Mr. Alden.  "You're talkingso loud and so fast I can't understand a word.  Tom, suppose youexplain?"Excitedly the youngest of the brothers poured forth the tale."A wolf in Bramley, eh?  Well, well!  It's a good thing you boyswere so near home.  This is sure a great day for happenings.  Mysons get chased into their own dooryard and I----"But as though to arouse their curiosity, the farmer did not finishhis sentence."You what?" asked Larry."Never mind now.  Put the horses up.  You won't have to feed them;they're too hot.  Give them a little hay and then come in tosupper."Knowing it was useless to try to get their father to satisfy theircuriosity, for Mr. Alden, though a kindly man, was what hisneighbors called "set in his ways," Tom and Larry ran to the barnto open the door, while the hired men followed with the horses.After rubbing the animals down and giving them some hay, the fourreturned to the house.But not until the supper was finished did the farmer deign toimpart his news.  Then, tilting back in his chair, he looked at hiswife and asked:"How would you like to take the boys to Scotland for the summer,ma?""To Scotland?" repeated Mrs. Alden, as though scarcely believingher ears.  "Theodore Alden, are you going crazy?  What are youtalking about?""About going to Scotland," answered the farmer, grinning.  "And I'mnot crazy."At the mention of the trip, Larry and Tom looked at their parentand then at each other in dismay, for they had planned a differentsort of way for spending the summer.  But their attention wasquickly drawn to their father again."I've got to go to Scotland and we might as well all go," he wassaying.  "The hired men can run the farm for the summer."Lapsing into silence as he watched the effect of his words, Mr.Alden enjoyed the looks of surprise and curiosity, then continued:"When I got to Bramley this morning I found a letter from a mannamed Henry Sargent, a Glasgow lawyer.  He said my uncle, ThomasDarwent, had died, leaving me the only heir to his estates.  Justhow much money this means I don't know.  He said it might be tenthousand pounds.""Phew! that's fifty thousand dollars," interposed Larry, excitedly."Just so," returned his father.  "It may be more.  I can't make outwhether that's the amount of cash or if that's what it will come towhen the land and houses are sold.""You can write and find out," suggested Mrs. Alden."I can write, but I doubt if I can find out," chuckled the farmer."Those lawyer chaps use such high-sounding words, you can't tellwhat they mean.  If Uncle Darwent made me his heir, I'm going tosee I get all there Is to get.  No Scotchman is going to cheatTheodore Alden out of what's his.  Soon's I'd made up my mind tothat, I drove over to Olmsted and made arrangements to sail fromNew York on Saturday.""Saturday?  Why that's only three days off!" protested Mrs. Alden."Well, it'll only take a night and part of a day to get to NewYork.  That'll give you a day and a half to get ready, ma."The thought of a trip to Scotland delighted Mrs. Alden, and sheimmediately began to plan how she could get the boys, her husbandand herself ready in such a short space of time.But Larry and Tom showed no signs of enthusiasm.Noticing their silence, their father exclaimed:"Don't you boys want to go?  I never knew you so quiet before whena trip was mentioned.""But the ball game with Husted is on Saturday," said Larry, givingvoice to the thought uppermost in his mind.  Then, as though herealized that it was foolish to compare a trip to Scotland with agame of baseball, he added: "Besides, Tom and I were planning--thatis, we were going to ask you if we couldn't go out to Tolopah andspend the summer with Horace and Bill Wilder on their ranch."With this announcement of a plan which the brothers had discussedover and over, wondering how they could bring it about, the boysanxiously watched their father's face."So that's how the wind blows, eh?" he commented.  "Well, ma, whatdo you say?  Shall we take the boys with us or let them go to theranch?"With her quiet mother's eye Mrs. Alden caught the appeal on hersons' faces and after a short deliberation replied:"I think they'd be better off with the Wilders--that is, if they'dlike to have the boys visit them.""Hooray! hooray!" cried the boys together."We can telegraph and ask Mr. Wilder tonight," said Larry.  "Can wego to Bramley and send the message, father?""You can telephone the message to the station and the operator willsend it."And while the boys puzzled over the wording of the telegram, theirfather re-read his letter from Scotland."I've got the telegram ready," Tom exclaimed presently.  "Listen."And picking up the piece of paper on which he had been scribblinghe read:  "BILL AND HORACE WILDER,    "Tolopah, New Mexico:  "We can leave Saturday to visit you.  Do you  want us?  Answer quick.  Father and mother  leave Friday for Scotland.  We'll have to go,  if you don't want us.    "LARRY AND TOM ALDEN.""You might make it shorter," chuckled the farmer."And muddle it all up so they wouldn't understand it any betterthan you do your lawyer's letter," returned Larry."That's a bull's-eye," grinned Joe, whose mind was running toshooting terms.And as neither their father nor mother interposed any objections,the boys telephoned the message to the operator at Bramley, whopromised to send it at once.CHAPTER IIIWORD FROM THE WESTAnxiously the two brothers waited for some news from the West andin the meantime got ready for the trip to Scotland."Oh, I don't want to go to Scotland!" sighed Tom.  "I want to go tothe ranch.""Well, we've got to take what comes," answered his brother.The boys went down to town and said good-by to their school chums.All were sorry they were going away and said they would be missedfrom the baseball team.Returning to the farm, their mother met them with a peculiar smileon her face."Any news?" they asked eagerly."Yes, word came over the telephone a while ago.""And what Is it, ma?""The Wilders say to come and----""Hooray!""And not to bring a trunk," finished the mother.  "The idea of twoboys going away all summer without a trunk!""Of course we won't need a trunk!" declared Tom.  "From the time wereach the ranch till we start for home I don't intend to wear awhite shirt or collar.""When we get out there we can buy some cowboy outfits," said Larry."Hooray for Tolopah!"The receipt of the message, which had been telephoned by the agentat Bramley while the boys were on their way back from the town, wasmore of a relief than either Larry or Tom was willing toacknowledge.  And they ate their food with greater relish in thecertainty that their dream of going to live on a ranch was to cometrue.Each was absorbed in his own thoughts when the voice of theirfather roused them."Now that it's decided you are going West," he was saying, "Ireckon I'll go over to Olmsted and make sure about our steamertickets.  We won't have any too much time in New York.  You boyscan go with me if you like."Glad of the opportunity, the boys finished their dinner quickly andwere soon whirling over the hard clay road behind their father'sspan of spirited horses."I've decided to give each of you two hundred and fifty dollars,"said Mr. Alden, as though expressing his thoughts out loud."Phew! Two hundred and fifty dollars! That's more money than I everhad all at once," exclaimed Tom in delight.  "Think of having allthat to spend, Larry.""But you mustn't spend it all," warned their father.  "I was goingto say when you interrupted, Tom, that out of this money you mustpay your railroad tickets, for your berths to sleep in, and foryour meals.  These things will amount to about seventy-fivedollars, I should think.""But that will still leave us one hundred and seventy-fivedollars," declared Tom."True enough, but don't forget it will cost seventy-five dollars toget back.  If I were you, when you get to the ranch, I would givethe money for your return tickets to Mr. Wilder.  He'll keep it foryou, so you'll be sure not to spend it."It's a thing you ought always to remember when you take a trip ofany distance--always save enough out of your money to carry youback home"The boys promised to do as their father suggested, and the farmercontinued:"This will be your first experience with the world, and I don'twant you to forget the things your mother and I have taught you."It takes bad men as well as good to make up life, and somehow itseems as though the bad men had the easiest time of it.  You'llfind gamblers and others who live by their wits in Tolopah.They'll try to be pleasant to you because you are young, and whenthey learn you are from the East they will try to get your moneyaway from you."You must also be careful to whom you speak on the train.  Under noconditions mention anything about the money you have with you.  Alot of people, when they have any substantial sum, either like toshow it In some way or to talk about it, and then, if they happento be robbed of it, they wonder.  Remember you can't recognize athief by his clothes, and lots of the slickest of them travel aboutthe country."With this and other advice Mr.  Alden counseled his sons, and sointerested did they become in what he told them about the countryof which they were soon to have their first glimpse that they werein Olmsted almost before they knew it.Going first to the bank, Mr. Alden drew out the money for his sons,obtained a letter of credit for himself and then arranged topurchase his steamship tickets in Pittsburg, whither all fourtravelers were going together.When they reached home Mrs. Alden had finished her packing and allwas practically ready for the start on the morrow.After supper the farmer and his wife drove to Bramley to saygood-by to their friends, but the two chums decided to stay at home.Eager to be on their way, it seemed to Larry and Tom that the hoursnever passed so slowly.  They tried to read, but in place of theprint on the pages pictures of cowboys and bucking bronchos dancedbefore their eyes, and they soon shut their books."Wish we'd gone with father and mother," exclaimed Tom.  "It's morestupid here than saying good-by."But scarcely were the words out of his mouth when the door openedand in came an old friend named Silas Haskins, a former gold miner."I got to go to Husted to-morrow, so I came over to-night to say'so long,'" he said in explanation of his call.Cordially the boys made him welcome, and the time passed quicklywhen they had led Silas round to talking about his adventures inthe far West.When at last the gold miner rose to go he said:"I brung some presents for you.  They'll be useful in the West."And from his pockets Silas drew forth two fine big jackknives andtwo long pieces of thong."They're both the same, so you won't need to quarrel about 'em," hesmiled as he handed their presents to each.The boys were deeply touched by such evidence of friendship fromtheir aged friend and were profuse in their thanks when he againput his hands in his pockets and produced two little bags made ofbuckskin and attached to a stout strip of the same strong material."I don't know how you're intending to carry your money," he began,"but----""Why in our pockets," interrupted Larry."That's just what I supposed," grunted the old gold miner.  "Now Iwant you to put it in these two bags and hang 'em round your necks.There can't no one get to 'em without waking you up nor take 'emwithout giving you a chance to fight."Readily the boys promised to wear the money bags, and with a heartyhandshake with each their aged friend went home.The night passed quickly and the morning was busily spent ingetting the luggage to the station.As the family waited for the train the dingy little station wasalive with people who had come to wish the Aldens pleasantjourneys.  And as the train left the Bramley depot the members ofthe ball team gave three rousing cheers for Larry and Tom.The parting with their parents at Pittsburg was hard for the boys,but fortunately for them their train left first, and soon they wereengrossed in watching their fellow passengers.These consisted of a German boy, who seemed about their own age;two elderly gentlewomen, and two big men, who would have seemedwell dressed had they not worn so much jewelry.With interest the two chums watched the German youth and severaltimes when they had turned to look at him they had found him gazingat them.It was only the memory of their father's advice to be careful as towhom they spoke to on the train that prevented them from strikingup an acquaintance.  But when they found themselves at dinnerseated at the same table with the foreigner they broke theirreserve and told him their names.In return the German said he was Hans Ober.A speaking acquaintance thus established, Hans lost no time inasking questions about the United States and particularly the West,to which Larry and Tom replied as well as they were able.Evidently glad of their company, the German sat with them after theboys returned to their car from dinner.Once or twice Hans had tried to learn where the chums were goingwithout asking directly, but they had given evasive answers, and atlast, as though believing confidence would beget confidence, heannounced that he was going to join his brother Chris, who had astore in Tolopah.As they heard their destination mentioned, Larry and Tom exchangedsurprised glances, which did not need their words to let Hans knowthey were all three bound for the same place.This coincidence removed whatever of reserve was left and the threeboys talked freely.Hans said he had come from Berlin and that his father had given himmoney to buy a share in his brother's business and told them of howhis fears that he might lose the money had made him sit up thefirst two nights he was on the steamer.CHAPTER IVGUS MEGGETThe boys were at breakfast the next morning when Hans, happening tolook out the window, caught sight of the mighty river that almostdivides the United States in half."My eye! but that's a big river," he exclaimed.  "What do you callit?""The Mississippi," returned the brothers.  They were too engrossedby their first glimpse of the "Father of Waters" to correct theGerman as he struggled to pronounce the name."Oh, look at the funny boats!" exclaimed Tom, pointing to the longline of river steamers that were tied up at the levee.  "What arethose things on the back end?""They are the paddle wheels.  I know, because I've looked atpictures like them in my geography," replied Larry.  "They have thepaddle wheels on the end because the water is so shallow in places."It was Just after noon that the two chums and Hans were vouchsafeda glimpse of real "dyed-in-the-wool" cowboys.The train had stopped at a crossing, as stations are known inOklahoma, because of a hot-box on one of the wheels.Learning that it would be all of a quarter of an hour before thetrouble could be repaired, the boys had left their car and werefilling their lungs with the bracing air.It chanced that a gang of cowboys had ridden Into the town for acelebration and, as it was unusual for a train to stop for anylength of time at the crossing, they rode up to find out the reason.For a few minutes they contented themselves with putting theirponies through all sorts of "stunts" to the great delight of thepeople on the train.At the sight of them, Larry, Tom and Hans walked toward the cowboysand stared at them in wonder and admiration.The cowboys had noticed the three lads, and, because they had beendrinking bad "fire-water," suddenly decided to amuse themselveswith them."Whatcher lookin' at?" roared one of the cow-punchers, a big fellowwith close-set eyes and a heavy jaw.The boys made no response."Can't cher speak?  I'll teach you some manners then!" he bellowed.In a thrice he whirled his pony and rode for the boys at full speed.Ignorant of the roughness of cowboy fun, the three lads stood theirground, never thinking the fellow would hurt them.The cowboy was riding straight at Hans.  When the pony was withintwo leaps of the German, boy Larry cried to him to jump to one side.But Hans was too terrified to move, and the pony was almost uponhim.  In another moment he would be run down.From the train rose shouts of warning and anger, changing in thenext moment to cheers.Realizing that the German boy could not save himself, Larry threwup his hands right in the face of the pony, causing the animal torear so suddenly that only its rider's expert horsemanship savedhim from being unseated.At the same time Tom seized Hans and jerked him to one side justbefore the broncho's forelegs struck the ground again, almost onthe very spot where the German boy had been standing.Furious at the interference with his so-called fun, the cowboyroared at Larry:"I'll teach you to scare Gus Megget's pony, you calf tenderfoot!"Black, indeed, did it look for the three lads.  The companions ofthe bullying cowboy who had announced himself as Gus Megget wereriding up, yelling to him to make the "tenderfoot dance."His race very white, but every line of his body breathing defiance,Larry faced his tormentor.With a calmness that fairly took the breath away from the bully theelder of the brothers exclaimed in a voice loud enough to be heardby the other cowboys and the men about the train:"I didn't pick this quarrel with you, but if you will get off yourhorse so that you have no advantage over me; I'll give you all thefight you want!"An instant Megget glowered with rage at the mere stripling of a boywho had announced his willingness to fight him, then with a savagegrowl started to swing from his saddle."I'll fix you, you whelp!" he roared.He aimed a savage blow at Larry, who ducked."Hi! leave my brother alone!" cried Tom, coming to the spot.As Tom spoke Larry stooped and picked up a handful of dust.  Thishe hurled straight into the cowboy's face."Good!" shouted Tom and did likewise.The dust caused the cowboy to sneeze, and some bystanders commencedto laugh."He's got the best of you, Megget," observed another cowboy."I'll eat him!" yelled Megget and rushed at Larry with blood in hiseyes.But before he reached the boy a voice rang out:"Keep on your horse, Gus Megget!"Though Larry did not dare take his eyes from the bully, Tom and thecowboys looked to see who was taking a hand in the affair.  Theybeheld a quiet-looking little man pointing a finger at the leaderof the ruffians."I can't arrest you for driving off Jim Larson's cattle becausewe're in Oklahoma," continued the determined stranger.  "But if Iever get my hand on you in Texas it'll go hard with you!  Nowvamoose before you try my patience too far!  Come on back, boys.Gus Megget won't bother you any more.""Prickly cactus! but it's 'Shorty,' the sheriff from PawneeCounty!" gasped one of the band or cow-punchers.  "Come on, Gus; wemust dig out of here!  Shorty may pass the word he's seen us."Fear of the law caused the bully and his companions to wheel theirponies.At this move the three boys turned and ran back toward the train,while the excited passengers hooted and yelled at the discomfitedcowboys.The shouts of derision were more than Megget could stand.  He shookhis fist at the crowd in general and then at Tom and Larry inparticular, Then he whirled around and disappeared from view in acloud of dust.Quickly the passengers all trooped to the cars and five minuteslater the train was again in motion.All the passengers wanted to shake hands with Tom and Larry, andfor several minutes the boys were at the mercy of theirwell-meaning admirers.  Again the sheriff came to their rescue."Go back to your own cars," he commanded.  "The boys want to beleft alone."But the people gave no sign of heeding his words."Well, if you won't go at the asking, I'll make you go," hecontinued, and seizing the person nearest him, the sheriff turnedhim round and gave him a shove along the aisle of the car.After three or four of the passengers had been pushed none toogently away, the others began to leave of their own accord, and thetwo brothers were able to make their escape."If it keeps on the way it has started, we're likely to have alively summer," remarked Larry when he was again back in his seat."I hope they don't come so quick for me," exclaimed Hans.  And histone was so plaintive that the others could not help but laugh."You'll either have to get some nerve or else stick mighty close toyour friends here," declared the sheriff, who had remained to talkwith the boys who had shown such pluck."Maybe I'll go back to Germany," sighed Hans."Oh, you'll get used to this part of the world after a while.Where are you going?""Tolopah.""Well, that ain't the most refined place in the world," chuckledthe man of the law, "but I don't believe you'll get as bad as whatyou got."Pondering over this none too reassuring remark, Hans lapsed intosilence, while Tom and Larry plied the sheriff with questions aboutlife on the ranches and the antics of the cowboys.As evening came on the boys grew restive.  Their train was due atTolopah at nine the next morning, and despite the fact that it wasrushing along at the rate of forty miles an hour, it seemed to themto be scarcely moving.  They had already passed two nights and twodays on the train and the thought of putting another night in theberth, especially as it was very hot, seemed impossible, makingthem fretful and cross."Who is he?" asked Larry of the conductor, after the sheriff hadleft the train."What, you never heard of Sam Jenks, sheriff of Pawnee County?""We come from Ohio," said Tom, as though apologizing for theirignorance."That accounts for it.  If you lived between the Mississippi and ElPaso you wouldn't ask such a question."Sam Jenks, known to every cowboy as 'Shorty,' is the nerviest manI know.  There isn't a cattle thief or a bad man in this part ofthe country that won't run when he sees him--if he has the chance."You saw how Gus Megget and his gang got scared.  It was just thesight of Shorty that scared him.  He's got a record of sending morecattle thieves and crooked gamblers to jail than any three othersheriffs in the country.  There never was anything he's afraid of,and he's just as tender-hearted as a kitten.  Why, I know one time,after he'd sent a train robber to prison, he took the money out ofhis own pocket to support the rascal's wife and baby till he couldget her folks to take her home.  You sure made a friend that'sworth having."On Hans' account, Larry and Tom kept up a lively chatter during theevening, and it was not until the brothers were in their berthsthat they broached the subject of what to do should the sheriff'ssuspicions prove true.Hans' unfitness for holding his own among the rough men of theplains made them sorry for him, and they discussed various plans,without arriving at any conclusion, till well into the night."What's the use of worrying?" said Tom finally.  "Chris willprobably show up all right.  Let's wait and see."  And with thisunderstanding the boys dropped the matter.Despite the fact that the day was to see the end of their journey,the boys slept late."You ge'mmen better hurry if you all wants yo' breakfas' befoh yo'gits to Tolopah," interrupted the porter.  "We'll be thar in halfan hour."It was not a hearty meal the brothers and Hans ate, and soon theywere back in their seats, looking to see that they had forgottennothing before they closed their suit-cases.Bringing two big valises of the extending kind the German sat withLarry and Tom.  But their high spirits found no response in him,and as they neared their destination he could with difficulty keepback the tears, so worried was he."Here we are!" exclaimed Larry as he caught sight of some housesand barns.And his words were verified by the porter, who came through the carcalling:"All out for Tolopah!"Picking up their luggage, the boys hastened to the car steps."Hello, Bill!  Hello, Horace!" cried the brothers eagerly as theycaught sight of their friends on the station platform.At the greetings the Wilder boys hurried toward the car.In the pleasure of the meeting Tom and Larry forgot Hans."Come on," commanded Horace, seizing Tom's suit-case.  "We won'tdally here in Tolopah.  We must get to the ranch before it gets toohot."  And he led the way to where four bronchos stood tied to arailing.Quickly the Wilders made fast the suit-cases to their saddles anduntied the ponies."This is Blackhawk, Tom, and this is Lightning, Larry," said Horaceas he handed the reins to the two boys.  "They're a couple of thebest ponies in New Mexico, and while you're here they'll be yours.You can get acquainted with them on the ride to the ranch."Both animals were splendid creatures, well built and powerful.Blackhawk, as the name suggests, was jet black, his coat glisteningin the sun, and Lightning was a roan.Already Bill and Horace were on their ponies, and the two brotherswere just swinging into their saddles when a voice cried:"Tom!  Larry!"Turning their heads, the boys beheld Hans, the tears streaming downhis cheeks, rushing toward them as fast as his valises would lethim.No need was there to ask if he had found a trace of his brother.The tears told all too plainly that he had not."Who in the world is that?" asked Horace in astonishment."A German boy who traveled with us," explained Tom.  "Do you knowany one in Tolopah by the name of Chris Ober?""Struck out for old Mexico, prospecting for gold, three monthsago," replied Bill.  "Why?""That's his brother Hans, who has come from Berlin to visit him,"returned Tom.  And hurriedly he gave an outline of the German lad'sstory."Phew!  Chicken-hearted, is he?" commented Horace.  "It won't do toleave him in Tolopah.  Luckily one of our men is in town with ourgrub wagon.  He can ride out to the ranch with him."When Tom imparted this information to Hans, the poor fellow wasdelighted and asked where he could find the outfit."I'll show him.  You all ride on," said Horace.  But the othersrefused, declaring they would all go together.As the cavalcade started with Hans and his valises trying to keepup with them, many were the jests and laughs cast after them.But the boys paid them no heed, and in a few minutes the Germanyouth was safe in the provision wagon.Putting their horses into a brisk canter, the four lads set out forthe ranch.Many were the questions the Wilders asked about their friends backin Ohio, and so busy were Tom and Larry in answering, and inrelating all the events of consequence that had transpired sincethe family had left Bramley two years before, that the twenty mileswhich lay between Tolopah and the ranch seemed scarcely one.CHAPTER VTHE HALF-MOON RANCHAs the boys drew rein in front of the broad, vine-covered piazza ofthe ranch house they were greeted by Mr. and Mrs. Wilder,"Well, it does seem good to see some one from home," exclaimed thelatter as she shook the hands of Tom and Larry."It sure does," asserted her husband.  "Wish you'd brought yourfather and mother with you.  What in the world started them off toScotland?"Quickly the brothers explained."Well, well!  So Uncle Darwent really had some money," commentedMrs. Wilder.  "I'm real glad, though of course it isn't as thoughyour father needed any more.  I should have thought you boys wouldhave wanted to go with them.""Not when we could spend the summer on your ranch," returned Larry."But we began to be afraid we would be obliged to go, and we shouldhave if the telegram had been any later.  No time ever seemed solong as when we were waiting for your answer.""It was just luck we got your message," declared Horace."Sometimes we don't go to town for a week.  But something seemed tourge me to ride in the other morning, and when I arrived Con Brownhollered to me he had a telegram.  When I read it, I didn't loseany time answering, and I made Con promise to rush it.""Con's our telegraph operator," explained Bill.  "Come on in andchange your duds and then we'll look the ranch over."Nothing loath to remove their clothes, which still smelled ofengine smoke, despite their ride over the plains, as the brothersseized their suitcases and followed their young hosts, Larryexclaimed laughingly:"You see we took your advice not to bring a trunk.""Glad of it," asserted Horace joyously.  "There's no need to dressout here.  It's just great!  You don't have to put on a collar fromone week's end to another.  But if you had brought a lot ofclothes, mother would have made us dress too.  That's why Imentioned the matter in my telegram."This explanation was given in a low tone that Mrs. Wilder might notknow her son had taken such effective measures to prevent his beingobliged to "dress up," and the boys laughed heartily at theharmless joke.The home of the Wilders was only one story high, but the rooms werebig and comfortable.  Around three sides ran the piazza, from whichFrench windows, extending from the floor to the ceiling, opened,admitting any breeze that might be stirring.The room assigned to the boys was on the west side of the house,and through the vines they could look across the plains to somemountains that towered in the distance."Our room is the next one to yours," said Bill.  "We'll wait theretill you are dressed.  If you want anything, sing out."Hastily Tom and Larry took off the clothes in which they hadtraveled, and bathed, glad of the opportunity to remove the cinderswhich had caused them no little discomfort."Bill and Horace seem just the same as when they lived in Bramley,"observed Tom when they were alone.  "Horace hasn't grown a bit.""They are tanned up till they look like Indians, that's the onlychange I can see," returned his brother.  "Horace always will beshort, but Bill's tall enough for two.""You can't wear those caps," declared Bill as Tom and Larryappeared with the light baseball caps they had brought with them."But that's all we have," protested Larry, "except, of course, ourstraw hats.  You don't expect us to knock round in those, do you?""Sure not.  But if you wore those caps you'd get sunstruck out onthe plains.  We've got some sombreros you can take."As the boys trooped out onto the piazza Tom espied a five-bar fenceabout a hundred yards from the house."That's the horse corral," explained Horace, noting the directionof his friend's gaze.  "We don't keep our ponies in barns out here.The horses are all out on the range now, except eight we keep athome for ourselves."Passing from the cool veranda, the boys walked toward a longbuilding some thirty yards away."This is the bunk-house, where the cowboys stay when they're home,"announced Bill.  "There are ten of them, the best boys in this partof the country, but they are a lively lot.  It's a good thing theyare with the cattle.  You'll have a chance to get used to ranchingbefore they come in or they might amuse themselves at your expense.Politeness isn't a cowboy's long suit.""So I gathered," said Larry as he thought of his experience at thecrossing in Oklahoma.  But his mind was quickly diverted by hisbrother."What's that half-moon over the door mean?" asked the younger ofthe Alden boys as he caught sight of a gilded crescent thatsparkled in the sunlight."Oh, tenderfoot! oh, tenderfoot!  It is indeed fortunate the boysare away," exclaimed Bill in mock solemnity."That is the brand of this ranch.  Every horse, every steer, cowand calf we own bears a half-moon because this is the Half-MoonRanch.  When any of our ponies or cattle go astray or mix withothers, the only way we can tell which belong to us is by thebrand.""How do you put it on?" asked Tom."Burn it into the flesh with hot irons.  If you can stay till fall,when we have a round-up, you can see how it's done," said Horace.Feeling that they were indeed ignorant of ranch life, the twobrothers decided to use their eyes and ask no more questions thanwere necessary.Entering the bunk-house, they saw a long table covered with whiteoilcloth and a line of bunks built in two tiers against the wallopposite the door.  A big stove stood at one end, and there werepegs for saddles, bridles and lassoes all about.From the bunk-house the boys went to the wagon sheds, whichcontained three or four farm wagons and also a buckboard."That's for mother," explained Bill.  "She doesn't like to ride,but she can though if it's necessary."Here's where your saddles are," he continued, pointing to a beaminto which pegs had been driven.  "You want to remember them,especially when the boys are home.  They don't like to have any oneelse take their saddles.""We'll remember," declared Tom and Larry meaningly."I suppose we'll find our ponies in the corral?" hazarded Tom."Sure thing.  And here's something else to keep in mind.  Fatheralways insists that each man put his pony in the corral himself.Of course this morning he did it for us, but he won't again.""How do you get the horses when  you want them?  Call 'em?" askedTom."Sometimes that will work--after a pony has come to know itsmaster--but the quickest way is to take some oats in a pan,"declared Horace.  "We keep the oats here," and he opened a bin atone side of the wagon shed."You can use oats on Blackhawk and Lightning and our own ponies,but when we want a strange horse we rope him.  That makes me think,I've saved a couple of dandy lariats for you.  Cross-eyed Pete, oneof our boys, made them for me out of rawhide.  They are in my room.Come on, we'll get them and then show you how to use them.""Is it hard to learn?" inquired Larry."Yes, to throw one every time," replied Bill.  "Horace and I havebeen practicing ever since we came out.  We can do pretty well.But you ought to see Cross-eyed Pete!  He's the best of all theboys.  He's so good, he can drop a noose over a rattlesnake, andthat's going some."Before the lads could get the lassoes, however, Mrs. Wilder calledthem to get ready for dinner.As the two visitors took their seats at the table a Chinaman, cladin white, glided noiselessly into the room and took his placebehind Mr. Wilder's chair, ready to serve."Hop Joy, this is Mr. Larry and this is Mr. Tom," said Mrs. Wilder."Whatever they ask you to do, you must do it."The celestial, who was cook, washman and general factotum on theHalf-Moon Ranch, bowed gravely to each of the boys."That sounds very fine," laughed Mr. Wilder, "but you must becareful what you ask Hop Joy to do.  If you disturb him when he'scooking he's apt to throw a pail of water at you.""Hop's all right, father," declared Horace loyally.  "He onlythrows water when the boys try to steal his doughnuts.  Um--m, butHop can make doughnuts!  You two just wait till you're riding allday and then see if they don't taste good.""So that explains the reason you keep on the right side of Hop Joy,eh?" answered Mr. Wilder, smiling.  "I've often wondered why youwere so willing to help him when the boys are home."After the laughter this sally evoked had subsided Mrs. Wilder askedthe boys about their journey.In amazement the Wilders listened as the experiences were related,and when Larry finished the account of his mix-up with thecow-punchers Bill exclaimed:"And here Horace and I have been making fun of you for tenderfeet.The joke seems to be on us.""That's what it is," asserted their father.  "There are not manymen, let alone lads, who can say they have faced Gus Megget and gotthe best of him."It was the chums' turn to be surprised as they heard this statement."Then you know him?" queried Tom."I know of him," corrected the ranchman, and the boys noted thatthe kindly expression of his face disappeared as he spoke.  "GusMegget is a very bad man.  He hasn't done an honest day's work forfive years.  People say he is a train robber, and I've alwaysbelieved he was a cattle thief, too.  From what you tell me, that'sShorty Jenks' opinion.  If the truth were known, I think Meggetwould prove to be the head of a gang of cattle thieves."And how true were Mr. Wilder's suspicions, they were all destinedto learn.The recital of their adventuresome journey recalled to the boysthat they had entirely forgotten to tell about Hans' coming.Each of the four apparently thought of the timid German boy at thesame time and looked at one another uneasily.And their anxiety was not lessened when Mrs. Wilder asked:"What became of Hans?  Did you call him?  Did his brother meet him?""No, he didn't," said Larry.  Then, determined to get the mattersettled at once, he continued: "Mr. Wilder, I'm afraid I haveimposed on your kindness, but I asked Bill and Horace to let theGerman boy come to your ranch until we could decide what he shoulddo.  He's so--so scared, I did not like to leave him alone inTolopah.""I asked to have him come, too," declared Tom, as though unwillinghis brother should bear all the blame, if blame there was to be."That was right, quite right," said Mr. Wilder, after a quickglance at his wife.  "Tolopah wouldn't agree with him very well.We've plenty of room and perhaps he will get over his fear.  I canuse another hand very well, if he wants work."It was a great relief to all the boys to have the matter settled sopleasantly, and they resumed their laughter and chatter.When dinner was finished they all went out onto the piazza, whereTom and Larry were initiated into the mysteries of throwing alasso.  Then the visitors were taken around and shown many sightsnew to them.CHAPTER VIIN THE SADDLE"How far away are those mountains?" asked Tom, gazing in theirdirection as they walked to the corral the next day."About forty miles," replied Bill.  "They are called the 'LostLode' hills, because there is said to be a rich silver mine in themsomewhere that the Spaniards worked hundreds of years ago.  Justwhere it is, though, no one has ever been able to discover.""Wouldn't it be great if we could find it?" exclaimed Larryeagerly.  "Do you suppose your father would let us go and try?Have you ever been over to the hills?""Lots of times on hunting trips.  But we never explored them verymuch.  The trouble is no one knows whether the mine is on this sideor the other.""But haven't they searched for it?" queried Tom, to whose mind asilver mine suggested unlimited wealth."Lots of men have tried, but no one who has gone to find it hasever been seen again," returned Bill.  "They say the mine ishaunted by the ghosts of the old Spaniards who discovered it andthat they kill any one who goes near it."At the suggestion of phantom Spaniards guarding the mine anddespatching those who found it the brothers laughed."You surely don't believe in ghosts?" inquired Tom, a tone of scornin his voice.  "Who started the story about the ghosts, anyhow?""I don't know," responded the elder of the Wilder boys, ratherdisappointed that the legend did not make more of an impression onhis friends.  "We heard it when we came here.  The cowboys allbelieve it, and nothing would make them pass a night in those hillsif they could help it."But ghosts were something in which the two brothers had been taughtnot to believe, and Tom exclaimed:"Huh!  I'll bet some one has found the mine and started thesestories to keep other people from going there.  Maybe there arethree or four mines," he added as his lively imagination began towork."It's all right for you to laugh; you haven't been in the hills,"snapped Horace.  "If you'd heard Cross-eyed Pete tell about thenight he was camping there and was scared away by hearing menshooting you might think differently.""Just the same, I'd be willing to go and hunt for it," persistedTom."And so would I," chimed in his brother.  "I say," he continued,"why can't we go on a hunting trip?  We needn't say anything abouttrying to find the mine.  Then, if we didn't, no one could laugh atus and say we got scared."The refusal of the boys from Ohio to believe in the haunted minehad at first nettled Bill and Horace, but they had always been keento hear or see phantoms, and at Larry's proposal of the huntingtrip they became enthusiastic."It will be great sport, if father will let us," assented Horace."Come on, we'll ask him."And abandoning their intention of roping ponies, they turned backto the house in search of Mr. Wilder.Finding him on the piazza, they lost no time in laying their planfor a hunting trip before him.As he beheld the eager faces and noted the lithe, supple bodies ofthe boys, in whose eyes shone the light of fearlessness, theranchman replied:"I have no objection, if you don't go beyond the foothills.  Bill,you remember the trails I showed you last spring, don't you?""Yes, sir.""All right, keep to them.  You boys certainly ought to be able totake care of yourselves.  Go and tell Hop Joy to put up some grubfor you.  You had better camp on the plains to-night, so you won'tbe able to shoot your food."Delighted at the thought of going on a hunting trip, the boyshurried away to the Chinaman."Golly!  You boyee go shootee?" exclaimed the celestial when he hadreceived the orders to pack their food.  "No flaid ghostee?""Of course not," replied Horace.  "There's no such thing as ghosts,Hop Joy.""Mebbe so, mebbe not; no be too sure," grunted the Chinaman."Plete, him say they be."But the boys did not linger to argue the matter, and only waitingto see that Hop Joy put in a quantity of doughnuts, went to gettheir rifles and shells ready.To their surprise, when they returned to the piazza, they found theranchman busily overhauling his guns."I reckon I'll go with you," he explained.  "I haven't been huntingfor some time, and as everything is quiet I can get away for threeor four days as well as not.""Oh, good! Hooray!" exclaimed the boys.And Horace added: "Now we won't have to worry about getting lost."Not long did it take the lads to clean their rifles and fill theircartridge belt with shells."Have you two got any knives?" inquired Mr. Wilder, looking at Tomand Larry."Sure," replied Larry, and he told of the old gold miner's presentsand his advice about always carrying the pieces of thong with them."Silas is no fool," smiled the ranchman.  "If you remember all hetold you, you won't get into trouble.  Still, I think it would bejust as well for you to let me put your money in my safe.  Then yousurely can't lose it.""That's what father told us to do," said Larry as he and Tomremoved their buckskin money bags and gave them to the ranchman."We forgot it, though.""Speaking about forgetting, what about the German boy?" asked Mrs.Wilder, who had come to learn the cause of the preparations.At the mention of Hans the four lads looked at one another indismay.  But the ranchman came to the rescue, saying:"From all Larry and Tom say, I don't reckon he'll be keen onhunting.  You can let him help Ned.""Ned's our handy man," explained Horace in a whisper.  "He drivesthe grub wagon to Tolopah, and to the boys in their camps.""Well, here comes the wagon now," observed Mrs. Wilder as shecaught sight of the big white-covered wagon, called a prairieschooner in the old days, bobbing over the plains about a mile away."Oh, don't let's wait," protested Horace.  "We can saddle up and goand meet them.  I'll make my pony dance and perhaps that will scareHans so he won't care to go.""All right," laughed Mr.  Wilder.  "Bring up the ponies.  GetBuster for me."Running to the wagon shed, the boys gathered the saddles, bridles,some oats and pans and started for the corral.Opening the big gate, they entered, closed it and then threw theirsaddles on the ground."Always close the gate before you start to get your ponies,"instructed Bill.   "Sometimes they cut up, and if they get out ontothe prairie it's the old Harry of a job to catch them again."Now put your oats in your pans.  Watch Horace and me and you'llsee what to do."When they had prepared the oat bait, the two Wilder boys began tobeat on the pans, calling Buster and the other ponies by name.The animals, which were at the farther end of the corral browsing,lifted their heads and then came trotting toward them, haltingabout ten feet away."Swish your pans so they can hear the oats," whispered Bill.Slowly the ponies approached, as though deciding whether theypreferred their oats or their liberty."Come, Blackhawk!  Come, Buster!" called Horace.The boys set the pans on the ground.  For a moment the ponies eyedthem and then trotted up, the eight crowding one another to get atthe four measures."Now's the time," breathed Bill.In a trice the bits were thrust into the ponies' mouths and theleather over their ears.Lightning plunged back, but Larry grabbed the reins just in timeand held him."Push the pan to him," directed Horace, and, as he smelled theoats, the pony grew still and was soon munching contentedly.After catching his own mount, Bill had bridled Buster, and as soonas the oats were devoured, all five were saddled with littletrouble and the boys were quickly on the backs of four of them,Bill leading the pony for his father.It required but a few minutes to make fast the saddle bags Hop Joyhad filled with food, tin plates, cups, knives and forks, coffeepot, sugar and coffee and to tie on their sleeping blankets.Then they buckled on their cartridge belts, slung their riflesacross their shoulders and again mounted.By the time they were ready, however, the grub wagon was cominginto the yard."Where's Hans?" gasped Larry, the first one to discover that therewas only one occupant.With a broad grin suffusing his face, the driver cried:"Whoa!"As the horses stopped Mr. Wilder, fearing that the boy had beenmade the butt of some mad prank, said severely:"If anything happened to that lad, I shall hold you responsible,Ned.  Where is he?""Gone with his brother Chris.""His brother!" cried Tom.  "Did his brother come back?""He did--yesterday.  Hans found him, and such a meeting nobody eversee before.  The brother is going to another town and Hans withhim.  They started to-day."The knowledge that Hans had found his brother was a great relief toTom and Larry, and they lost no time in saying so."If you feel that way, then it surely is all right," declared theranchman.  "We're going into the hills for a few days hunting, Ned.If you need me, you'll find me somewhere on the 'Lost Lode' trail.""With them tenderfeet?" inquired the handy man, eyeing Tom andLarry doubtfully."Don't take them for easy, Ned.  They put the laugh on Gus Megget,so I reckon they can take care of themselves in the hills and onthe Half-Moon, too," he added with an emphasis which was to act asa warning to be passed along to the cowboys."So it's them two I heard 'em talkin' about in Tolopah?  Howdy,gents!  I sure takes off my bonnet to you," and Ned swept hissombrero good naturedly from his head.  "Say, you two are the onlytopic of conversation in Tolopah about now.  Couple of passengerstold what you all done, and now everybody's telling everybody else.So it was you kids put the kibosh on Gus Megget.  Phew!  I hope Idon't get you riled up."  And clucking to his horses, Ned drove onto the wagon shed."When you go into Tolopah, you'll own the town," smiled Mr. Wilder,looking at the brothers.  "You see, you are famous already."But Larry and Tom only laughed, while the latter exclaimed:"I'd rather find the Lost Lode than fight Megget.""So my boys have told you about the mine and the ghosts, eh?"  Andshaking his bridle, the ranchman waved good-by to his wife andcantered away, followed by the others.For a few minutes they rode without talking, the Wilder boys atrifle envious of the reputation their friends had achieved and thechums trying to get accustomed to riding with a rifle bumping theirbacks.They soon got the swing of it, however, and, as the ponies settledinto an easy, steady lope, Tom exclaimed:"Larry, we're in the saddle and on the plains at last.""Like it, what?" queried Horace."It's what we've been dreaming of for months," declared Larry."Only, I say, Mr. Wilder, let's drop Megget.  All we did was to getaway from him.""As you like," smiled the ranchman, "but that's something."CHAPTER VIIA RACE IN THE MOONLIGHTNow through waving grass up to their knees, now through stretchesof sage brush the hunters rode.  Three or four times they caughtsight of cattle in the distance, which Horace eagerly declaredbelonged to the Half-Moon, explaining that the biggest herds werein Long Creek bottoms, about fifty miles southwest, where thecattle could find water as well as good grazing ground."Fifty miles, gracious!  Do you own so much land?" asked Larry ofMr. Wilder."No.  We have a thousand acres, more or less.  But my neighbors andI have leased the rights to graze in Lone Creek.""Neighbors?" repeated the elder of the brothers in surprise.  "WhyI can't see any house but yours.  In fact, I haven't seen any sincewe left Tolopah.""And there isn't any within thirty miles.  There are two on thesouth and more north, even farther away.  But we call themneighbors just the same.  Anybody within a day's ride is aneighbor," explained the ranchman.  And as he noted the look ofamusement that appeared on the faces of the brothers, he added:"You won't think so much of distances after you've been out here awhile."At the end of two hours, as they mounted the crest of a great rollin the prairies, the dried-up course of a stream was disclosed."If you follow that, it will lead you to Lone Creek," explainedHorace.  "Down about ten miles there's a place called the Witches'Pool, where we go fishing.  It's so deep it never dries.  We'll gothere some day.""More ghosts?" inquired Larry as he repeated the name of the pool."No, no ghosts," laughed Mr.  Wilder, "just the _ignis fatuus_, orwill-o'-the-wisps.  All cowboys are very superstitious, you mustremember.  The land round the pool is swampy and at night you cansometimes see the lights dancing about.  I suppose some one sawthem, and, finding no person there, immediately decided the poolwas a gathering place for witches.""Pete says it's the bodies of the men who have died of thirst onthe plains searching for water," declared Horace in an awed tone."That's an ingenious explanation, but it is not the truth, my boy.The lights are caused by certain gases that come from the marshyground and glow when the atmosphere is in a certain condition.Over in Scotland, on the peat bogs, they call them 'friars'lanterns.'""My, but I'd like to see one," sighed Tom."Then I'm afraid you'll be obliged to camp by the pool.  You mightgo there a hundred nights and never see a sign of one," returnedthe ranchman.  And then, as the shadows cast by the mountains werereaching farther and farther out onto the prairie, he thought itbest to turn the minds of the boys into other channels."Shall we camp in the open or would you rather push on to thefoothills?" he asked.  "It'll be dark by the time we get there.""I vote to keep going," answered Larry."How far is it?" inquired Tom, who was beginning to feel theeffects of the many miles in the saddle."About fifteen, which means two hours at least, because the darkerit gets the slower we'll be obliged to go till you two get moreused to riding the plains," responded Bill."If we keep on, and I feel stiff in the morning, we'll be there andI shall not be compelled to cover the fifteen miles," mused theyounger of the brothers as much to himself as to the others.  "I'mfor pushing on, too."Laughing at their guest's discomfort, the others readilyacquiesced, and they crossed the stream bottom.Save the noise made by themselves, the twitter of birds, and theoccasional cry of some prairie dog routed out by their approach,the silence of the plains was intense.  At first Tom and Larry didnot notice it, but as they rode mile after mile they began to feelits depression."It often drives men crazy," asserted the ranchman when Larrymentioned his feeling.  "That's why we never send a man out aloneto herd.  Having some one to talk to it a big relief, I can tellyou, after you've been a week or so on the prairies with nothingbut a bunch of stolid cattle.  The very monotony of their grazingand chewing their cuds gets on your nerves."As darkness came on, however, the awful silence was broken.  Fromall sides came the barking of coyotes, as though they weresignaling one another their whereabouts."That howling would scare me a great deal quicker than any ghostsor witches," observed Tom.  "My, but it's mournful! Do they keepthat up all night?""Indeed they do," replied Horace, delighted to think one thing hadbeen discovered which the two visitors feared, "only it gets worsethe darker it grows.  Besides, when they are hungry, they'll followyou and attack you.""That wouldn't be so bad so long as you had a gun with you,"interposed Larry.  "I'd like to get a shot at one.""Then there's your chance, over on the left," exclaimed Mr. Wilder.Unslinging his rifle, the elder of the Alden boys looked eagerly inthe direction indicated.  But it was so dark he could see nothingand he said so."Can't you see those two little balls of fire right opposite you?If you can't, say so.  I'll stop him myself," returned the ranchman.Yet even as he spoke the coyote turned and fled."It's just as well," added Mr.  Wilder after he had announced thefact.  "You'll have a chance to shoot at something better than ameasely prairie wolf to-morrow, I hope.""Or perhaps to-night," chimed in Horace.  "Maybe a ghost'll attackour camp.""That will do, youngster.  If you talk any more about ghosts, I'llmake you ride back to the ranch in the dark.  If you keep on,you'll work yourself up so you'll think every sound you hear is aSpaniard from the mine, and there will be no sleep for any of us."This command had the desired effect, and Horace gave up the attemptof trying to frighten his friends.For a time the darkness grew more and more intense till it was allthe riders could do to make out the forms of one another.  But atlast the clouds passed over, revealing the stars, and soon the moonrose, full and brilliant, changing the swaying grass into a seemingsea of silver with its light.In wonder the brothers gazed at the transformation and Larry said:"I wish the plains could be like this always.  They don't seem halfso terrible."But the boys soon had other things to think about.  They were soclose to the mountains that they could see the great cliffsglistening in the moonlight above the trees from which they rose,sheer."I don't wonder they say these mountains are haunted," exclaimedTom.  "I can almost believe I see men moving along the top of thatmiddle cliff.""Better curb your imagination then," chided Mr. Wilder.  "It's agood thing we've got to pitch camp pretty soon or you'd all get thenerves."At Tom's words the other boys had sought the middle cliff withtheir eyes and suddenly Bill exclaimed:"Tom's right, father!  There are men moving along the top of theprecipice!"Mr. Wilder had been intent on searching the base of the mountainsfor a place to camp for the night.  But at his elder son'sstatement he looked up quickly, drawing rein that he might be surethe motion of his horse played no trick on his eyes.Breathlessly the others waited his decision.The cliff at which they all were staring so intently was about halfway up the mountain and above it rose another wall of rock.  And itwas against the base of this latter that the objects whichattracted Tom's attention were silhouetted."By jove! They are men," exclaimed Mr. Wilder excitedly.  "I neverknew there was a trail along the base of that cliff before."The boys were tremendously stirred up as they heard thisconfirmation."Perhaps they are the men going to guard the Lost Lode for thenight," Horace whispered.  "They wouldn't need a trail to walk on,father.""Steady, boy, steady," returned the ranchman.  "Those men are fleshand blood, don't worry about that.  Who they are I don't know.Probably some hunters like ourselves.""That couldn't be the way to the mine, could it?" hazarded Larry,whose eagerness to discover a silver mine had received new impetus."Can't we go there to-morrow and find out?""We'll see when to-morrow comes," declared Mr. Wilder.  "Butthere's no occasion to get excited.  The mountains are full of menhunting and prospecting all the time.  Come on, we'll camp underthat big tree up there to the right.  Whoever gets there first willbe boss of the camp."The challenge for a race, with the honor of being in command of thehunt as the prize, served to take the boys' thoughts from themysterious men on the trail as nothing else could, and quickly theyleaped their ponies forward.The spot selected by the ranchman for their night's bivouac wasabout a quarter of a mile away and in the opposite direction fromthe cliffs.Yelling like young Indians, the boys urged their jaded ponies togreater efforts.Tom and Horace, being lighter than the others, had not tried theirmounts so much, and rapidly they drew ahead."We simply must beat them," called Bill to Larry.  "If they get infirst, they'll make us haul all the water and wash dishes--at leastHorace will, if he wins."Leaning over their ponies' necks and rising in the saddles tolighten their weight as much as possible, the two elder boys setout to overtake their brothers.With spur and lariat end they belabored their mounts and gamely thehorses responded.Leap by leap they cut down the lead, were soon abreast of theothers and then forged ahead, shouting in triumph as they openedclear ground between them.Only about a hundred yards were the leaders from the tree.Feeling his pony tiring under him, despite his urging, Horacegasped at Tom:"Hit Blackhawk with the end of your lasso and then hang on for dearlife!"Instantly Tom obeyed.As the big black felt the blow he uttered a snort of rage, jerkedforward his head and seemed to fly over the ground.Like a flash he caught Bill and Larry.  Frantically they strove tokeep up with him, but in a few bounds he had passed them."Tom wins!" yelled Horace with glee.But his delight at the success of his ruse was shortlived.Blackhawk was not accustomed to being beaten and, though ordinarilyhe had a good temper, when he was angry he could be very mean.Accordingly, as though reasoning to himself that he had done hisshare in carrying his rider so many miles, when he felt the sharpcut of the lariat he resented it.  And his resentment took the formof a vicious lunge forward of his head, which enabled him to getthe bits in his teeth, with which advantage no one could controlhim.Despite his greater weight, the ranchman had been close up with theboys and had noted Blackhawk's action.Realizing that it would be hopeless to try to overtake the runaway,and fearing that some injury might befall Tom, Mr. Wilder shouted:"Rope the black, Bill! He's got the bit!"Loosening his lariat as quickly as possible, the elder of theWilder boys began to whirl it round his head."Throw it! throw it!" roared the ranchman, "Can't you see you'relosing ground every second?"Never before had Bill been called on for so important a cast of hislasso, and for a moment his hand trembled."Steady! Let her go now!" counseled his father.At the word Bill put forth all his strength and the rope shot fromhis hand, the noose opening perfectly as it sped through the air.Fascinated, the others watched as it hung a moment in the air anddropped directly over Blackhawk's head."Pretty cast!" praised the ranchman.  "Now ride along.  Don't pullup too soon."But his words were too late.The pony which his elder son rode was perfectly trained to ropesteers.  As it caught the sharp hiss of the lariat the animal hadslackened its stride, and the instant it felt the rope tighten hadstiffened its legs and braced, almost squatting back on itshaunches.And the next moment Blackhawk was jerked from his feet, measuringhis length on the ground, while Tom went sailing through the air,alighting about twenty feet away."Hold as you are!" ordered Mr. Wilder of Bill and then dashed forthe kicking black, with Larry and Horace at his heels."Tom! Tom! are you hurt?" called his brother.For a second there was no reply, and then their anxiety wasrelieved by seeing Tom stand up."Any bones broken?" asked Mr. Wilder, who had reached the black andwas dismounting."No.  I'm all right, thanks to the prairie grass," replied theyounger of the brothers.  "Is Blackhawk hurt?""I don't think so.  Ease up, Bill.  I've got him by the bridle."Quickly the elder of the Wilder boys rode forward, and as theprostrate pony felt the rope loosen he bounded to his feet.With skilled eye the ranchman looked him over and there was a worldof relief in his voice as he said:"We got out of that scrape mighty luckily.  There isn't a scratchon Blackhawk, and if Tom's----""There's no scratch on me either," returned the boy.  "But whatabout the race, do I win or not?""Considering you flew from Blackhawk's back almost to the tree, Ireckon you do," declared Mr. Wilder.And looking up, Tom noticed that he was, indeed, standing under thebranches of the tree that marked the goal.CHAPTER VIIIHORACE IN DANGERAs the others reached the tree they dismounted, unbuckled thesaddle bags and removed the saddles."Well, commander, do you wish me to select a place to hobble theponies?" asked Mr. Wilder, addressing Tom."Yes, sir.  I never was in charge of a camp before, so you musttell me what to do.""Oh, make me your lieutenant and I'll tell you," pleaded Horace."I know all about it.""You can give orders all right," grunted Bill, "there's no doubtabout that.  I see myself lugging wood."All laughed heartily at this reference to Horace's fondness forcommanding, and the younger of the comrades replied;"All right, Horace, you may be my lieutenant.  Only you must tellme what there is to be done, and I will give the orders."Although by this arrangement the youngest of the party would bedeprived of most of his powers, he readily agreed, saying:"Wood must be collected for the fire, the food and dishes must beunpacked, supper cooked and water located.""Better put me on the job of getting water, because I shall picketthe horses where they can get a drink," declared the ranchman."Then, Larry, you and Bill build the fire and get supper ready.Horace, I'll put you in charge and you must arrange the place forus to sleep.  I can see some pine trees yonder.  Break off somelimbs and spread them on the ground.  Then put the blankets overthem.  I'm going with Mr. Wilder to bring the water and to learnhow to hobble the horses.""You're a fine commander to be lieutenant for--not," declaredHorace.  "Gave me the meanest job of all."  Yet he lost no time inobeying.Quickly each one set about the work assigned to him, for the sightof the doughnuts and other good things to eat, after their longride, made them hungry."Get the coffee pot and then sling the reins of Lightning andBuster on your arm and come with me, Tom," said Mr. Wilder.  "I'lltake Blackhawk, because he's still cranky, and the other two."The ranchman, however, let the ponies lead him more than he ledthem, for he knew their instinct would take them to the nearestwater.Yet there was no need of their guidance, for in a few minutes theears of the hunters caught the sound of running water."That's a brook," declared Mr. Wilder, and quickly he led the wayto a spot where they found a fair-sized pool formed by a streamcoming from the hills.The coffee pot was a monster, holding all of two gallons, and thisthe ranchman directed Tom to fill before allowing the ponies tosatisfy their thirst.As the animals were drinking Mr. Wilder took the lariats he hadbrought and tied an end around the left ankle of each pony, makinganother noose round the hind ankle on the same side at such adistance that there was about three feet of the rope between thehoofs."Such a short line makes it impossible for them to run or even walkvery well," he explained, "so they will just stay here and browse,"Now we'll remove the bridles.  Always remember to hobble your ponybefore unbridling.""But the rope ends?" asked Tom."In a place like this, where there are no rocks between which theycan get bound, you can let them drag.  When it is rocky, you canwind the rope loosely round their necks."Before the task was finished they heard Horace calling."Hey, you!  Hurry with that coffee pot!" he shouted.  "We want tostart it boiling.""Then come and get it," replied his father.But Tom had already picked it up and was carrying it toward thecamp fire, which was blazing cheerily beneath the big tree.  Takingthe bridles, Mr. Wilder soon followed.Larry had spread a blanket on the ground for a tablecloth andarranged the plates, knives and forks.  In the middle he had made apile of doughnuts and around them set three pies.To Bill had fallen the task of cooking, and he was busy frying eggsand bacon in a long-handled pan, which he rested on a bed of coals.At the sight of Tom and the coffee pot, he called:"Tell Horace to pour some water into the drinking cups, put thecoffee in the pot and set it in the fire.  Supper'll be readybefore the coffee unless you hurry."But Tom was not a boy to shirk work, and directing his brother tobring the cups, he sent his aide for the coffee while he prepared agood hot bed of coals.The odor from the sputtering bacon whetted their appetites, and allbut Bill devoted their energies to hurrying the coffee and to suchgood purpose that they disproved the old saying, "A watched potnever boils."At last all was ready, and the hunters squatted tailor fashion onthe ground, each before his plate of eggs and bacon and a steamingcup of coffee."My, but this tastes better than anything I ever ate before,"declared Larry."Because the ride has given you a keen appetite," said the ranchmanwith a smile.The others were too busy eating to offer any comment, and the mealprogressed in silence till almost the last bit of food haddisappeared."Hop Joy certainly can cook," complimented Tom as he reached foranother doughnut from the fast vanishing pile."That's what I told you," returned Horace.  "From the way they aregoing, it's a good thing I went back and put in an extra supplywhen Hop wasn't looking.""He'll fix you when we get back!" cried Bill.  "Tom, who does thedishes?  For your benefit and before my young brother gets a chanceto speak, I'll tell you that the cook never washes the dishes.""Oh, what a whopper!" cried Horace.  "Tom, the cook always washesthem.  That's all he does, wash dishes and cook.""Well, we'll all help," declared the youthful commander of the camp.This arrangement met with laughing approval, and because of themany hands, the task was soon finished."And now, as we must be up with the dawn if we are going to get ashot at any deer, I suggest that we turn in," remarked Mr. Wilder."Where did you put the pine boughs, Horace?  I don't see them.""I left them over by the tree," replied the lieutenant, grinning."I didn't know how many each of you would want, so I thought thebest way was to let you pick out all you pleased.""Lazy bones!  Lazy bones!" shouted the other boys, and Tom cried:"That trick won't work this time.  Now, hurry and tote the boughsover."Making a face at his superior, Horace Jumped tip and soon cameback, dragging a monster pile of fragrant pine branches, which hequickly separated into five heaps."Does the honored general wish me to wrap and tuck each one in hisbed or will they do that themselves?" he asked, bowing in mockdeference."The honored general sentences you to do the dishes in the morningfor that," returned Tom with assumed dignity, and in rare goodhumor they quickly placed their saddles as pillows and unrolledtheir blankets.Fixing the fire so that it could not spread and cause any harm, Mr.Wilder bade the boys turn in, and soon they were sound asleep.Exhausted from the excitement of their arrival and the long ride,Tom and Larry were so deep in slumber that though Mr. Wilder calledthem when he himself got up, they did not wake.His own sons, however, heard his call and quickly crawled fromtheir blankets."Come on, we'll get breakfast.  Let Tom and Larry sleep," exclaimedtheir father.  "Remember, they are not so accustomed to riding asyou two are."This caution was uttered just in time, for Horace was in the veryact of yanking the youthful commander by the foot when his fatherspoke.Not long did it take to prepare the food, and Bill was just pouringthe coffee when Mr. Wilder aroused his guests."Wh--what is it?" gasped Larry, sitting up and staring about himdazedly."It's breakfast, that's all," said Horace.  "Hey, Mr. Commander,you'll be court-martialed if you miss grub."  And he proceeded todrag Tom from his bed of boughs by the heels.Chagrined to think they had not helped with the meal, Tom and Larryquickly arose and ran to the brook to wash.As they stood at the pool they forgot their ablutions in the beautyof the scene before them.The grass of the prairie was heavy with dew and in the rose glow ofthe sky the particles of moisture sparkled and glistened likecountless crystals."Seems like fairyland," whispered Tom, as though afraid if he spokeout loud the scene would vanish.A call from Horace, however, roused them to action, and in a fewminutes they were, eating heartily."What sort of a brook is that?" asked Larry.  "I didn't see anyoutlet, yet water keeps running into the pool all the time.""There must be some underground stream into which it empties,"replied the ranchman.  "There are two such subterranean rivers inthese hills, and, I suppose this pool connects with one of them."Discussion of such phenomena was prevented by his continuing:"Hurry now and pack up.  I'll bring up the ponies while you aregetting ready."Eager to begin the ascent of the hills, the boys worked rapidly,and by the time Mr. Wilder appeared with the horses everything wasin the saddle bags, though Horace had dispensed with the formalityof wiping the dishes.It was the task of but a few minutes to make fast the saddle bagsand blankets, and just as the sun flooded the plains with itsgolden light the hunters swung into their saddles.Riding southward, Mr. Wilder followed the base of the hills for agood mile till he came to a well-worn trail."We'll follow this run for a while," said he.  "Bill, you and Larrycan ride at the rear.  I'll keep Horace and Tom with me, so theywon't be tempted to spoil our sport by shooting at the first deerthey see, no matter how far out of range it is.  For the benefit ofyou two," he added, addressing the brothers, "I will say that whenyou are riding a trail, and especially a mountain trail, always letyour pony have plenty of rein.  It's easier for him.  He won't beso likely to stumble and fall, and a pony can generally keep atrail better than a man."These instructions delivered, Mr. Wilder turned his pony into therun and the others followed in Indian file, the two elder boysbringing up the procession.For an hour they rode, now with their ponies scrambling over rocks,now up such steep ascents that the comrades feared the animalswould fall over onto them.But by leaning far forward at such times, they had no mishaps andat last rode out onto a plateau from which they looked down into avale some two hundred yards below.A mist hovered over the basin, rendering it impossible for them tosee the bottom.The boys were disappointed and said so."On the contrary, it is lucky," declared Mr. Wilder.  "There is abrook down there and it is a favorite drinking ground for deer.Under the cover of the mist we shall be able to go down, and itwill act as a blanket to keep our scent from the sensitive-nosedbeauties.""Going to ride down?" queried Tom, looking about for some trail."No, we'll leave the ponies here.  Lively now and hobble them anddon't talk."The plateau was some hundred yards long by half as many wide, andquickly the hunters rode their horses to where the mountain againrose, turning the horses loose in some delicious grass."Be very careful, very careful in descending," cautioned theranchman.  "The ground is wet and the rocks are slippery, and ifyou once start to fall, there's no knowing where you will land."All the boys had hunted enough to know that the safest way to carrya loaded gun is with the muzzle pointed to the ground, the buttresting against the back of the right shoulder, with the armakimbo, thus forming a rest for the barrel.And in this fashion they set out.After a few minutes' search Mr. Wilder exclaimed:"Here's the run the deer use.  Steady now.  Mind your feet.  Don'tmake a sound."With almost no noise, the party descended.  Now and then one of thelads slipped, but there was always a rock or a sapling at handwhich they could grasp to steady themselves and no one fell.As he reached the edge of the mist, Mr. Wilder held up his hand asa signal to halt.Turning his head, he listened intently for some sound that mightgive him an inkling as to the whereabouts of the deer.In his eagerness to locate them, Horace moved away from the trailto the left and then stopped.Barely had he halted when a loud sneeze rang out from directly infront of him.So sudden and so near was it that Horace cried out in fright.At the same moment the antlers of a big buck appeared from the mistand then vanished as quickly, only to reappear a moment later,followed by its head and shoulders.Whether the buck or the hunters were more surprised it would behard to say.  For several seconds they stared at one another.Larry, Tom and Horace were trembling like leaves, victims of "buckfever," a species of stage fright which makes it impossible for anyone to hold a gun steady, and Bill was in such a position behindthe others that he could not aim his rifle unless he put it betweenthe heads of the others.The ranchman alone was where he could bring down the buck, and hehesitated, unwilling to risk a chance to get several other deer bydropping the one in front of him.It was the buck himself that put an end to the remarkablesituation.  Of a sudden, with a snort of rage, he lowered his sharppronged antlers and charged at Horace.With a yell of terror the boy turned to flee and stumbled.In an instant the scene had changed from one of comedy to one ofpossible tragedy should the infuriated beast reach his victim.But Mr. Wilder was equal to the occasion.  Throwing his rifle tohis shoulder, he fired.True was his aim and the buck threw up his head, staggered and thentoppled over.The sound of the shot had galvanized Tom and Larry into action, andwith a lightning movement they both stooped, seized their friendand pulled him to them just as the body of the buck struck theground.So unnerved were they all by the narrowness of the escape that forseveral moments no one spoke.Then Mr. Wilder rallied them by exclaiming:"See! see!  The mist has lifted.  There go three more deer up thevalley.  Come on!  Let's see who can bring one down."The chance for a shot brought even Horace out of his fright, and ina thrice the boys had sighted their rifles and fired.  But no deerdropped."I hit one, I know I did!" declared Bill.  "Let's follow.""No, shoot again," returned his father.  "We have the advantagehere from being above."Again the rifles cracked, and this time one of the deer gave abound in the air and dropped flat."Hooray! We've got another!" cried the lads,"Don't fire any more.  The others are out of range," declared theranchman."Please, just one more," begged Horace.But his father refused, telling him that a good hunter never shotwhen there was no hope of bringing down his game."Never mind, we've got two," said Larry.  "I call that pretty goodluck."And speculating as to whom the credit of hitting the secondbelonged, they all hastened to where it lay.CHAPTER IXTHE MESSAGE FROM CROSS-EYED PETEThe shells shot by the rifles belonging to the two chumswere .44-.50, while those of the Wilder boys were .30, so thatit would only be possible to tell whether the boys from Ohiohad proved better marksmen than the Westerners.  Yet the boyswere eager to settle the question.Chaffing each other good naturedly, they tramped along, and whenthey saw the size of the antlers and body of the second buck theyforgot all rivalry."He's a beauty!" cried Horace.  "I'm glad it wasn't he that made ajump for me.  His prongs stick out a yard."Though this was an exaggeration, the branches of the antlers were,indeed, surprisingly long."And there are fourteen of the prongs," ejaculated Tom, who hadbeen counting the sharp points."Which makes him fifteen years old," asserted Bill.  "Just look attheir spread; they must be all of four feet.""Easily," said his father.  "He's the biggest buck I ever saw.  Ah,here's the bullet-hole, right back of the shoulder.  It certainlywas a splendid shot."  And as he bent closer to examine it, theothers awaited his decision as to which party the trophy belonged."Ohio wins!" he declared at last."Then Tom probably got him.  He's a better marksman that I am,"asserted Larry.Though the Wilder boys were naturally disappointed, they made thebest of it, and Bill exclaimed:"Come on, Larry.  Let's go into the woods and search.  I'm positiveI hit a deer the first time I fired.  Can we go, father?""Surely, only don't get lost.  It will take me some time to dressthe two bucks.  If you are not back by the time I am finished, cometo the plateau.  We'll wait for you there."Promising not to wander far, the elder boys entered the woods whilethe others assisted in dressing the monster buck.After skinning the animal, the ranchman cut out the most savoryparts and placed them in the pelt."Shall we take the antlers?" asked Horace."They'd be fine to have mounted, but they'll be awfully in the waywhile we're hunting.  What do you think, Mr. Wilder?"  And Tomappealed to him as to their proper disposal."They will be awkward to carry, that's a fact," assented theranchman.  "If you want them very much, though, we can leave themhere and then stop on our way home.  They'll be safe enough till weget back."Readily Tom agreed, and he and Horace were just stooping to pick upone end of the hide, containing the deer meat, when Horace let outa cry."Oh, what's that thing up by my buck?""It looks like a tiger," exclaimed Tom, and then added: "But youdon't have tigers out here, do you?""No.  That's a mountain lion, which is almost the same thing,though," answered Mr. Wilder.  "Now's your chance to show yourmarksmanship, Horace.  Take a good aim and see if you can't knockhim over."No urging did his son need.  Raising his rifle to position, the ladsquinted along the barrel carefully and then fired.Above the report of the shot rang out an ear-splitting howl, andthe mountain Hon turned to face the direction of the sound."Give him another, son.  You hit him, but not in a vital spot,"said his father.Again Horace aimed and fired, this time with better success, forthe lion dropped in its tracks."Good work," praised Tom heartily.  "That was a mighty long shot tomake.  Now if Bill and Larry only get something, we'll have baggeda trophy."Elated at his success, Horace was starting toward his prize whenhis father called him back to help carry the pelt."My, but he's a beauty!" declared the younger of the chums whenthey reached the carcass.  "I should hate to come across onesuddenly.""They are not pleasant customers to meet," smiled Mr. Wilder.  "I'mglad this fellow didn't visit us last night.  Though why he passedthe horses by I don't know.  Mountain lions are great ones forhorse or cattle flesh.  While I am dressing the buck you boys hadbetter climb up to the plateau and see that our ponies are allright.  Take some of the meat with you and then we won't be obligedto make so many trips."With a piece of meat in one hand and a rifle in the other, the ladsstarted up the trail and, though they went bravely enough, each inhis heart was a bit frightened."Pete says mountain lions usually travel in pairs, so keep youreyes peeled," advised Horace.But though they imagined several times they heard the purr of oneof the prowlers, they reached the plateau without adventure.The ponies were huddled together, tails to the rocks, and weresniffing the air in obvious uneasiness."Steady, boys, steady," called Horace soothingly.  And setting downhis meat, he patted each reassuringly.The presence of the boys was an evident relief to the ponies, andafter a few minutes they began to champ grass again."That lion must have come quite near, to scare 'em so," assertedthe young rancher.  "Pete says ponies are almost as good as dogsfor watching, and I believe him.  They can smell things, oh, wayoff."  And sitting down, Horace entertained his companion withstories of the keen scent of horses, which lost none of their colorbecause of his lively imagination.  Indeed, he succeeded in gettingthem both so worked up that when Mr. Wilder's hat appeared abovethe edge of the plateau each boy seized his rifle and aimed at it."What are you going to do, hold me up?" laughed the ranchman as hesaw the barrels leveled at him, and then, as he noted the alarm ontheir faces, he added: "Steady!  Put your guns down carefully."Laughing nervously, the boys obeyed."You are a fine lot, you are," he chided, "to leave me to bring upall the meat alone.  Why didn't you come back?"In explanation Horace told how they had found the ponies and saidthey had stayed to quiet them."And I'll wager you've been relating some wonderful yarns for Tom'sbenefit, judging from the way you received me.  Now, boys," hecontinued seriously, "when you are in the mountains you must nevertalk about things that will excite you.  There are so many thingsthat can happen.  A man always needs to be cool and collected, sothat if emergency does arise he can think quickly and well."This bit of advice made a deep impression on the lads and theypromised to remember it.The sun was high in the heavens and its heat was becoming terrific."Fetch the horses and come into the woods," commanded Mr.  Wilder."We'll get dinner ready and wait for Bill and Larry where it'scool.""Why it's a quarter of twelve," said Tom, looking at his watch.  "Ihad no idea it was so late.""Time flies when you are hunting," returned the ranchman, "a factthat you should remember, and with it that darkness falls quicklyin the mountains."The ponies were nothing loath to move from the broiling plateau tothe cooler woods and stood contentedly, now and then nibbling theleaves and tender twigs from the trees near them.Lighting a fire, Mr.  Wilder soon had a choice slice of venisonbroiling In the saucepan, and the aroma was so good that the boyscould hardly wait to taste the meat.At last it was ready, and they ate it ravenously.  "How much betterit tastes when you've shot it yourself," declared Tom.  "I've hadvenison before, but it wasn't nearly so good as this.""A keen appetite and the mountain air certainly do give a zest toyour food," smiled the ranchman."I reckon I'll put another slice on the fire so it will be readyfor the boys when they come."But it was fully an hour later before they heard the others hail."Up here in the woods," called back Tom and Horace, running to theedge of the forest to guide them to the camp.It was several minutes before Larry and Bill came in sight, andbefore they did the others had learned that they had found the deerBill thought he had hit."I ran across it," explained Larry.  "It's hind leg was broken andit was lying down when I came upon it.  The poor thing tried tojump up, but it couldn't very well.""But I didn't hear any shot," interrupted Tom.  "I've beenlistening, too.""Good reason why, because it was way over in another basin,"answered his brother.  "It must have been all of three miles fromhere, don't you think so, Bill?""Easily.""Then how did you follow it?" demanded Horace."By its blood and where its leg dragged.""Well, I'm glad you found the poor creature and put it out ofmisery," declared his father.  "That's the only objection I have todeer hunting--the animals have such wonderful vitality that theytravel miles and miles after being crippled and then drop fromexhaustion, like this one.  As a usual thing, I don't allow any oneto fire at a deer unless at short range.  I made an exception thismorning, but I never will again.""We didn't bring much of the meat back, it was too long a haul,"said Bill after he had partially satisfied his hunger."We have plenty," returned his father.  "In fact, we have so muchthat we won't fire at any more deer.""Then what can we hunt?" protested Horace."Bear," returned his father."Oh, goody! and mountain lions!  Say, you deer slayers, you mayhave knocked over some bucks, but it took me to stop a mountainlion.""So you were the one who got him, eh?" asked Bill.  "He must havebeen asleep.  You can't hit a deer, and yet you got a mountainlion, which is smaller.""He wasn't asleep, and I made a dandy long shot.  Tom said so,"declared his brother hotly."You certainly did well, son," interposed his father."Then we've all bagged something, if you can call my getting thedeer Bill wounded a hit," said Larry.  "This is sure Jim dandyhunting.  Back home you can tramp all day without even seeing awoodchuck."Heartily the others laughed at this statement of the difference inhunting grounds, and for an hour or so they talked and joked."Are we going to camp here for the night?" inquired Horace at lastof his father."No.  I reckon we'll go farther into the mountains.  We'll have abetter chance for bear there.  This is a little too near theplains."Well rested, the boys were eager to be on the move and gladly theymade ready to advance.In and out among the hills the trail wound, and sundown found thementering a basin similar to that where they had captured theirdeer.  On two sides walls of rocks towered and dense forests formedthe others.Lonesome, indeed, was the spot, and this effect was heightened bythe rapidly descending darkness."Commander, I think we'll hobble the horses right here," said Mr.Wilder, dismounting in the center of the vale.  "It would also be agood idea to have our camp fire close beside them.  Then, if anyprowler smells the deer meat or the horses, it can't reach eitherwithout our knowing it.  And, because we must keep a fire allnight, we shall need a lot of wood."Recalled to the fact that he was in charge of the camp, Tom said:"You fellows come with me and get the wood.  I guess Mr. Wilderwill attend to the horses, and we four can gather enough before itgets real dark."Quickly the boys dismounted and ran to get dry limbs and branches,making a monster pile."I reckon that's enough, commander," said the ranchman at last,"and, besides, supper is ready or will be when the coffee ispoured.""Coffee!  Where did you get the water to boil it?" queried Larry."From the canteens.  I filled them this morning.""And here I've been wondering where we could look for water.  I wassurprised you didn't tell Tom to send some of us."Being less tired than the night before, the boys sat round the campfire after supper, talking and listening to the stories theranchman told about his life as a soldier.When at length they were ready to turn in, they rolled themselvesup in their blankets and formed a circle about the fire.Without adventure they passed the night, sleeping till long aftersunrise, there being no occasion for getting an early start.Indeed as they ate breakfast they were debating whether to push onor stay where they were and set a bear trap when they weresurprised to hear Mr. Wilder's name called.Shouting in return, they jumped to their feet, trying to see whohad hailed them."It's some one on horseback.  I can hear the click of horseshoes onthe stones," declared Larry."Some one from the ranch probably," asserted Mr. Wilder, and thenext moment his opinion was confirmed by Horace, who had run to thetrail and was returning, yelling:"It's Nails! It's Nails!""He's one of our boys," explained Bill to the chums.  "What do yousuppose he can want, father?""Wait till he tells us.  There are so many possibilities, it's nouse trying to guess."Their suspense was short-lived, for in a few moments the cowboycalled Nails dashed into the basin, his pony in a lather.Realizing from this condition of his mount that something seriouswas amiss, Mr. Wilder asked:"What's wrong, Nails?""Cattle thieves!" gasped the cowboy.  "Cross-eyed Pete said to geteverybody you could and meet him at the Witches' Pool to-morrowmorning.  He's driving up the herds from the Long Creek bottoms."CHAPTER XTHE RETURN TO THE RANCHThe knowledge that his herds had again been raided by cattlethieves made Mr. Wilder very angry."This makes the third time some of my cattle have been stolen.  Thethieves will find it is three times and out.  I'll take their trailthis time and stick to it till I round them all up."Never had Bill and Horace seen their father so wrought up, and theywisely held their peace while the cowboy who had brought the newsof the raid busied himself removing the saddle and bridle andwiping the lather from his pony.Before Nails had finished the task, however, the ranchman hadregained control of himself."I am glad Pete is driving the cattle home," he said quietly."They will graze about the Witches' Pool without watching, so I cantake all the boys with me, and the more there are of us the lesstrouble we will have.  Sit down and eat breakfast, Nails, and thentell me about the raid."No urging did the cowboy need, for he had not tasted a mouthfulsince he had left the herd, twenty-four hours before.  He hadexpected to find the ranchman at his home, and when he learned Mr.Wilder had gone on a hunting trip he only stopped long enough tochange ponies and then started again to find him.Attentively the boys waited on him, impatient to hear his story."It was night before last it happened," said Nails, after havingeaten more than it seemed possible for one man.  "All during theday the cattle had been restless and we boys were kept on the jumpholding 'em together.  But with the darkness they quieted down andwe all turned in."When morning came, nary a steer was in sight.  It didn't take uslong to get after 'em, and in about an hour we found them.  But theshort-horned Durhams were missing.""The best cattle in the herd," interrupted Mr. Wilder."Just what Pete said, but not in the same words," grinned Nails."But how do you know they were stolen?" asked Bill.  "Perhaps theyonly wandered off.  You said the herd had been restless.""A hundred head don't all go together," replied the cowboy."Besides, after looking around, we found the hoofprints of sevenponies.""Which way did they drive?" demanded the ranchman."Toward old Mex.  But I reckon that's only a bluff.  It's my ideathe headquarters of this gang are right in these mountains,somewhere.  Pete thinks so, too.  That's why he set the pool as themeeting place.  There's an old trail he knows and he wants tostrike it, you agreeing of course," he added, looking toward theranchman."We'll decide about that later.  But if Pete suggested it, he hassome good reason.  Still, I can't see the necessity of getting anyof the neighbors.  It will only take time, and we can savetwenty-four hours by riding straight to the pool from here.""The reason for getting others is because the Half-Moon isn't theonly herd that's been raided."At this statement the Wilders were amazed."By the tracks from the direction of the Three Stars there musthave been two hundred, at least, lifted from them.""Then Jim Snider and his outfit are on the trail by this time,"declared the ranchman."No, they aren't.  I saw Sandy the other day, and he said they wereall going up to Tolopah to bring down a herd Snider brought fromMontana, It's my idea the thieves knew this and planned a wholesaleraid.""H--m.  That sounds likely," commented Mr. Wilder.  "Who do youthink is at the head of it, Nails?""Gus Megget.  He's the only one with the nerve to pull it off."At the mention of the ruffian cow-puncher the boys looked at oneanother and then at their father, who said:"That can't be, Nails.  Megget tried some of his funny businesswith these two boys, Larry and Tom Alden, up in Oklahoma the otherday.""And they made a monkey of him," interposed Horace gleefully."What, them two?" returned the cowboy, looking at the brothers withkeen interest."They certainly did," smiled the ranchman.  "So I reckon we can'tblame Megget for this raid.""But he could have come by train, the short line, you know.""We'll find out in time.  There's no use arguing, Nails," said theranchman.  "Bill, bring up Buster and Blackhawk.  Tom, you willhave to take Nails' pony.  We must get back to the ranch as soon aspossible and that other horse is too played out."You boys can pack up and follow as fast as you can.  Be at thehouse by the middle of the afternoon, at the latest.  Mind now, Ihave enough to think of without worrying about you."Nails was helping Bill with the ponies, and almost as soon as Mr.Wilder had finished his instructions the animals were ready.Vaulting into the saddle, the ranchman again cautioned the boys tobe careful, shook out his reins and rode from the basin at agallop, the cowboy close behind.With a will the four comrades went to work packing the saddle bags,and less than an hour after the others had left were following them.The raid, the pursuit, wonder if they would be allowed to go on theman-hunt and speculation as to whether the thieves would becaptured formed topics for endless conversation as they rode."Do you suppose those men I saw on the cliff are part of the gang?"hazarded Tom."They may be.  I never thought of them," declared Bill.  "I mustremember to speak about them to father.  Still, I hardly think theycould have had a hand in it.  It is all of thirty miles from wherewe saw them to the Long Creek bottoms, and no sizeable herd ofcattle could be driven through the hills that far in a day.  Twentymiles on the prairies is a stiff hike and half that far would be agood drive in the mountains."When they were obliged to ride Indian file over the trail muchtalking was not attempted, and each boy busied himself with his ownthoughts.Because of his knowledge of the route, Bill led and Larry broughtup the rear.  Their advance was slow, however, as they wished togive the pony Tom rode as much chance to rest as possible beforethey reached the plains.With eyes and ears alert, they proceeded, and without mishapfinally rode out onto the prairie.[Illustration: "With eyes and ears alert, they proceeded."]"Let's eat now," suggested Horace.  "That will give Whitefoot morerest, and by the time we have finished he'll be as good as new.He's a tough one and can stand sixty miles, day in and day out.""Which is about half as much as he'll get this time," added Bill."Still I think Whitefoot's good for it, especially as he hadn'tbeen ridden for a week till Nails took him last night."The halt was made and the boys ate as heartily as though they hadnot breakfasted only three hours before.When they were ready to start again Larry said:"So long as Whitefoot is tired and Horace is the lightest, don'tyou think he'd better ride him instead of Tom?""Good idea," acquiesced Bill, and the shift in mounts was made,after which the boys headed for the ranch house.As they were starting on the long forty-mile ride, Mr. Wilder andNails were ending it.  Though forced to ride carefully so long asthey were on the mountain trail, when the latter reached the plainsthey had "cut loose." Both were expert horsemen and the poniesunder them were mettlesome.  Indeed, Blackhawk had not entirelyrecovered his temper since his roping and it was he that set thepace.  Yet the riders did not allow the ponies to run themselvesout in the first few miles, holding them down to a long, steadylope that covered the ground rapidly."Where do you suppose we are the most likely to strike the outfitfrom the Three Stars, at home or in Tolopah?" asked Mr. Wilderafter a time."At home.  They were to get the cattle day before yesterday, andSandy told me they planned to stay at the ranch to-day to pack grubso as to save a trip of the wagon.""Then we ought to find the whole crew at home.""That's just what Pete and I were banking on," returned Nails.This point settled, the ranchman refused further conversation, tothe disappointment of his companion, occupying himself with mappingout his campaign.After a time the ponies began to slacken their stride, but thevigorous rowelling they received from the spurs of the men on theirbacks told them they were bound on pressing business, and theyresponded gamely."I hope Ned is at home," Mr. Wilder exclaimed suddenly.  "If heisn't, there won't be any but slow ponies in the corral.  And thatmeans it will take me the whole afternoon to get to the ThreeStars.""No, it don't," asserted Nails.  "I kinder thought you might be offsomewhere, so I cut out three ponies from the bunch and broughtthem up with me.  When they told me you were hunting with the kids,I naturally knew you wouldn't go far into the mountains, so I leftthe best ones at the Half-Moon."This foresight of his cowboy pleased the ranchman, and he commendedhim heartily."You seem to have a pretty level head, Nails.  What do you make ofthese raids on my herd?  This makes the third.  It rather seems tome as though the thieves had marked me for their particular victim.""That's my idea exactly," declared the cowboy.  "And that's whatmakes me so sure Gus Megget had a hand in the raid.""But what grudge has Megget against me?" asked Mr. Wilder insurprise."You are the one who leased the Long Creek bottoms, aren't you?"returned Nails, answering the question, Yankee fashion, by another."To be sure.  But what has that to do with it?""Everything.  Megget's been rustling cattle for years, and the LongCreek bottoms were where he used to drive the cattle he'd lifted.If any one jumped him, he could either cross the line into old Mexor strike out for the mountains.  Maybe you don't know it, butthere's a greaser just across the line--they call him DonVasquez--who makes a fat living buying stolen cattle.  He's gotsome old Indian remedy for making hair grow, and he cuts out theold brands, makes hair grow out and then burns in his threecrosses.""And so my leasing the bottoms has spoiled this criminal dealing?""That's what.  I heard a greaser down in El Paso last winterboasting you'd sell your ranch inside of two years.""Why didn't you tell me?" demanded Mr. Wilder severely."Didn't think it was necessary.  Fatty and I fixed him so hewouldn't brag any more."Deeming it unwise to inquire Into the means taken for silencing theMexican, the ranchman lapsed into silence for a few minutes andthen declared:"No cattle thieves can drive me out of business, Nails.  I have theright on my side, and right always triumphs.""We boys are with you, Mr. Wilder.  You've always played more thanfair with us, which is more than we can say of some folks, and weappreciate it.  Cowboys have feelings same as other people, thoughthere seem to be a lot of folks who don't think so.  And I'mspeaking for the other boys of the Half-Moon as well as myself.  Wetalked it all over before Pete sent me to the ranch.  But when youjoin 'em at the pool, don't say anything about what I've told you.Sentiment and hunting cattle thieves don't mix."This expression of the esteem in which his men held him, crudethough it was, moved Mr. Wilder deeply, and reaching over, heseized the cowboy's hand and shook it warmly, an action thatdelighted Nails greatly.The statement about Megget gave the ranchman a new train ofthought.  He realized for the first time that he was engaged in acattle war which would only end with his ruin or the capture of theentire band of thieves.  And being a man who could not befrightened, the owner of the Half-Moon Ranch vowed to accomplishthe latter alternative.The hard ride was tiring the ponies, wiry though they were, and themen on their backs were obliged to resort to almost continual useof their spurs.  But at last the buildings of the ranch home cameinto view, and soon Mr. Wilder and Nails were at the corral."Saddle the best of the bunch for me," ordered the ranchman as hedismounted.  "I'll go to the house for a bite and then start forthe Three Stars.""What about me?" inquired the cowboy, disappointment in his voiceat the thought of being left behind."I want you to ride into Tolopah.  Don't say anything about theraid.  Just listen round and see if you can learn anything."  Andturning on his heel, Mr. Wilder started for the house."Where are the boys?  You didn't let them stay to hunt, did you?"inquired his wife anxiously as he sat down at the table and orderedHop Joy to bring him something to eat."No.  They'll be here during the afternoon.  I'm going to get JimSnider and his outfit.  Nails says they are at home."  And brieflyhe told her of the information he had received from his cowboy.No longer than necessary did the ranchman linger at the table, andwhen he had finished a hasty meal went out, mounted the pony Nailsheld waiting and galloped away in the direction of the Three StarsRanch, which lay to the east.Having far less to go, the cowboy ate leisurely and then rodetoward Tolopah.In the meantime the four boys were making the best time they could,but before they had covered half the distance Whitefoot gave outcompletely.For a time they proceeded, with Horace riding now with one boy andnow with another.  But it was slow work, and at last Bill suggestedthat he ride on ahead, get fresh horses and return.  After someargument, this plan was agreed upon.As she saw her elder son ride up alone, Mrs. Wilder was greatlyalarmed, but he quickly reassured her, and with Ned's help caughttwo ponies, saddled them and went back to meet the others, allreaching the house a little later.CHAPTER XIPREPARATIONS FOR PURSUIT"Oh, dear!  Father and Nails have gone!" exclaimed Horace as hecounted the ponies in the corral while the others were unsaddling."Now we can't go with them.  I was afraid that was what fatherintended when he didn't wait for us.""But Buster and Blackhawk are here, and there is one more pony thanbefore," returned Larry."That doesn't prove anything.  Ned told me Nails brought in threeextra ponies with him," said Bill."Then you have known all the time that father and Nails were goneand never told us?" demanded Horace."It was because I didn't know for certain where they had gone thatI said nothing," replied his brother.  "Ned was away when theyarrived and departed.  Here comes mother; you can find out fromher."After returning Mrs. Wilder's greetings and giving her a briefaccount of the trip, Horace asked:"How long have father and Nails been gone?  I think it was mean ofthem to give us the slip like that.""But they haven't gone to the hills yet," returned his mother."Your father has ridden over to the Three Stars and Nails has goneto Tolopah.""Oh, goody!" exclaimed Horace.  "We may be able to go, after all.Momsy, won't you try to make father take us?"It was only with this last question that Mrs. Wilder understood thepurpose of her son's eager inquiries, and the disclosure did nottend to quiet the anxiety she felt over the outcome of the pursuit.Yet she only said:"That is a question for your father to decide.  I think, though,that you would want to stay here and protect me.""But you are in no danger, Momsy.  Besides, Ned and Hop Joy arehere."The thought of the Chinaman as a protector made the other boyslaugh, and realizing that they could not count on her espousal oftheir cause, they went off to the wagon sheds to devise a plan towin permission from the ranchman.As the owner of the Half-Moon galloped up to the ranch house of theThree Stars his horse literally dripping water, Jim Snider and hiscowboys ran up from all directions to learn the cause of suchevident hard riding.To the accompaniment of various exclamations of anger and surpriseMr. Wilder hurriedly told his neighbors of the raid."That's Megget's work!" ejaculated Snider as the story wascompleted.  "He's the only one cute enough and with nerve enough todo it.  I didn't suppose any one knew my herd was unwatched, yetthe minute my boys ride in the gang raids it.  Wilder, if you and Iare to stay on our ranches, we must round up these cattle thieves.""That's my idea exactly," declared the owner of the Half-Moon."That's why I rode over.  My boys and I start to-morrow morning,and I want to know how many from the Three Stars will go with me.""Every man jack of us, save the cook and grub man," replied Snider."That makes nine.""Good! We'll ride back to the Half-Moon for supper and then go tothe pool.  The sooner we start the better.  If you'll lend me afresh pony, I can travel faster."Without waiting for orders from their master, the boys of the ThreeStars ran to the corral, all agog with the excitement at theunexpected turn of affairs.When the two ranch owners were alone Mr. Wilder imparted hisinformation about Megget's enmity and the Mexican, Don Vasquez.The facts amazed the proprietor of the Three Stars and the two menwere discussing the evident declaration of a cattle war, especiallyagainst the Half-Moon, when the cowboys trotted up with the ponies.Deeming the information too important for general discussion withthe men, the ranch owners swung into their saddles, changing theirtopic of conversation to the trails that would be the most likelyto be taken by the raiders.Never sparing their mounts, they reached the Half-Moon just at duskand their arrival threw the boys into great excitement."Has Nails returned?" asked Mr. Wilder of Ned."Not yet.""Send him to me when he comes.  Make the boys from the Three Starsat home in the bunkhouse and tell Hop Joy to give us supper as soonas he can.  Also have him pack some bacon, sugar, coffee, crackersand doughnuts, enough to last the Half-Moon outfit a week.  Whenit's ready, hitch up and carry it to Pete at the Witches' Pool."Hello! Glad you lads arrived all right," he added as he caughtsight of the boys.  "Any trouble?""Nothing, only Whitefoot gave out.  I had to come on and getanother pony," replied Bill."Good!  Snider, I want you to know Larry and Tom Alden," continuedMr. Wilder, introducing the boys, adding in a low voice: "They arethe lads about whom I told you.""I'm sure glad to meet you," declared the owner of the Three Stars,giving each of the lads a grip that made their hands ache.Upon arrival he had exchanged greetings with Bill and Horace, andaltogether they trooped onto the veranda, whence they were summonedto supper before the lads had the opportunity to ask Mr. Wilderwhether they could accompany him or not.Evincing a lively Interest in the two Eastern boys, the ThreeStars' owner plied them with questions about Ohio and was soimpressed with their answers that he extended a cordial invitationto them and the Wilder boys to pay him a visit at his ranch,promising to have his men give an exhibition of "broncho busting"for their special benefit, an invitation which all four eagerlyaccepted.Just as they were ready to rise from the table Hop Joy glided in."Nail, he backee," he announced.  "Say he got heap talkee.""Tell him to come round to the veranda," ordered Mr. Wilder.  "Bythe way, how are you coming along with the cooking, Hop Joy?""Allee lightee.  Bymeby, two hours maybe.""Well, don't be any longer.  The sooner Ned can start, the soonerhe'll reach the Pool."In answer the celestial bowed low, then turned and left the room.CHAPTER XIIWHAT NAILS LEARNEDWhile the ranchmen and Mrs. Wilder made themselves comfortable inchairs, the boys squatted or stretched out on the piazza, theirrestlessness proclaiming the expectancy with which they awaited the"heap talkee" Nails desired to impart.The cowboy soon appeared, and, after seating himself at Mr.Wilder's bidding, launched into an account of what he had learnedin Tolopah."There are twenty of them in the gang," he said, "and Megget hasjoined them by this time, though he wasn't with them when they madethe raids.  As near as I could make out, their headquarters are inthe Lost Lode Mine.  There are three trails to it, one leading insomewhere near the trail you all took on your hunting trip and theothers to the south, along which they drive the cattle they steal.I----""Mr. Wilder, you don't suppose that could be the trail where I sawthose men crossing the face of the cliff, do you?" interrupted Tom."I shouldn't doubt it a bit.  I'd forgotten about them entirely."And he briefly told Snider of the figures they all had seen,adding: "Much obliged for reminding me, Tom.  That may have beenMegget and the fellows you met with him.  Go on, Nails; anythingmore?""Nothing but that it's my opinion they have a spy in Tolopah whokeeps 'em mighty well informed on the happenings at the Half-Moonand Three Stars ranches."At the words Mr. Wilder and his neighbor exchanged significantglances."What makes you think so?" the latter asked.  "Where did you learnall this, anyhow?""Oh, just nosing round," drawled Nails, but his tone suggested thathe was sure of his information and at the same time unwilling todisclose its source."You certainly did well, Nails," complimented his master.  "Knowinghow many there are in the gang will enable us to lay definite plansfor action.  Now go and get your supper.  I suppose you have seenthe boys from the Three Stars in the bunkhouse?""I could hear 'em half way to Tolopah." "Then tell them we'llstart.  At what time do you think Pete will reach the pool?""About midnight.""Good.  Be ready to move by ten o'clock.""And tell my outfit to make less noise," added Mr. Snider.Until they could hear the other cowboys greeting Nails the two menwere silent, and then Mr. Wilder declared:"I had no idea Megget had twenty men with him.  It's a good thingwe found out."Let's see, there are nine of you from the Three Stars; nine of myboys and myself.  That makes nineteen.""And the four of us, that makes twenty-three," added Horace,deeming the moment auspicious for settling the question that wasuppermost in the minds of all the lads."Your arithmetic is better than your facts," laughed his father."Oh, can't we go, please?  If Megget should see Larry and Tom, hemight run and----""On the contrary, I'm afraid he might try to wipe out the disgracethey put upon him.  No, my son, it's going to be a hard trip.  Ifyou were along I should be worrying about you all the time.Besides," he added, noting the keen disappointment his refusalbrought, "I shall need you here so you can ride down to the poolevery day and see that the cattle and horses are all right.""That's well enough for the others.  They would be in the way, butI wouldn't," protested Bill.  "I'm old enough and strong enough togo, and the experience would do me good.  If you take it, it willmake just twenty on both sides.""What do you think, Jim, shall we take Bill or not?"As the boys awaited the answer of their friend, it was so still thefall of a pin could have been heard.But their suspense did not last long.With a drawl that was tantalizingly deliberate the owner of theThree Stars Ranch replied:"I reckon we might as well.  Bill's got a level head on hisshoulders, and some day he'll be boss of the Half-Moon.  Ifanything like this happens then he'll know how to act.  Yes, Ithink we'd better take him."Aware that it would be useless to try to persuade Mr. Wilder tochange his mind in respect to taking them, Tom, Larry and Horacemade the most of the fact that they were to inspect the herd daily.But it was poor recompense, and in a few minutes they went on tosee how near Ned was ready to start, stopping to sample Hop Joy'scooking on the way."You goee?" asked the Chinaman as the trio entered his kitchen."Going to eat," grinned Horace, helping himself to a doughnut andjust managing to dodge a potato that Hop Joy tossed at him."Shoo! shoo!  Lun out!  Me bigee hully.  No plague! no plague!""Poor fellow!  It must be some job to get enough food ready fortwelve men.  Come on, let's leave him alone," said Larry.  "I'dlike to go down to the bunk-house.""That's so.  Maybe Sandy or some of his boys know the trail to theLost Lode," agreed Horace.  And to the Chinaman's surprise theyleft him in peace.The men from the Three Stars were lying in the bunks and sprawlingon the benches, getting what rest they could in anticipation ofmany long hours in the saddle, laughing and talking the while.At the entrance of the trio the chatter ceased and the cowboysstared at the two Eastern boys with undisguised interest."Boys, these are the famous cowboy tamers, Larry and Tom Alden,"said Horace, bowing in feigned deference and indicating his friendswith a wave of his hand."Don't be afraid, though.  We won't try our hands on you unless youget gay with us," declared Larry seriously."Thankee, thankee kindly, on behalf of me and my men," bowed Sandygravely, and then they all burst into a roar of laughter.Cowboys love a joke, and the words and manner of the brothers,together with their clean-cut faces and manly bearing, appealed tothem, winning the way to their good graces as nothing else could.All reserve thus broken, the men bade the lads sit down."I s'pose you'll be going with us?" hazarded Sandy."No, father won't let us.  He thinks we're only babies.  Says he'safraid we'll be in the way.  So we've got to stay home and watchthe herd at the Witches' Pool.""You may have your hands full at that," declared one of the cowboys."Keep quiet," growled Sandy, frowning at the speaker.But the remark had suggested all sorts of possibilities to thelads, and, glancing at Tom and Larry, Horace asked:"What makes you think so?"Again Sandy cast a look full of meaning at his fellow and thecowboy answered:"Oh, nothing in particular.  I was just talking."The boys had noted Sandy's glances, however, and the reply onlywhetted their curiosity.Drawing himself to his full height and striving to be as severe aspossible, Horace said:"If any of you men know of any trouble that may come to theHalf-Moon herd, it is your duty to tell my father before he goesaway."The words and the seriousness of the boy standing before them sentthe men into another roar of laughter.But Sandy hastened to say:"There's nothing we know, kid.  Skinny was only joking."Horace was about to reply when Hop Joy poked his head through thedoor, saying:"Glub all leady, Ned.""All right, Hop."  And springing from his bunk, Ned went out toharness his horses, accompanied by several of the cowboys.For an hour or so the chums stayed in the bunkhouse, listening tostories of marvelous feats of broncho-busting and whatever else themen pleased to tell them, only leaving when Nails announced it wastime to go to the corral and saddle up."Aren't you going with them?" asked Tom."No," returned Horace.  "We are liable to get hurt, it's so dark.We couldn't see anything if we did go.  Besides, father may havesome orders to give us."The only instructions Mr. Wilder had to give, however, were to becareful not to do anything that would cause his wife to worry aboutthem."Suppose the herd gets in trouble, what shall we do?" persistedHorace, on whose excited mind the words of the Three Stars' cowboyhad made a lasting impression."Use your own judgment.  But don't let your imagination play trickson you.  The cattle will be all right--unless you get themrestless.""Oh, we won't do that," quickly declared Larry.  "We'll take suchgood care of them, you will want to hire us as cowboys when you getback."The shouts from the corral told the ranchmen that the time for thestart had arrived, and quickly they made themselves ready, whileHop Joy appeared to say he had sent saddle bags with food for Mr.Wilder and Bill by Ned.With a great clatter of hoofs, the cowboys rode up.  The Wildersand Mr. Snider bade a hurried good-by, mounted and galloped awayinto the darkness of the night, with the wishes of Mrs. Wilder andthe boys for success and a speedy return ringing in their ears.CHAPTER XIIIOUT ON THE PLAINSUnlike the night when the hunting party had ridden over the plains,black clouds covered the sky, making the darkness so intense thatthe riders could not see fifty feet ahead of them.  But Mr. Wilderand Nails knew the route well, so that the absence of the moon madeno great difference.That they need not tire their mounts by hard riding, Mr. Wilder hadpurposely set the start early and, with Snider on one side and Billon the other, he led the cavalcade, setting the pace at a slow lope.Now and then the cowboys talked or laughed, but for the most partthey were silent, the creak of the saddle leathers and the swish ofthe horses' legs as they brushed through the grass being the onlysounds to tell that a body of men were riding through the darkness.So lonesome was the ranch house after the departure of the partythat, though they made several attempts to talk, Horace and the twoEastern lads finally decided to go to bed, to the evident relief ofMrs. Wilder.But sleep did not come to Larry and Tom, and as they lay tossingand turning, the former asked:"Do you think that fellow they call Skinny really meant there wasany danger threatening the herd at the Witches' Pool?""I don't believe so," replied Tom.  "I suppose there is always thechance that a lot of things may happen to a big herd like that.Some of them might try to wander away or they might get frightenedand stampede.  I read about a stampede once where the cattle ranright over the edge of a cliff.""Well, they couldn't do that at the pool, because there aren't anycliffs near there," replied Tom.Larry was not satisfied, however, and said:"I wonder what cowboys do to stop a stampede?  I wish we'd thoughtto ask Mr. Wilder.""Don't always be looking for trouble, Larry," protested his brother."Still, we ought to know.  He said he'd hold us responsible for thecattle.""We can ask Ned when he gets back, if you really want to know.  Butdon't, for goodness sake let Horace hear you.  His imagination isso lively that he would think it was a stampede every time thecattle moved.  I think it was because Horace is so excitable thatMr. Wilder had us stay home.  He probably thought we were older andcould steady him down.  Now don't try to think up any more thingsthat might happen.  I'm tired and want to go to sleep."  Andturning his back to his brother, Tom refused to talk any more.Out on the prairie the body of horsemen were riding silently andsteadily."I hope we shall not be obliged to wait long for Pete," said Bill,giving voice to his thoughts."He'll be on hand, barring accidents," returned his father.This confidence of the owner of the Half-Moon in his foreman wasjustified, when, at the end of another hour, the men caught theflare of a camp fire in the direction of the pool."Must have hurried some," asserted Snider.But this comment elicited no other response than a quickening ofthe pace.When they were within a mile of the fire Mr. Wilder drew rein."You boys wait here," he commanded.  "I haven't any doubt but thatit's Pete's fire.  Still, it won't pay to take any chances.  Sniderand I will ride ahead to reconnoiter.  If we are not back withinhalf an hour, you'll know it's all right and can follow."Little relishing the enforced halt, the cowboys, however, obeyed,some of them dismounting and stretching out in the grass.Riding a rod or so from the others, Bill, Nails and Sandy eagerlypeered through the darkness, listening intently for any sound thatshould indicate danger.The two ranch owners, being experienced in the art of scouting,rode to the left into a roll of the plains, one crest of which shutthem off from the light.  For they were aware that should they ridein its glare they would be seen by whoever was about the fire, andthey wished to make sure it was Pete and his men at the pool beforedisclosing themselves.But their caution was unnecessary.  When they had covered only alittle more than half the distance the lowing of cattle broke ontheir ears."That's the Half-Moon outfit, sure enough," declared Snider.  Andputting spurs to their ponies, the ranch owners galloped straightfor the fire."Queer we can't see any of the boys," muttered Mr. Wilder in a lowvoice.  "I know they are tired.  But, all things considered, one ofthem at least ought to be on watch if for nothing else than to keepthe cattle from breaking away.  That they are restless, you cantell from their lowing."It's no wonder the raiders were able to cut out my short-hornedDurhams if the boys didn't keep better watch."His tone showed deep annoyance, and he was on the point of speakingagain when a sharp challenge rang out from their left:"Who goes there?"Instantly Mr. Wilder's anger vanished as he recognized the voice ofhis foreman and replied:"Don't get excited, Pete.  It's only Jim Snider and me."In response to his master's greeting the cowboy sprang to his feetand a movement of his hand toward his belt showed both ranchmenthat he had been prepared to dispute their advance should they haveproven foes instead of friends."Where are the others?  You two didn't come alone, did you?  I toldNails to have you get as many as you could," said the foreman."We left them back yonder," returned the owner of the Half-Moon."Nails said we were to meet you in the morning, and when we saw thefire Jim and I thought we'd make sure it was you.""Well, I'm glad you've come," responded Pete.  "Now we can get onthe trail so much the sooner.  How many did you bring?""Nine from the Three Stars, including Jim, Bill, Nails and myself.With your boys that will make twenty, just the number of theraiders."As he uttered the last words Mr. Wilder expected his foreman toevince surprise, but instead he and Snider were the ones to betaken aback as Pete remarked:"So Nails found out, did he?  What else did he?  What else did helearn?"Briefly the owner of the Half-Moon reported the information Nailshad gleaned at Tolopah and then told him of the opinions he and theproprietor of the Three Stars had formed."You got the lay of the land down to the last sage brush," declaredthe foreman.  "But we will put a crimp in Megget's plans that hewill not forget.  My men are asleep by the fire, so there is no usewaking them till we've decided what to do.""Then we must get down to business," returned his master.  "I toldthe boys to ride up unless we returned in half an hour."A moment there was silence, as though each were waiting for theother to make some suggestion as to the best course to pursue, andthen Mr. Wilder said:"So long as we know the headquarters are in the Lost Lode Mine, itseems to me we had better strike for it direct.  Nails told me youknew some trail."  And he looked at Pete."I know trails enough, but which is the one that leads to the LostLode, I can't say.  That's just the trouble.  It would take a monthof Sundays to ride them all down.  While we were driving the cattleup here, I was trying to figure out which trail to take in caseNails found the mine was the place.""You have tried some of the trails, haven't you, Pete?" inquiredthe owner of the Three Stars."Sure.  There are six I know that don't lead to the mine.  Thatleaves three between the pool and the Long Creek bottoms, and itmay be any one of them.""Why do you think so?" asked his master."Because I know the right trail is between the pool and thebottoms."Again the men lapsed into silence, which Mr. Snider broke byinquiring:"What was it that young Alden mentioned about men crossing thedirt?""That's so.  I'd forgotten it again," and quickly Mr. Wildernarrated the incident to his foreman."Probably that was Megget," asserted Pete.  "But that doesn't helpus much.  We don't know where that trail breaks on the plains.Besides, while we practically know the headquarters are near theold mine, we don't know they are driving the cattle there.  Theymay be heading straight for Don Vasquez's ranch."The plan that I kind of made up was to follow the trail from thebottoms till we were sure which way the raiders were headed.  Ifit's for the mine, we can ride back along the plains and try out mythree trails.""But why not follow the cattle?" interrupted Mr. Wilder."Because I'd rather head them off than creep up on them.  Theraiders will be expecting us from behind.  By riding on the prairiewe can cover ten miles to their one, which will give us time to tryout the three trails, and, when we find the right one, we can getin ahead and block the trail."CHAPTER XIVANOTHER DISCOVERYFor several minutes the ranch owners discussed the suggestion andfinally decided to act on it unless circumstances should make achange advisable.Having settled the matter, they rode to the fire and aroused thesleeping cowboys, being joined a few minutes later by Bill, Sandyand the others.  Soon the men of the Half-Moon were saddling theirponies."Queer we don't meet Ned anywhere," Bill exclaimed.  "I see fromthe bags he's been here, Pete.""He got here all right, but he didn't like to go back very well.Had a bad case of nerves, so he took down the white awning.""It's just as well," returned Mr. Wilder.  Then, finding that themen were impatient to be on the move, he gave the command to startand they rode toward the Long Creek bottoms.When Tom and Larry awoke it was bright daylight."Why it's nine o'clock," exclaimed Larry in amazement as he lookedat his watch.Hastily the brothers dressed and then went to see if Horace was inhis room or had played some joke on them in letting them sleep.  Totheir relief, they found him in bed."Hey, you, get up!" cried Tom.  "You're a fine one to be in chargeof the Half-Moon Ranch.  If you stay in bed much longer, it will bedark."Deeply chagrined to think he had overslept, Horace leaped to thefloor, and soon the three boys were ready for breakfast.At the sound of their voices Mrs. Wilder had ordered Hop Joy tobring in their food, and as the lads entered the dining-room shewas awaiting them."Why didn't you call us?" protested Horace."Because I thought you were all tired and that sleep would do yougood.""And I suppose if Larry or Tom hadn't happened to wake up, youwould have let us sleep all day?""I suppose I should," said his mother, smiling.  "When you are inbed I know that you are safe.""You must not worry about us, Mrs. Wilder," interposed Larry.  "Ialways tell mother that we are old enough to take care ofourselves.  So I wish you would feel the same.  I think it wouldsave you no end of anxiety.""Undoubtedly.  But I never can think of my Horace except as mybaby.""Huh!  I'm a pretty husky baby," grunted the boy.  "See here,mother, I'm fifteen now, so I wish you'd stop calling me your baby.When a fellow has been put in charge of the Half-Moon herd hedoesn't like to be called a baby.""I'll try to remember," returned Mrs. Wilder gently.  Yet there wasa wistfulness in her voice that caused Horace to look up, and, atthe sight of her face, he left his chair, ran and put his armaround her neck, exclaiming:"If you want to call me baby, you can, Momsy!  I don't care.  Tomand Larry are the right stuff and they won't laugh."Ere either of the brothers could reply Hop Joy appeared."Ned he goee pool," he announced.  "Say if you boys wantee go, youhully.""Tell him to bring up Blackhawk, Lightning and Lady Belle.  Thenput up some food for us, Hop Joy.  Plenty of it, mind."As the Chinaman glided from the room Mrs. Wilder asked:"Why do you take anything except for lunch, son?""Because I think we will spend the night at the pool.  Larry andTom want to see the will-o'-the-wisps, and we maybe able to catchsome fish early to-morrow morning.  You know father always saysearly morning is the only time to fish in the pool.""Well, I don't suppose it will do any harm for you to be gone overnight.  Only be careful.  I shall worry if you are not back beforedusk tomorrow night."Permission to pass the night obtained, the comrades quicklycollected their rifles and some fishing tackle, mounted the poniesNed had brought up and rode away.After learning from their companion that he had found Pete and theherd at the pool when he arrived, the lads indulged in speculationas to when and where the pursuers would come across the raiders andthe chances of recovering the cattle.Of a sudden, remembering his discussion, with his brother the nightbefore, Larry asked:"How do you stop a stampede, Ned?""You generally don't," replied the man with a grin."But you try, don't you?  I'm sure I've read of cowboys stoppingstampedes.""I guess they do it easier in story books then than on the plains.The best way to stop a stampede is not to let it start.  Still, ifthere's enough boys on hand, I suppose it could be done.  The onlyway, though, would be to ride down the leaders and turn them round."As I said, if there are enough boys on hand when the troublebreaks, they can get them to milling, which is going round andround in a circle until the cattle get tired out.  But it takes amighty lively bunch of cow-punchers to do it."After riding for two hours they came in sight of the cattle, andthe two brothers quickened their pace, eager to see them at closerange."Steady now.  Don't go riding at them like a pack of Indians or youwill have all the stampede you want to see," exclaimed Ned.  "My,but they surely are restless!"This last remark was caused by some of the steers which raisedtheir heads at the approach of the riders, then turned and dashedback to the body of the herd."Oh, dear! I'm afraid we've started them," said Horace."Pull in your horses!" commanded Ned.  "The main bunch is allright.  If we come up to them slow, there won't be any trouble."Obeying instantly, the boys reined their horses to a walk andreached the pool without causing further alarm among the cattle."So this is where the ghosts live, is it?" asked Tom, gazing from alittle knoll at a placid body of water about one hundred feet longby twice as many wide, surrounded by reeds."Maybe you won't laugh so much to-night," declared their friend andthen, because he did not like to be joked about his belief that theplace was haunted, he added: "Come on, let's see if we can findwhich direction father and the boys took."The chance to try if they could track any one on the prairieappealed to the others, and they started to ride around the pool."I can see where they had a camp fire!" cried Tom, pointing towarda pile of white ashes."Here's where the grass is all tramped down.  Look, there's aregular path right for the mountains.""No, this is the way they went, to the south, here," returned Larry.Each boy was firm in his declaration that he had found the trailand to prove it they dismounted and began to examine the ground."I'm right.  I can see horse tracks!" cried Larry.  "This is theway they took, isn't it, Ned?" Thus appealed to, both Horace andthe man rode up."Larry's right," announced Ned, after a few moments observation,"Then what caused my tracks?" demanded Tom.  "Here are horsetracks, too, only most of the hoofprints are made by cattle.""Oh, you can't tell a cow from a pony print," taunted Horace."Come over and see for yourself," retorted Tom.Examination proving that he was right, his friend exclaimed:"That was made by the boys coming up.""But the tracks are all going toward the mountains.  They certainlywouldn't drive any cattle away with them.  You don't--you don'tsuppose it's another raid, do you?" and Tom glanced at Ned."Yes."CHAPTER XVTHE CONTESTED TRAILThe thought that the cattle thieves should have dared to make stillanother raid on the very night when the outfits of the Half-Moonand Three Stars ranches had set out to run them to cover was sostartling that for several minutes after Tom had suggested it noone spoke.Larry was the first one to recover from the shock of surprise."There's no use in trying to guess," he declared.  "We must findout.  The only way to do that, so far as I can see, is to followthe trail and discover where it leads."This proposition received the excited endorsement of the other twoboys, and Horace added:"Wouldn't it be dandy if we could round up Megget and his menbefore father and the others?  Come on!""Don't be in too much of a hurry," urged Tom."Oh, if you are afraid to go, you needn't.  I'll go alone," sneeredHorace.Flushing at the taunt of cowardice, Tom bit his lips that he mightnot say anything he should regret."You ought to know, Horace, that neither Larry nor I are afraid,"he responded.  "I was only thinking about your mother.  We promisedher we would be back by to-morrow night.  The idea of our going inpursuit of Megget by ourselves is foolish.  The thing to do is tomake sure this trail leads into the mountains and then go and tryto find your father and his men.""Now you're talking sense," interrupted Ned."To find them will certainly take us longer than until to-morrownight.  In order that Mrs. Wilder need not worry, we must let herknow of the change in our plans.""That's so," agreed Larry.  "Still there is no reason for our allgoing back; one is enough.  Let's draw lots to see who it shall be.""Not much," returned Horace.  "So long as father and Bill are away,I am in charge of the Half-Moon.  The rest of you must do as I say.Ned is the one to go back!""But you boys don't know anything about the trails," protested theman.  "You will get lost.""We certainly can follow this one," retorted Horace hotly.  "And wecan always find our way back.  Just tell mother we shall joinfather."In vain the driver of the grub wagon endeavored to dissuade thelads, but the thought of taking part in the pursuit of the raiders,after all, made them deaf to all his arguments, and at last Horaceexclaimed impatiently:"You are only delaying us, Ned.  I say you are to return to theranch.  That settles it.  Larry and Tom and I are going to take thetrail."  And, without further ado, he shook out his pony and headedfor the mountains, the two brothers at his side.The pace at which Horace rode was terrific, and because of the hotsun, the horses were soon covered with lather."Look here, we've got to go at a slower gait," announced Larry."If we keep up this clip, our ponies will give out.  They can'tstand it and the heat, too.  And if they do give out, it will besure to be just at the very time we need them most.""But we'll soon be in the mountains, and then it will be cooler,"asserted Horace.  "I want to overhaul the raiders before night.Won't father and the others feel small when they learn that wethree, whom they left behind because we were too young, haverounded up Megget?""You don't mean to say that you intend for us three to tackle theraiders alone?" exclaimed Tom."Why not?""Because we wouldn't stand one chance in a thousand--no, nor in tenthousand--of being able to capture them.  We don't know the trailat all, and they probably are familiar with every rock and turn init.  If they should discover that we were pursuing them, all theywould need do would be to lie in wait for us and capture us when wecame along."The truth of what the younger of the chums said was so evident thateven the impetuous Horace was forced to admit it."Then what shall we do?" he asked.  "If you have any better plan tosuggest, out with it."Tom, however, could think of nothing feasible and was silent.The boys had pulled their ponies down to a walk and for severalminutes none of them spoke.Of a sudden Blackhawk raised his head, sniffed the air and thenuttered a low whinny.The sound, coming so unexpectedly, scared the lads, and they lookedat one another in alarm."He smells something," exclaimed Horace in a whisper, as thoughfearing to speak out loud.The boys were in the lowland between two crests of the rollingplains."Perhaps it's the cattle.  They may be on the other side of thatrise in the plains," returned Larry.Anxiously the three boys gazed toward the crest.  The thought thatthey might be close upon the very men they were chasing startledthem, and they were at a loss as to the best thing to do."If it is the raiders and the cattle Blackhawk scented, thenthey'll be on the lookout for us," murmured Tom.  "They could hearthat whinny for----""By jove! it is they," cried Larry excitedly.  "See those horses'ears bobbing?" And he pointed to the south.Following his finger, his companions beheld two sharp pointssteadily advancing from the farther side of the crest."Be ready to give it to 'em," breathed Horace, at the same timeunslinging his rifle.But before he could get it to his shoulder the head of the horsecame into view and the next instant the head and shoulders of a man.In a flash the chums seized their rifles.The horseman was only about one hundred yards away, and as hecaught sight of the rifles pointed toward him he pulled his pony toits haunches."Throw up your hands!" yelled Horace.  "If you make a move, we'lldrop you.  You are a prisoner of the Half-Moon Ranch!"As the horseman heard the name he shouted:"Steady, there! I'm Jim Jeffreys.  What are you up to, anyhow?""Who's Jim Jeffreys?" demanded Larry of Horace."He's one of our neighbors, if it's him.""Well, don't you know?  Can't you recognize him?"Having recovered from his fright, the boy stared at the man who hadcaused it and then announced:"Yes, it is Jim.""It's a pity you couldn't have recognized him before!" snapped Tomas he and his brother lowered their rifles.CHAPTER XVIWHAT JEFFREYS KNEWJeffreys, as soon as he understood his identity had beenestablished, leaped his pony toward the boys and was soon besidethem."You are a fine lot to be packing rifles!" he snorted, his angerrising as the danger passed.  "You may think it's a good joke tocover anybody you meet on the plains, but some one may turn thejoke on you by firing before you get your aim.  You aren't what youcall 'quick on the trigger.'""Which is fortunate for you--in this case," declared Larry,resenting the manner and tone of the stranger.The sight of the two serious-faced boys, whose eyes showed them tobe keen and alert, brought Jeffreys to his senses."I reckon you're right," he exclaimed.  "But what's up, Horace?  Ifyou and your friends are out for a little excitement, just take mytip and turn your attention to jumping a coyote or you may----""We are not after excitement," retorted the boy from the Half-MoonRanch.  "We don't have to go looking for it.  We've got all wewant.  Some of Megget's gang have raided our herd.""No?  It must have been them I saw over near the hills early thismorning.""Where were they?"  "Which way were they going?"  "How many werethere of them?" demanded the lads, each one asking a question."It was just after sun-up.  I was too far away to recognize thecattle, but I counted four men.  As they only had about fifty headwith 'em, I sort of suspected something was wrong, so I got out ofsight before they could see me.  Leastways, if they did, theydidn't make any move to get me.""Where have you been?""I've been up in the hills for a few days prospecting.""Did you find the mine?" inquired Tom, forgetting the raid andpursuit in his eagerness to learn about the Lost Lode."No, I didn't.  I just learned another trail, which isn't the rightone."Larry, however, was more interested in the cattle thieves andbrought the conversation back to them."Were the men near the hills when you saw them?" he asked."About a quarter of a mile away.""Then come on.  We must get to the hills so we can find theirtrail," declared Horace."You kids sure ain't going after 'em alone?" exclaimed Jeffreysincredulously."But if there are only four of them?""To you three, and they are men, don't forget that.""But you'll make four," suggested Tom."Providing I was going with you, which I ain't, I'd like to, but Ireckon I'd better ride back to my own ranch and see they haven'tlifted any of my cattle.  If they have, I'll get my boys and takeup the trail."Realizing from the expressions on their faces that the lads weresurprised as well as disappointed at his refusal to accompany them,the horseman said:"You all just take my advice and don't try to follow those raidersinto the mountains.  What you want to do is to find Wilder andSnider as quick as you can, providing you won't go back to yourranch, where you ought to be.""Which you can bet your whole outfit we won't!" snapped Horace."We started on this chase and we're going to stay on it."Jeffreys smiled at the determined manner of the young rancher,"Then join your father as soon as you can.  Don't try any foolstunt like going into the mountains.  Remember, when you are on theprairie you can sec on all sides of you.""Except when you're behind a crest," chuckled Tom.At this reference to the recent contretemps Jeffreys frowned,started to say something and instead dug his spurs into his pony,galloping away without even so much as looking back."He's a fine neighbor--not," declared Larry as the trio resumedtheir way.  "I should have thought he would be only too glad tohelp your father and Mr. Snider get back their cattle.""He isn't very keen for the Half-Moon," rejoined Horace.  "Fatherbeat him in a law case over a boundary line once and he's neverforgotten it.""And I reckon he won't forget his meeting with us to-day," saidTom, grinning.At the memory of the reception they had given, Jeffreys thecomrades had a hearty laugh."Still, he gave us some good advice," asserted Larry.  "I agreewith him that the thing for us is to find the Half-Moon and ThreeStars crowd as soon as we can.""Which seems to be a pretty big order in itself," mused Tom.  "Isay we go and see where they drove the cattle into the hills andthen decide."This suggestion met with no opposition, and as the boys rode towardthe mountains, the wooded sides of which looked inviting because ofthe relief they promised from the torrid heat of the plains, theydiscussed various plans, only to discard them.At last they reached the hills.  Dismounting, they hobbled theirponies, removed the saddles and bridles sticky with lather, andthen broke out some lunch which they ate ravenously, despite thefact that their mouths were almost parched.Greatly refreshed by the food, the boys decided to follow the trailof the cattle till they could get some idea of its direction."Let's go on foot," suggested Tom.  "The ponies will be all right,the rest will do them good, and we can get through the brush andover the rocks with less noise."Readily his companions agreed, and picking up their rifles, theyquickly found the tracks made by the cattle.For some distance the trail seemed more like an abandoned wood roadthan anything else.  But gradually it began to grow narrower and atlast became no more than a path winding in and out among the rocks.Several times some sound caused the boys to raise their guns totheir shoulders and peer about in all directions, but nothing couldthey see save the trees and rocks, and they ascribed the noises tosome denizen of the forest roaming about.Of a sudden Tom, who was in the lead, stopped."I smell something awful queer," he whispered.The trail wound along the edge of a sharp descent and just aheadwas an abrupt turn.Ere either Larry or Horace could reply to their companion'sannouncement all three were dumb-founded to see a big, shaggy brownhead appear round the turn in the trail."It's a bear!" gasped Horace.At the sight of the three boys the big head had paused in surprise.Then its lips began to curl, disclosing a wicked looking set ofteeth, and finally it broke into a savage snarl, at the same timerising in the air."He's getting to his hind legs.  That means fight!" breathedHorace.  "Come on, let's run!""But he'd overtake us and beat us down with his paws," returnedLarry.  "We've got to kill him."Less time did the action consume than is required to describe it,and the boys were standing terror stricken when the bear chargedupon them, making vicious lunges at them with his huge paws.Roused from his fright by the imminence of his peril, Tom raisedhis rifle, only to have it knocked from his hands by a swing of oneof the bear's paws.[Illustration: The rifle was knocked from his hand.]"Drop down! drop down so I can shoot!" yelled Larry as he saw thedesperate situation in which his brother was placed.Instantly Tom obeyed, throwing himself to one side as he fell.But as the younger of the brothers dropped the bear, as thoughsingling him out for his particular antagonist, also dropped to allfours, and Larry's shot went over him.Horace, however, shot lower, and a terrible roar told them that thebullet had struck home.In the fury of his pain the bear seemed to think that the boy lyingflat on the rocks was the cause of his suffering, and, with mouthdistended, charged upon him.In a frenzy lest they might not be able to save Tom, Larry andHorace both fired.At the impact of the bullets the bear rose on his hind legs, swungwildly with his paws at the steel barrels that were pouring theterribly painful things into him and fell prone, the huge carcassmissing Tom by less than a foot.CHAPTER XVIILOST!From the moment when his brother had cried to him to drop, Tom hadkept his eyes on the bear, and when he saw the beast plunge forwardand realized that it was dead, he leaped to his feet, his pale facetelling of the awful strain under which he had been.The reaction from their excitement made Larry and Horace trembleand, for the time, they could only look from their companion to thecarcass of the bear, too unnerved to speak.Tom was the first to recover from the fright, and he thanked theothers for what they had done."Let's not talk about it," interposed Larry.  "The thing for us todo is to get out of here lively.  The reverberations from thoseshots are echoing yet.  The raiders must have heard them, andthey'll know some one is on their trail, so they will either comeback to sec who it is or else hide to waylay us."Tom and Horace were perfectly willing to give up following thetrail farther, and all three were retracing their steps when theelder of the chums cried:"The rifle!  Tom, you forgot to pick up your rifle.""Which shows I was some scared," and he smiled apologetically."But it's a worse one on Larry and me," protested Horace.  "There'ssome excuse for you.  But the bear wasn't charging us.""Oh, well there's no harm done," returned Larry, pleased at thespirit Horace's words showed.  "We can go back and get it.  It's amighty good thing, though, that we thought of It before we reachedthe ponies.  From the looks of the sky and the shadows it won't belong before dusk, and Mr. Wilder told us night comes quickly in themountains."Ere Larry had finished speaking they had started back to the sceneof their encounter.Yet when they reached the spot Tom's rifle was nowhere to be seen.In dismay the boys looked at one another.  Already the mountainswere turning purple-black in the twilight, the shadows transformingthe trees and rocks into weird figures."Perhaps it's under the bear," hazarded Horace, his low voiceevidencing the awe which the silence and the surroundings inspiredin him."Then give a hand while we move him," commanded Larry.  "It won'tdo to stay here long or we may lose our way as well as the rifle."Little relishing the thought of wandering through the woods in thedark, the boys seized one of the paws and pulled with all theirmight.But, to their surprise, they could move the carcass scarcely at all."My, but he's a monster!" gasped Larry.  "It's only a waste ofvaluable time to try to lift him or even move him.  The only thingwe can do is to try to feel under him with our hands."Dropping to their knees, the lads thrust their arms under theshaggy fur, being able to reach far; enough to make sure that themuch-wanted rifle was not beneath the body of the bear."Bet he knocked it over the cliff," declared Horace.  "From whichside did he strike it, Tom?""More than I know.  All I could see was paws.  The air was full ofthem and they seemed to come from all directions at once."This explanation brought laughter to Larry and Horace, which ceasedabruptly, however, as from somewhere on the mountains theresuddenly rang out a low wail, more like the howl of a coyote thananything else, yet with a certain difference that even the chumswere able to distinguish."Whatever that is, I don't care to meet it," exclaimed Horace."Let's go back.  We've still got two rifles.  If we stick to theplains till we join father we can get along all right.""Suppose we don't meet your father, what then?" returned Larry."Always looking for more trouble, as if we didn't have enoughalready," chided Tom.  "Of course we'll meet him.  Anyhow, this isno place to argue about it.  If you and Horace can't protect me,I'll take both your rifles and watch over the two of you."There was a suggestion of mockery in Tom's voice, but taking itgood naturedly, Larry replied:"Oh, no you won't.  You can't throw your gun away every time youget scared and then take ours from us.  You just get in betweenHorace and me.  Horace, you lead because you know how to follow atrail better, and I'll keep off the bears and raiders," he addedwith a smile.The movements of the boys, however, were more rapid than theirwords, and they were traveling the trail once more ere Larry'sjoking allusion to the loss of the rifle and the protection hewould afford.So long as their way lay among the rocks they followed the trailwith little difficulty, but when they entered the woods theirtroubles began in earnest.None too self-possessed in the dark, even when going about theranch, when he entered the inky darkness caused by the maze ofboughs and foliage, Horace lost his head completely, and it did nottake the comrades long to realize they had wandered from the trail."Better let me take the lead, Horace; I'm taller," said Larry, atthe same time giving his brother a poke In the ribs as a warningnot to object."Well, you'll have to be a giraffe to see your way over the tops ofthese trees," chuckled Tom.Their plight was too serious to admit of jest, however, and afterwandering for half an hour, stumbling over dead limbs and runninginto trees and branches, they halted in despair."I remember Si told us back home that when a man's lost hegenerally travels in a circle," said Tom."So he did, and he said It was usually to the left, because a mantakes a longer step with his right foot," added Larry."That may help when you know which is the right and which is theleft of the way you have been going, but here we've turned round totalk, so we don't even know that much," interposed Horace."That's a fact," admitted the elder of the chums reluctantly as herealized that by facing one another they had lost all sense ofdirection.  "It's a good thing you thought of it, Horace, or wemight have got ourselves into a worse mess than we're in now,""If it weren't for all that good food cooked by Hop Joy back withthe horses and the fact that I'm hungry, I'd be in favor of stayingright where we are till morning," announced Tom."I reckon that is the best thing we can do, anyhow," declared hisbrother."Not with my appetite," retorted Tom."This is no time to be funny," reprimanded Larry.  "If we keep onmoving, we may never get out, while if we stay here we can climbinto one of these trees and be safe till daylight shows us----""By jove! That's the very thing!" exclaimed the younger of thechums, and there was such a tone of genuine enthusiasm in his voicethat the others asked excitedly:"What?""Why, the trees.  We won't need to sleep in them.  By climbing atall one, we can get the lay of the land as soon as moonlightcomes, which will show us at least how to get out onto the plainsagain.""Hooray!" cried Larry and Horace together.Each realized the plan was feasible, provided the night was notcloudy, and once on the prairie it would not be difficult for theyoung rancher to lead the way to the horses.  And, although theyknew that the moon would not rise for two hours at least, they wereso eager to try the plan that they began to discuss who should bethe one to do the climbing.The two brothers claimed preference because they were both strongerand taller than their companion, but Horace silenced them bydeclaring that not only could he go higher because he was lighter,but that he would be able to recognize their whereabouts from hisknowledge of the mountains.Restraining their impatience as best they could, the boys sat down."When we do get out, which way shall we go to join Mr. Wilder andthe others?" asked Larry.This question started further discussion.  One suggestion afteranother was made only to be rejected because of some obstacle, andfinally they decided the safest thing to do would be to ride tillthey found the trail over which the cattle had been driven from thebottoms and follow that.Soon Horace climbed a convenient tree."We sure are dubs!" he cried."Why?  Is the moon up?" asked the two chums eagerly.."No, the moon isn't up.  I don't need it.  The stars are brightenough.  We've been sitting here fretting all this while within ahundred yards of the prairie!"CHAPTER XVIIIA MYSTERIOUS CALLHorace and Larry having picked up their rifles, the three boysresumed their way, Larry leading slowly, taking care to make hissteps of as nearly equal length as possible, and in due time theycame onto the prairie."My, but this stretch of level does look good," declared Tom, andhis companions expressed their hearty agreement as they hastenedtoward the spot where they left their ponies.Finding them without difficulty, the lads broke out the food andate ravenously,"Hey, go easy on the grub," cautioned Larry as he noted the amounthis companions were eating.  "This is all we have to last us untilwe meet the others--or get back to the ranch," he added as thethought recurred to him that luck would play a large part in thesuccess of their search for the pursuing party."You can go easy if you like.  So long as there's anything to eat,I am going to eat," returned his brother.  "Don't worry.  We won'tstarve.  If worse comes to worse, I can get you some deer meat,provided you'll lend me your rifle.""Or I can get you some mountain lion meat," added Horace."I notice neither of you mention bear meat," chuckled the elder ofthe chums."Because it doesn't agree with us," returned Tom, and at thisallusion to their recent adventure they all laughed merrily.In delight at the extrication from their dilemma the boys chattedand joked as they repacked the saddle bags, unhobbled their poniesand prepared to resume riding."There's only one thing that could, add to my happiness," remarkedLarry as he swung onto Lightning's back."What's that?" Inquired his companions."About a gallon of drinking water.""I'm some thirsty, too," said Horace, "but I don't know of a placewhere there is any water.""Then we'll leave it to the horses," asserted Tom.  "Mr. Wildertold me they would always locate water if there was any about.From the way Blackhawk acts, I think he scents some.""Scents water!" sneered Horace."Just you wait and see," retorted the younger of the comrades, andgiving free rein to his pony, he let him nose along through thegrass for some distance when the animal turned abruptly and enteredthe woods, stopping beside a brook."You'd better appoint me guide and captain of this company," smiledthe boy as they dismounted and drank greedily of the cool water."You'd be a fine captain without a gun," retorted Larry, and inhigh spirits they remounted.For a time the boys had the moon for company, but toward, midnightclouds gathered in the sky and a chilly wind began to blow."How about pitching camp pretty soon?" suggested Larry."Wait till we get to Elkhorn River," answered Horace"."How far is that?  I didn't suppose there was such a thing in theseplains.""Oh, I should say it was fifteen miles from here," returned theyoung rancher.  "It isn't much of a river, but it's better thannone.""Wouldn't ride fifteen--Hello! What's that glow in the sky rightnext the mountains?" exclaimed Tom, pointing to where a faint glarewas visible against the dark background of trees."It's a fire," asserted Horace, "a camp fire.  You can tell by thesteadiness of the light."Excitedly they speculated as to whose it could be."If it's raiders, we want to know it.  Perhaps we can round up someof them," declared Horace.And urging their ponies into a gallop, the boys rode forward.When they were near enough to distinguish the flames theydismounted, hobbled their horses in the underbrush and approachedon foot.No sign of man or beast could they see, and their curiosity wasfurther aroused."Stoop down so your heads are In the grass," admonished Horace."It may be they have seen us and are hiding among the trees.  Don'tmake any noise and stick close together."Crouching low, the trio advanced stealthily.  Nearer and nearerthey drew, yet no sound could they hear.  Consumed with curiosity,Horace suddenly stood up, determined to learn if any one weresleeping beside the fire.Yet no sooner had he risen than a command rang out:"Throw up your hands!"The two brothers, ignorant of their companion's action, gasped atthe words.  But Horace let out a whoop of joy."Hooray!  It's father and the boys," he cried so loud thatinstantly a dozen figures bounded from about the fire."Well, if it ain't them kids!" ejaculated Pete, who had been onguard.  "It's lucky you recognized my voice, Horace."By this time Tom and Larry had straightened up and all three werehastening toward the camp fire, thinking only of their good fortunein finding their friends."Horace, what does this mean?" demanded his father sternly.  "Itold you to stay at home, and yet we haven't been gone buttwenty-four hours and you come tagging along."But the severity of his father did not dismay the young rancher.Looking straight at him, the boy hastily told of the ride to thepool and the discovery that more cattle had been driven away.The information excited the cowboys greatly, and emphatic weretheir opinions of the daring of the thieves in making another raidand within a few hours after the men pursuing them had set out."They probably were watching us all the time," asserted the ownerof the Three Stars."Probably," agreed Mr. Wilder.  "But what have you boys been doingsince you learned of the raid?  You could almost walk your poniesfrom the pool to here in all this time."Before any of them could reply, however, a long, low wail rang out.Surprised, the men glanced at one another,"That sounds like a coyote, but it ain't," asserted Pete.Again the cry broke on the air and was repeated twice."Why, it's the very same sound we heard in the mountains!"exclaimed Larry.  And his companions confirmed him."The same cry you heard in the mountains?" repeated Mr. Wilder."Yes, sir," and in a few words the elder of the brothers relatedtheir adventures."Then it's a signal," declared Pete.  "You boys have been followed.It's a mighty good thing we were camping here.""Those cries came from the plains.  Mebbe it's the thieves goingfor more cattle," declared Sandy."We'll find out what it is.  Everybody to horse!" commanded Mr.Wilder.  "Pete, three or four of you go with Horace and the Aldensto get their ponies.  We'll ride up and join you."CHAPTER XIXA TERRIBLE PLOTQuickly the men ran to the woods where they had concealed theirponies, unhobbled, saddled and mounted them, riding along till theycame to where Pete and the boys were."Which way shall we go?" inquired Sandy when all were In theirsaddles.  "That cry came from straight ahead of us on the plains,according to my judgment."Pete and the other cowboys agreed with him, and, trusting to theirsense of direction, the owner of the Half-Moon said:"Then we'll ride due east.  Spread out abreast.  The more ground wecan cover the better.""But don't get too far apart," interposed the rancher from theThree Stars.  "Keep close enough together so you can see the man onyour right."Rapidly were these commands given, and within fifteen minutes afterthe mysterious calls had startled them the twenty-three horsemenwere advancing over the prairie, eyes and ears alert for sound orsight of the men who had uttered the signals, the two Eastern boysand Horace riding between Mr. Wilder and Pete at the southern endof the line.But for once Sandy's ears had played him false.  Ignorant of thepsychological fact that only when a man's head is turned can hecorrectly judge the direction of sound, it being impossible todistinguish between a sound coming from directly in front orbehind, the foreman of the Three Stars Ranch had been deceivedbecause he had been looking straight ahead out into the prairie.And instead of riding toward the men who had roused them by theircries, each bound of the horses was carrying them farther away.When Larry and his companions had met the bear, the four raiderswith the cattle Jeffreys had seen were only about two miles inadvance of them.  As the boys had thought, the reverberations ofthe shots had reached the ears of the men at the rear of the cattleand they had uttered the wail as a signal to those ahead, jumpingto the conclusion that they were being followed.Making use of their knowledge of the mountains, the raiders hadhurriedly driven the cattle into the forest, where they would beout of sight and so could not give warning of the whereabouts ofthe thieves, and had then hidden themselves behind some rocks alongthe trail.  From their ambuscade they would be able to shoot downtheir pursuers or capture them as they felt inclined.But as the reader knows, the boys doubled on their trail and sodivided the trap.After waiting till dark without any sign of pursuers, the raidersgrew fearsome."We've got to find out for sure whether it's somebody on our trailor just some one that is hunting," declared one of them, who, ifthe two brothers could have seen him, they would have recognized asGus Megget."Considering we've waited more than two hours and no one has showedup, I say we ought to push onto the Lode, Gus," asserted another."How can we drive cattle over this trail in the dark?" growled thechief of the raiders.  "You ought to have more sense, seeing thetrouble we've had to get them as far as this in the daylight.""So long as we can't drive, we might just as well go back and findout who's been shooting."Realizing that it was futile to urge their leader to change hismind, the other raiders sullenly acquiesced, and, emerging fromtheir places of concealment, went into the woods to get theirhorses and were soon riding stealthily back over the trail.Though they dared not refuse to go, the men, however, were notbackward in expressing their disapproval of the move, declaringthat they were tempting disaster by returning when they had made sosuccessful a start.But Megget paid no attention to their grumblings and soon hiscompanions lapsed into silence.Fate, however, which had saved the two brothers and the youngrancher from stumbling into the ambush, was still favoring them.For when the raiders reached the edge of the prairie Megget ordereda halt that they might eat, and when again they resumed their ridethe boys were far on their way toward the spot where they met theirfriends.Not long did it take their pursuers to discover the place where thethree had eaten and then to find the direction in which they haddeparted."What's the use of following any farther, Gus?" demanded one ofthem.  "So long as they have ridden to the south, and there areonly three of them, anyhow, we are in no danger."But with a blind obstinacy the leader of the cattle thievespersisted in continuing the pursuit, and set the pace at a fastgallop.In due course of time, as the boys before them, they discovered theglare from the camp fire."We'll ride into the mountains, dismount and then find out who itis that has the fire," declared Megget."You're playing with trouble, Gus," protested his companions."From what I know of Wilder, he won't let a bunch of his cattle belifted without doing something.  That may be his fire.""All the more reason why we should go to it--to make sure," snappedthe leader of the raiders.  "Wilder is a fool or he wouldn't leavehis herd unguarded at the Witches' Pool.""You'll find he's smarter than you think.  I'll bet all my share ofthese raids will come to that the only reason the herd was alonewas because his whole outfit is on the trail from the bottoms,"asserted another."Well, the boys can take care of 'em if they are.  I said I wasgoing to find out who built that fire, and I'm going to."  Andwithout more ado, the leader of the raiders dashed into the woods.Riding cautiously among the trees until he thought he was aboutback of the fire Megget gave the word to dismount.A short distance to the south and above them was a ledge from whichthey would be able to command a view of the camp fire, and rapidlythe raiders made their way to It.What they saw when they reached the top and gazed down caused themto exclaim in amazement.The cowboys were saddling their ponies, and instead of the threemen they had expected to discover, Megget and his companions saw adozen."That's the Half-Moon bunch!" declared one of them."There are too many of them," asserted another.  "We're in a prettymess now.  Those three men we followed have evidently informed themof finding our trail and they are starting to pick it up.""Don't you worry about that," growled Megget.  And before hiscompanions were aware what he intended to do, he uttered the callsthat caused the ranch owners and cowboys to start out into theprairie.Eagerly the raiders watched them disappear and Megget chuckled:"I thought I could fool 'em.  It's easy when you are above anyone."  And then he added: "You'll wish you had never started afterme, Wilder!"Wondering at their leader's meaning, his fellows had no chance toask, however, for even as he spoke Megget was descending from theledge.Arriving at the camp fire, he glanced about for a few moments, thensent his men for the horses.As soon as he was sure he was alone, the leader of the raiderswalked out on the plains, paused, wet his finger in his mouth, thenraised his hand above his head."Great!  I'm sure playing in luck," he muttered to himself.  "Thewind is blowing from the west--straight out across the plains."And chuckling grimly, the cattle thief returned to the fire toawait the horses.Mounting quickly when they arrived, Megget gave a curt order forhis own men to follow and galloped in the same direction the ranchowners and cowboys had taken.At the end of a quarter of a mile he drew rein and again wentthrough the performance of wetting his finger and raising it abovehis head, murmuring more to himself than his pals:"I didn't know but that the hills might have changed the directionof the wind."Here, you," he added, turning to his men, "two of you ride a mileup and Squinty and I'll ride south.  When I give the call, fire thegrass and then ride for the trail and drive the cattle to the mine.I'll cut across and warn Vasquez and the others."CHAPTER XXTHE PRAIRIE FIREAs his men heard the words and realized their significance, theyglanced at their leader and then at one another.Yet none of them moved."Are you deaf?" roared Megget.  "Do as I say--and lively.  Squinty,come with me."  And clapping spurs to his pony, he dashed southward.Fearing to disobey, the two raiders delegated to ride to the northstarted.  But as soon as they were out of earshot one of them said:"Megget can fire the prairie if he wants to, I won't.  I'm none toostuck on cattle raiding, anyhow, but when it comes to starting afire that will probably wipe out the Half-Moon outfit and perhapseven the herd, Bobby Lawrence balks!""Showing the white feather, eh?" snarled his companion.  "I warnedGus you wasn't any good, but he wouldn't believe me.  You'll dowhat he says, though, as long as you're with Red Ike!"Red Ike was a giant in strength, the bully of the gang, andLawrence had seen too much of him to care to risk an encounter withhim, so with a growl he said:"All right.  Lead the way.""Not much.  I'll ride beside you, so you won't come any tricks."But though Lawrence had appeared to yield, it was only as a matterof policy, and his determination not to fire the prairie was asfirm as before.  Yet how he could prevent it, he was at a loss todetermine until suddenly he remembered that Red Ike had asked himfor a match that afternoon.As the thought flashed through his mind that his companion had nomeans for carrying out Megget's instructions Lawrence put his handto his belt, where he carried his tobacco outfit, and quicklyunloosening it, let it fall into the grass.None too soon was his action, for even as he opened his hand to letgo of the pouch that held his pipe, tobacco and cigarette papersRed Ike snapped:"I reckon we've gone a mile." And as he turned to look back thesignal sounded, and in a trice he saw the flames, set by hisleader, leap in the air."Quick, Gus has touched off!" he cried, then added as he felt invain for any matches, "Gimme some of your fire-sticks, mine are allgone."Suppressing the smile that came to his face at the words, forLawrence bad feared his companion might have obtained a supply fromone of the others, he replied:"Can't.  I haven't any.""What?" roared Red Ike.  "You can't come any such game on me.  Youhad plenty this afternoon.  Hand 'em over--and be lively!"As he spoke the bully edged his pony closer to the other.Lawrence, however, only repeated his statement calmly."You won't gimme them, eh? Then I'll take 'em myself."  And like aflash his powerful fist shot out, striking his companion under theright side of his jaw with such terrific force that it lifted himfrom the saddle.Springing to the ground, Red Ike roughly searched the motionlessbody, and when he found that the tobacco pouch was indeed gone herealized the trick that Lawrence had played.For a moment the baffled raider glowered upon the man who hadoutwitted him.  Then his attention was distracted by the sound ofhoof beats and, turning, he beheld the two horses racing toward thehills, having taken fright at the flames leaping over the plains.And never thinking of the man he had unhorsed, Red Ike dashed afterthem.Advancing cautiously, the ranch owners and their men were beginningto wonder if they could have mistaken the direction of the signalswhen they heard the call again."That's back of us," declared Pete.Instantly the others turned in their saddles, and as they did sothe flames bounded into the air."They fooled us good and plenty!" growled Nails, while all the boysglared at the foreman of the Three Stars Ranch."They did," asserted Mr. Wilder grimly, "but it's no use talkingabout it now.  We've got all we can do to get away from the fire."In terror the boy chums watched the flames spread as if by magictill in a few minutes a towering wall of fire was racing towardthem."Shall we start a back fire?" asked Bill."No use," returned several of the cowboys, "the wind's in the wrongdirection.""Then we've got to ride for it," asserted Snider.Well did the cowboys realize the danger, and with might and mainthey urged their ponies, each one bent only on saving himself.For a time the two brothers and Horace kept pace with them, butthey were not skilled in the fine art of getting the most out oftheir ponies when the animals began to tire, and it was not longbefore they found themselves dropping behind."Wait for us!" shouted Horace as he noticed the distance thatseparated them constantly increasing.For a moment it seemed to the terrified lads that their cry had notbeen heard, yet just when they began to despair three horsesdropped behind, and as the boys came up with them they recognizedthe two ranch owners and Pete."Take Horace, Pete; Snider, Tom; I'll take Larry," commanded Mr.Wilder, and each of the men leaped their horses to seize the bridleof the boy indicated.Not more than two miles behind them was the terrible wall of fire.In front of it coyotes and all other animals of the plains were Infull flight, their cries of fear or pain as they fell victims tothe all-devouring flames now and then rising above the sullen roar."Oh, it's gaining! it's gaining!" wailed Horace."Don't look behind.  Keep your eyes in front and _ride_!" commandedhis father.Sparks borne by the wind began to fall all about, now and thenstarting blazes which the cowboys put out by beating with theirblankets where they could, yet none checked his speed.  To the hotair was added smoke, and men and horses were breathing withdifficulty, gasping and coughing."If you've got handkerchiefs, jam them in your mouths!" criedSnider.Nearer, ever nearer drew the wall of flame.  It seemed to the chumsthat they must be breathing fire, so did the air burn their mouths.Time and again they swayed in their saddles and would have fallenhad it not been for the men beside them, who had let go the bridlesto steady the boys, at the same time rowelling their own mounts.Just when it seemed to the boys that the shirts on their backswould burst into flames a shout went up from in front:"The river! The river!""One more spurt, everybody!"Gamely men, boys and horses responded."Right over the bank!  Don't stop!" bellowed Pete.Ignorant of the height, caring little, eager only to gain thewater, the boys felt their horses leap through the air and the nextminute were sputtering and gasping as they sank below the surfaceof the river.CHAPTER XXIA RIDE FOR LIFEQuickly the horses swam for the shore, and as the Elkhorn was onlydeep for a few rods, it was not many minutes before the cowboyswere shaking and removing their wet garments.  But the boys wereoblivious of their condition.In open-mouthed wonder they stared at the spectacle presented bythe flames from whose devouring fury they had so narrowly escaped.The wall of fire had in reality been farther away than it hadseemed.  For several minutes it advanced, the tongues of flamestowering in the air.  A moment the livid wall paused as it reachedthe brink of the river, while jets of fire reached out as thoughstriving to clutch the men who had escaped.  Then seemingly bent onovertaking them, the flames leaped over the edge, devouring thebrush and grass to the water's edge, where, loath to admit defeat,the flames flickered uncertainly and then died away, leavingnothing but a pall of smoke to mark their course of destruction."They came mighty near getting us that time," exclaimed Pete,looking back over the still glowing plains."Too near," assented Mr. Wilder.  "But Megget's men will suffer forthis trick, never fear.""They'll sure be surprised when they see us," chimed in the ownerof the Three Stars."That's just it," returned Mr. Wilder.  "Of course, they think wehave perished in the flames, and when they see us riding in on themthey will be so scared it will take all the fight out of them."None the worse for their experience, the cowboys were eager to beunder way again that they might exact satisfaction upon the raidersfor their unwilling flight.   But Mr. Wilder curbed theirimpatience by saying:"It's all right to want to get on the trail again, but if we shouldstart now, while the plains are still hot, we run the risk ofcrippling some of our ponies.  We'll eat breakfast here and then inan hour I guess we can start.  What do you think, Jim?""It will be all right to take grub and we can tell about the groundwhen we've eaten."Fate, however, was still on the side of the ranchers, for whilethey were at their meal it began to rain.With a shout the cowboys greeted the first drops, but their mastersgrew serious."This rain will make it mighty hard to pick up the trail," observedthe owner of the Three Stars."But we won't need to search for it," interposed Tom.At his words all eyes were turned upon him, and Mr. Wilder voicedtheir sentiments by asking:"Why?""Because I know the very place where Horace and Larry and I rodeinto the mountains.  I thought I might want to remember it, so Ibroke off some branches and cut a half moon in one of the treeswith my jackknife.""That's all right, but why should we follow that trail?" demandedBill.  "The men who set the fire were all of--how far, Horace, fromTom's trail?" and he looked at his brother."A good twenty miles.""Why should we ride twenty miles when we can start right in at thehills back where the fire started?" continued Bill.Some of the cowboys laughed at this seeming evidence of Tom's lackof understanding of the situation, but the younger of the chums hadhis good reasons, as he quickly proved by replying:"Because that is where they drove fifty cattle in.  Mr. Jeffreyssaid it was a short cut.  Besides, it stands to reason the menwouldn't have gone that way unless the trail led to the mine wherethey could join the rest of the gang.  I may be from the East," andhe glanced at the boys who had laughed at him, "but I'm not so muchof a tenderfoot as not to know four men aren't going on a pleasuretrip with a herd of fifty steers.""I reckon the kid is right," said the owner of the Half-Moon afterthe merriment this jibe evoked had subsided.  "Even if the'rustlers' didn't know we had started when they lifted the cattlefrom the pool, they'd know something was up when all the boys wereaway and that we could follow the trail to the mountains.Consequently, they being only four, would take the shortest routeto join the main body.""That argument would have been all right before the fire, Jim, butthings are different now," rejoined Bill."Certain.  But the difference is the raiders will take more time indriving the cattle in the thought that there's no one to pursue 'emtill the fact of the prairie fire reaches Tolopah.""And then that bow-legged sheriff will set out," grunted Skinny."He couldn't catch a prairie dog.  There's only one man I'd like tosee on the job besides the bunch we've got here.""Name him," cried several of the cowboys."Shorty Jenks.""Why, that's our friend!" exclaimed Tom and Larry."I don't know about his being a friend of yours, but there'snothing on two or four legs he's afraid of.  And he's great ontricks.  He'd think up a scheme in no time to land Megget.""I think Tom's idea is the right one," said Mr. Wilder.  "By ridingthat trail we can reach the Lost Lode probably in a few hours,while it might take days to find where the gang that set fire rodeinto the hills.  This rain has cooled off the ground, so we canstart right away."No direct command to pack the food and saddle up did the cowboysneed and as day dawned they again entered the Elkhorn River.Tom had been provided with an extra rifle Mr. Wilder had beencarrying and great care did he and the other lads take to keeptheir arms and ammunition from getting wet a second time.Arrived at the top of the bank from which they had leaped tosafety, the party beheld a long stretch of blackened ground.  Asfar as they could see, it stretched away to the north and in widthit was about four miles."Why didn't it burn everything, instead of cutting a sort of path?"asked Larry after a survey of the scene."That's one of the things you can't explain," replied the owner ofthe Three Stars.  "It just don't, that's all.  Of course, the windhas to be right--that is, stay in the same direction as when thefire was started.  And when it does you can count on the fire'sfollowing pretty close to its lines.  You see this one was set in asort of semi-circle, with the ends burning toward one another.  Ifyou want a fire to spread, start it fan-shaped.""There's one way the fire helped us," said Horace.  "We can travelfaster than we could through the grass, and it doesn't tire thehorses so.""Just another proof it's an ill wind that doesn't do somebodygood," quoted Mr. Wilder, smiling."Maybe, but I'd rather go without the wind than have anotherexperience like last night's," returned the owner of the ThreeStars.CHAPTER XXIILAWRENCE'S PLANRealizing that they would be able to advance but slowly along thetrail, giving their ponies a chance to rest, the men were riding astiff lope.At first Mr. Wilder had insisted that the three youngest boysreturn to the ranch as soon as Tom had showed them the trail, butthey had pleaded so hard, asserting they were entitled to accompanythe pursuers because of their discovery of the trail, that he hadfinally consented, making the condition, however, that when theyentered the hills the boys must ride next the rear, where in caseof attack, they would not be in the brunt of it.Larry was following the edge of grass as they drew near the placewhere the fire had been started.  As his eyes roved over thebillowy plains, they suddenly were attracted by a peculiar furrowthat seemed to run through the grass like a channel.For the moment he was tempted to call the attention of the othersto it, and then, fearing their ridicule, decided to find out whatit was first.Accordingly he reined his pony to one side and was approaching thefurrow when he was startled to hear a cry of delight:"I've got it!  I've got it!"Hastily unslinging his rifle, the elder of the chums pointed it inthe direction whence the unexpected voice had come and shouted:"You there, in the grass!  Stand up before I count five or I'll----"But Larry had no occasion to complete his command.Unconscious that there was another soul within miles of him, theperson addressed raised his head cautiously to see who had accostedhim."Stand up straight, I said!" ordered the boy.As the fellow obeyed, Mr. Wilder, Pete and the others, who had beenalmost as surprised at hearing Larry's words as the prisonerhimself, dashed up, quickly followed by the cowboys.Intuitively each man felt they had captured one of the raiders, andwithout waiting for instructions, closed in on him in a circle,completely cutting off any chance for escape."Who are you and what are you doing, sneaking along in the grass ?"demanded Mr. Wilder sternly."I'm Bobby Lawrence, and I was hunting for my tobacco pouch,"returned the fellow, undaunted by the angry faces gazing at him."That's the name of one of Megget's right-hand men," declaredNails.  "I found that out at Tolopah."With no gentle hands half a dozen of the cowboys searched Lawrence,taking from him his pistols and a long knife.When their prisoner was harmless Mr. Wilder resumed his questions."Who set the fire last night?""If I play fair with you, will you treat me square?" demandedLawrence."That depends," temporized the ranch owner.  "You belong to thegang that has been raiding my herds and last night tried to destroyus by fire.  You can't expect much leniency from us under thecircumstances.  Still, if you give us any assistance in founding upMegget, we'll not forget it.""Well, I'll do all I can, honest I will, Mr. Wilder.""Don't trust him, Wilder," interposed the owner of the Three Stars,"When a man is so willing to turn on his pals, there's somethingwrong.""See here, Jim Snider, you keep out of this.  I'm talking to Mr.Wilder, not to you.  He's square.  If it was only you, all yourponies couldn't drag a word out of me!" snapped Lawrence.This retort angered the owner of the Three Stars, but before hecould say anything the proprietor of the Half-Moon exclaimed:"If you can give me any reason why I should believe you, Lawrence,do so.""That's easy," returned the captive, and without wasting words, herelated the incidents of the pursuit of the three boys, Megget'ssignals, the order to set the fire and his own action that alonehad saved the herd at the pool from destruction.In silence, now looking at one another in amazement and then at thespeaker, the cowboys listened."That's a likely story, throwing your tobacco away," sneered Snider."I believe it," announced Larry calmly.  "The only way I knew itwas a man I'd discovered was because I heard him say twice I'vefound it.'"This confirmation of his words from the very one who had capturedhim gave Lawrence heart, and quick to see the advantage it gavehim, he pressed it, saying:"There, you see, I'm telling you straight.  And everything elseI've said is just as true.""Why didn't you strike for the hills when you recovered yoursenses?" asked Mr. Wilder.  "You would have been safe there, bothfrom Megget and from us.""Because I wanted my tobacco."Whatever doubt was in the mind of the Half-Moon owner as to whetheror not Lawrence had been telling the truth was dispelled by thisanswer.Indeed even the owner of the Three Stars was convinced by theanswer, and after a whispered consultation with Mr. Wilder, thelatter announced:"I have this proposition to make you, Lawrence.  Your act inrefusing to obey Megget, which beyond doubt has saved my cattle atthe pool, shows you are not thoroughly bad.  Therefore, if you willlead us by the shortest trail to the headquarters at the Lost Lodeand help us round up Megget and his gang, I will give you a job onmy ranch."For a moment Lawrence gazed at the ranchman as though unable tobelieve his ears, but the kindly light in Mr. Wilder's eyesreassured him and he replied:"Will I?  Say, Bobby Lawrence knows a white man when he meets one.Give me a horse and I'll have you at the Lost Lode before darkto-night!"CHAPTER XXIIIIN THE MOUNTAINSOpenly the owner of the Three Stars objected to the proposition ofproviding the erstwhile raider with a pony."If we're going to trust Lawrence to lead us to the mine, we cancertainly trust him with a horse," declared Mr. Wilder.  "Horace,climb up behind Tom and let Lawrence have your mount."Quickly the change was made, and again the party advanced."To think we were within two miles of meeting Megget again,"exclaimed Tom as they rode along.  "I'm afraid we would not havegot away from him so well this time."As he heard the remark, Lawrence turned and looked the boy overfrom head to foot, finally saying with a smile:"So you are the lad Gus ran foul of up in Oklahoma?""Yes, but my brother was with me.""Which is he?""The one who found you."At this information Lawrence threw back his head and laughedheartily.  "My, but that is a good one," he ejaculated when he hadrecovered from his merriment.  "You tenderfeet make a monkey of Gusand then capture one of his men.  I'll let Gus know it was you whofound me, if I never speak again.  It will make him more angry thananything else could."To their surprise, the ranchers learned that the Lost Lode was onlyabout five miles from the plains and that it was at the foot of oneof the mountains, instead of high up in them, with a splendidvalley where the cattle could graze close beside it."Why, I've ridden through that place at least twice," asserted Peteas he recognized Lawrence's description of the spot, "but never asign of cattle or mine have I seen.""You noticed there was heavy woods on both sides, didn't you?"returned the former raider, smiling."Yes.""Well, that explains why you didn't learn anything, though ofcourse it might be that no cattle were in the valley when youstruck it."This explanation only served to arouse the curiosity of the hearersthe more."The woods are the thing," he continued.  "Every time any one comesalong, we drive the cattle into them and no one would think to lookfor the entrance to a mine among the trees.""But how does it happen you have never been taken by surprise?"queried Mr. Wilder."Because when we had steers in the valley we always kept a lookout.There's a cliff just above the mine from which a man can see thetrail for at least two miles.""Then won't some one discover us?" asked Bill."Not if we hurry.  Every man jack of Megget's gang is out on thisraid.  All we need to do is to get there first.""How about that fellow who was with you?" Bill inquired.  "Won't hebe on the lookout?""Who, Red Ike?  Not much.  He'll be too anxious to tell Gus aboutme.  He knows his chief was going to cut across to join Vasquez andthe others, and he'll follow.  They'll be so tickled at the thoughtyou all were lost in the fire they won't hurry much.  Still, ifwe're going to round them up, we must get there before darkto-night.  There's a spot just before you enter the valley where wecan lie in wait and get them all.""No, that won't do," declared Mr. Wilder.  "I want to capture themwithout resorting to firearms, if possible.  While, of course, ifit should be necessary, I would sanction shooting, I much prefer totake the men prisoners and turn them over to the sheriff and thelaw."At first Lawrence could scarcely believe his ears.  His creed hadbeen force, supported by quick use of weapons, not law, and itseemed incredible to him that a man who had suffered from the raidsof the cattle thieves should not take justice in his own hands whenopportunity presented.  But he suddenly realized that he wasdealing with a new kind of man that he had never been brought incontact with, an honorable man, and his admiration for the owner ofthe Half-Moon increased a hundredfold.Some time, however, was required to reconcile himself to his newscheme of life, but of a sudden he burst into a roar of merriment."We'll do it, and without a shot.  Say, Mr. Wilder, it will breakGus' heart to think he was caught without any gun play.""That's just it.  Most of the power men like Megget have is becauseof the fear the very mention of their names inspires."But I don't mean to preach a sermon.  What I want to know is, Howdo you propose to capture Megget without trouble?""Wait till they are asleep.  They'll have a celebration when theyreach the mine and afterward we can hog-tie them and they willnever know it."Without vouchsafing any comment, the owner of the Half-Moon reinedaway from the strange guide, and, as Snider joined him, discussedthe situation thoroughly.The questioning of Lawrence, however, did not cease when theranchmen left him.  The four boys had listened eagerly, and whenthe opportunity presented deluged him with inquiries."Are there really ghosts in the Lost Lode?" queried Horace."None but very live ones," grinned the former raider.  "Vasquezstarted that story to keep people from coming into the valley.Many a time we've chased men in the night when they came near."The chums, however were more interested in learning whether or notthere was rich ore in the mine."Probably there is," explained Lawrence, "but it would require alot of drilling and sinking of shafts.  What silver could be gotout, Vasquez has taken.  He was planning to use the money from thecattle captured in the raid to buy machinery and begin work."Disappointed to think they would not be able to pick up chunks ofthe ore, the comrades lapsed into silence till Tom suddenlybethought him of the men he had seen crossing the cliff on thenight of their hunting trip, and he lost no time in asking if theywere some of Megget's gang."Must have been Gus and the boys who were with him up in Oklahoma,"declared the guide.  "There's a trail from that direction to themine.  Now you mention it, I remember he spoke of having seen aparty of horsemen.  It's a good thing for you he didn't know who itwas.  If he had, he was so angry at your outwitting him that hewould surely have made trouble."Further questioning, however, was prevented by the arrival of thetroop at the trail."There are my marks," exclaimed the younger of the chums, pointingto the branches he had broken.  But no one paid him heed, for withthe arrival at the hills the serious work began and the ranchmenwere busy issuing instructions.CHAPTER XXIVCAPTURING THE CATTLE THIEVESAs they wound in and out among the hills and rocks, now ascending,now going down steep pitches, the silence of their surroundings andthe realization that they were bent on a dangerous mission soberedthe boys and few words did they speak.Once or twice the line halted as the leaders heard some sound thatroused their suspicions, and several times Sandy and Nails droppedback.  But nothing untoward occurred, and late in the afternoonthey descended into the valley that was the headquarters of theraiders."We're in time; there's no one here," announced Lawrence after anexamination of the ground for fresh horse or cattle tracks.Remembering their guide's statement about the cliff on which thelookout was posted when the raiders were at the mine, die boyssought it with their eyes.  But though they scanned both sides ofthe mountains, all they could see was trees.Horace was on the point of mentioning the fact when the word waspassed back to dismount, and, leading their horses, they were soonwithin the protection of the woods."Any of the ponies likely to whinny?" asked Lawrence as they haltedin a glen."Yes, Blackhawk," answered Horace.  "It was he that gave warning ofJeffreys' approach.""Then we'll take them all pretty well up into the woods.  He won'tbe able to scent when he's above where Megget and the others willenter the valley.""Which way will they come?" asked Mr. Wilder."The opposite end from the way we did," responded the formerraider.  "That's why I'm taking our ponies to a place on this side.""Seems to me we're leaving too much to this fellow who's gone backon his former pals," whispered the owner of the Three Stars to Mr.Wilder.  "It's all right if he plays fair, but if he doesn't we'llbe in a pretty mess.""I believe he is acting square with us.  Still it won't do to takechances," returned the other ranchman, and calling to Lawrence, heasked where the mine was."It's about two hundred yards to the right, Mr. Wilder.  I'll showyou when we get up on top of the cliff.  There's a big dead tree infront of it, so you can't miss it, even in the night, for the barkhas been peeled off it by lightning and the wind, so that it standsout like a white specter in the darkness."Deeming it inadvisable to unsaddle the horses, in case they shouldneed them suddenly, the cowboys close-hobbled them on a plateau towhich Lawrence guided them and then followed him to the ledge.No need was there for the tree that marked the mine to be pointedout to them, for as the men looked down each one saw it.To the east and to the west the ledge commanded a view of thetrails, and as they gazed along them, the owner of the Half-Moonexclaimed:"I don't wonder no one can surprise Megget with such a lookout.Why, it's practically impossible to approach without being seen bya man on guard.""The only time is at night," returned Lawrence.  "And, thanks tothe loneliness of the place and the stories of ghosts, no one hasever tried to pass through or even come in at night while I've beenwith the gang.""Don't start talking about ghosts or you'll get us all nervous,"said Mr. Wilder, fearing the effect on his men.  "Now that we'veseen where the mine is, suppose you take us where you think we hadbetter wait till we make the round-up.""That's right here," rejoined Lawrence.  "We can see Megget and theothers when they arrive by being here.""True enough, but how about the guard they send up?""There won't be any to-night, don't worry about that.  They'll betoo busy celebrating your supposed loss in the fire last night."This grim reminder of their escape caused all of the ranchers tosmile, and without further objection the men made themselvescomfortable while they waited the arrival of the raiders.Huddled together, the boys sat where they could watch the trail.Of a sudden Tom grabbed his brother by the arm and pointed to whereseveral specks were moving.In silence they watched as more and more came into view, and thenLarry cried out:"Here they come!"Eager with excitement, the others crowded forward to catch aglimpse of the men who had caused them so much trouble."Keep down!" snapped Lawrence.  "Vasquez has an eye like a hawk."No second warning did the cowboys need, and dropping flat on theirstomachs, they watched the raiders draw nearer and nearer.Because of the cattle, their approach was slow, and it was fully anhour after the chums had sighted them before they reached thevalley."That's Vasquez and Gus in the lead," announced the man who hadforsaken his life of wrong-doing.  And as the other raiders rodeinto sheltered grazing ground he mentioned them by name."There are only nineteen of them.  I thought Nails said there weretwenty," exclaimed Bill."So there were till Lawrence joined us," rejoined his father."Thank goodness, my short-horn Durhams are all right.  Now bequiet.  It would be too bad to spoil everything when things aregoing so well for us."Instantly the men obeyed, sitting with eyes and ears alert for anysight or sound that should proclaim the approach of a guard.But twilight fell and none came, as Lawrence had predicted.Sounds of revelry, broken now and then by the lowing of the cattle,were constant.  In due time the moon rose and with its coming thecowboys grew impatient.The ranchmen, however, refused to move till no sound from theraiders could be heard."It's midnight," announced Mr. Wilder, looking at his watch.  "Theymust be asleep, by this time.  We'll chance it, anyhow.  Careful,every one.  Come, Lawrence."Overjoyed that the time for action had arrived, the boys followedtheir guide, halting at the edge of the valley.Ordering the others to wait, the owner of the Half-Moon and theformer raider glided noiselessly toward the mine.All about were signs of the celebration in which the thieves hadindulged, and their loud snores told how sound asleep they were.Confident the time was ripe for action, the two scouts returned totheir impatient fellows."Pete, Sandy, Nails, Skinny, Lawrence, you take the ropes and dothe hog-tying.  The rest of you have your rifles ready for use.But don't shoot till I give the word," commanded Mr. Wilder.Opening the ropes so they could use them rapidly, the men selectedfor the binding of the raiders moved forward, closely followed bythe others, guns ready for action.Signing to Sandy and Skinny to tie the men lying outside, Lawrenceled the others into the mine.More like a cavern did it seem to them than anything else as theycast a hurried glance about the rock-walled room which twoflickering torches lighted.Sprawled upon the floor lay the raiders, and to them Pete and Nailsturned their attention, while Lawrence glided among them, peeringinto their faces.Watching for the slightest move, stood a dozen of the cowboys, withMr. Wilder and the four lads.Of a sudden Lawrence stooped down, worked his hand rapidly, thenrose, a smile on his face, and continued his search till he foundanother form, when he repeated the operation.Gliding to the owner of the Half-Moon, he whispered:"I've bound Megget and Vasquez.  If they wake up now it doesn'tmatter."CHAPTER XXVHOMEWARDHaving made fast the leaders, for he knew that with them renderedpowerless no effective opposition would be made by the othersshould they be aroused, Lawrence returned to the task of"hog-tying," and in a few minutes every cattle thief in the cavehad been securely bound."Well, it has been easier to round up Megget and his gang than Iever imagined it could be, thanks to you, Lawrence," exclaimed Mr.Wilder as they left the mine to join the others."It was no fun at all," protested Horace, and his opinion voicedthe sentiments of the cowboys.  "Can't we wake them up or dosomething to let them know they've been captured?""You'd have some trouble in rousing them, son," replied his father."They've been drinking too heavily.""That's what," agreed the former raider.  "You could ride over themand they would not budge.""It's the only time I ever knew the drinking of too much liquor todo good," chuckled Mr. Wilder.  "That is, good to us.  I don'tsuppose our prisoners will share our opinion, though, when theyawake."When the raiders had been bound the owner of the Three Stars hadsent his men to bring down all the ponies, that the animals mightbe relieved of their saddles and enjoy the tender grass in thevalley.  And no sooner had Blackhawk reached the open than he gavean ear-splitting whinny which was answered by several of theraiders' horses.At the racket two or three of the thieves awoke and tried to get up.For a moment the men blinked at the sight of the cowboys.  Then,their senses returning, they discovered they were tied hand andfoot, and in a trice they were yelling like a band of Indians."Go it! Go it!" howled the cowboys.The shouts roused the prisoners in the cave, and their yells ofrage added to the pandemonium."Come on in to see Megget," exclaimed Lawrence.  "I say, Mr.Wilder, can't Larry and Tom go in first alone?  You promised, youknow."Willing that his men should have their fun, the owner of theHalf-Moon laughingly consented.And with the others following close, the brothers went into thecave.Entering thoroughly into the spirit of the occasion, Larryapproached the struggling chief."Why, how do you do again, Mr. Megget?" he exclaimed, bowing inmock deference.  "What's the trouble?  You seem to be down and out.Quite a difference from when you were teasing me at that station inOklahoma, eh?"As Megget recognized the brothers his face grew terrible to see,and, summoning all his strength, he leaped to his feet.But Lawrence had tied his ankles so tight he could not keep hisbalance, and the raider pitched forward while Mr. Wilder and theothers rushed in to make sure he did not harm the boys.At the sight of the men he thought burned, the leader of theraiders lay trembling like a leaf."You see you can't raid the Half-Moon herd with impunity,"exclaimed Mr. Wilder sternly.  "Come on, boys, let's go outside.These men are not pleasant companions."  And turning on his heel,he led the way from the mine.Appointing Pete, Sandy and two others to stand guard to make surenone of the prisoners broke their bonds, Mr. Wilder ordered theothers to turn in.Some time it took them to get to sleep, but when they did theyslept soundly, and it was broad daylight when they awoke.After a hearty breakfast, they were discussing the best way to gettheir prisoners to Tolopah when a body of horsemen galloped intothe valley.For the moment the ranchmen and cowboys thought they were partnersof the raiders and quickly they sprang for their guns.  But thenext minute their alarm vanished."It's Shorty Jenks and the sheriff of Tolopah!" yelled Skinny.  Andsuch, indeed, it proved to be, together with a score of deputies.Hearty were the greetings exchanged by the sheriffs and the ranchowners, and the former were elated when they learned of thesuccessful round-up of the cattle thieves.Deeming it unwise to start to drive out the cattle so late In theday, they whiled away the time exploring the mine, where, to thedelight of the boys, they were able to dig out several small piecesof almost pure silver ore.Without adventure the day passed and at dawn the next morning thestart was made.The prisoners, their legs tied together under their ponies andguarded by the deputies, led the procession, followed by thesheriffs, the ranch owners and the lads.  Behind them the cowboysdrove the cattle.Able to travel faster than the steers, Mr. Wilder ordered his mento drive to the pool, picking up the fifty head on the way, afterwhich he told them to come to the ranch for a jollification inhonor of the capture.Reaching the plains In good season, the ranchmen and the boysseparated from the sheriffs and, urging their ponies, arrived atthe home in time for dinner.As they rode into the yard Mrs. Wilder greeted all joyfully.  Afterthe flush of delight at their safe return she asked about theraiders, clapping her hands at the information they had all beencaptured and were on their way to Tolopah."And now for some fun," said Bill the next day.With riding, hunting and fishing the chums passed many happy days.At the trial of Megget and his pals in Tolopah Tom and Larryattracted even more attention than the raiders, but they bore itlike sensible boys, making light of their experience at thecrossing and never referring to it when they could avoid so doing.Upon the completion of the trial, with long sentences for thecattle thieves, from which fate Mr. Wilder's influence savedLawrence, the brothers returned to the ranch.Great favorites with all the cowboys, they learned many a trick ofroping steers and riding, and they were never so happy as when,together with Bill and Horace, they were allowed to pass a few daysherding.Upon the return from one of these trips Mr. Wilder handed Larry atelegram.  Opening it, he read:  "We arrived in New York this morning.  Received fifty thousand dollars from Uncle  Darwent.  We shall expect to meet you at  the Hotel Boswell in Pittsburg Saturday.    Love.        FATHER.""It's a good thing we came back to the ranch today," exclaimedHorace.  "To-morrow is Thursday, and you'll be obliged to startthen to reach Pittsburg on Saturday.""Yes, I suppose it is," assented Larry.  "Still we've had such agood time we hate to go home.""And leave the life in the saddle for life in Ohio," added Tom.THE ENDEnd of Project Gutenberg's Comrades of the Saddle, by Frank V. Webster*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COMRADES OF THE SADDLE ******** This file should be named 11890.txt or 11890.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/1/8/9/11890/Produced by Al HainesUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year. For example:     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALLThe Project Gutenberg EBook of Scientific American Supplement, No. 595,May 28, 1887, by VariousThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: Scientific American Supplement, No. 595, May 28, 1887Author: VariousRelease Date: March 22, 2004 [EBook #11648]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN SUPPL. 595 ***Produced by by Don Kretz, Juliet Sutherland, Charles Franks and theDP Team[Illustration]SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN SUPPLEMENT NO. 595NEW YORK, MAY 28, 1887.Scientific American Supplement. Vol. XXIII, No. 595.Scientific American established 1845Scientific American Supplement, 5 a year.Scientific American and Supplement, 7 a year.       *       *       *       *       *TABLE OF CONTENTS.I.    BOTANY.--The Relation of Tabasheer to Mineral Substances.--The      composition of this curious secretion of the bamboo.--Analyses      and properties of the material, according to various      observers.--Its appearance under the microscope. 1 illustration.II.   CHEMISTRY.--Apparatus for Drying Flour.--An apparatus for      determining the moisture in flour. 1 illustration.III.  ELECTRICITY.--Automatic Commutator for Incandescent      Lamps.--An apparatus for lighting automatically a new lamp to      replace one that has failed. 1 illustration.      Definitions and Designations in Electro-Technics.--Mr. Jamieson's      proposed code of electric symbols--literal and graphic. 4      illustrations.IV.   ENGINEERING.--New Dredging Machinery.--The dredger Ajax,      recently built in California.--Its dimensions and capacity. 1      illustration.      Reservoir Dams.--By DAVID GRAVELL.--The engineering details      of dams.--Typical masonry and earthwork dams of the world. 23      illustrations.      The Flexible Girder Tramway.--A new type of suspended railway--a      modification of the wire tramway system. 21 illustrations.V.    HYGIENE.--Climate in its Relation to Health.--By G.V. POORE,      M.D.--The third lecture of this series.--Consideration of the      floating matter of the air and diseases caused thereby.--Causation      of hay fever.VI.   MATHEMATICS.--Radii of Curvature Geometrically Determined.--By      Prof. C.W. MACCORD, Sc.D.--No. VII. Path of a      point on a connecting rod. 3 illustrations.VII.  MICROSCOPY.--Improved Microscopical Settling Tube.--By F.      VANDERPOEL.--New tubes for use in urinary analysis. 4      illustrations.VIII. MISCELLANEOUS.--Apparatus for Manufacturing Bouquets.--An      ingenious machine for facilitating the construction of      bouquets. 1 illustration.      Bozerian's Refrigerant Punkas.--A fan worked by the feet, a      substitute for the Indian punka. 2 illustrations.      How to Make a Kite without a Tail.--An improved form of kite      described and illustrated. 1 illustration.      Punkas.--By J. WALLACE, C.E.--The mechanics of punkas;      experiments on their rate of swing.      The Edible Earth of Java.--An account of this curious substance,      its taste and appearance.IX.   NAVAL ENGINEERING.--Another Remarkable Torpedo Boat.--Over      twenty-eight miles an hour.--Full particulars of the trial of      one of the new Italian torpedo boats, built by Yarrow & Co.      Copeman & Pinhey's Life Rafts.--A new life raft for use on      steamers, folding into deck settees. 3 illustrations.X.    PHYSICS.--Sunlight Colors--By Capt. W. DE W. ABNEY.--A valuable      lecture on the cause of the colors of the sun, and their relative      intensities. 3 illustrations.      The Wave Theory of Sound Considered.--By HENRY A. MOTT,      Ph.D., LL.D.--Arguments against the generally accepted theory      of sound.       *       *       *       *       *COPEMAN & PINHEY'S LIFE RAFTS.The experiments with life saving appliances which Mr. Copeman broughtbefore the delegates of the Colonial Conference, on the 13th April, atthe Westminster Aquarium, had a particular interest, due to the late andlamentable accident which befell the Newhaven-Dieppe passenger steamerVictoria. In many cases of this nature, loss of life must rather beattributed to panic than to a want of life saving appliances; but, as ageneral rule, an abundant supply of such apparatus will tend to givepassengers confidence, and prevent the outbreak of such discreditablescenes on the part of passengers as took place on the Victoria.[Illustration: FIG. 1.--COPEMAN & PINHEY'S LIFE RAFTS.]Messrs. Copeman & Pinhey have, for some years past, done good work inthis direction, and at the recent meeting of the Institution of NavalArchitects, Mr. Copeman showed several models of the latest types oftheir life saving apparatus, both for use on torpedo boats and passengersteamers. Our illustration (Fig. 1) represents the kind of rafts suppliedto her Majesty's troop ships, while Figs. 2 and 3 show deck seatsconvertible into rafts, which are intended for ordinary passengersteamers. The raft shown in Fig. 1 consists of two pontoons, joined bystrong cross beams, and fitted with mast, sail, and oars. When not inuse, the pontoons form deck seats, covered by a wooden grating, which inour illustration forms the middle part of the raft. Each pontoon has acompartment for storing provisions, and when rigged as a raft, there is arailing to prevent persons being washed overboard.[Illustration: FIG. 2.][Illustration: FIG. 3.]The seat life buoy, shown in Fig. 2, serves as an ordinary deck seat,being about 8 ft. long, and it consists of two portions, hinged at theback. When required for use as a life buoy, it is simply thrown forward,the seat being at the same time lifted upward, so that the top rail ofthe back engages with the two clips, shown at either end of the seat, andthe whole structure then forms a rigid raft, as will be seen from Fig. 3.Several other appliances were shown at the Westminster Aquarium on April13, but the two rafts we have selected for illustration will give asufficiently correct idea of the general principles upon which theapparatus is based.--_Industries._       *       *       *       *       *ANOTHER REMARKABLE TORPEDO BOAT--OVER TWENTY-EIGHT MILES AN HOUR.In a recent impression we gave some particulars of the trial trip of aboat built for the Italian government by Messrs. Yarrow & Co., whichattained the highest speed known, namely, as nearly as possible, 28 milesan hour. On the 14th April the sister boat made her trial trip in theLower Hope, beating all previous performances, and attaining a mean speedof 25.101 knots, or over 28 miles an hour. The quickest run made with thetide was at the rate of 27.272 knots, or 31.44 miles per hour, past theshore. This is a wonderful performance.In the following table we give the precise results:      +-------+---------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+      |       |         |       |     |       |       | Second|      |Boiler.|Receiver.|Vacuum.|Revs.| Speed.| Means.| Means.|      +-------+---------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+      |       |         |       | per | Knots | Knots | Knots |      |  lb.  |   lb.   |  in.  | min.|per hr.|per hr.|per hr.|      +-------+---------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+  1   |  130  |   32    |   28  |373  | 22.641| 24.956|       |  2   |  130  |   32    |   28  |372.7| 27.272| 25.028| 24.992|  3   |  130  |   32    |   28  |372  | 22.784| 25.028| 25.028|  4   |  130  |   32    |   28  |377  | 27.272| 25.248| 25.138|  5   |  130  |   32    |   28  |375  | 23.225| 25.248| 25.248|  6   |  130  |   32    |   28  |377  | 27.272|       |       |------+-------+---------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+Means |  130  |   32    |   28  |374.5|       |       | 25.101|------+-------+---------+-------+-----+-------+-------+-------+The boat is 140 ft. long, and fitted with twin screws driven by compoundengines, one pair to each propeller. These engines are of the usual type,constructed by Messrs. Yarrow. Each has two cylinders with cranks at 90 deg..The framing, and, indeed, every portion not of phosphor-bronze or gunmetal, is of steel, extraordinary precautions being taken to securelightness. Thus the connecting rods have holes drilled through them fromend to end. The low pressure cylinders are fitted with slide valves. Thehigh pressure valves are of the piston type, all being worked by theordinary link motion and eccentrics. The engine room is not far from themid length of the boat, and one boiler is placed ahead and the otherastern of it. Each boiler is so arranged that it will supply eitherengine or both at pleasure. The boat has therefore two funnels, oneforward and the other aft, and air is supplied to the furnaces by twofans, one fixed on the forward and the other on the aft bulkhead of theengine room.The fan engines have cylinders 51/2 in. diameter and 31/2 in. stroke, andmake about 1,100 revolutions per minute when at full speed, causing aplenum in the stokeholes of about 6 in. water pressure. Double steamsteering gear is fitted, for the forward and aft rudder respectively, andsafety from foundering is provided to an unusual degree by thesubdivision of the hull into numerous compartments, each of which isfitted with a huge ejector, capable of throwing overboard a great body ofwater. A body of water equal to the whole displacement of the boat can bedischarged in less than seven minutes. There is also a centrifugal pumpprovided, which can draw from any compartment. The circulating pump isnot available, because it has virtually no existence, a very small pumpon the same shaft as the centrifugal being used merely to drain thecondensers. These last are of copper, cylindrical, and fitted with pipesthrough which a tremendous current of water is set up by the passage ofthe boat through the sea. Thus the space and weight due to a circulatingpump is saved and complication avoided. The air and feed pumps arecombined in one casting let into the engine room floor, quite out of theway, and worked by a crank pin in a small disk on the forward end of thepropeller shaft. This is an admirable arrangement, and works toperfection.The armament of the boat consists of two torpedo tubes in her bows, and asecond pair set at a small angle to each--Yarrow's patent--carried aft ona turntable for broadside firing. There are also two quick firing 3 lb.guns on her deck. The conning tower forward is rifle proof, and beneathit and further forward is fixed the steering engine, and a compressingengine, by which air is compressed for starting the torpedoes overboardand for charging their reservoirs. A small dynamo and engine are alsoprovided for working a search light, if necessary. The accommodationprovided for the officers and crew is far in advance of anything hithertofound on board a torpedo boat.The weather on the morning of Thursday, April 14, was anything ratherthan that which would be selected for a trial, or indeed any, trip on theThames. At 11 A.M., the hour at which the boat was to leave Messrs.Yarrow's yard, Isle of Dogs, the wind was blowing in heavy squalls fromthe northeast, accompanied by showers of snow and hail. The Italiangovernment was represented by Count Gandiani and several officers andengineers. In all there were about thirty-three persons on board. Thedisplacement of the vessel was as nearly as might be 97 tons. A start wasmade down the river at 11:15 A.M., the engines making about 180revolutions per minute, and the boat running at some 111/2 or 12 knots.During this time the stokehole hatches were open, but the fans were keptrunning at slow speed to maintain a moderate draught. The fuel usedthroughout the trip was briquettes made of the best Welsh anthraciteworked up with a little tar. The briquettes were broken up to convenientsizes before being put in the bunkers. This fuel is not of so highevaporative efficiency as Nixon's navigation coal, but it is moresuitable for torpedo boat work, because it gives out Very little dust,while the coal in closed stokeholes half smothers the firemen. Wateringonly partially mitigates the evil. Besides this, the patent fuel does notclinker the tube ends--a matter of vital importance.During the run down to Gravesend, the small quantity of smoke given outwas borne down and away from the tops of the funnels by the fierce headwind, and now and then a heavy spray broke on the bows, wettingeverything forward. In the engine room preparations were made for takingindicator diagrams. No attempt was made to drive the boat fast, becausehigh speeds are prohibited by the river authorities on account of theheavy swell set up.The measured mile on the Lower Hope is on the southern bank of the river,about three miles below Gravesend. Just as the boat passed the town, inthe midst of a heavy rain squall, the stokehole hatches in the deck wereshut, and the dull humming roar of the fans showed that the fires werebeing got up. The smoke no longer rose leisurely from the funnels. Itcame up now with a rush and violence which showed the powerful agency atwork below. A rapid vibrating motion beneath the feet was the firstevidence that the engines were away full speed. As the boat gathered wayshe seemed to settle down to her work, and the vibration almost ceased.The measured mile was soon reached, and then in the teeth of thenortheaster she tore through the water. The tide and wind were bothagainst her. Had the tide and wind been opposed, there would have been aheavy sea on. As it was, there was quite enough; the water, breaking onher port bow, came on board in sheets, sparkling in the sun, which, therain squall having passed, shone out for the moment. As the wind wasblowing at least thirty miles an hour, and the boat was going at sometwenty-six miles an hour against it, the result was a moderate hurricaneon board. It was next to impossible to stand up against the fury of theblast without holding on. The mile was traversed in less than 21/2 minutes,however; but the boat had to continue her course down the river fornearly another mile to avoid some barges which lay in the way, andprevented her from turning. Then the helm was put over, and she cameround. There was no slacking of the engines, and astern of her the waterleaped from her rudder in a great upheaved, foaming mass, some 7 ft. or 8ft. high. Brought round, she once more lay her course. This time the windwas on her starboard quarter, or still more nearly aft. The boat wentliterally as fast as the wind, and on deck it was nearly calm. The lightsmoke from the funnels, no longer beaten down by wind, leaped up highinto the air. Looking over the side, it was difficult to imagine that theboat was passing through water at all. The enormous velocity gave thesurface of the river the appearance of a sheet of steel for 1 ft. or moreoutside the boat. Standing right aft, the sight was yet more remarkable.Although two 6 ft. screws were revolving at nearly 400 revolutions perminute almost under foot, not a bubble of air came up to break thesurface. There was no wave in her wake; about 70 ft. behind her rose agentle swelling hill.Her wake was a broad smooth brown path, cut right through the roughsurface of the river. On each side of this path rose and broke the angrylittle seas lashed up by the scourging wind. Along the very center of thebrown track ran a thin ridge of sparkling foam, some 2 ft. high and some20 ft. long, caused by the rudder being dragged through the water. Therewas scarcely any vibration. The noise was not excessive. A rapid whirrdue to the engines, and a rythmical clatter due to the relief valve onone of the port engine cylinders not being screwed down hard enough, andtherefore lifting a little in its seat at each stroke, made the most ofit. The most prominent noise perhaps was the hum of the fans. Standingforward, the deck seems to slope away downward aft, as indeed it does,for it is to be noted that at these high speeds the forefoot of the boatis always thrown up clean out of the water--and the whole aspect of theboat: the funnels vomiting thin brown smoke, and occasionally, when afire door is opened, a lurid pillar of flame for a moment; the whirr inthe engine room; the dull thunder of the fans, produce an impression onthe mind not easily expressed, and due in some measure no doubt to theexhilaration caused by the rapid motion through the air.The best way to convey what we mean is to say that the whole craft seemsto be alive, and a perfect demon of energy and strength. Many personshold that a torpedo boat is likely to be more useful in terrifying anenemy than in doing him real harm, and we can safely say that the captainof an ironclad who saw half a dozen of these vessels bearing down on him,and did not wish himself well out of a scrape, has more nerve than mostmen.The second mile was run in far less time than that in which what we havewritten concerning it can be read, and then the boat turned again, andonce more the head wind with all its discomforts was encountered. Eventsrepeated themselves, and so at last the sixth trip was completed, and theboat proceeded at a leisurely pace back again to Poplar. Mr. Crohn,representing Messrs. Yarrow on board, and all concerned, might well feelsatisfied. We had traveled at a greater speed than had ever before beenreached by anything that floats, and there was no hitch or impediment ortrouble of any kind.The Italian government may be congratulated on possessing the two fastestand most powerful torpedo boats in the world. We believe, however, thatMessrs. Yarrow are quite confident that, with twin screw triple expansionengines, they can attain a speed of 26 knots an hour, and we have noreason to doubt this.--_The Engineer._       *       *       *       *       *RESERVOIR DAMS.[Footnote: Paper, with slight abbreviation, read by Mr. David Gravell,Assoc. M. Inst. C.E., before the Society of Civil and MechanicalEngineers. The paper brings together in a convenient form the sectionsand salient facts concerning many dams. It was illustrated by numerousdiagrams, from which our engravings have been prepared.--_The Engineer._]By DAVID GRAVELL.The construction of dams, in some form or other, may probably rank amongthe very earliest of engineering works. Works of this character are notinfrequently referred to in the accounts of the earliest historians; butit is to be feared that they are not always perfectly trustworthy. Thesubscribers to the Mudie of the period had to be considered, and theirtaste for the marvelous was probably not much inferior to that of our ownday. When, therefore, Herodotus describes the reservoir of Moeris asformed for the control of the river floods of Nile-nourished Egypt, andof another constructed by Nebuchadnezzar at Sippara, of 140 miles incircumference, we must make allowances. But there is no question as tothe existence in the East at the present day, and especially in India andCeylon, of the remains of what may correctly be termed stupendous works;and the date of the construction of which, as regards India, is in manycases prehistoric. In Spain also the Moors, whose occupation of thepeninsula terminated in the thirteenth century, have left reservoir damsof great magnitude, situated mostly in the south-eastern provinces ofMurcia and Alicante, and many of which are still serviceable.In India and Ceylon the greater number of the ancient dams or bunds arenow in ruins, and this can occasion but little surprise, considering themeteorological condition of these countries. In Ceylon, for instance, thewhole rainfall of the year occurs within a period of six to eight weeks,and often amounts to as much as 12 in. in the twenty-four hours, and hasbeen known, comparatively recently, to reach nearly 19 in., the latter anamount only 2 in. or 3 in. less than the average rainfall of Lincolnshirefor the whole year. In London it is only 25 in. and in the wettestdistrict in Great Britain, viz., Cumberland, averages not more than 70in. per annum.The rainfall in Bombay is from 80 in. to 100 in. per annum, andthroughout India may be taken as from 50 in. to 130 in., varying, as isthe general rule, in direct ratio with the altitude, and limited to a fewweeks in the year. Notwithstanding this, there still exist in the MadrasPresidency a not inconsiderable number of ancient bunds which serve theirintended purpose at the present day as well as ever. Slight mistakes didoccasionally occur, as they ever will till no more dams are wanted, as isproved by the remains of some works in Ceylon, where the failure wasevidently due to error, possibly due to the instruments being out ofadjustment, as their base is at a higher level than the bed of the streamat the point where water from the latter was to be diverted to afford thesupply.Among the most remarkable of these ancient works is the Horra-Bera tank,the bund of which is between three and four miles in length and from 50to 70 ft. in height, and although now in ruins would formerly impound areservoir lake of from eight to ten miles long and three to four milesbroad. There is also the Kala-Weva tank, with a bund of twelve miles inlength, which would, if perfect, create a lake of forty miles incircumference. Both of these ruined works are situated in Ceylon. Thethird embankment of a similar character is that of the Cummum tank,situated in the Madras Presidency, and which, though ranking among theearliest works of Hindoo history, is still in such a condition as tofulfill its original intention. The area of the reservoir is aboutfifteen square miles, the dam about 102 ft. high, with a breadth at thecrest of 76 ft., and of the section shown in the diagram.The by-wash is cut in the solid rock altogether clear of the dam; theoutlet culverts, however, are carried under the bank. We will nowconsider generally the methods employed in determining the site,dimensions, and methods of construction of reservoir dams adapted to thevarying circumstances and requirements of modern times, with a fewreferences to some of the more important works constructed or inprogress, which it will be endeavored to make as concise and burdenedwith as few enumerations of dimensions as possible.The amount of the supply of water required, and the purposes to which itis to be applied, whether for household, manufacturing, or irrigationuses, are among the first considerations affecting the choice of the siteof the reservoir, and is governed by the amount of rainfall available,after deducting for evaporation and absorption, and the nature of thesurface soil and vegetation. The next important point is to determine theposition of the dam, having regard to the suitability of the ground foraffording a good foundation and the impoundment of the requisite body ofwater with the least outlay on embankment works.It has been suggested that the floods of the valley of the Thames mightbe controlled by a system of storage reservoirs, and notice wasespecially drawn to this in consequence of the heavy floods of the winterof 1875. From evidence given before the Royal Commission on Water Supply,previous to that date it was stated that a rainfall of 1 in. over theThames basin above Kingston would give, omitting evaporation andabsorption, a volume of 53,375,000,000 gallons. To prevent floods, arainfall of at least 3 in. would have to be provided against, which wouldmean the construction of reservoirs of a storage capacity of say160,000,000,000 gallons. Mr. Bailey Denton, in his evidence before thatcommission, estimated that reservoirs to store less than one tenth thatquantity would cost L1,360,000, and therefore a 3 in. storage as abovewould require an outlay of, say, L15,000,000 sterling; and it will beseen that 3 in. is by no means too great a rainfall to allow for, as inJuly of 1875, according to Mr. Symons, at Cirencester, 3.11 in. fellwithin twenty-four hours. Supposing serious attention were to be given tosuch a scheme, there would, without doubt, be very great difficulty infinding suitable situations, from an engineering and land owner's pointof view, for the requisite dams and reservoir areas.In Great Britain and many European countries rain gauges have beenestablished at a greater or less number of stations for many years past,and data thereby afforded for estimating approximately the rainfall ofany given district or catchment basin. The term "watershed" is one whichit appears to me is frequently misapplied; as I understand it, watershedis equivalent to what in America is termed the "divide," and means theboundary of the catchment area or basin of any given stream, although Ibelieve it is frequently made use of as meaning the catchment areaitself. When saying that the rain gauges already established in most ofthe older civilized countries afford data for an approximate estimateonly, it is meant that an increase in the number of points at whichobservations are made is necessary, previous to the design of a reservoirdam on the catchment area above, the waters of which are proposed to beimpounded, and should be continuous for a series of five or six years,and these must be compared with the observations made with the oldestablished rain gauges of the adjacent district, say for a period oftwenty years previously, and modified accordingly. This is absolutelynecessary before an accurate estimate of the average and maximum andminimum rainfall can be arrived at, as the rainfall of each square mileof gathering ground may vary the amount being affected by the altitudeand the aspect as regards the rainy quarter.But this information will be of but little service to the engineerwithout an investigation of the loss due to evaporation and absorption,varying with the season of the year and the more or less degree ofsaturation of the soil; the amount of absorption depending upon thecharacter of the ground, dip of strata, etc., the hydrographic areabeing, as a rule, by no means equal to the topographic area of a givenbasin. From this cursory view of the preliminary investigations necessarycan be realized what difficulties must attend the design of dams forreservoirs in newly settled or uncivilized countries, where there are nodata of this nature to go on, and where if maps exist they are probablyof the roughest description and uncontoured; so that before any projectcan be even discussed seriously special surveys have to be made, theresults of which may only go to prove the unsuitability of the site underconsideration as regards area, etc. The loss due to evaporation,according to Mr. Hawksley, in this country amounts to a mean of about 15in.; this and the absorption must vary with the geological conditions,and therefore to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion regarding the amountof rainfall actually available for storage, careful gaugings have to bemade of the stream affected, and these should extend over a lengthenedperiod, and be compounded with the rainfall. A certain loss of water, intimes of excessive floods, must, in designing a dam, be ever expected,and under favorable conditions may be estimated at 10 per cent. of thetotal amount impounded.As regards the choice of position for the dam of a reservoir, supposingthat it is intended to impound the water by throwing an obstructionacross a valley, it may be premised that to impound the largest quantityof water with the minimum outlay, the most favorable conditions arepresent where a more or less broad valley flanked by steep hills suddenlynarrows at its lower end, forming a gorge which can be obstructed by acomparatively short dam. The accompanying condition is that the nature ofthe soil, i.e., the character, strata, and lie of the rock, clay, etc.,as the case may be, is favorable to assuring a good foundation. In GreatBritain, as a rule, dams for reservoirs have been constructed ofearthwork with a puddle core, deemed by the majority of English engineersas more suitable for this purpose than masonry.Earthwork, in some instances combined with masonry, was also a form usualin the ancient works of the East, already referred to; but it wouldappear from the experience of recent years that masonry dams are likelyto become as common as those of earthwork, especially in districtsfavorable to the construction of the former, where the natural ground isof a rocky character, and good stone easily obtained.As to the stability of structures of masonry for this purpose, ascompared with earthwork, experience would seem to leave the question anopen one. Either method is liable to failure, and there certainly are asmany cases on record of the destruction of masonry dams as there are ofthose constructed of earthwork, as instanced in Algeria within the pastfew years. As regards masonry dams, the question of success does not seemso much to depend upon their design, as far as the mere determination ofthe suitable profile or cross section is concerned, as that has been veryexhaustively investigated, and fairly agreed upon, from a mathematicalpoint of view, but to be principally due to the correctness of theestimate of the floods to be dealt with, and a sufficient provision ofby-wash allowed for the most extreme cases; and, lastly, perhaps the mostimportant of all, the securing a thoroughly good foundation, and acareful execution of the work throughout.These remarks equally apply to earthwork dams, as regards sufficientprovision of by-wash, careful execution of work, and security offoundation, but their area of cross section, supposing them to bewater-tight, on account of the flatness of their slopes and consequentbreadth of base, is, of course, far in excess of that merely required forstability; but in these latter, the method adopted for the water supplydischarge is of the very greatest importance, and will be again referredto.Before commencing the excavation for the foundations of a dam, it is mostessential that the character of the soil or rock should be examinedcarefully, by sinking a succession of small shafts, not mere borings,along the site, so that the depth to which the trench will have to becarried, and the amount of ground water likely to be encountered, can bereliably ascertained, as this portion of the work cannot be otherwiseestimated, and as it may bear a very large proportion of the totalexpense of construction, and in certain cases may demonstrate that thesite is altogether unsuitable for the proposed purpose.The depth to which puddle trenches have been carried, for the purpose ofpenetrating water-bearing strata, and reaching impenetrable ground, insome cases, has been as much as 160 ft. below the natural surface of theground, and the expense of timbering, pumping, and excavation in such aninstance can be easily imagined. This may be realized by referring toFig. 4, giving a cross-section of the Yarrow dam, in which the bottom ofthe trench is there only 85 ft. below the ground surface. In the DaleDyke dam, Fig. 2, the bottom of the trench was about 50 ft. below theground surface.There is one other point which should be mentioned in connection with theform of the base of the puddle trench--that instead of cutting the bottomof the trench at the sides of the valley in steps, it should be merelysloped, so that the puddle, in setting, tends to slide down each inclinedplane toward the bottom of valley, thereby becoming further compressed;whereas, should the natural ground be cut in steps, the puddle in settingtends to bulge at the side of each riser, as it may be termed, and socause fissures. It will be noticed that the slopes of these earthworkdams vary from 7 to 1 to 2 to 1.The depths to which some puddle trenches are carried has been objected toby some engineers, and among them Sir Robert Rawlinson, as excessive andunnecessary, and, in the opinion of the latter, the same end might beobtained by going down to a depth say of 30 ft. only, and putting in athick bed of concrete, and also carrying up the concrete at the back ofthe puddle trench, with a well for collecting water, and a pipe leadingthe same off through the back of the dam to the down stream side. Anarrangement of this kind is shown in the Yarrow dam, Fig. 4.The thickness of the puddle wall varies considerably in the differentexamples given in the diagrams before you, a fair average being the Rowbank of the Paisley Water Works, Fig. 6; and although in instances ofdams made early in the century, such as the Glencorse dam--Fig. 5--of theEdinburgh Water Works, the puddle was of very considerable thickness, andit would appear rightly so. This practice does not seem to have beenfollowed in many cases, as, for instance, again referring to the DaleDyke dam, Fig. 2, where the thickness of the top was only 4 ft., with abatter of 1 in 16 downward, giving a thickness of 16 ft. at the base. Fora dam 95 ft. in height this is very light, compared with that of theVehui dam at Bombay, of which the engineer was Mr. Conybeare--Fig.7--where the puddle wall is 10 ft. wide at the top, with a batterdownward of 1 in 8, the Bann reservoir--Fig. 8--of Mr. Bateman's design,where the puddle is 8 ft. broad at the top, and other instances. The samedimension was adopted for the puddle wall of the Harelaw reservoir, atPaisley, by Mr. Alexander Leslie, an engineer of considerable experiencein dam construction.There appears to be a question as to what the composition of puddleshould be, some advocating a considerable admixture of gravel with clay.There is no doubt that clay intended for puddle should be exposed to theweather for as long previous to use as possible, and subject to theaction of the air at any rate, of sunshine if there be any, or of frost.When deposited in the trench, it should be spread in layers of not morethan 6 in. in thickness, cut transversely in both directions, thoroughlywatered, and worked by stamping.The position of the puddle wall is, as a rule, in the center of the bankand vertical; but laying a thickness of puddle upon the inner or upstream slope, say 3 ft. thick, protected by a layer of gravel andpitching, has been advocated as preventing any portion of the dam frombecoming saturated. There are, however, evident objections to thismethod, as the puddle being comparatively unprotected would be moreliable to damage by vermin, such as water rats, etc.; and in case of theearthwork dam at the back settling, as would certainly be the case,unless its construction extended over a very lengthened period, thepuddle would be almost certain to become fissured and leaky; in addition,the comparative amounts of puddle used in this manner, as compared withthe vertical wall, would be so much increased. With the puddle wall inthe position usually adopted, unequal settlement of the bank on eitherside is less liable to affect the puddle, being vertical.It would be interesting to refer to the embankment of the Bann, or LoughIsland Reavy reservoir, Fig. 8, designed by Mr. Bateman, now nearly fiftyyears ago, where a layer of peat was adopted both on the slope, 15 in.thick, and in front or on the up stream side of the puddle wall, 3 ft.thick. The object was, that should the puddle become fissured and leaky,the draught so created would carry with it particles of peat, which wouldchoke up the cracks and so reduce the leakage that the alluvial matterwould gradually settle over it and close it up. On the same diagram willbe noticed curved lines, which are intended to delineate the way in whichthe earthwork of the embankment was made up. The layers were 3 ft. inthickness, laid in the curved layers as indicated.It is a moot question whether, in making an earthwork embankment,dependence, as far as stanchness is concerned, should be placed upon thepuddle wall alone or upon the embankments on either side, and especiallyupon the up-stream side in addition. Supposing the former idea prevails,then it can be of little moment as to how or of what material the bank oneither side is made up--whether of earth or stone--placed in thin layersor tipped in banks of 3 ft. or 4 ft. high; but the opinion of themajority of engineers seems to be in favor of making the banks act notmerely as buttresses to the puddle wall, and throwing the whole onus, asit may be termed, of stanchness upon that, but also sharing theresponsibility and lessening the chances of rupture thereby. But toinsure this, the material must be of the very best description for thepurpose. Stones, if allowed at all--and in the author's opinion theyshould not be--should be small, few, and far between. Let those that aresifted out be thrown into the tail of the down stream slope. They will dono harm there, but the layers of earth must not approach 3 ft. inthickness nor 1 ft.--the maximum should be six in., and this applies alsoto the puddle. Let the soil be brought on by say one-horse carts, spreadin six inch layers, and well watered. The traffic of the carts willconsolidate it, and in places where carts cannot traverse it should bepunned. In the Parvy reservoir dam a roller was employed for thispurpose. It comprised a small lorry body holding about a yard and a halfof stone, with two axles, on each of which was keyed a row of five or sixwheels.At the Oued Meurad dam, in Algeria, 95 ft. high, constructed about 23years ago, the earthwork layers were deposited normal to the outer slope,and as the bank was carried up the water was admitted and allowed to riseto near the temporary crest, and as soon as the bank had settled, theearthwork continued another grade, and the same process repeated.It was the practice until comparatively recently to make the dischargeoutlet by laying pipes in a trench under the dam, generally at the lowestpoint in the valley, or constructing a culvert in the same position andcarrying the pipes through this, and in the earlier works the valves orsluices regulating the outflow were placed at the tail of the down streambank, the pipes under the bank being consequently at all times subject tothe pressure of the full head of the water in the reservoir. An instanceof the first mentioned method is afforded by the Dale Dyke reservoir,Fig. 2, where two lines of pipes of 18 in. diameter were laid in a trenchexcavated in the rock and resting upon a bed of puddle 12 in. inthickness, and surrounded by puddle; the pipes were of cast iron, of thespigot and faucet type, probably yarned and leaded at the joints asusual, and the sluice valves were situated at the outer end of the pipes.As the failure of this embankment was, as we all know, productive of suchterrible consequences, it may be of interest to enter a little more fullyinto the details of its construction. It was situated at Bradfield, sixor seven miles from Sheffield, and at several hundred feet higher level.Its construction was commenced in 1858, the puddle trench was probablytaken down to a depth of 40 ft. to 50 ft., a considerable amount of waterbeing encountered. This trench was 15 ft. to 20 ft. broad at the top, andof course had to be crossed by the before mentioned line of pipes; andalthough the trench was filled with puddle, and the gullet cut in therock already mentioned for carrying the pipes under the site of the damwas "padded" with a layer of 12 in. of puddle, we can imagine that theeffect of the weight of the puddle wall and bank upon this line of pipeswould be very different at the point where they crossed the puddle trenchto what it would be where they were laid in the rock gullet and partiallyprotected from pressure by the sides of the latter. At the trenchcrossing there would be a bed of puddle 50 ft. in thickness beneath thepipe, in the gullet a bed of 1 ft. in thickness. So much as regards thelaying of the pipes.The embankment had scarcely been completed when, on March 11, 1864, astorm of rain came on and nearly filled it up to the by-wash, when thebank began slowly to subside. The engineer was on the crest at the verytime, and remained until the water was running over his boots; he thenrushed down the other slope and was snatched out of the way as the bankburst, and the whole body of water, about 250,000,000 gallons, rushed outthrough the trench, carrying with it in the course of about twentyminutes 92,000 cubic yards, or say one fourth of the total mass ofearthwork, causing the death of 250 human beings, not to mention cattle,and destruction of factories, dwellings, and bridges, denuding the rockof its surface soil, and, as it were, obliterating all the landmarks inits course. The greatest depth of the bank from ground level to crest was95 ft., the top width 12 ft., and the slopes, both on the up stream anddown stream sides, 21/2 to 1, and the area of the reservoir 78 acres.Mr.--now Sir Robert--Rawlinson, together with Mr. Beadmore, were calledin to make a report, to lay before Parliament, upon this disaster; andhaving made a careful examination of the ruins, and taken evidence, theywere of opinion that the mode of laying the pipes, and in such anunprotected way, was faulty, and that subsidence of the pipes probablyoccurred at the crossing of the puddle trench. A fissure in the puddlewas created, affording a creep for the water, which, once set up, wouldrapidly increase the breach by scour; and this event was favored by themanner in which the bank had been constructed and the unsuitability ofthe material used, which, in the words of one engineer, had more theappearance of a quarry tip than of a bank intended to store water. Thisopinion of the cause of failure was, however, not adopted universally byengineers, the line of pipes when examined being found to be, althoughdisjointed, fairly in line; and there having occurred a land slip in theimmediate neighborhood, it was suggested that the rupture might be causedby a slip also having taken place here, especially as the substratum wasof flagstone rock tilted at a considerable angle. The formation wasmillstone grit. This catastrophe induced an examination to be made ofother storage reservoir dams in the same district, and a report on thesubject was presented to Parliament by Sir Robert Rawlinson.[Illustration: TYPICAL MASONRY AND EARTHWORK DAMS OF THE WORLD.]The dam of Stubden reservoir, of the Bradford water supply, also on themillstone grit, was constructed about 1859, and caused considerableanxiety for a length of time, as leakage occurred in the culvert carryingthe pipes, under the embankment at a point a short distance on the downstream side of the puddle trench. This was repaired to some extent bylining with cast iron plates; and an entirely independent outlet was madeby driving a curved tunnel into the hill side clear of the ends of thedam and lining it with cast iron plates. In this tunnel was then laid themain of 2 ft. diameter, and as the original culvert again became leaky,the water had to be lowered, the old masonry pulled out, and the spacefilled in with puddle.The Leeming compensation reservoir of the same water supply, with a damof 50 ft. in height, and culvert outlet, had to be treated somewhat inthe same manner, as, although the reservoir had never been filled withwater, in 1875, when it was examined previous to filling, it was foundthat the culvert was cracked in all directions; and it was deemed best tofill it up with Portland cement concrete, and drive a tunnel outletthrough the hill side, as described in the case of the Stubden reservoir.The Leeshaw dam, which was being constructed at that time upon the samelines, viz., with culvert outlet under the dam, was, at the advice of SirRobert Rawlinson, altered to a side tunnel outlet clear of the dam.Some years previous to the failure of the Dale Dyke reservoir thereoccurred, in 1852, a failure of a similar character--though, as far asthe author is aware, unattended by such disastrous results--at theBilberry reservoir at Holmfirth, near Huddersfield, which had never beenfilled previous to the day of its failure, and arose from the dam havingsunk, and being allowed to remain at a level actually below that of theby-wash; so that when the storm occurred, the dam was topped anddestroyed. An after examination proved that the bank was badlyconstructed and the foundation imperfect.Besides the above instances, there have been numerous failures withinrecent times of earthwork dams in Spain, the United States, Algeria, andelsewhere, such as that which occurred at Estrecho de Rientes, nearLorca, in Murcia, where a dam 150 ft. high, the construction of which forirrigation purposes was commenced in 1755 and completed in 1789, wasfilled for the first time in February, 1802, and two months later gaveway, destroying part of the town of Lorca and devastating a large tractof the most fertile country, and causing the death of 600 people. Theimmediate cause of failure in this case the author has been unable toascertain. In Algeria the Sig and Tlelat dams were destroyed in 1865; andin the United States of America, at Williamsburg, Hampshire Co.,Massachusetts, in 1874, an earthwork dam gave way, by which 159 liveswere lost and much damage done to property. In another case, viz., thatof the Worcester dam, in the United States of America--impounding avolume of 663,330,000 gallons, and 41 ft. high, 50 ft. broad at thecrest, and formed with a center wall of masonry, with earthwork on eachside--which gave way in 1875, four years after its completion; here, asin almost all other instances of failure, the leakage commenced at apoint where the pipes traverse the dam. In this case they were carried ina masonry culvert, and the leak started at about 20 ft. on the up streamside of the central wall. The opinion of Mr. McAlpine as to the cause offailure, which agrees with that of the most eminent of our own waterengineers, was to the effect that "earthen dams rarely fail from anyfault in the artificial earthwork, and seldom from any defect in thenatural soil. The latter may leak, but not so as to endanger the dam. Innine tenths of the cases, the dam is breached along the line of the wateroutlet passages."The method of forming the discharge outlet by the construction of amasonry culvert in the open has no doubt many advantages over that oftunnel driving through the hill side clear of the dam, permitting as itdoes of an easy inspection and control of the work as it proceeds; but aslight leakage in the instance of a side tunnel probably means nothingmore than the waste of so much water, whereas in the case of the culverttraversing the site of the bank, the same amount or less imperils thestability of the bank, and in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred would,if not attended to, sooner or later be the cause of its destruction. Ithink the majority will therefore agree that the method of dischargeoutlets under the site of embankments should not be tolerated where it ispossible to make an outlet in the flank of the hill, to one side, andaltogether clear of the dam.At Fig. 9 is a diagram of the Roundwood dam of the Vartry Water Works,supplying Dublin, which is a fair specimen of the class of earthwork damwith the outlet pipes carried in a culvert under the embankment, andwhich, perhaps, is one of the most favorable specimens of this method ofconstruction, as the inlet valves are on the up stream of the dam, andconsequently when necessary the water can be cut off from the length ofpipes traversing the dam. A short description will be given. This dam is66 ft. high at the deepest point and 28 ft. wide at the crest, having tocarry a public road. The slope on the inner face is 3 to 1, and on theouter 21/2 to 1. The by-wash is 6 ft. below the crest, which is about theaverage difference. The storage capacity of the reservoir is2,400,000,000 gallons, or sufficient for 200 days' supply to the city.The puddle wall is 6 ft. wide at the top and 18 ft. at ground level, thebottom of the puddle trench about 40 ft. below the surface of the ground.The culvert was formed by cutting a gullet 14 ft. wide with nearlyvertical sides through the rock, and covering it with a semicircular arch4 ft. in thickness. Through this tunnel are laid a 33 in. and 48 in.main; the former for the water supply, and the latter for scouring or foremptying the reservoir on an emergency. There is a plugging of brickworkin cement under the center of the dam in the line of the puddle wall, andthen stop walls built at the end of the plugging, projecting 25 ft.beyond the sides of the culvert and 8 ft. above, the space between thembeing filled up with cement concrete tied into the rock, and on this thepuddle wall rests. This bank, like almost all others pierced by outletpipes or culverts, was not destined to be perfect. In 1867, four yearsafter the completion, spurts of water showed themselves in the culvertin front of the puddle wall, which began to settle, and the water had tobe drawn off to admit of repairs. Diagram No. 10 shows a structure of adifferent character to any of these already described. This character ofwork is adopted on the North Poudre Irrigation Canal, in N.E. Colorado.Timber is there plentiful, and a dam of this character can be rapidlyconstructed, although probably not very durable, owing to liability todecay of timber. That represented is about 25 ft. high.The author has now concluded the consideration of earthwork dams, andproposes making a few remarks upon those of masonry or concrete, withreference to some of the most important, as shown on the diagrams. Theirstability, unlike those of earthwork, may be considerably increased wherethe contour and nature of the ground is favorable by being curved inplan, convex toward the water, and with a suitable radius. They areespecially suitable for blocking narrow rocky valleys, and as suchsituations must, from the character of the ground, be liable to suddenand high floods, great care is necessary to make sufficient provision foroverflow.When of masonry, the stones should be bonded, not merely as they would bein an ordinary vertical wall, where the direction of the stress isperpendicular, but each course should be knit in with that above andbelow it in a somewhat similar manner to what is termed "random" work.And lastly, if hydraulic mortar be used, a sufficient time should elapseafter construction before being subjected to strain, or in other words,before water is allowed to rise in the reservoir. For this latter reason,and also the liability to damage by sudden floods during the progress ofthe works, dams of Portland cement concrete, on account of their quickconsolidation, possess advantages over those of hydraulic masonry apartfrom the necessity in the latter instance of constant supervision toprevent "scamping" by leaving chinks and spaces vacant, especially wherelarge masses of stone or Cyclopean rubble are used.Again, should the dam be drowned by flood during its erection, no harmwould accrue were it composed of Portland cement concrete, whereas shouldit be of hydraulic mortar masonry, the wall would probably be destroyedor, at all events, considerably injured by the mortar being washed out ofthe joints. Portland cement, however, is only suitable for situationswhere the foundation is absolutely firm, as, should there be theslightest settlement, fissures would certainly be produced.As regards foundations, the dam of the Puentes reservoir in Spain issomewhat remarkable--see Fig. 12. Its height is 164 ft., and the profileor cross section is of precisely the same character as that of theAlicante dam, the latter being 135 ft. in height, 65 ft. wide at thecrest, and 65 ft. at the base, and erected about 300 years ago. At thePuentes dam the flanks of the valley were reliable, but, as must befrequently the case in such situations, the bed of the valley wascomposed to a great depth of gravel, _debris_, and shaky strata. Thedifficulty was overcome by throwing an arch, or arches, across thevalley, the abutments being formed by the solid rock on each side, andbuilding the dam upon this arching and filling in below the latter downto a sufficient depth with walling.Bearing in mind the sudden and great floods to which dams constructed insuch situations must be subjected, and, if the valley be very narrow, theprobability that sufficient space at the side for a by-wash will bedifficult to obtain, it would seem reasonable that in the calculation fortheir section allowance should be made for the possible condition of thewhole length of the dam being converted into a weir, over which thewaters may flow without risk of injury to the dam, to a depth of, say, atleast twice that ever probable.The topping of dams by floods is not uncommon, and if the extra strainthus induced has not been allowed for, their destruction is nearlycertain, as instanced in more than one case in Algeria, where, althoughthe average rainfall is only 15 in. yearly, a depth of 61/4 in., or morethan one-third of the annual total, has been known to fall in twenty-fourhours.The Habra dam--see Fig. No. 13--completed in 1871, was destroyed by asudden flood of this kind in December, 1881. This reservoir, with astorage capacity of 6,600,000,000 gallons, was intended for theirrigation of a cultivated bordering on the Mediterranean and the storageof floods. The height of the dam was 116.7 ft. and was provided with aby-wash of 394 ft. in length, and outlets for irrigation formed by fourcast iron pipes of 311/2 in. diameter through the dam. It was composed ofrubble set in hydraulic mortar, the latter composed of two parts of sandto one of hydraulic lime.For getting rid of the large deposits of sand to which all reservoirs inthat country are liable, two scouring outlets were provided of the samedescription as those in the old Moorish dams. The profile was calculatedfrom Delocre's formula, and was correct in this respect, supposing theby-wash to have been sufficient. But as it was otherwise, and the floodswept over the crest to the depth of about 3 ft., the enormous extrastrain thus induced overthrew the dam and caused the destruction ofseveral villages and the death of 209 persons. It must be mentioned thatwhen the reservoir was filling, the water percolated through the masonry,giving the face wall the appearance of a huge filter, which at the timewas attributed to the porous nature of the sandstone used inconstruction, but which more probably was due to the washing of the greenmortar out of the joints.At the Hamiz dam, also in Algeria, the water was admitted in 1884, but itshowed immediately signs of weakness, so that the water had to be run outand an immense retaining wall erected to strengthen the main dam. Algeriaseems to have been singularly unfortunate as regards the success of worksof this description. Water was admitted to the Cheurfas reservoir inJanuary, 1885, and it at once began to make its way through permeableground at one end of the dam. The flushing sluice in the deepest part ofthe dam had become jammed, so that the pressure could not be relieved,and in February 30 ft. length of the dam was carried away, causing aflood in the river below. At some distance down stream was the Sigreservoir. The flood rushing down, topped this dam by 18 ft. andoverthrew it also.Allusion has been made to provision for scouring out sand and deposit,especially in the dams of Algeria and of Spain. The amount of sand, etc.,brought down by the floods is something enormous, and the question of thebest means of getting rid of it has occupied much attention. In the oldMoorish reservoirs the flushing gallery, piercing the lower part of thedam, was closed by iron doors on the down stream face and blocked withtimber at the upper end. When required to be flushed out, laborers passedthrough the gallery and broke down the timber barrier, the silt forming awall sufficiently thick to resist the pressure of the water for the timebeing, and allow of the retreat of the Forlorn Hope--if the latter hadluck--before giving way.One method adopted in Algeria, which has the advantage of permitting thesediment to be utilized together with the irrigation, this sediment beingvery fertilizing, is to pump air down through hose extending to thebottom of the reservoir, the pumps being actuated by steam power orturbine, and the sediment thus stirred up and run off with the waterthrough the irrigation pipes. As an example of one of the early types ofmasonry dams in France, reference may be made to Fig. 13, on which isshown an elevation and cross section of the Lampy dam, forming a largereservoir for feeding the Languedoc canal.I will now refer to some of the most notable masonry dams in existence,commencing with France, where perhaps the finest is that known as theFurens, in connection with the St. Etienne Water Works, constructedbetween the years 1859-66, and designed by the engineers Graiff andGrandchamps. It is curved in plan, struck with a radius of 828 ft. from acenter on the down stream side, and founded upon compact granite, thefootings being carried down to a depth of 3 ft. 3 in. below the surfaceof the rock. It is of rubble masonry, in hydraulic mortar, carried up incourses of 5 ft. in depth.The height is 170 ft. on the up stream side and 184 ft. high on the lowerside, with a breadth of 9 ft. 8 in. at the crest and 110 ft. at the base,and the cross section is so designed that the pressure is nearly constantin all parts, and nowhere exceeds 93 lb. to the square inch--13,392 lb.to the square foot. The contents is equal to 52,000 cubic yards ofmasonry, and the cost of erection was L36,080. The capacity of thereservoir is equal to 352,000,000 gallons.The reservoir discharges into two tunnels (see Fig. 11), driven one abovethe other through a hill into an adjacent valley. The lower tunnelcontains three cast iron pipes, with a masonry stopping of 36 ft. long.Two of these pipes are 16 in. diameter, with regulating valves, anddischarge into a well, from whence the water can be directed for the townsupply or into the river. The third pipe, of 81/2 in. diameter, is alwaysopen, and serves to remove any deposit in the reservoir, and to furnish aconstant supply for the use of manufacturers.The author drew attention to the difference in the section of the Furensdam, Fig. 11, as compared with that of Alicante, and of Puentes, which issimilar to the latter. These two last illustrate the ancient Moorishtype, and the former that of the present day. The Gileppe dam atVerviers, in Belgium, Fig. 14, although quite recently erected, viz.,between the years 1869 and 1875, differs very much from the Furens type,in so far as it is of very much larger sectional area in proportion toits height, but this is accounted for by the desire of the engineer, M.Bodson, to overcome the opposition to its construction, and meet theobjections and combat the fears of those whose interests--and thoseserious ones, no doubt--would be affected in the event of its rupture,the body of water stored being 2,701,687,000 gallons, or about eighttimes as much as the capacity of the Furens reservoir.In addition to this, there was another reason, which was quite sufficientin itself to account for the extra substantiality of the dam. Thisreservoir is for supplying water to the cloth factories of Verviers, onthe Belgian-German frontier. It is curved in plan to a radius of 1,640ft., with a length of 771 ft., and the additional strength of thestructure due to so flat a curve is probably slight.It is built of rubble masonry, with ashlar facework, laid in hydraulicmortar. The total amount of masonry is 325,000 cubic yards. There are twoweirs, at a level of 6 ft. below the crest, each 82 ft. wide. The totalheight, including the foundations, which are carried down from 3 ft. to 5ft. into the rock, is 154 ft., and the breadth of the crest, whichcarries a road, is 49 ft. 3 in., and at the base 216 ft. The outlet pipesare carried through tunnels, which are driven on the curve into the hillside a considerable distance clear of each end of the dam.Another very important structure is the Villar dam, Fig. 15, inconnection with the water supply of Madrid, and situated on the riverLozoya. The storage capacity of this reservoir is very considerable,viz., 4,400,000,000, or nearly thirteen times as great as that of Furens.The height of the dam is 162 ft., with a breadth of 14 ft. 9 in. at thecrest. It is built on the curve to a radius of 440 ft., and the length ofthe dam measured along the crest is 546 ft., of which 197 ft. is by-wash,thus describing nearly one-fifth of a circle, and consequently welldesigned to resist pressure. The dam is built of rubble masonry inhydraulic mortar, and cost L80,556.The Stony Creek lower reservoir dam of the Geelong water supply, Fig. 16,colony of Victoria, is interesting as being constructed of concrete, inthe proportion of 1 to 81/2. Its erection occupied eighteen months, andcost about L18,000. It is curved in plan to a radius of 300 ft., and thegreatest depth or head of water is 52 ft. 4 in. The width at the crest isonly 2 ft. 8 in., although surmounted by a heavy coping of bluestone 3ft. 3 in. broad and 1 ft. 9 in. deep. There being no facility for makinga by-wash at the side, the center of the dam is dished to form a weir 30ft. long. There are both outlet and scour pipes, and valves of 2 ft.diameter, and the capacity of the reservoir is 143,145,834 gallons.The Paramatta dam, in New South Wales, built of masonry in hydraulicmortar, is another instance of a dam built on the curve, and which hasresisted a flood of water 4 ft. in depth over the crest; and in the caseof a dam of about 40 ft. high across the river Wyre, in connection withthe Lancaster Water Works, made of cement concrete in proportion of 4 to1, there has, according to Mr. Mansergh, frequently been a depth of 5 ft.of flow over it. This dam is built to a radius of 80 ft. only, and as itmeasures 100 ft. along the crest, must include about the fifth of acircle.There now remain only two other examples of masonry dams, the first beingthat in connection with the Liverpool water supply, and known as theVyrnwy dam, Fig. 17, this being thrown across a stream of that name inNorth Wales. It is now under construction, and when completed willimpound an area of 1,115 acres.The dam will be 1,255 ft. long, and formed of Cyclopean rubble set incement mortar, and the interstices or spaces between the large masses ofstone, which are rough hewn and not squared, are filled with cementconcrete. The proportion of the cement mortar is 21/2 to 1. These masses ofstone weigh from two to eight tons each, and it is expected that the wallwill be of a most solid description, as great care is being taken to fillup all spaces. The face next to the water is cemented. The area of thecross section shown on the diagram, which is at one of the deepestpoints, is 8,972 square feet, and the height from foundation to floodlevel is 129 ft., the breadth at the base being 117 ft. 9 in.The existing dam of the New York water supply, Fig. 18, known as theCroton reservoir, is shown on the diagram. Its capacity is 364,000,000gallons and the area 279 acres. The height is 78 ft. and width at crest 8ft. 6 in., and is built of masonry in hydraulic mortar. The face wallsare of stone laid in courses of 14 in. to 26 in., and are vertical on theup stream side, and with a batter of 1 in 21/2 on the down. The hearting isof concrete for a depth of 45 ft. from the top, and the remaining depthis in Cyclopean rubble.At Fig. 19 is shown the section of the Quaker Bridge dam, which whencompleted will be the largest structure of the kind in existence. It issituated on the Croton River, which is a tributary of the Hudson, aboutfour miles below the present Croton dam. The length will be 1,300 ft. andthe height 170 ft. above the river bed, or 277 ft. above the foundation.The water by-wash is 7 ft. below the crest, and the dam is 26 ft. broadat the crest and 216 ft. at the base. The capacity of the reservoir willbe 32,000,000,000 gallons, or nearly a hundred times as great as that ofFurens. The geological formation at the site is sienitic gneiss. The costof the dam is estimated at L500,000.[Illustration: TYPICAL MASONRY AND EARTHWORK DAMS OF THE WORLD.]The accompanying table gives the pressures to which various dams aresubjected, and it may be noted with regard to the weight of water,generally assumed as 62.4 lb. per cubic foot, that it will, in somedistricts, in time of flood, carry so much matter in suspension as to beincreased to as much as 75 lb. weight, or an addition of 20 per cent.,which, it may be easily imagined, will affect the conditions of stabilityvery seriously.TABLE OF MAXIMUM PRESSURES.                      Lb. per sq. in.Gileppe (Verviers).          88Furens (St. Etienne).        93Puentes.                    112De Ban.                     113St. Chamond.                114Alicante.                   154Hamiz (Algeria)--failed.    157Habra (Algeria)--failed.    185A diagram comparing the section derived from Molesworth's formula andthose of Furens, Gileppe, Vyrnwy, and Quaker Bridge, is given at Fig. 20,the limit of pressure assumed for the masonry being 93 lb. per squareinch, which is that of the Furens, the Gileppe being 88.       *       *       *       *       *NEW DREDGING MACHINERY.We illustrate the new dredger Ajax, recently built for Mr. Geo. F. Smith,of Stockton, Cal.The dredger has now been working for two weeks at Wakefield, and, we areinformed, is giving entire satisfaction; having been repeatedly timed tobe discharging clay at the rate of 220 cubic yards per hour.[Illustration: THE NEW DREDGER AJAX.]The Ajax is almost a duplicate of the last dredger designed by Mr. Ferrisfor levee building on Roberts Island, with such modifications andimprovements as have suggested themselves in the two years it has beenworking.The hull, oval in plan, is 36 ft. 10 in. by 60 ft. over all; it has foursolid fore and aft bulkheads, and a well hole 5 x 12 ft. at one end forthe bucket ladder.The main engine is 10 x 24, operating, by bevel gearing and a 31/2 in.vertical shaft, a 4 sided upper tumbler with 21 in. sides. This engineworks also a gypsy shaft for swinging, and the conveyer that carries themud ashore. A steam hoist with 6 x 11 engines raises and lowers thebucket ladder. The buckets, at 4 foot centers, have a struck capacity of5 cubic feet, and are speeded to deliver from 18 to 20 a minute,according to the character of the material being handled. They are ofboiler iron, with a 5 in. steel nosing. The links are of wrought iron,with cast bushings. The lower tumbler is hexagonal, on a 4 in. shaft.The conveyer, projecting 72 ft. from the center of the boat, consists ofa 5 ply rubber belt 36 in. wide; running over iron drums at each end andintermediate iron friction rollers at 3 foot centers. Ratchet and pinionon each side of conveyer ladder give means for taking up the slack of thebelt and adjusting the drums to maintain them parallel.This conveyer is the important feature of the dredge. It is entirelysatisfactory in its working and delivers its material, as nearly as maybe, in a dry state upon the levee. It was feared the rubber belt would beshortlived, but a 4 ply belt ran continuously for over two years on theRoberts Island dredge before it needed replacing.The boiler is of the marine type, 52 in. by 10 ft. 6 in., with 3 in.tubes and 14 in. flues; and burns about 1,400 lb. of steam coal in a dayof 12 hours. There are three pumps aboard--a hand force pump for washingboiler, a plunger pump for boiler feed, and an Evans steam pump to throwa jet of water into the delivery hopper when digging in any verytenacious material. All three are connected with the boiler.Water tanks below deck serve to trim the boat and furnish a supply forthe boiler. The dredger cuts by swinging on a center spud 16 in. indiameter, and moves forward from 8 to 10 ft. at each fleet.The Roberts Island dredger, of which the Ajax is an improved copy,handles steadily 700 yards per day of 12 hours, in the stiffest and mosttenacious clay in which it has been worked; and ranges from that averageto 1,500 yards per day in soft, peaty mud.The Ajax was built by Farrington, Hyatt & Co., of the Stockton IronWorks.This type of dredger can be built for about 12,500, and we are informedcan be relied on for a monthly average of 26,000 yards in any materialmet with in the overflowed lands near Stockton, delivered 50 ft. ashore,at a height of 10 or 12 ft. above the ground line.--_Min. and Sci.Press_.       *       *       *       *       *THE FLEXIBLE GIRDER TRAMWAY.This is an ingenious proposition for utilizing a modification of the wiretramway system for overcoming obstacles (while retaining the ordinarywire tramway or any light railway on other parts of the line), made byMr. Charles Ball, of London.The flexible girder tramway is an improved system of constructing amodification of the well known and extensively used rope or wire tramway,and it is claimed that it will revolutionize the transport of theproducts of industrial operations from the place of production to theworks or manufactory, railway station, shipping ports, or place ofconsumption; and that in the result the introduction of the flexiblegirder tramway will in many cases enable profits to be earned inbusinesses which have hitherto been unremunerative. It is declared to beat once simple, cheap, durable, and efficient. The improvement consistsin the employment, in addition to the usual tram wire (a hempen rope, awire rope, or a metallic or other rod), along which the load istransported, of a second or suspension wire or rope to which the tramwire is connected by tension rods or their equivalent at intervalsbetween the rigid supports or piers, the object being to diminish ordistribute the sagging or deflection of the tram wire, and thus lessenthe steepness of the gradients over which the load has to be transported.The combined tram wire, tension rods, suspension wire, and accessoriesare, for convenience, designated a "flexible girder."Another improvement consists in using, when a double line is employed,stretchers or crossheads to keep the flexible girders nearly parallel toeach other, so that when necessary the load to be transported may besuspended from or borne by both tram wires jointly or simultaneously,thus permitting a load of greater weight than that for which each singletram wire is intended to be carried over the system. One indisputableclaim for confidence in the flexible girder principle is said to be that,although the peculiar combination of parts constitutes a striking andvaluable novelty, it contains nothing that has not been proved by theexperience of years--nay, generations--to be useful, economic, andreliable. The usual practice followed in erecting suspension bridges isapplicable in mounting the line, and the carriers, supports, andcarriages may be of any of the usual forms. For the rapid removal oflimited loads wire tramways are in universal favor, and are recognizednot only as very economic and quickly constructed, but also as being inmany cases the only means of transport available except by the adoptionof elaborate and costly engineering works.It has, it seems, been suggested by some who have examined theconstruction of the flexible girder tramway for mineral and producetraffic that it would be an additional advantage if arrangements weremade for the carriage of small loads--half a dozen or so--of passengers,the primary intention being to carry the workpeople backward and forwardbetween comparatively inaccessible mines, works, or plantations and aneighboring village or town. Compared with every other system where theline over which the load travels is elevated, the flexible girder tramwayis claimed to possess many advantages--the center of gravity is kept welldown, the liability of the wheels leaving the line is reduced to theminimum, the gradients are the easiest that can be obtained, there is anentire absence of jolting and extremely little vibration, and the motionis altogether smooth and regular; yet it is very questionable whether,when human life is at stake, any but an ordinary ground line should berelied upon. A living freight is far more liable than a dead freight tomove during the journey; and as the safety of all overhead lines dependsupon what is scientifically designated "unstable equilibrium," theflexible girder tramway is not recommendable for passenger lines,although it can, of course, be fitted for passenger traffic, a suitablevehicle and ten or a dozen good stout workmen coming well within atwo-ton load, which can be readily carried.[Illustration: BALL'S FLEXIBLE WIRE TRAMWAY.]Rope traction or animal traction--practically speaking--is aloneavailable for wire tramways (that is to say, if the trains are each to bepropelled by its own locomotive--whether steam, springs, orelectricity--the cost of construction and maintenance becomes so seriousthat overhead lines, however well designed, are no longer economic); andexperience gained with rope traction in numerous collieries in the Northof England and Lancashire districts--where it is highly appreciated--hasshown that, all circumstances considered, the endless rope is preferable.The chief objection urged against wire tramways as hitherto constructedhas been that the "sag" of the rope has sometimes caused annoyance tothose using the property passed over, and has always added much to thecost of traction, owing to the increased power required for moving theload; this has also resulted in vastly increased wear and tear and therapid deterioration and destruction of the wire rope. The flexible girdersystem so reduces the "sag" that the maximum economy and durability areobtained, and the gradients over which the load has to travel can be madeas easy and regular as those upon an ordinary railway. This advantagewill be the more readily appreciated when it is considered that with agiven load on a gradient of 1 in 30 the resistance due to gravity aloneis 200 per cent. greater than on a gradient of 1 in 150, and that theretardation and wear and tear due to friction, greater curves, andimperfections increase still more rapidly with increase of gradient, soonrendering the old sagging wire line practically worthless.To construct an entire line of flexible girders would be not onlyunnecessary, but so costly as to neutralize any advantage which it maypossess, yet for surmounting occasional obstacles the claim made forit--that it will sometimes permit of a line otherwise impracticable beingcheaply made--seems justified. One can readily imagine a light narrowgauge line costing L1,000 per mile being laid, for example, between amine and the shipping place, and that a swamp, river, or valley wouldcost more to bridge over than the whole line besides. If at this obstaclethe trucks or carriages could be lifted bodily, passed along the flexiblegirder, and again placed on the line the other side of the obstacle, theadvantage to be derived is obvious; and as the flexible girder is reallylittle more than a suspension bridge _minus_ the platform, and having buttwo suspension wires, the cost and the difficulties should both be verysmall.--_Industrial Review_.       *       *       *       *       *BOZERIAN'S REFRIGERANT PUNKAS.Punkas (also called pankasor tankas) are apparatus that serve for fanningrooms throughout the entire extent of English India. These devicesconsist of a light wooden frame covered with canvas, from the bottom ofwhich depends a fringe. These frames are suspended from the ceiling insuch a way as to occupy nearly the entire width and length of the room.To the base of the frame is attached a cord which passes over a wheel,and which is pulled by a Hindoo domestic. After the frame has beenlifted, a weight fastened to the lower part causes it to fall back again.The result of the continuous motion of this colossal fan is a coolnessthat is highly appreciated in a country where the temperature is at timesincredibly high, and where, without the factitious breeze created by thepunka, living would not be endurable. This breeze prevents perspiration,or evaporates the same as soon as it is formed. Sometimes it sinks to alight zephyr; then, if you are reading or writing, you may continue yourwork, but in a distracted way, with a moist brow, and with a feeling ofannoyance that soon makes you leave book or pen.[Illustration: FIG. 1.--TENT OR TABLE FAN OR PUNKA.]Looking around you, you find the punka immovable. The bahi still holdsthe cord that pulls it, but it is because he has tied it to his hand. Hehas gently slid to the floor in a squatting posture. He is asleep and youare burning. A vigorous exclamation brings him to his feet all standing,and he begins to pull the punka with all his might, and you have afeeling of ease and coolness. It is like the passage from an attack offever to a state of comfort in an intermittent disease. So the punka isseen everywhere--in the temple and court room and other public places, aswell as in private dwellings. It is one of the first things to astonishthe European upon his arrival in India, and it is not long before he hasto bless the happy invention.Although, in a country where the temperature generally reaches, and evenoften exceeds, 40 deg. C., it is absolutely necessary to obtain by everymeans possible a factitious coolness without which the Indies would notbe habitable for Europeans; and although there is no hesitancy in puttingup these punkas everywhere to be maneuvered by bahis, the elevation ofthe temperature is not such in France that we are obliged to haverecourse to such processes. But, without being forced thereto by nature,it is none the less true that we are often the more incommoded by heat inthat we are not accustomed to it, and that in southern France, at certainhours of the day, such heat becomes absolutely unbearable. We can, it istrue, obtain a little air by moving a fan, but, aside from the fact thatthis exercise soon becomes tiresome, it prevents the use of the hand thatis fanning.[Illustration: FIG 2.--AN APARTMENT FAN.]The new apparatus which have just been devised by Mr. G. Bozerian permitof one's fanning himself all day long if he wants to, without anyfatigue, and while he is eating, reading, writing, etc.In one of these apparatus, designed to be used in the open air (Fig. 1),we find a table, a tent, and a fan combined; but as each part isindependent, we can have the table and fan without tent, or the fan andpedals alone without table or tent. Under the tent there is arranged aframe which pivots freely in apertures formed in the uprights thatsupport both the tent and table. This frame is connected, through twolevers, with the pedals upon which one's feet rest. The motion of thepedals is an alternating one like those of sewing machines; but while inthe case of the latter a pressure has to be exerted that soon becomesvery tiresome, the motion in Mr. Bozerian's apparatus is so easy that itis only necessary to raise the toes of each foot in succession in orderto produce a swing of the fan through the weight alone of the foot thatis pressing. The frame, which when at rest hangs perpendicularly,describes about a quarter of a circle when the extremity of the foot israised about an inch. In consequence of the absence of passiveresistances, motion occurs without any stress, and almost mechanically,giving air not only to him who is actuating the fan, but also to hisvis-a-vis.Fig. 2 represents an apartment apparatus designed to be placed in frontof a table or desk, in order that one can fan himself while eating orwriting. Being mounted upon casters, it can be readily moved about fromone place to another. At the extremity of a wooden support, whose heightmay be varied at will, there is arranged a flexible fan whose handle isfixed near a pulley. A small piece of lead forms the counterpoise of thefan, which is thus completely balanced. Over the pulley runs a cord, eachend of which is attached to a pedal. It will be seen that the alternatemotion of these pedals must cause a rotation of the pulley in onedirection or the other, and that consequently the fan will rise or fallmore or less rapidly, and give a quantity of air that varies according tothe rapidity with which the toes are moved.--_La Nature_.       *       *       *       *       *PUNKAS.[Footnote: Extract from a lecture recently delivered at Bombay.]By J. WALLACE, C.E.The function of a punka is to cause a current of air to pass the humanbody so that the animal heat may escape more rapidly. This has nothing todo with ventilation; for if the punka were used in a closed room, itwould still produce a cooling effect on the skin.Let us for a moment examine into what takes place in this operation, fora clear idea of the cause of our sensations of heat is absolutelynecessary to enable us to go directly to the simplest and best form ofremedy. The heat we feel, and which sometimes renders us uncomfortable,is produced _within us_ by the slow combustion of the food we eat.This heat continues to escape from the whole surface of the body duringthe whole lifetime, and if anything occurs to arrest it to any greatextent, the result is fatal.In cold weather, and especially when there is much wind, the animal heatescapes very rapidly from the body, and extra clothing is used, not forany heat it imparts, but simply because it interrupts the escape of theheat, and thus maintains the temperature of the skin--that part of uswhich is most sensible of change of temperature. It is a wonderful factthat the heat of the interior of the body varies very little in a healthyman between India and Greenland.The skin may bear a good many degrees of change of temperature withimpunity, but the blood will only suffer a very small variation from thenormal temperature of 98-4/10 deg. Fahrenheit without serious consequences.Well, to keep the skin at an agreeable temperature in India we generallywear a minimum of clothing, and when there is no breeze, we try toproduce one with the punka.The escape of animal heat from the body forms a subject which is muchmore complicated, and much more important, than the one we have met toconsider, but it is impossible within the limits of our time to refer toit, except in the measure that is strictly necessary to elucidate theprinciples that should control the construction of the punka.It has often been said that every engineer on his arrival in India setsabout improving this useful apparatus; but if we may judge from theendless variety of forms which may be seen in shops and offices, inpublic and in private buildings, no general principle of construction hasbeen recognized, and the punka, as we see it, seems to depend, for itsform, more upon the taste of the workman who makes it than on anythingelse.We shall begin by directing our attention to the suspended punka, whichis usually hung from the ceiling, and put in movement by a cord. Theobject of this class of punka is to produce a downward current of air byswinging to and fro, and the best punka is the one which throws downwardthe greatest quantity of air with the smallest applied force.The swinging punka is one of the simplest forms of mechanism; it can befitted up with the most primitive materials, and however badly made, itwill always have _some_ effect. This fact has its good and its badaspects; it brings a certain comfort within the reach of all, but itremoves a great part of that _necessity_ which, as we all know, is themother of invention.There are some very important natural laws which are illustrated in thepunka. The first is that which governs the movement of the pendulum. Thenumber of swings it makes per minute depends on the length of thesuspending cords; a pendulum three feet long will swing 621/2 times perminute, and a pendulum six feet long will swing 441/4 times per minute.Whether the swings are long ones or short ones, the number per minute isstill the same. You cannot, therefore, alter the natural rate of movementof a punka unless you pull it at both sides.The next law is that which determines that the angles of incidence and ofreflection are equal. This in simple language means that it is useless toexpect a good downward current of air from a slow moving and heavy punka,with long suspending cords which keep it nearly always in a verticalposition to its plane of movement. Striking the air squarely as it doesin its forward and backward movement, it throws almost as much air upwardas downward, and of course all the air that is propelled in any otherthan a downward direction represents just so much power wasted.One more law, and then we may proceed to demonstration.As the air weighs 0.072 lb. per cubic foot at 82 deg. Fahrenheit, and as aconsiderable quantity of air is put in motion, the power required todrive a punka depends upon the quantity of air it puts in motion in agiven time.The _useful effect_ is a separate matter; it depends on the amount of airthrown in a downward direction.To summarize; all punkas of the same size or surface, and going at thesame speed, require the same amount of pulling. The best one is thatwhich will throw down more air than any other of the same size.To obtain the greatest result from the power expended in driving it, thepunka should be placed as near as possible to the person to be cooled,as the loss of effect, due to distance, increases not in direct ratio,but in proportion to the square of the distance between punka and person.If at two feet of distance he receives one eighth of the total effect, hewill at four feet of distance obtain only one thirty-second part.In practice, the punka should just clear his head when standing, and theweighting of the curtain should be of some yielding material, so as notto damage any person who might stand in its course.We shall now proceed to examine several forms of punka, all made to thesame size, and, for purposes of comparison, we shall drive them all atthe same speed. And in order that their effects may be visible to you, Ihave prepared an indicator which resembles more than anything else thekeyboard of a piano. It consists of a series of balanced levers withblades or keys attached, forming a keyboard four feet long. The levers,each three feet long, are delicately hung on fine brass centers, and eachlever is counterbalanced by a weight hung in a vessel of water, whichacts as a hydraulic brake, and checks any spasmodic movement in theapparatus.On the end of each blade is fixed a disk of white Bristol board fourinches in diameter, forming a row which faces the audience.This apparatus is so sensitive that a slight change in the humidity ofthe atmosphere is sufficient to throw it out of balance.The power required to drive a punka is nearly all due to the resistanceof the air; that part due to the force of gravity, and the friction ofthe suspending joints, is scarcely worth counting. We may readily observethe effect of the resistance of the air by swinging two pendulums ofequal length and having each a large cardboard disk attached. One of thedisks shall present its edge to the line of movement, and the other itsface._Exp. 1._--They are now swinging, and being both of the same gravitylength, they should swing together and for an equal length of time. Thisthey would do in a vacuum, but you have already observed that one of themis lagging, and will evidently soon come to a standstill. It is the one_facing_ the air.If punkas were pulled from both sides, they might be made very muchlighter than they are at present, but for the sake of simplicity a singlepull is preferred. They must, therefore, be made of such a weight thatthey will swing nearly as far on the opposite side as they are pulled onthe near side; any greater weight is useless and only serves to wear outthe suspending cords, which, by the way, are nearly always too numerousand too thick for their purpose._Exp. 2._--Here is a panel punka which we shall try to use without thecustomary swing bar. It is of calico stretched on a light wooden frame,and you will be able to judge if it swings equally on each side of thepost which supports it. The irregularity of its movement shows that it istoo light, so we shall add, by way of swing bar, a bar of round iron oneand a quarter inch thick._Exp. 3._--It is now swinging regularly, and experiments have alreadyproved that the swing bar should not be lighter than this one, whichweighs four and a sixth lb. per foot of length. Iron is the best materialfor this purpose, as it offers the smallest surface to the resistance ofthe air. The length of the suspending cords is usually a matter ofaccident in the construction of a punka, but a little attention to thesubject will soon convince us that it is one of the most importantconsiderations.The limit of movement of a punka is to be found in the man who pulls it.Twenty-four pulls a minute of a length of 36 inches give in practice aspeed of 168 linear feet to the punka curtain. This speed is found toproduce a current sufficiently rapid for practical purposes, andtwenty-four pulls or beats per minute correspond to a length ofsuspending cord of fifty inches.       *       *       *       *       *HOW TO MAKE A KITE WITHOUT A TAIL.The following is the method of making a kite without a tail: All thecalculations necessary in order to obtain the different proportions arebased upon the length of the stick, A'A, employed. Such length beingfound, we divide it by ten, and thus obtain what is called the unit oflength. With such unit it is very easy to obtain all the proportions. Thebow, K'K, consists of two pieces of osier each 51/2 units in length, thatform, through their union, a total length of 7 units.[Illustration: KITE WITHOUT A TAIL.]After the bow has been constructed according to these measurements, itonly remains to fix it to the stick in such a way that it shall be twounits distant from the upper end of the stick. The balance, CC', whoseaccuracy contributes much to the stability of the whole in the air,consists of a string fixed at one end to the junction, D, of the bow andstick, and at the other to the stick itself at a distance of three unitsfrom the lower extremity. Next, a cord, B, is passed around the frame,and the whole is covered with thin paper.Before raising the kite, the string, which hangs from K', is made fast atK in such a way as to cause the bow to curve backward. This curvature isincreased or diminished according to the force of the wind.Nothing remains to be done but to attach the cord to the balance, andraise the kite.--_La Nature_.       *       *       *       *       *APPARATUS FOR DRYING FLOUR.The accompanying drawing represents a simple but effective apparatus fordrying flour and ascertaining the quantity of water contained therein. Itconsists of four pieces, the whole being made of block tin. A is a simplesaucepan for containing the water. B is the lid, which only partiallycovers the top of the pan, to which it is fixed by two slots, a holebeing left in the middle for the placing of the vessel which contains theflour to be operated upon, and is dropped in in the same way as the pancontaining the glue is let into an ordinary glue pot. C is the spout,which serves as an outlet for the steam arising from the boiling water. Dis the vessel in which the flour is placed to be experimented upon; andEE are the funnels of the lid which covers the said vessel, and whichserve as escapes for the steam arising from the moisture contained in theflour.[Illustration: APPARATUS FOR DRYING FLOUR]_Directions for use_.--Partially fill the pan with water and allow it toboil. Place a given quantity of flour in the inner vessel, D, taking carefirst to weigh it. Subject it to the action of the boiling water until itis perfectly dry, which will be indicated by the steam ceasing to issuefrom the funnels. Then weigh again, and the difference in the weight willrepresent the quantity of moisture contained in it, dried at atemperature of 212 degrees Fahr., that of boiling water.--_The Miller_.       *       *       *       *       *APPARATUS FOR MANUFACTURING BOUQUETS.For some years past, the sale of flowers has been gradually increasing.Into the larger cities, such as Paris for example, they are introduced bythe car load, and along about the first of January the consumption ofthem is extraordinary. All choice flowers are now being cultivated byimproved methods that assure of an abundant production of them. Whattwenty years ago would have appeared to be an antiquated mechanism, viz.,an apparatus for making bouquets, has now become a device of primenecessity by reason of the exigencies of an excessive demand.Mr. Myard, a gardener of Chalon-sur-Saone, and vice-president of thehorticultural society of that city, has devised a curious apparatus,which we represent herewith from a photograph.This bouquet machine, which the inventor styles a _bouquetiere_, consistsof a stationary rod (shown to the right of the figure), upon which slidesa spool wound with twine, and the lower part of which is provided withthree springs for keeping the twine taut. A horizontal arm at the topsupports a guide or pattern whose curve is to be followed, on placing theflowers in position. This arm is removed or turned aside after thebinding screw has been loosened, in order that the rod to the left thatcarries the bouquet may be taken out. A guide, formed of a steel ribbon,is fixed to the arm and to its movable rod by means of binding screws,which permit of its being readily elongated. This central rod can beraised or lowered at will, and, owing to these combinations, everydesired form of bouquet may be obtained.[Illustration: APPARATUS FOR MAKING BOUQUETS.]The rod to the left is provided with a steel pivot, and contains severalapertures, into which a pin enters, thus rendering it easy to beginbouquets at different heights.The bouquet is mounted upon the rod to the left, as shown in the figure.The pin passes through the rod and enters a loop formed at the extremityof the twine, and thus serves as a point of support, and prevents thebouquet from falling, no matter what its weight is. When the pin isremoved in order that the bouquet may be taken out, the loop escapes.At the lower part of the rod upon which the bouquet is mounted, there isa collar with three branches, by means of which a rotary motion is givento the flowers through the aid of the hand. The twine used for tying isthus wound around the stems. When the apparatus is in motion, the twineunwinds from the spool, and winds around the rod that carries theflowers, and twists about and holds every stem.An experienced operator can work very rapidly with this little apparatus,which has been constructed with much care and ingenuity, and which entersinto a series of special mechanisms that is always of interest to knowabout.The manufacturer was advised to construct his apparatus so that it couldbe run by foot power, but, after some trials, it was found that theaddition of a pedal and the mechanism that it necessitates was absolutelysuperfluous, the apparatus working very well such as it is.--_La Nature_.       *       *       *       *       *[Continued from SUPPLEMENT, No. 567, page 9057.]RADII OF CURVATURE GEOMETRICALLY DETERMINED.By Prof. C.W. MACCORD, Sc.D.NO. VII.--PATH OF A POINT ON A CONNECTING ROD.The motion of the connecting rod of a reciprocating steam engine is veryclearly understood from the simple statement that one end travels in acircle and the other in a right line. From this statement it is alsoreadily inferred that the path of any point between the centers of thecrank and crosshead pins will be neither circular nor straight, but anelongated curve. This inference is so far correct, but the very commonimpression that the middle point of the rod always describes an ellipseis quite erroneous. The variation from that curve, while not conspicuousin all cases, is nevertheless quite sufficient to prevent the use of thismovement for an elliptograph. To this there is, abstractly, oneexception. Referring to Fig. 22 in the preceding article, it will be seenthat if the crank OH and the connecting HE are of equal length, any pointon the latter or on its prolongation, except E, H, and F, will describean exact ellipse. But the proportions are here so different from anythingused in steam engines (the stroke being four times the length of thecrank), that this particular arrangement can hardly be considered as whatis ordinarily understood by a "crank and connecting rod movement," suchas is shown in Fig. 23.The length DE of the curve traced by the point P will evidently be equalto A'B', the stroke of the engine, and that again to AB, the throw of thecrank. The highest position of P will be that shown in the figure,determined by placing the crank vertically, as OC. At that instant themotions of C and C' are horizontal, and being inclined to CC' they mustbe equal. In other words, the motion is one of translation, and theradius of curvature at P is infinite.To find the center of curvature at D, assume the crank pin A to have avelocity A_a_. Then, since the rod is at that instant turning about thefarther end A', we will have D_d_ for the motion of D. The instantaneousaxis of the connecting rod is found by drawing perpendiculars to thedirections of the simultaneous motions of its two ends, and it thereforefalls at A', in the present position. But the perpendicular to the motionof the crank pin is the line of the crank itself, and consequently isrevolving about O with an angular velocity represented by AO_a_. Themotion of A' is in the direction A'B', but its velocity at the instant iszero. Hence, drawing a vertical line at A', limited by the prolongationof _a_O, we have A'_a_' for the motion of the instantaneous axis.Therefore, by drawing _a_'_d_, cutting the normal at _x_, we determineD_x_, the radius of curvature.Placing the crank in the opposite position OB, we find by a constructionprecisely similar to the above, the radius of curvature E_z_ at the otherextremity of the axis of the curve. It will at once be seen that E_z_ isless than D_x_, and that since the normal at P is vertical and infinite,the evolute of DPE will consist of two branches _x_N, _z_M, to which thevertical normal PL is a common asymptote. These two branches will not besimilar, nor is the curve itself symmetrical with respect to PL or to anytransverse line; all of which peculiarities characterize it as somethingquite different from the ellipse.[Illustration: FIG. 23.][Illustration: FIG. 24.][Illustration: FIG. 25.]Moreover, in Fig. 22, the locus of the instantaneous axis of the trammelbar (of which the part EH corresponds to the connecting rod, when a crankOH is added to the elliptograph there discussed) was found to be acircle. But in the present case this locus is very different. Beginningat A', the instantaneous axis moves downward and to the right, as thecrank travels from A in the direction of the arrow, until it becomesvertical, when the axis will be found upon C'R, at an infinite distancebelow AB', the locus for this quarter of the revolution being a curveA'G, to which C'R is an asymptote. After the crank pin passes C, the axiswill be found above AB' and to the right of C'R, moving in a curve HB',which is the locus for the second quadrant. Since the path of P issymmetrical with respect to DE, the completion of the revolution willresult in the formation of two other curves, continuous and symmetricalwith those above described, the whole appearing as in Fig. 24, thevertical line through C' being a common asymptote.In order to find the radius of curvature at any point on the generatedcurve, it is necessary to find not only the location of the instantaneousaxis, but its motion. This is done as shown in Fig. 25. P being the givenpoint, CD is the corresponding position of the connecting rod, OC that ofthe crank. Draw through D a perpendicular to OD, produce OC to cut it inE, the instantaneous axis. Assume C A perpendicular to OC, as the motionof the crank. Then the point E in OC produced will have the motion EFperpendicular to OE, of a magnitude determined by producing OA to cutthis perpendicular in F. But since the _intersection_ E of the crankproduced is to be with a vertical line through the other end of the rod,the instantaneous axis has a motion which, so far as it depends upon themovement of C only, is in the direction DE. Therefore EF is a component,whose resultant EG is found by drawing FG perpendicular to EF. Now D ismoving to the left with a velocity which may be determined either bydrawing through A a perpendicular to CD, and through C a horizontal lineto cut this perpendicular in H, or by making the angle DEI equal to theangle CEA, giving on DO the distance DI, equal to CH. Make EK = DI orCH, complete the rectangle KEGL, and its diagonal ES is, finally, themotion of the instantaneous axis.EP is the normal, and the actual motion of P is PM, perpendicular to EP,the angle PEM being made equal to CEA. Find now the component EN of themotion ES, which is perpendicular to EP. Draw NM and produce it to cut EPproduced in R the center of curvature at P.This point evidently lies upon the branch _z_M of the evolute in Fig. 23.The process of finding one upon the other branch _x_N is shown in thelower part of the diagram, Fig. 25. The operations being exactly likethose above described, will be readily traced by the reader withoutfurther explanation.       *       *       *       *       *AUTOMATIC COMMUTATOR FOR INCANDESCENT LAMPS.Incandescent electric lighting, already pushed to such a degree ofperfection in the details of construction and installation, continuallyfinds new exigencies that have to be satisfied. As it is more and morefirmly established, it has to provide for all the comforts of existenceby simple solutions of problems of the smaller class.Take for example this case: Suppose a room, such as an office, lighted bya single lamp. The filament breaks; the room becomes dark. The bell pushis not always within reach of the arm, and it is by haphazard that onehas to wander around in the dark. This is certainly an unpleasantsituation. The comfort we seek for in our houses is far from beingprovided.M. Clerc, the well known inventor of the sun lamp, has tried to overcometroubles of this sort, and has attained a simple, elegant, and at thesame time cheap solution. The cut shows the arrangement. The apparatus isconnected at the points, BB', with the lighting circuit. The currententering by the terminal, B', passes through the coils of a bobbin, S,before reaching the points of attachment, a and b, of the lamp, L, thenormally working one. Thence the circuit runs to B. Within the coil, S,is a small hollow cylinder, T, of thin sheet iron, which is raisedparallel with the axis of the bobbin during the passage of the currentthrough the latter. At its base the cylinder is prolonged into two littlerods, h and h', which plunge into two mercury cups, G and G'. The cutshows that one of the cups, G', is connected to the terminal, B', and theother, G, to the terminal, a', of the other lamp, L'. An inspection ofthe cut shows just what ensues when an accident happens to the first lampwhile burning. The first circuit being broken at ab, the magnetizingaction of the current in the bobbin ceases, the cylinder, T, descends,and the rods, h and h', dip into the mercury. It follows that thecurrent, always starting from the terminal, B', will by means of thecups, G and G', pass through the lamp, L', to go by the original returnwire to B.[Illustration]The substitution of the lamp, L, for L' is almost instantaneous. It canscarcely be perceived. It goes without saying that such an arrangement ofautomatic commutation is applicable to lamps with two or more filamentsof which only one is to be lighted at a time. The apparatus costs little,and can be made as ornamental as desired. No exaggeration is indulged inif we pronounce it simple and ingenious. It may be used in a greatvariety of eases. The diameter of the wire is 55/100 (22 mm.), its lengtheighteen meters (60 feet), its resistance one ohm; 3/4 ampere is needed towork it, and less than a watt is absorbed by it.--_Electricite_.       *       *       *       *       *DEFINITIONS AND DESIGNATIONS IN ELECTROTECHNICS.We may discourse for some time to come upon the uniformity of electriclanguage, for universal agreement is far from being established. Animportant step toward the unity of this language was taken in 1881 by thecongress of Paris, which rendered the use of the C.G.S. system definitiveand universal. This labor was completed in 1884 by the meeting of a newcongress at Paris, at which a definition of the C.G.S. and practicalunits was distinctly decided upon. That the unit of light defined by thecongress has not rapidly come into favor is due to the fact that itspractical realization is not within everybody's reach.The work of unification should not come to a standstill on so good aroad. How many times in scientific works or in practical applications dowe find the same physical magnitude designated by different names, oreven the use of the same expression to designate entirely differentthings!The result is an increase of difficulties and confusions, not only forpersons not thoroughly initiated into these notions, but also for adepts,even, in this new branch of the engineer's art. The effects of suchconfusion make themselves still further felt in the reading of foreignpublications. Thus, for example, in Germany that part of a dynamoelectric machine that is called in France the _induit_ (armature) issometimes styled _anker_, and more rarely _armatur_. The _north pole_ ofa freely suspended magnetized needle is the one that points toward thegeographical north of the earth. In France, and by some English authors,this pole is called the _south_ one. Among electricians of the samecountry, what by one is called _electro-motive force_ is by anotherstyled _difference of potential_, by a third _tension_, and even_difference of tension_.Our confrere Ruhlmann, of the _Elektrotechnische Zeitschrift_, gives astill more remarkable example yet of such confusion. The word_polarization_, borrowed from optics, where it has an unequivocal sense,serves likewise to designate the development of the counterelectro-motive force of galvanic elements, and also that essentiallydifferent condition of badly conducting substances that is brought aboutby the simultaneous influence of quantities of opposite electricity.In Germany, the word _induction_, coupled with the word _wire_, forexample, according to the formation of compound words in that language,may also have a double meaning, and it is by the sense alone of thephrase that we learn whether we have to do with an induced wire or aninducting one. The examples might be multiplied.At its session of November 5, 1884, the International Society ofElectricians, upon a motion of Mr. Hospitalier, who had made acommunication upon this question, appointed a committee to study it andreport upon it. The English Society of Electricians likewise took thesubject into consideration, and one of its most active and distinguishedmembers, Mr. Jamieson, presented the result of his labors at the Maysession of the society in 1885.A discussion arose in which the committee of the International Society ofElectricians was invited to take part. The committee was represented byits secretary, Mr. Hospitalier, who expressed himself in about thesewords: "The committee on electric notations presided over by Mr. Blauvelthas finished a part of its task, that relative to abbreviations,notations, and symbols. It will soon take up the second part, whichrelates to definitions and agreements." He broadly outlined thecommittee's ideas as follows:In all physical magnitudes that are made use of, we have: (1) thephysical magnitude itself, aside from the units that serve to measure it;(2) the C.G.S. unit that serves to measure such grandeur (granted theadoption of the C.G.S. system); (3) practical units, which, in general,have a special name for each kind of magnitude, and are a decimalmultiple or sub-multiple of the C.G.S. unit, except for time and angles;(4) finally, decimal multiples and sub-multiples of these practicalunits, that are in current use.The committee likewise decided always to adopt a large capital todesignate the physical magnitude; a small capital to designate the C.G.S.unit, when it has a special name; a "lower case" letter for theabbreviation of each practical unit; and prefixes, always the same, forthe decimal multiples and sub-multiples of the practical units.Thus, for example, work would be indicated by the letter W (initial ofthe word); the C.G.S. unit is the _erg_, which would be written withoutabbreviation, on account of its being short; and the practical unitswould be the kilogrammeter (_kgm_), the grammeter (_gm_), etc. Themultiples would be the _meg-erg_, the tonne-meter (_t-m_), etc.Mr. Jamieson's propositions have been in great part approved. Somecriticisms, however, were made during the course of the discussion, andit is for this reason that the scheme still remains open to improvements.The proposed symbols are as follows:A.--PRACTICAL ELECTRIC UNITS.Total resistance of a circuit.                      RInternal resistance of a source of current.         r_{1}Resistance of the separate parts of a current.      _r__{1}, _r__{2}, etc.Specific resistance.                                [rho]1 ohm.                                              [omega]1 megohm.                                           [Omega]Intensity of a current.                             CMagnitude of 1 ampere.                              A1 milliampere.                                      [alpha]Electro-motive force.                               EMagnitude of 1 volt.                                _v_Capacity.                                           KConstant of specific induction.                     [sigma]1 farad.                                            [Phi]1 microfarad.                                       [phi]Quantity of electricity.                            Q1 coulomb.                                          CElectric work (volt coulomb).                       _v_CElectric effect (volt ampere, watt in one second).  WHorse power.                                        HPB.--MAGNETISM.Pole of magnet pointing toward the north.           NThe opposite pole.                                  SForce of a pole, quantity of magnetism.             _m_Distance of the poles of a magnet.                  _l_Magnetic moment.                                    M = _m.l_Intensity of magnetization.                         JIntensity of the horizontal component of terrestrialmagnetism.                                          HC.--ELECTRIC MEASUREMENTS.Galvanometer and its resistance.                    GResistance of the shunt of a galvanometer.          _s_Battery and its internal resistance.                BFor dynamo machines, the following designationsare proposed:The machine itself.                                 DPositive terminal.                                  +TNegative terminal.                                  -TMagnet forming the field.                           FMCurrent indicator (amperemeter).                    AMTension indicator (voltameter).                     MVElectro-magnet.                                     EMLuminous intensity of a lamp, in candles.           _c.p_.Resistance of the armature.                         R_{a}Resistance of the magnet forming the field.         R_{m}Resistance of the external circuit.                 R_{o}Intensity in the armature.                          C_{a}Intensity in the coils of the magnet.               C_{m}Intensity in the external circuit.                  C_{e}Coefficient of self-induction.                      L_{s}Coefficient of mutual induction.                    L_{m}A primary battery would be represented as in Fig. 1, and a battery ofaccumulators as in Fig. 2.[Illustration: FIG. 1.][Illustration: FIG. 2.]In order to designate incandescent lamps, circles would be used, andstars for arc lamps. A system of incandescent lamps arranged in multiplearc would be represented as in Fig. 3.[Illustration: FIG. 3.]Fig. 4 and the formulaR = B + Gs/(G + s) + rwould serve for the total resistance, R, of an electric circuit, upongiving the letters the significations adopted.[Illustration: FIG. 4.]Such is, in brief, the present state of the question. The scientificbodies that have taken hold of it have not as yet furnished a fullyco-ordinated work on the subject. Let us hope, however, that we shall nothave to wait long. The question is of as much interest to scientific menas to practical ones.A collection of identical symbols would have the advantage of permittingus to abridge explanations in regard to the signification of terms usedin mathematical formulas. A simple examination of a formula would sufficeto teach us its contents without the aid of tiresome explanatory matter.But in order that the language shall be precise, it will be necessary forthe words always to represent precise ideas that are universallyaccepted, and for their sense not to depend upon the manner ofunderstanding the idea according to their arrangement in the phrase.Nothing can be more desirable than that the societies of electricians ofall countries shall continue the study of these questions with the desireof coming to a common understanding through a mutual sacrifice of certainpreferences and habitudes.--_E. Dieudonne, in La Lumiere Electrique_.       *       *       *       *       *IMPROVED MICROSCOPICAL SETTLING TUBE.By F. VANDERPOEL, of Newark, New Jersey.In the February number of this _Journal_ the writer described a newsettling tube for urinary deposits which possessed several advantagesover the old method with conical test-glass and pipette. For severalreasons, however, the article was not illustrated, and it is for thepurpose of elucidation by means of illustration, as well as to bringbefore the readers of the _Journal_ two new and improved forms of thetube, that space in these columns is again sought. The first two of thefigures, 1 and 2, represent the tube as originally devised; 1 denotingthe tube with movable cap secured to it by means of a rubber band, and 2the tube with a ground glass cap and stop cock. The first departure fromthese forms is shown at 3, and consists of a conical tube, as before, butprovided with a perforated stopper, the side opening in whichcommunicates with a side tube. The perforation in the stopper, which iseasily made by a glass blower, thus allows the overflow, when the stopperis inserted into the full tube, to pass into the side tube. The stopperis then turned so as to cut off the urine in the latter from that in thelarge tube, and the latter is thus made tight. After allowing it toremain at rest long enough to permit subsidence of all that will settle,the stopper is gently turned and a drop taken off the lower end upon aslide, to be examined at leisure with the microscope. The cap, ground andfitted upon the lower end, is put there as a precautionary measure, aswill be seen farther on.[Illustration: VANDERPOEL'S SETTLING TUBES.]The tube shown at 4 is, we think, an improvement upon all of theforegoing, for upon it there is no side tube to break off, and everythingis comprised in a small space. As will be seen by referring to thefigure, there is a slight enlargement in the ground portion of thestopper end of the tube, this protuberance coming down about one-half thelength of the stopper, which is solid and ground to fit perfectly. Thelower half, however, is provided with a small longitudinal slit orgroove, the lower end of which communicates with the interior of thetube, while the upper end just reaches the enlargement in the side of thelatter. Thus in one position of the stopper there is a communicationbetween the tube and the outer air, while in all other positions the tubeis quite shut. In all these tubes care must be taken to fill them_completely_ with the urine, and to allow no bubbles of air to remaintherein.The first of these settling tubes was made without the ground cap on thelower end, the latter being inserted into a small test tube for safety.At the suggestion of Mr. J.L. Smith the test tube was made a part of theapparatus by fitting it (by grinding) upon the conical end, and in itspresent form it serves to protect the latter from dust and to preventevaporation of the urine (or other liquid), and consequent deposition ofsalts, if, for any reason, the user should allow the tube to remainsuspended for several days.These tubes will be found very useful for collecting and concentratinginto a small bulk the sediment contained in any liquid, whether it becomposed of urinary deposits, diatoms in process of being cleaned, or anything of like nature; and, as the parts are all of glass, the strongestacids may be used, excepting, of course, hydrofluoric acid, without harmto the tubes.--_American Microscopical Journal_.       *       *       *       *       *[Continued from SUPPLEMENT, No. 594, page 9491.]CLIMATE IN ITS RELATION TO HEALTH. By G.V. POORE, M.D.[Footnote: Three lectures before the Society of Arts, London. From theJournal of the Society.]LECTURE III. DISEASES CAUSED BY FLOATING MATTER IN THE AIR.The information which modern methods of research have given us withregard to the floating matter in the air is of an importance which cannotbe overestimated.That the air is full of organic particles capable of life and growth isnow a matter of absolute certainty. It has long been a matter ofspeculation, but there is a great difference between a fact and aspeculation. An eminent historian has recently deprecated the distinctionwhich is conventionally drawn between science and knowledge, but,nevertheless, such a distinction is useful, and will continue to bedrawn. A man's head may be filled with various things. His inclinationmay lead him, for example, to study archaic myths in the various dialectswhich first gave them birth; he may have a fancy for committing to memorythe writings of authors on astrology, or the speculations of ancientphilosophers, from Aristotle and Lucretius downward. Such a one may havea just claim to be considered a man of learning, and far be it from me todespise the branches of knowledge toward which his mind has a naturalbent. But in so far as his knowledge is a knowledge of fancies ratherthan facts, it has no claim to be called science.Fancies, however beautiful, cannot form a solid basis for action orconduct, whereas a scientific fact does. It is all very well to supposethat such and such things may be, but mere possibilities, or evenprobabilities, do not breed a living faith. They often foster schism, andgive rise to disunited or opposed action on the part of those who thinkthat such and such things may not be.When, however, a fancy or a speculation becomes a fact which is capableof demonstration, its universal acceptance is only a matter of time, andthe man who neglects such facts in regulating his actions or conduct isrightly regarded as insane all the world over.The influence of micro-organisms on disease is emerging more and more,day by day, from the regions of uncertainty, and what once were thespeculations of the few are now the accepted facts of the majority.Miquel's experiments show very clearly that the number of microbes in theair corresponds with tolerable closeness to the density of population.From the Alpine solitudes of the Bernese Oberland to the crowded ward ofa Parisian hospital, we have a constantly ascending ratio of microbes inthe air, from zero to 28,000 per cubic meter. Their complete absence onthe Alps is mainly due to the absence of productive foci. Organic mattercapable of nourishing microbes is rare, and the dryness and cold preventany manifestation of vitality or increase. Whence come the large numberof microbes in the crowded places and in hospitals?Every individual, even in health, is a productive focus for microbes;they are found in the breath, and flourish luxuriantly in the mouth ofthose especially who are negligent in the use of the tooth brush. When wespeak of "flourishing luxuriantly," what do we mean? Simply that thesemicrobes, under favorable circumstances, increase by simple division, andthat one becomes about 16,000,000 in twenty-four hours.The breath, even of healthy persons, contains ammonia and organic matterwhich we can smell. When the moisture of the breath is condensed andcollected, it will putrefy. Every drop of condensed moisture that formson the walls of a crowded room is potentially a productive focus formicrobes. Every deposit of dirt on persons, clothing, or furniture isalso a productive focus, and production is fostered in close apartmentsby the warmth and moisture of the place. In hospitals productive foci aremore numerous than in ordinary dwellings.If microbes are present in the breath of ordinary individuals, what canwe expect in the breath of those whose lungs are rotten with tuberculardisease? Then we have the collections of expectorated matter and of otherorganic secretions, which all serve as productive foci. Every wound andsore, when antiseptic precautions are not used, becomes a most active anddangerous focus, and every patient suffering from an infective disease isprobably a focus for the production of infective particles. When weconsider, also, that hospital wards are occupied day and night, andcontinuously for weeks, it is not to be wondered at that microbes areabundant therein.I want especially to dwell upon the fact that foci, and probablyproductive foci, may exist outside the body. It is highly probable,judging from the results of experiments, that every collection ofputrescible matter is potentially a productive focus of microbes. Thethought, of a pit or sewer filled with excremental matters mixed withwater, seething and bubbling in its dark warm atmosphere, andcommunicating directly (with or without the intervention of thattreacherous machine called a trap) with a house, is enough to make oneshudder, and the long bills of mortality already chargeable to thisarrangement tell us that if we shudder we do not do so without cause. Asan instance of the way in which dangers may work in unsuspected ways, Imay mention the fact that Emmerich, in examining the soil beneath a wardof a hospital at Amberg, discovered therein the peculiar bacillus whichcauses pneumonia, and which had probably been the cause of an outbreak ofpneumonia that had occurred in that very ward.The importance of "Dutch cleanliness" in our houses, and the abolition ofall collections of putrescible matter in and around our houses, isabundantly evident.It will not be without profit to examine some well-known facts, by theaids of the additional light which has been thrown upon them by the studyof the microbes which are in the media around us.There is no better known cause of a high death rate than overcrowding.Overcrowding increases the death rate from infectious diseases,especially such as whooping cough, measles, scarlet fever, diphtheria,small-pox, and typhus. The infection of all these diseases iscommunicable through the air, and where there is overcrowding, the chanceof being infected by infective particles, given off by the breath orskin, is of course very great. Where there is overcrowding, thecollections of putrescible filth are multiplied, and with them probablythe productive foci of infective particles. Tubercular disease, commonsore throat, chicken-pox, and mumps, are also among the diseases whichare increased by overcrowding.To come to details which are more specific, let us consider the case ofsome diseases which are definitely caused by floating matter in the air.First, let us take one which is apparently attributable to pollen.HAY FEVER.Among diseases which are undoubtedly caused by floating matter in the airmust be reckoned the well-known malady "hay fever," which is a veritablescourge during the summer months to a certain percentage of persons, whohave, probably, a peculiarly sensitive organization to begin with, andare, in a scientific sense, "irritable."This disease has been most thoroughly and laboriously investigated by Mr.Charles Blackley, of Manchester, who, being himself a martyr to hayfever, spent ten years in investigating the subject, and published theresult in 1873, in a small work entitled "Experimental Researches on theCauses and Nature of _Catarrhus aestivus_ (hay fever or hay asthma)."Mr. Blackley had little difficulty in determining that the cause of histrouble was the pollen of grasses and flowers, and his investigationsshowed that the pollen of some plants was far more irritating than thepollen of others. The pollen of rye, for example, produced very severesymptoms of catarrh and asthma, when inhaled by the nose or mouth. Mr.Blackley came to the conclusion that the action of the pollen was partlychemical and partly mechanical, and that the full effect was not produceduntil the outer envelope burst and allowed of the escape of the granularcontents.Having satisfied himself that pollen was capable of producing all thesymptoms of hay fever, Mr. Blackley next sought to determine, by a seriesof experiments, the quantity of pollen found floating in the atmosphereduring the prevalence of hay fever, and its relation to the intensity ofthe symptoms. The amount of pollen was determined by exposing slips ofglass, each having an area of a square centimeter, and coated with asticky mixture of glycerine, water, proof spirit, and a little carbolicacid. Mr. Blackley gives two tables, showing the average number of pollengrains collected in twenty-four hours on one square of glass, between May28 and August 21, in both a rural and an urban position. The maximum bothin town and country was reached on June 28, when in the town 105 pollengrains were deposited, and in the country 880 grains. The number ofgrains deposited was found to vary much, falling almost to zero duringheavy rain and rising to a maximum if the rain were followed by brightsunshine. Mr. Blackley found that the severity of his own symptomsclosely corresponded to the number of pollen grains deposited on hisglasses. Mr. Blackley devised some very ingenious experiments todetermine the number of grains floating in the air at differentaltitudes. The experiments were conducted by means of a kite, to whichthe slips of glass were attached, fixed in an ingenious apparatus, bymeans of which the surface of the glass was kept covered until aconsiderable altitude had been reached. Mr. Blackley's first experimentgave as a result that 104 pollen grains were deposited in the glassattached to the kite, while only 10 were deposited on a glass near theground. This experiment was repeated. Again and again, and always withthe same result, there was more pollen in the upper strata of the airthan in the lower.A very interesting experiment was performed at Filey, in June, 1870. Abreeze was blowing from the sea, and had been blowing for 12 or 15hours. Mr. Blackley flew his kite to an elevation of 1,000 feet. Theglass attached to the kite was exposed for three hours, and on it therewere 80 grains of pollen, whereas a similar glass, exposed at the marginof the water, showed no pollen nor any organic form. Whence came thispollen collected on the upper glass? Probably from Holland or Denmark.Possibly from some point nearer the center of Europe.POTATO DISEASE.A study of the terrible disease which so often attacks the potato crop inthis country will serve, I think, to bring forcibly before you certainuntoward conditions which may be called climatic, and which areattributable to fungoid spores in the air.With the potato disease you are all, probably, more or less practicallyacquainted. When summer is at its height, and when the gardeners andfarmers are all looking anxiously to the progress of their crops, howoften have we heard the congratulatory remark of "How well and strongthose potatoes look!" Such a remark is most common at the end of July orthe beginning of August, when the green part, or haulm, of the plant islooking its best, and when the rows of potatoes, with their elegant richfoliage and bunches of blossom, have an appearance which would almostmerit their admission to the flower border. The same evening, it may be,there comes a prolonged thunder storm, followed by a period of hot,close, moist, muggy weather. Four-and-twenty hours later, the haplessgardener notices that certain of his potato plants have dark spots uponsome of their leaves. This, he knows too well, is the "plague spot," andif he examine his plants carefully, he will perhaps find that there isscarcely a plant which is not spotted. If the thunder shower which wehave imagined be followed by a long period of drought, the plague may bestayed and the potatoes saved; but if the damp weather continue, thenumber of spotted leaves among the potatoes increases day by day, untilthe spotted leaves are the majority; and then the haulm dies, gets slimy,and emits a characteristic odor; and it will be found that the tubersbeneath the soil are but half developed, and impregnated with the diseaseto an extent which destroys their value.Now, the essential cause of the potato disease is perfectly wellunderstood. It is parasitical, the parasite being a fungus, the_Peronospora infestans_, which grows at the expense of the leaves, stems,and tubers of the plant until it destroys their vitality. If a diseasedpotato leaf be examined with the naked eye, it will be seen that, on theupper surface, there is an irregular brownish black spot, and if theunder surface of the leaf be looked at carefully, the brown spot is alsovisible, but it will be seen to be covered with a very faint white bloom,due to the growth of the fungus from the microscopic openings or"stomata," which exist in large numbers on the under surface of mostgreen leaves. The microscope shows this "bloom" to be due to theprotrusion of the fungus in the manner stated, and on the free ends ofthe minute branches are developed tiny egg shaped vessels, called"conidia," in which are developed countless "spores," each one of whichis theoretically capable of infecting neighboring plants.Now, it is right to say that, with respect to the mode of spread of thedisease, scientific men are not quite agreed. All admit that it may beconveyed by contact, that one leaf may infect its neighbors, and thatbirds, flies, rabbits, and other ground game may carry the disease fromone plant to another and from one crop to another. This is insufficientto account for the sudden onset and the wide extent of potato"epidemics," which usually attack whole districts at "one fell swoop."Some of those best qualified to judge believe that the spores are carriedthrough the air, and I am myself inclined to trust in the opinionexpressed by Mr. William Carruthers, F.R.S., before the select committeeon the potato crop, in 1880. Mr. Carruthers' great scientificattainments, and his position as the head of the botanical department ofthe British Museum, and as the consulting naturalist of the RoyalAgricultural Society, at least demand that his opinion should be receivedwith the greatest respect and consideration. Mr. Carruthers said (reporton the potato crop, presented to the House of Commons, July 9, 1880,question 143 _et seq._): "The disease, I believe, did not exist at all inEurope before 1844.... Many diseases had been observed; many injuries topotatoes had been observed and carefully described before 1844; but thisparticular disease had not. It is due to a species of plant, and althoughthat species is small, it is as easily separated from allied plants asspecies of flowering plants can be separated from each other. This plantwas known in South America before it made its appearance in this country.It has been traced from South America to North America, and to Australia,and it made its first appearance in Europe in Belgium, in 1844, andwithin a very few days after it appeared in Belgium, it was noticed inthe Isle of Wight, and then within almost a few hours after that itspread over the whole of the south of England and over Scotland.... Whenthe disease begins to make its appearance, the fungus produces theselarge oblong bodies (_conidia_), and the question is how these bodies arespread, and the disease scattered.... I believe that these bodies, whichare produced in immense quantities, and very speedily, within a few hoursafter the disease attacks the potato, are floating in the atmosphere, andare easily transplanted by the wind all over the country. I believe thisis the explanation of the spread of the disease in 1844, when it made itsappearance in Belgium. The spores produced in myriads were brought overin the wind, and first attacked the potato crops in the Isle of Wight,and then spread over the south of England. The course of the disease isclearly traced from the south of England toward the midland counties, andall over the island, and into Scotland and Ireland. It was a progressnorthward.... This plant, the _Peronospora infestans_, will only grow onthe _Solanum tuberosum_, that is, the cultivated potato.... Just asplants of higher organization choose their soils, some growing in thewater and some on land, so the _Peronospora infestans_ chooses its hostplant; and its soil is this species, the _Solatium tuberosum_. It willnot grow if it falls on the leaves of the oak or the beech, or on grass,because that is not its soil, so to speak. Now, the process of growth issimply this: When the conidia fall on the leaf, they remain thereperfectly innocent and harmless unless they get a supply of water toenable them to germinate.... The disease makes its appearance in the endof July or the beginning of August, when we have, generally, very hotweather. The temperature of the atmosphere is very high, and we haveheavy showers of rain."The warmth and moisture are, in fact, the conditions necessary for thegermination of the conidia. Their contents (zoospores) are liberated, andquickly grow in the leaf, and soon permeate every tissue of the plant.It was clearly established before the committee that not all potatoeswere equally liable to the disease. The liability depends upon strengthof constitution. It is well known that potatoes are usually, almostinvariably, propagated by "sets," that is, by planting tubers, orportions of tubers, and this method of propagation is analogous to thepropagation of other forms of plants by means of "cuttings." Whenpotatoes are raised from seed, it is found that some of the "seedlings"present a strength of constitution which enables them to resist thedisease for some years, even though the subsequent propagation of theseedling is entirely from "sets." The raising of seedling potatoes is atedious process, but the patience of the grower is often rewarded bysuccess, and I may allude to the fact that the so-called "Championpotato," raised from seed in the first instance by Mr. Nicoll, inForfarshire, and since propagated all over the country, has enjoyed,deservedly as it would appear, a great reputation as a disease-resistingpotato; but all who have a practical knowledge of potato growing seemagreed that we cannot expect its disease-resisting quality to last atmost more than twenty years from its first introduction (in 1877), andthat in time the constitution of the "Champion" will deteriorate, and itwill become a prey to disease.There is some evidence to show, also, that the constitution of the potatomay be materially influenced by good or bad culture. Damp soils,insufficient or badly selected manures, the selection of ill developedpotatoes for seed, and the overcrowding of the "sets" in the soil, allseem to act as causes which predispose the potatoes to the attacks of theparasite. Strong potatoes resist disease, just as strong children will;while weak potatoes, equally with weak children, are liable to succumb toepidemic influences.The following account of some exact experiments carried out by Mr. GeorgeMurray, of the Botanical Department of the British Museum, seems to showthat Mr. Carruthers' theory as to the diffusion of conidia through theair is something more than a speculation:"In the middle of August, 1876," says Mr. Murray, "I instituted thefollowing experiments, with the object of determining the mode ofdiffusion of the conidia of _Peronospora infestans_."The method of procedure was to expose on the lee side of a field ofpotatoes, of which only about two per cent, were diseased, ordinarymicroscopic slides, measuring two inches long by one inch broad, coatedon the exposed surface with a thin layer of glycerine, to which objectsalighting would adhere, and in which, if of the nature of conidia, theywould be preserved. These slides were placed on the projecting stones ofa dry stone wall which surrounded the field, and was at least five yardsfrom the nearest potato plant. During the five days and nights of theexperiment, a gentle wind blew, and the weather was, on the whole, dryand clear. Every morning, about nine o'clock, I placed fourteen slides onthe lee side of the field, and every evening, about seven o'clock, Iremoved them, and placed others till the following morning at nineo'clock. The fourteen slides exposed during the day, when examined in theevening, showed (among other objects):On the first day.              15 conidia.     " second day.             17 "     " third day.              27 "     " fourth day.              4 "     " fifth day.               9 ""On none of the five nights did a single conidium alight on the slides.This seemed to me to prove that during the day the conidia, through thedryness of the atmosphere and the shaking of the leaves, became detatchedand wafted by the air; while during the night the moisture (in the formof dew, and on one occasion of a slight and gently falling shower)prevented the drying of the conidia, and thus rendered them less easy ofdetachment."I determined the nature of the conidia (1) by comparing them withauthentic conidia directly removed from diseased plants; (2) by therebeing attached to some of them portions of the characteristicconidiaphores; and (3) by cultivating them in a moist chamber, the resultof which was, that five conidia, not having been immersed in theglycerine, retained their vitality, which they showed by bursting andproducing zoospores in the manner characteristic of _Peronosporainfestans_."INFLUENZA.Let us look at another disease by the light of recent knowledge, viz.,the epidemic influenza, concerning which I remember hearing much talk, asa child, in 1847-48. There has been no epidemic of this disease in theBritish Isles since 1847, but we may judge of its serious nature from thecomputation of Peacock that in London alone 250,000 persons were strickendown with it in the space of a few days. It is characteristic of thisdisease that it invades a whole city, or even a whole country, at "onefell swoop," resembling in its sudden onset and its extent the potatodisease which we have been considering.The mode of its spreading forbids us to attribute it, at least in anymaterial degree, although it may be partially so, to contagion in theordinary sense, i.e., contagion passing from person to person along thelines of human intercourse. It forbids us also to look at community ofwater supply or food, or the peculiarities of soil, for the source of thedisease virus. We look, naturally, to some atmospheric condition for theexplanation. That the atmosphere is the source of the virus is made morelikely from the fact that the disease has broken out on board ship in aremarkable way. In 1782, there was an epidemic, and on May 2 in thatyear, says Sir Thomas Watson--"Admiral Kempenfelt sailed from Spithead with a squadron, of which theGoliah was one. The crew of that vessel were attacked with influenza onMay 29, and the rest were at different times affected; and so many of themen were rendered incapable of duty by this prevailing sickness, that thewhole squadron was obliged to return into port about the second week inJune, not having had communication with any port, but having cruisedsolely between Brest and the Lizard. In the beginning of the same monthanother large squadron sailed, all in perfect health, under Lord Howe'scommand, for the Dutch coast. Toward the end of the month, just at thetime, therefore, when the Goliah became full of the disease, it appearedin the Rippon, the Princess Amelia, and other ships of the last mentionedfleet, although there had been no intercourse with the land."Similar events were noticed during the epidemic of 1833:"On April 3, 1833, the very day on which I saw the first two cases that Idid see of influenza--all London being smitten with it on that and thefollowing day--the Stag was coming up the Channel, and arrived at twoo'clock off Berry Head on the coast of Devonshire, all on board being atthat time well. In half an hour afterward, the breeze being easterly andblowing off the land, 40 men were down with the influenza, by six o'clockthe number was increased to 60, and by two o'clock the next day to 160.On the self-same evening a regiment on duty at Portsmouth was in aperfectly healthy state, but by the next morning so many of the soldiersof the regiment were affected by the influenza that the garrison dutycould not be performed by it."After reviewing the various hypotheses which had been put forward toaccount for the disease, sudden thaws, fogs, particular winds, swarms ofinsects, electrical conditions, ozone, Sir Thomas Watson goes on to say:"Another hypothesis, more fanciful perhaps at first sight than these, yetquite as easily accommodated to the known facts of the distemper,attributes it to the presence of innumerable minute substances, endowedwith vegetable or with animal life, and developed in unusual abundanceunder specific states of the atmosphere in which they float, and by whichthey are carried hither and thither."This hypothesis has certainly more facts in support of it now than it hadwhen Sir Thomas Watson gave utterance to it in 1837. And when anotherepidemic of influenza occurs, we may look with some confidence to havingthe hypothesis either refuted or confirmed by those engaged in thesystematic study of atmospheric bacteria. Among curious facts inconnection with influenza, quoted by Watson, is the following: "Duringthe raging of one epidemic, 300 women engaged in coal dredging atNewcastle, and wading all day in the sea, escaped the complaint." Readingthis, the mind naturally turns to Dr. Blackley's glass slide exposed onthe shore at Filey, and upon which no pollen was deposited, while eightypollen grains were deposited on a glass at a higher elevation.SMALL-POX.Let us next inquire into the evidence regarding the conveyence ofsmall-pox through the air. In the supplement to the Tenth Report of theLocal Government Board for 1880-81 (c. 3,290) is a report by Mr. W.H.Power on the influence of the Fulham, Hospital (for small-pox) on theneighborhood surrounding it. Mr. Power investigated the incidence ofsmall-pox on the neighborhood, both before and after the establishment ofthe hospital. He found that, in the year included between March, 1876,and March, 1877, before the establishment of the hospital, the incidenceof small-pox on houses in Chelsea, Fulham and Kensington amounted to 0.41per cent. (i.e., that one house out of every 244 was attacked bysmall-pox in the ordinary way), and that the area inclosed by a circlehaving a radius of one mile round the spot where the hospital wassubsequently established (called in the report the "special area") was,as a matter of fact, rather more free from small-pox than the rest of thedistrict. After the establishment of the hospital in March, 1877, theamount of small-pox in the "special area" round the hospital very notablyincreased, as is shown by the table by Mr. Power, given below.This table shows conclusively that the houses nearest the hospital werein the greatest danger of small-pox. It might naturally be supposed thatthe excessive incidence of the disease upon the houses nearest to thehospital was due to business traffic between the hospital and thedwellers in the neighborhood, and Mr. Power admits that he started on hisinvestigation with this belief, but with the prosecution of his work hefound such a theory untenable.ADMISSIONS OF ACUTE SMALL-POX TO FULHAM HOSPITAL, AND INCIDENCE OFSMALL-POX UPON HOUSES IN SEVERAL DIVISIONS OF THE SPECIAL AREA DURINGFIVE EPIDEMIC PERIODS.+-------+---------------------+------------------------------------------------+        |                     |     Incidence on every 100 houses within the   |        |                     |     special area  and its divisions.           |Cases of|The epidemic periods +--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+acute   |since opening        |On total|On small |On first |On second|On third |small-  |of hospital.         |special | circle, |  ring,  |  ring,  |  ring,  |pox.    |                     | area.  |0-1/4 mile.|1/4-1/2 mile.|1/2-3/4 mile.|3/4-1 mile.|--------+---------------------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+   327  |March-December 1877  |  1.10  |   3.47  |   1.37  |   1.27  |   0.36  |   714  |January-             |        |         |         |         |         |        |     September, 1878 |  1.80  |   4.62  |   2.55  |   1.84  |   0.67  |   679  |September 1878-      |        |         |         |         |         |        |     October 1879    |  1.68  |   4.40  |   2.63  |   1.49  |   0.64  |   292  |October, 1879-       |        |         |         |         |         |        |     December, 1880  |  0.58  |   1.85  |   1.06  |   0.30  |   0.28  |   515  |December 1880-       |        |         |         |         |         |        |     April 1881      |  1.21  |   2.00  |   1.54  |   1.25  |   0.61  |--------+---------------------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+ 2,527  |Five periods         |  6.37  |  16.34  |   9.15  |   6.15  |   2.56  |--------+---------------------+--------+---------+---------+---------+---------+Now, the source of infection in cases of small-pox is often more easy tofind than in cases of some other forms of infectious disease, and mainlyfor two reasons:1. That the onset of small-pox is usually sudden and striking, such as isnot likely to escape observation.2. That the so-called incubative period is very definite and regular,being just a fortnight from infection to eruption.The old experiments of inoculation practiced on our forefathers havetaught us that from inoculation to the first appearance of the rash isjust twelve days. Given a case of small-pox, then one has only to gocarefully over the doings and movements of the patient on the days abouta fortnight preceding in order to succeed very often in finding thesource of infection.In the fortnight ending February 5, 1881, forty-one houses were attackedby small-pox in the special mile circle round the hospital, and in thislimited outbreak it was found, as previously, that the severity ofincidence bore an exact inverse proportion to the distance from thehospital.The greater part of these were attacked in the five days January 26-30,1881, and in seeking for the source of infection of these cases, specialattention was directed to the time about a fortnight previous viz.,January 12-17, 1881. The comings and goings of all who had been directlyconnected with the hospital (ambulances, visitors, patients, staff,nurses, etc.) were especially inquired into, but with an almost negativeresult, and Mr. Power was reluctantly forced to the conclusion thatsmall-pox poison had been disseminated through the air.During the period when the infection did spread, the atmosphericconditions were such as would be likely to favor the dissemination ofparticulate matter. Mr. Power says: "Familiar illustration of thatconveyance of particulate matter which I am here including in the termdissemination is seen, summer and winter, in the movements of particlesforming mist and fog. The chief of these are, of course, water particles,but these carry gently about with them, in an unaltered form, othermatters that have been suspended in the atmosphere, and these othermatters, during the almost absolute stillness attending the formation ofdew and hoar frost, sink earthward, and may often be recognized aftertheir deposit."As to the capacity of fogs to this end, no Londoner needs instruction;and few persons can have failed to notice the immense distances thatodors will travel on the 'air breaths' of a still summer night. And thereare reasons which require us to believe particulate matter to be moreeasy of suspension in an unchanged form during any remarkable calmness ofatmosphere. Even quite conspicuous objects, such as cobwebs, may be heldup in the air under such conditions. Probably there are few observantpersons of rural habits who cannot call to mind one or another stillautumn morning, when from a cloudless, though perhaps hazy, sky, theyhave noted, over a wide area, steady descent of countless spider webs,many of them well-nigh perfect in all details of their construction."A reference to the meteorological returns issued by the registrar-generalshows that on the 12th of January, 1881, began a period of severe frost,characterized by still, sometimes foggy, weather, with occasional lightairs from nearly all points of the compass. This state of affairscontinued till January 18, when there was a notable snow storm, and agale from the E.N.E. For four days, up to and inclusive of January 8,ozone was present in more than its usual amounts. During January 9-16, itwas absent. On January 17 it reappeared, and on January 18 it wasabundant. Similar meteorological conditions (calm and no ozone) werefound to precede previous epidemics.Mr. Power's report, with regard to Fulham, seems conclusive, and there isa strong impression that hospitals, other than Fulham, have served ascenters of dissemination.In the last lecture I gave you the opinion of M. Bertillon, of Paris, andquoted figures in support of that opinion. It is a fact of someimportance to remember that small-pox is one of those diseases which hasa peculiar odor, recognizable by the expert. As to its conveyance forlong distances through the air, there are some curious facts quoted byProfessor Waterhouse, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, in a letter addressedto Dr. Haygarth at the close of the last century. Professor Waterhousestates that at Boston there was a small-pox hospital on one side of ariver, and opposite it, 1,500 yards away, was a dockyard, where, on acertain misty, foggy day, with light airs just moving in a direction fromthe hospital to the dockyard, ten men were working. Twelve days later allbut two of these men were down with small-pox, and the only possiblesource of infection was the hospital across the river. (_To becontinued_.)       *       *       *       *       *SUNLIGHT COLORS.[Footnote: Lecture delivered by Capt. W. De W. Abney, R.E., P.B.S., atthe Royal Institution, on February 25, 1887.--_Nature_.]By Capt. W. DE W. ABNEY.Sunlight is so intimately woven up with our physical enjoyment of lifethat it is perhaps not the most uninteresting subject that can be chosenfor what is--perhaps somewhat pedantically--termed a Friday evening"discourse." Now, no discourse ought to be be possible without a text onwhich to hang one's words, and I think I found a suitable one whenwalking with an artist friend from South Kensington Museum the other day.The sun appeared like a red disk through one of those fogs which the eastwind had brought, and I happened to point it out to him. He looked, andsaid, "Why is it that the sun appears so red?" Being near the railwaystation, whither he was bound, I had no time to enter into the subject,but said if he would come to the Royal Institution this evening I wouldendeavor to explain the matter. I am going to redeem that promise, and todevote at all events a portion of the time allotted to me in answeringthe question why the sun appears red in a fog. I must first of all appealto what every one who frequents this theater is so accustomed, viz., thespectrum. I am going not to put it in the large and splendid stripe ofthe most gorgeous colors before you, with which you are so wellacquainted, but my spectrum will take a more modest form of purer colors,some twelve inches in length.I would ask you to notice which color is most luminous. I think that noone will dispute that in the yellow we have the most intense luminosity,and that it fades gradually in the red on the one side and in the violeton the other. This, then, may be called a qualitative estimate ofrelative brightnesses; but I wish now to introduce to you what was novellast year, a quantitative method of measuring the brightness of any part.Before doing this I must show you the diagram of the apparatus which Ishall employ in some of my experiments.[Illustration: FIG. 1.--COLOR PHOTOMETER.]RR are rays (Fig. I) coming from the arc light, or, if we were usingsunlight, from a heliostat, and a solar image is formed by a lens, L_{1},on the slit, S_{1} of the collimator, C. The parallel rays produced bythe lens, L_{2}, are partially refracted and partially reflected. Theformer pass through the prisms, P_{1}P_{2}, and are focused to form aspectrum by a lens, L_{3}, on D, a movable ground glass screen. The raysare collected by a lens, L_{4}, tilted at an angle as shown, to form awhite image of the near surface of the second prism on F.Passing a card with a narrow slit, S_{2}, cut in it in front of thespectrum, any color which I may require can be isolated. The consequenceis that, instead of the white patch upon the screen, I have a coloredpatch, the color of which I can alter to any hue lying between the redand the violet. Thus, then, we are able to get a real patch of veryapproximately homogeneous light to work with, and it is with thesepatches of color that I shall have to deal. Is there any way of measuringthe brightness of these patches? was a question asked by General Festingand myself. After trying various plans, we hit upon the method I shallnow show you, and if any one works with it he must become fascinated withit on account of its almost childish simplicity--a simplicity, I mayremark, which it took us some months to find out. Placing a rod beforethe screen, it casts a black shadow surrounded with a colored background.Now I may cast another shadow from a candle or an incandescence lamp, andthe two shadows are illuminated, one by the light of the colored patchand the other by the light from an incandescence lamp which I am usingtonight. [Shown.] Now one stripe is evidently too dark. By an arrangementwhich I have of altering the resistance interposed between the batteryand the lamp, I can diminish or increase the light from the lamp, firstmaking the shadow it illuminates too light and then too dark comparedwith the other shadow, which is illuminated by the colored light.Evidently there is some position in which the shadows are equallyluminous. When that point is reached, I can read off the current which ispassing through the lamp, and having previously standardized it for eachincrement of current, I know what amount of light is given out. Thisvalue of the incandescence lamp I can use as an ordinate to a curve, thescale number which marks the position of the color in the spectrum beingthe abscissa. This can be done for each part of the spectrum, and so acomplete curve can be constructed, which we call the illumination curveof the spectrum of the light under consideration.Now, when we are working in the laboratory with a steady light, we may beat ease with this method, but when we come to working with light such asthe sun, in which there may be constant variation, owing to passing, andmay be usually imperceptible, mist, we are met with a difficulty; and inorder to avoid this, General Festing and myself substituted anothermethod, which I will now show you. We made the comparison light part ofthe light we were measuring. Light which enters the collimating lenspartly passes through the prisms and is partly reflected from the firstsurface of the prism; that we utilize, thus giving a second shadow. Thereflected rays from P_{1} fall on G, a silver on glass mirror. They arecollected by L_{5}, and form a white image of the prism also at F.The method we can adopt of altering the intensity of the comparison lightis by means of rotating sectors, which can be opened or closed at will,and the two shadows thus made equally luminous. [Shown.] But althoughthis is an excellent plan for some purposes, we have found it better toadopt a different method. You will recollect that the brightest part ofthe spectrum is in the yellow, and that it falls off in brightness oneach side, so instead of opening and closing the sectors, they are set atfixed intervals, and the slit is moved in front of the spectrum, justmaking the shadow cast by the reflected beam too dark or too light, andoscillating between the two till equality is discovered. The scale numberis then noted, and the curve constructed as before. It must be rememberedthat, on each side of the yellow, equality can be established.This method of securing a comparison light is very much better for sunwork than any other, as any variation in the light whose spectrum is tobe measured affects the comparison light in the same degree. Thus,suppose I interpose an artificial cloud before the slit of thespectroscope, having adjusted the two shadows, it will be seen that thepassage of steam in front of the slit does not alter the relativeintensities; but this result must be received with caution. [The lecturerthen proceeded to point out the contrast colors that the shadow of therod illuminated by white light assumed.]I must now make a digression. It must not be assumed that every one hasthe same sense of color, otherwise there would be no color blindness.Part of the researches of General Festing and myself have been on thesubject of color blindness, and these I must briefly refer to. We testall who come by making them match the luminosity of colors with whitelight, as I have now shown you. And as a color blind person has only twofundamental color perceptions instead of three, his matching ofluminosities is even more accurate than is that made by those whose eyesare normal or nearly normal. It is curious to note how many people aremore or less deficient in color perception. Some have remarked that it isimpossible that they were color blind and would not believe it, andsometimes we have been staggered at first with the remarkable manner inwhich they recognized color to which they ultimately proved deficient inperception. For instance, one gentleman when I asked him the name of ared color patch, said it was sunset color. He then named green and bluecorrectly, but when I reverted to the red patch he said green.On testing further, he proved totally deficient in the color perceptionof red, and with a brilliant red patch he matched almost a black shadow.The diagram shows you the relative perceptions in the spectrum of thisgentleman and myself. There are others who only see three-quarters,others half, and others a quarter the amount of red that we see, whilesome see none. Others see less green and others less violet, but I havemet with no one that can see more than myself or General Festing, whosecolor perceptions are almost identical. Hence we have called our curve ofillumination the "normal curve."We have tested several eminent artists in this manner, and about one halfof the number have been proved to see only three quarters of the amountof red which we see. It might be thought that this would vitiate theirpowers of matching color, but it is not so. They paint what they see; andalthough they see less red in a subject, they see the same deficiency intheir pigments; hence they are correct. If totally deficient, the case ofcourse would be different.Let us carry our experiments a step further, and see what effect what isknown as a turbid medium has upon the illuminating value of differentparts of the spectrum. I have here water which has been rendered turbidin a very simple manner. In it has been very cautiously dropped analcoholic solution of mastic. Now mastic is practically insoluble inwater, and directly the alcoholic solution comes in contact with thewater it separates out in very fine particles, which, from their veryfineness, remain suspended in the water. I propose now to make anexperiment with this turbid water.I place a glass cell containing water in front of the slit, and on thescreen I throw a patch of blue light. I now change it for turbid water ina cell. This thickness much dims the blue; with a still greater thicknessthe blue has almost gone. If I measure the intensity of the light at eachoperation, I shall find that it diminishes according to a certain law,which is of the same nature as the law of absorption. For instance, ifone inch diminishes the light one half, the next will diminish it half ofthat again, the next half of that again, while the fourth inch will causea final diminution of the total light of one sixteenth. If the first inchallows only one quarter of the light, the next will only allow onesixteenth, and the fourth inch will only permit 1/256 part to pass.Let us, however, take a red patch of light and examine it in the sameway. We shall find that, when the greater thickness of the turbid mediumwe used when examining the blue patch of light is placed in front of theslit, much more of this light is allowed to pass than of the blue. If wemeasure the light, we shall find that the same law holds good as before,but that the proportion which passes is invariably greater with the redthan the blue. The question then presents itself: Is there any connectionbetween the amounts of the red and the blue which pass?Lord Rayleigh, some years ago, made a theoretical investigation of thesubject. But, as far as I am aware, no definite experimental proof of thetruth of the theory was made till it was tested last year by GeneralFesting and myself. His law was that for any ray, and through the samethickness, the light transmitted varied inversely as the fourth power ofthe wave length. The wave length 6,000 lies in the red, and the wavelength 4,000 in the violet. Now 6,000 is to 4,000 as 3 to 2, and thefourth powers of these wave lengths are as 81 to 16, or as about 5 to 1.If, then, the four inches of our turbid medium allowed three quarters ofthis particular red ray to be transmitted, they would only allow (3/4)^{5},or rather less than one fourth, of the blue ray to pass.Now, this law is not like the law of absorption for ordinary absorbingmedia, such as colored glass for instance, because here we have anincreased loss of light running from the red to the blue, and it mattersnot how the medium is made turbid, whether by varnish, suspended sulphur,or what not. It holds in every case, so long as the particles which makethe medium turbid are small enough. And please to recollect that itmatters not in the least whether the medium which is rendered turbid issolid, liquid, or air. Sulphur is yellow in mass, and mastic varnish isnearly white, while tobacco smoke when condensed is black, and veryminute particles of water are colorless; it matters not what the coloris, the loss of light is _always_ the same. The result is simply due tothe scattering of light by fine particles, such particles being small indimensions compared with a wave of light. Now, in this trough issuspended 1/1000 of a cubic inch of mastic varnish, and the water in itmeasures about 100 cubic inches, or is 100,000 times more in bulk thanthe varnish. Under a microscope of ordinary power it is impossible todistinguish any particles of varnish; it looks like a homogeneous fluid,though we know that mastic will not dissolve in water.Now a wave length in the red is about 1/40000 of an inch, and a littlecalculation will show that these particles are well within the necessarylimits. Prof. Tyndall has delighted audiences here with an exposition ofthe effect of the scattering of light by small particles in the formationof artificial skies, and it would be superfluous for me to enter moreinto that. Suffice it to say that when particles are small enough to formthe artificial blue sky, they are fully small enough to obey the abovelaw, and that even larger particles will suffice. We may sum up by sayingthat very fine particles scatter more blue light than red light, and thatconsequently more red light than blue light passes through a turbidmedium, and that the rays obey the law prescribed by theory.I will exemplify this once more by using the whole spectrum and placingthis cell, which contains hyposulphite of soda in solution in water, infront of the slit. By dropping in hydrochloric acid, the sulphurseparates out in minute particles; and you will see that, as theparticles increase in number, the violet, blue, green, and yellowdisappear one by one and only red is left, and finally the red disappearsitself.Now let me revert to the question why the sun is red at sunset. Those whoare lovers of landscape will have often seen on some bright summer's daythat the most beautiful effects are those in which the distance is almostof a match to the sky. Distant hills, which when viewed close to aregreen or brown, when seen some five or ten miles away appear of adelicate and delicious, almost of a cobalt, blue color. Now, what is thecause of this change in color? It is simply that we have a sky formedbetween us and the distant ranges, the mere outline of which loomsthrough it. The shadows are softened so as almost to leave no trace, andwe have what artists call an atmospheric effect. If we go into anotherclimate, such as Egypt or among the high Alps, we usually lose thiseffect. Distant mountains stand out crisp with black shadows, and thewant of atmosphere is much felt. [Photographs showing these differenceswere shown.] Let us ask to what this is due. In such climates as Englandthere is always a certain amount of moisture present in the atmosphere,and this moisture may be present as very minute particles of water--sominute indeed that they will sink down in an atmosphere of normaldensity--or as vapor. When present as vapor the air is much moretransparent, and it is a common expression to use, that when distanthills look "so close" rain may be expected shortly to follow, since thewater is present in a state to precipitate in larger particles. But whenpresent as small particles of water the hills look very distant, owing towhat we may call the haze between us and them. In recent weeks every onehas been able to see very multiplied effects of such haze. The ends oflong streets, for instance, have been scarcely visible, though the sunmay have been shining, and at night the long vistas of gas lamps haveshown light having an increasing redness as they became more distant.Every one admits the presence of mist on these occasions, and this mistmust be merely a collection of intangible and very minute particles ofsuspended water. In a distant landscape we have simply the same or asmaller quantity of street mist occupying, instead of perhaps 1,000yards, ten times that distance. Now I would ask, What effect would such amist have upon the light of the sun which shone through it?It is not in the bounds of present possibility to get outside ouratmosphere and measure by the plan I have described to you the differentilluminating values of the different rays, but this we can do: First, wecan measure these values at different altitudes of the sun, and thismeans measuring the effect on each ray after passing through differentthicknesses of the atmosphere, either at different times of day or atdifferent times of the year, about the same hour. Second, by taking theinstrument up to some such elevation as that to which Langley took hisbolometer at Mount Whitney, and so to leave the densest part of theatmosphere below us.[Illustration: FIG. 2.--RELATIVE LUMINOSITIES.]Now, I have adopted both these plans. For more than a year I have takenmeasurements of sunlight in my laboratory at South Kensington, and I havealso taken the instrument up to 8,000 feet high in the Alps, and madeobservations _there_, and with a result which is satisfactory in thatboth sets of observations show that the law which holds with artificiallyturbid media is under ordinary circumstances obeyed by sunlight inpassing through our air: which is, you will remember, that more of thered is transmitted than of the violet, the amount of each depending onthe wave length. The luminosity of the spectrum observed at the Riffel Ihave used as my standard luminosity, and compared all others with it. Theresult for four days you see in the diagram.I have diagrammatically shown the amount of different colors whichpenetrated on the same days, taking the Riffel as ten. It will be seenthat on December 23 we have really very little violet and less than halfthe green, although we have four fifths of the red.The next diagram before you shows the minimum loss of light which I haveobserved for different air thicknesses. On the top we have the calculatedintensities of the different rays outside our atmosphere. Thus we havethat through one atmosphere, and two, three, and four. And you will seewhat enormous absorption there is in the blue end at four atmospheres.The areas of these curves, which give the total luminosity of the light,are 761, 662, 577, 503, and 439; and if observed as astronomers observethe absorption of light, by means of stellar observations, they wouldhave had the values, 761, 664, 578, 504, and 439--a very closeapproximation one to the other.Next notice in the diagram that the top of the curve gradually inclinesto go to the red end of the spectrum as you get the light transmittedthrough more and more air, and I should like to show you that this is thecase in a laboratory experiment. Taking a slide with a wide and long slotin it, a portion is occupied by a right angled prism, one of the anglesof 45 deg. being toward the center of the slot. By sliding this prism infront of the spectrum I can deflect outward any portion of the spectrum Ilike, and by a mirror can reflect it through a second lens, forming apatch of light on the screen overlapping the patch of light formed by theundeflected rays. If the two patches be exactly equal, white light isformed. Now, by placing a rod as before in front of the patch, I have twocolored stripes in a white field, and though the background remains ofthe same intensity of white, the intensities of the two stripes can bealtered by moving the right angled prism through the spectrum. The twostripes are now apparently equally luminous, and I see the point ofequality is where the edge of the right angled prism is in the green.Placing a narrow cell filled with our turbid medium in front of the slit,I find that the equality is disturbed, and I have to allow more of theyellow to come into the patch formed by the blue end of the spectrum, andconsequently less of it in the red end. I again establish equality.Placing a thicker cell in front, equality is again disturbed, and I haveto have less yellow still in the red half, and more in the blue half. Inow remove the cell, and the inequality of luminosity is still moreglaring. This shows, then, that the rays of maximum luminosity musttravel toward the red as the thickness of the turbid medium is increased.The observations at 8,000 feet, here recorded, were taken on September15, at noon, and of course in latitude 46 deg. the sun could not be overhead,but had to traverse what would be almost exactly equivalent to theatmosphere at sea level. It is much nearer the calculated intensity forno atmosphere intervening than it is for one atmosphere. The explanationof this is easy. The air is denser at sea level than at 8,000 feet up,and the lower stratum is more likely to hold small water particles ordust in suspension than is the higher.[Illustration: FIG. 3.--PROPORTIONS OF TRANSMITTED COLORS.]For, however small the particles may be, they will have a greatertendency to sink in a rare air than in a denser one, and less water vaporcan be held per cubic foot. Looking, then, from my laboratory at SouthKensington, we have to look through a proportionately larger quantity ofsuspended particles than we have at a high altitude when the airthicknesses are the same. And consequently the absorption isproportionately greater at sea level that at 8,000 feet high. This leadsus to the fact that the real intensity of illumination of the differentrays outside the atmosphere is greater than it is calculated fromobservations near sea level. Prof. Langley, in this theater, in aremarkable and interesting lecture, in which he described his journey upMount Whitney to about 12,000 feet, told us that the sun was really blueoutside our atmosphere, and at first blush the amount of extra blue whichhe deduced to be present in it would, he thought, make it so. But thoughhe surmised the result from experiments made with rotating disks ofcolored paper, he did not, I think, try the method of using pure colors,and consequently, I believe, slightly exaggerated the blueness whichwould result.I have taken Prof. Langley's calculations of the increase of intensityfor the different rays, which I may say do not quite agree with mine, andI have prepared a mask which I can place in the spectrum, giving thedifferent proportions of each ray as calculated by him, and this whenplaced in front of the spectrum will show you that the real color ofsunlight outside the atmosphere, as calculated by Langley, can scarcelybe called bluish. Alongside I place a patch of light which is veryclosely the color of sunlight on a July day at noon in England. Thiscomparison will enable you to gauge the blueness, and you will see thatit is not very blue, and, in fact, not bluer perceptibly than that wehave at the Riffel, the color of the sunlight at which place I show in asimilar way. I have also prepared some screens to show you the value ofsunlight after passing through five and ten atmospheres. On an ordinaryclear day you will see what a yellowness there is in the color. It seemsthat after a certain amount of blue is present in white light, theaddition of more makes but little difference in the tint. But these lastpatches show that the light which passes through the atmosphere when itis feebly charged with particles does not induce the red of the sun asseen through a fog. It only requires more suspended particles in anythickness to induce it.In observations made at the Riffel, and at 14,000 feet, I have found thatit is possible to see far into the ultra-violet, and to distinguish andmeasure lines in the sun's spectrum which can ordinarily only be seen bythe aid of a fluorescent eye piece or by means of photography.Circumstantial evidence tends to show that the burning of the skin, whichalways takes place in these high altitudes in sunlight, is due to thegreat increase in the ultra-violet rays. It may be remarked that the samekind of burning is effected by the electric arc light, which is known tobe very rich in these rays.Again, to use a homely phrase, "You cannot eat your cake and have it."You cannot have a large quantity of blue rays present in your directsunlight and have a luminous blue sky. The latter must always be lightscattered from the former. Now, in the high Alps you have, on clear day,a deep blue-black sky, very different indeed from the blue sky of Italyor of England; and as it is the sky which is the chief agent in lightingup the shadows, not only in those regions do we have dark shadows onaccount of no intervening--what I will call--mist, but because the skyitself is so little luminous. In an artistic point of view this isimportant. The warmth of an English landscape in sunlight is due to thehighest lights being yellowish, and to the shadows being bluish from thesky light illuminating them. In the high Alps the high lights are colder,being bluer, and the shadows are dark, and chiefly illuminated byreflected direct sunlight. Those who have traveled abroad will know whatthe effect is. A painting in the Alps, at any high elevation, is rarelypleasing, although it may be true to nature. It looks cold, and somewhatharsh and blue.In London we are often favored with easterly winds, and these, unpleasantin other ways, are also destructive of that portion of the sunlight whichis the most chemically active on living organisms. The sunlightcomposition of a July day may, by the prevalence of an easterly wind, bereduced to that of a November day, as I have proved by actualmeasurement. In this case it is not the water particles which act asscatterers, but the carbon particles from the smoke.Knowing, then, the cause of the change in the color of sunlight, we canmake an artificial sunset, in which we have an imitation light passingthrough increasing thicknesses of air largely charged with waterparticles. [The image of a circular diaphragm placed in front of theelectric light was thrown on the screen in imitation of the sun, and acell containing hyposulphite of soda placed in the beam. Hydrochloricacid was then added; as the fine particles of sulphur were formed, thedisk of light assumed a yellow tint, and as the decomposition of thehyposulphite progressed, it assumed an orange and finally a deep redtint.] With this experiment I terminate my lecture, hoping that in somedegree I have answered the question I propounded at the outset--why thesun is red when seen through a fog.       *       *       *       *       *THE WAVE THEORY OF SOUND CONSIDERED.By HENRY. A. MOTT, Ph.D., LL.D.Before presenting any of the numerous difficulties in the way ofaccepting the wave theory of sound as correct, it will be best to brieflyrepresent its teachings, so that the reader will see that the writer isperfectly familiar with the same.The wave theory of sound starts off with the assumption that theatmosphere is _composed of molecules_, and that these supposed moleculesare free to vibrate when acted upon by a vibrating body. When a tuningfork, for example, is caused to vibrate, it is _assumed_ that thesupposed molecules in front of the advancing fork are crowded closelytogether, thus forming a condensation, and on the retreat of the fork areseparated more widely apart, thus forming a rarefaction. On account ofthe crowding of the molecules together to form the condensation, the airis supposed to become more dense and of a higher temperature, while inthe rarefaction the air is supposed to become less dense and of lowertemperature; but the heat of the condensation is supposed to just satisfythe cold of the rarefaction, in consequence of which the averagetemperature of the air remains unchanged.The supposed increase of temperature in the condensation is supposed tofacilitate the transference of the sound pulse, in consequence of which,sound is able to travel at the rate of 1,095 feet a second at 0 deg.C., whichit would not do if there was no heat generated.In other words, the supposed increase of temperature is supposed to add1/6 to the velocity of sound.If the tuning fork be a _Koenig C^{3}_ fork, which makes 256 _full_vibrations in one second, then there will be 256 sound waves in onesecond of a length of 1095/256 or 4.23 feet, so that at the end of asecond of time from the commencement of the vibration, the foremost wavewould have reached a distance of 1,095 feet, at 0 deg.C.The motion of a sound wave must not, however, be confounded with themotion of the molecules which at any moment form the wave; for during itspassage every molecule concerned in its transference makes only a smallexcursion to and fro, the length of the excursion being the amplitude ofvibration, on which the intensity of the sound depends.Taking the same tuning fork mentioned above, the molecule would take1/256 of a second to make a full vibration, which is the length of timeit takes for the pulse to travel the length of the sound wave.For different intensities, the amplitude of vibration of the molecule isroughly 1/50 to 1/1000000 of an inch. That is to say, in the case of thesame tuning fork, the molecules it causes to vibrate must either travel adistance of 1/56 or 1/1000000 of an inch forward and back in the 1/256 ofa second or in one direction in the 1/512 of a second.I might further state that the pitch of the sound depends on the numberof vibrations and the intensity, as already indicated by the amplitude ofstroke--the timbre or quality of the sound depending upon factors whichwill be clearly set forth as we advance.Having now clearly and correctly represented the wave theory of sound,without touching the physiological effect perceived by means of the ear,we will proceed to consider it.We must first consider the state in which the supposed molecules existin the air, before making progress.The present science teaches that the diameter of the supposed moleculesof the air is about 1/250000000 of an inch (Tait); that the distancebetween the molecules is about 8/100000 of an inch; that the velocity ofthe molecules is about 1,512 feet a second at 0 deg.C., in its free path;that the number of molecules in a cubic inch at 0 deg.C. is3,505,519,800,000,000,000 or 35 followed by 17 ciphers (35)^{17}; andthat the number of collisions per second that the molecules make is,according to Boltzmann, for hydrogen, 17,700,000,000, that is to say, ahydrogen molecule in one second has its course wholly changed overseventeen billion times. Assuming seventeen billion or million to beright for the supposed air molecules, we have a very interesting problemto consider.The wave theory of sound requires, if we expect to hear sound by means ofa C^{3} fork of 256 vibrations, that the molecules of the air composingthe sound wave must not be interfered with in such a way as to preventthem from traveling a distance of at least 1/50 to 1/1000000 of an inchforward and back in the 1/256 of a second. The problem we have to explainis, how a molecule traveling at the rate of 1,512 feet a second through amean path of 8/100000 of an inch, and colliding seventeen billion ormillion times a second, can, by the vibration of the C^{3} fork, be madeto vibrate so as to have a pendulous motion for 1/256 of a second andvibrate through a distance of 1/50 to the 1/1000000 of an inch withoutbeing changed or mar its harmonic motion.It is claimed that the range of sound lies between 16 vibrations and30,000 (about); in such extreme cases the molecules would require 1/16and 1/30000 of a second to perform the same journey.It must not be forgotten that a mass moving through a given distance hasthe power of doing work, and the amount of energy it will exercise willdepend on _its_ velocity. Now, a molecule of oxygen or nitrogen,according to modern science, is a _mass_ 1/250000000 of an inch indiameter, and an oxygen molecule has been calculated to weigh0.0000000054044 ounce. Taking this weight traveling with a velocity of1,512 feet a second through an average distance of 8/100000 of an inch,the battering power or momentum it would have can be shown to be in roundnumbers capable of moving 1/200000 of an ounce.Now, when the C^{3} tuning fork has been vibrating for some time, butstill sounding audibly, Prof. Carter determined that its amplitude ofstroke was only the 1/17000 of an inch, or its velocity of motion was atthe rate of 1/33 of an inch in one second, or one inch in 33 seconds(over half a minute), or less than one foot in one hour.Assuming one prong to weigh two ounces, we have a two-ounce mass moving1/17000 of an inch with a velocity of 1/33 of an inch in one second. Theprong, then, has a momentum or can exercise an amount of energyequivalent to 1/200 of an ounce, or can overcome the momentum of 1,000molecules.It would be difficult to discover not only how a locust can expendsufficient energy to impart to molecules of the air, so as to set them ina _forced_ vibration, and thus enable a pulse of the energy imparted tocontrol the motion of the supposed molecules of the air for a mile in alldirections, but also to estimate the amount of energy the locust mustexpend.According to the wave theory, a condensation and rarefaction arenecessary to constitute a sound wave. Surely, if a condensation is notproduced, there can be no sound wave! We have then no need to consideranything but the condensation or compression of the supposed airmolecules, which will shorten the discussion. The property of mobility ofthe air and fluidity of water are well known. In the case of water, whichis almost incompressible, this property is well marked, andunquestionably would be very nearly the same if water were whollyincompressible. In the case of the air, it is conceded by Tyndall,Thomson, Daniell, Helmholtz, and others that any compression orcondensation of the air must be well marked or defined to secure thetransmission of a sound pulse. The reason for this is on account of thisvery property of mobility. Tyndall says: "The prong of the fork in itsswift advancement condenses the air." Thomson says: "If I move my handvehemently through the air, I produce a condensation." Helmholtz says:"The pendulum swings from right to left with a uniform motion. Near toeither end of its path it moves slowly, and in the middle fast. Amongsonorous bodies which move in the same way, only very much faster, we maymention tuning forks." Tyndall says again: "When a common pendulumoscillates, it tends to form a condensation in front and a rarefactionbehind. But it is only a tendency; the motion is so slow, and the air soelastic, that it moves away in front before it is sensibly condensed, andfills the space behind before it can become sensibly dilated. Hence wavesor pulses are not generated by the pendulum." And finally, Daniell says:"A vibrating body, _before it can act_ as a sounding body, must producealternate compressions and rarefactions in the air, and these must bewell marked. If, however, the vibrating body be so small that at eachoscillation the surrounding air has time to _flow round_ it, there is atevery oscillation a local rearrangement--a local flow and reflow of theair; but the air at a distance is almost wholly unaffected by this."Now, as Prof. Carter has shown by experiment that a tuning fork _whilestill sounding_ had only an amplitude of swing of 1/17000 of an inch, andonly traveled an aggregate distance of 1/33 of an inch in one second, orone inch in 33 seconds, surely such a motion is neither "swift," "fast,"nor "vehement," and is unquestionably much "slower" than the motion of apendulum. We have only to consider one forward motion of the prong, andif that motion cannot condense the air, then no wave can be produced; forafter a prong has advanced and stopped moving (no matter for how short atime), if it has not compressed the air, its return motion (on the sameside) cannot do anything toward making a compression. If one such motionof 1/17000 of an inch in 1/512 of a second cannot compress the air, thenthe remaining motions cannot. There is unquestionably a "union limit"between mobility and compressibility, and unless this limit is passed,mobility holds sway and prevents condensation or compression of the air;but when this limit is passed by the exercise of sufficient energy, thencompression of the air results. Just imagine the finger to be movedthrough the air at a velocity of one foot in one hour; is it possiblethat any scientist who considers the problem in connection with themobility of the air, could risk his reputation by saying that the airwould be compressed? Heretofore it was supposed that a praeong of a tuningfork was traveling _fast_ because it vibrated so many times in a second,never stopping to think that its velocity of motion was entirelydependent upon the distance it traveled. At the start the prong travels1/20 of an inch, but in a short time, _while still sounding_, thedistance is reduced to 1/17000 of an inch. While the first motion wasquite fast, about 25 inches in a second, the last motion was only about1/33 of an inch in the same time, and is consequently 825 times slowermotion. The momentum of the prong, the amount of work it can do, islikewise proportionately reduced.Some seem to imagine, without thinking, that the elasticity of the aircan add additional energy. This is perfectly erroneous; for elasticity isa mere property, which permits a body to be compressed on the applicationof a force, and to be dilated by the exercise of the force stored up init by the compression. No property of the air can impart any energy. Ifthe momentum of a molecule or a series of molecules extending in alldirections for a mile is to be overcome so as to control the character ofthe movements of the molecules, then sufficient _external_ energy must beapplied to accomplish the task: and when we think that one cubic inch ofair contains 3,505,519,800,000,000,000 molecules, to say nothing aboutthe number in a cubic mile, which a locust can transmit sound through, weare naturally compelled to stop and think whether the vibrations of_supposed_ molecules have anything or can have anything to do with thetransference of sound through the air.If control was only had of the distance the vibrating molecule travelsfrom its start to the end of its journey, then only the intensity of thesound would be under subjection; but if at every _infinitesimal instant_control was had of its amplitude of swing, then the character, timbre, orquality of the sound is under subjection. It is evident, then, that theblows normally given by one molecule to another in their supposedconstant bombardment must not be sufficient to alter the character ofvibration a molecule set in oscillation by a sounding body must maintain,to preserve the timbre or quality of the sound in process oftransmission; for if any such alteration should take place, then,naturally, while the pitch, and perhaps intensity, might be transmitted,the quality of the sound would be destroyed.Again, it is certain that no molecule can perform two sets of vibrations,two separate movements, at the same time, any more than it can be in twoplaces at the same time.When a band of music is playing, the molecule is supposed to make acomplex vibration, a resultant motion of all acting influences, which theear is supposed to analyze. It remains for the mathematician to show howa molecule influenced by twenty or more degrees of applied energy, andtwenty or more required number of frequences of vibration at the sametime, can establish a resultant motion which will transmit the requiredpitch, intensity, and timbre of each instrument.When a molecule is acted on by various forces, a resultant motion isunquestionably produced, but this would only tend to send the moleculeforward and back in _one_ direction, and, in fact, a direction it mighthave taken in the first place if hit properly.How any resultant can be established as regards the time necessary forthe molecule to take so as to complete a full vibration for the noteC_{11}, which requires 1/16 of a second, and for other notes up toC''''', which only requires 1/4176 of a second, as when an orchestra isplaying, is certainly beyond human comprehension, if it is not beyond the"transcendental mathematics" of the present day.Unquestionably, the able mathematicians Lord Rayleigh, Stokes, orMaxwell, if the problem was submitted to them, would start directly towork, and deduce by so called "higher mathematics" the required motionsthe molecules would have to undergo to accomplish this marveloustask--the same as they have established the diameter of the _supposed_molecules, their velocity, distance apart, and number of bombardments,without any shadow of _positive_ proof that any such things as moleculesexist.As S. Caunizzana has said: "Some of the followers of the modern schoolpush their faith to the borders of fanaticism; they often speak onmolecular subjects with as much dogmatic assurance as though they hadactually realized the ingenious fiction of Laplace, and had constructed amicroscope by which they could detect the molecule and count the numberof its constituent atoms."Speaking of the "modern manufacturers of mathematical hypotheses,"Mattieu Williams says: "It matters not to them how 'wild and visionary,'how utterly gratuitous, any assumption may be, it is not unscientificprovided it can be vested in formulae and worked out mathematically."These transcendental mathematicians are struggling to carry philosophyback to the era of Duns Scotus, when the greatest triumph of learning wasto sophisticate so profoundly an obvious absurdity that no ordinaryintellect could refute it.... The close study of _pure_ mathematics, bydirecting the mind to processes of calculation rather than to phenomena,induces that sublime indifference to facts which has characterized thepurely mathematical intellect of all ages."Tyndall, however, states in all frankness, and without the aid ofmathematical considerations, that "when we try to visualize the motionsof the air having one thousand separate tones, to present to the eye ofthe mind the battling of the pulses, direct and reverberated, theimagination retires baffled at the attempt;" and he might have added, theshallowness and fallacy of the wave theory of sound was made apparent.He, however, does express himself as follows: "Assuredly, no question ofscience ever stood so much in need of revision as this of thetransmission of sound through the atmosphere. Slowly but surely wemastered the question, and the further we advance, the more plainly itappeared that our reputed knowledge regarding it was erroneous frombeginning to end."Until physicists are willing to admit that the physical forces of natureare objective things--actual entities, and not mere modes of motion--afull and clear comprehension of the phenomena of nature will never berevealed to them. The motion of all bodies, whether small or great, isdue to the entitative force stored up in them, and the energy theyexercise is in proportion to the stored-up force.Tyndall says that "_heat itself_, its _essence and quiddity_, IS MOTION,AND NOTHING ELSE." Surely, no scientist who considers what motion is canadmit such a fallacious statement, for motion is simply "position inspace changing;" it is a phenomenon, the result of the application ofentitative force to a body. It is no more an entity than shadow, which islikewise a phenomenon. Motion, _per se_, is nothing and can do nothing inphysics. Matter and force are the two great entities of theuniverse--both being objective things. Sound, heat, light, electricity,etc., are different forms of manifestation of an all-pervading forceelement--substantial, yet not material.       *       *       *       *       *[NATURE.]THE RELATION OF TABASHEER TO MINERAL SUBSTANCES.Mr. Thiselton Dyer has rendered a great service, not only to botanists,but also to physicists and mineralogists, by recalling attention to thevery interesting substance known as "tabasheer." As he truly states, verylittle fresh information has been published on the subject during recentyears, a circumstance for which I can only account by the fact thatbotanists may justly feel some doubt as to whether it belongs to thevegetable kingdom, while mineralogists seem to have equal ground forhesitation in accepting it as a member of the mineral kingdom.It is very interesting to hear that so able a physiologist as Prof. Cohnintends to investigate the conditions under which living plants separatethis substance from their tissues. That unicellular algae, like theDiatomaceae, living in a medium which may contain only one part in 10,000by weight of dissolved silica, or even less than that amount, should beable to separate this substance to form their exquisitely ornamentedfrustules is one of the most striking facts in natural history, whetherwe regard it in its physiological or its chemical aspects.Sir David Brewster long ago pointed out the remarkable physicalcharacters presented by the curious product of the vegetable world knownas "tabasheer," though so far as I can find out it has not in recentyears received that attention from physicists which the experiments andobservations of the great Scotch philosopher show it to be worthy of.Tabasheer seems to stand in the same relation to the mineral kingdom asdo ambers and pearls. It is in fact an _opal_ formed under somewhatremarkable and anomalous conditions which we are able to study; and inthis aspect I have for some time past been devoting a considerable amountof attention to the minute structure of the substance by making thinsections and examining them under the microscope. It may be as well,perhaps, to give a short sketch of the information upon the subject whichI have up to the present time been able to obtain, and in this way tocall attention to points upon which further research seems to benecessary.From time immemorial tabasheer has enjoyed a very high reputation inEastern countries as a drug. Its supposed medicinal virtues, like thoseof the fossil teeth of China and the belemnites ("thunderbolts") of thiscountry, seem to have been suggested by the peculiarity of its mode ofoccurrence. A knowledge of the substance was introduced into WesternEurope by the Arabian physicians, and the name by which the substance isgenerally known is said to be of Arabic origin. Much of the materialwhich under the name of "tabasheer" finds its way to Syria and Turkey issaid, however, to be fictitious or adulterated.In 1788 Dr. Patrick Russell, F.R.S., then resident at Vizagapatam, wrotea letter to Sir Joseph Banks in which he gave an account of all the factswhich he had been able to collect with respect to this curious substanceand its mode of occurrence, and his interesting letter was published inthe Philosophical Transactions for 1790 (vol. lxxx., p. 273).Tabasheer is said to be sometimes found among the ashes of bamboos thathave been set on fire (by mutual friction?). Ordinarily, however, it issought for by splitting open those bamboo stems which give a rattlingsound when shaken. Such rattling sounds do not, however, affordinfallible criteria as to the presence or absence of tabasheer in abamboo, for where the quantity is small it is often found to be closelyadherent to the bottom and sides of the cavity. Tabasheer is by no meansfound in all stems or in all joints of the same stem of the bamboos.Whether certain species produce it in greater abundance than others, andwhat is the influence of soil, situation, and season upon the productionof the substance, are questions which do not seem as yet to have beenaccurately investigated.Dr. Russell found that the bamboos which produce tabasheer often containa fluid, usually clear, transparent, and colorless or of greenish tint,but sometimes thicker and of a white color, and at other times darker andof the consistency of honey. Occasionally the thicker varieties werefound passing into a solid state, and forming tabasheer.Dr. Russell performed the interesting experiment of drawing off theliquid from the bamboo stem and allowing it to stand in stopperedbottles. A "whitish, cottony sediment" was formed at the bottom, with athin film of the same kind at the top. When the whole was well shakentogether and allowed to evaporate, it left a residue of a whitish browncolor resembling the inferior kinds of tabasheer. By splitting updifferent joints of bamboo Dr. Russell was also able to satisfy himselfof the gradual deposition within them of the solid tabasheer by theevaporation of the liquid solvent.In 1791, Mr. James Louis Macie, F.R.S. (who afterward took the name ofSmithson), gave an account of his examination of the properties of thespecimens of tabasheer sent home by Dr. Russell (Phil. Trans., vol.lxxxi., 1791, p. 368). These specimens came from Vellore, Hyderabad,Masulipatam, and other localities in India. They were submitted to anumber of tests which induced Mr. Macie to believe that they consistedprincipally of silica, but that before calcination some vegetable mattermust have been present. A determination of the specific gravity of thesubstance by Mr. Macie gave 2.188 as the result. Another determination byMr. Cavendish gave 2.169.In this same paper it is stated that a bamboo grown in a hot-house atIslington gave a rattling noise, and on being split open by Sir JosephBanks yielded, not an ordinary tabasheer, but a small pebble about thesize of half a pea, externally of a dark brown or black color, andwithin of a reddish brown tint. This stone is said to have been so hardas to cut glass, and to have been in parts of a crystalline structure.Its behavior with reagents was found to be different in many respectsfrom that of the ordinary tabasheer; and it was proved to contain silicaand iron. The specimen is referred to in a letter to Berthollet publishedin the _Annales de Chimie_ for the same year (October, 1791). There maybe some doubt as to whether this specimen was really of the nature oftabasheer. If such were the case, it would seem to have been a tabasheerin which a crystalline structure had begun to be set up.In the year 1806, MM. Foureroy and Vauquelin gave an account of aspecimen of tabasheer brought from South America in 1804 by Humboldt andBonpland (_Mem. de l'Inst_., vol. vi., p. 382). It was procured from aspecies of bamboo growing on the west of Pichincha, and is described asbeing of a milk white color, in part apparently crystalline in structure,and in part semi-transparent and gelatinous. It was seen to containtraces of the vegetable structure of the plant from which it had beenextracted. On ignition it became black, and emitted pungent fumes.An analysis of this tabasheer from the Andes showed that it contained 70per cent. of silica and 30 per cent. of potash, lime, and water, withsome organic matter. It would, perhaps, be rash to conclude from thissingle observation that the American bamboo produced tabasheer ofdifferent composition from that of the Old World; but the subject isevidently one worthy of careful investigation.It was in the year 1819 that Sir David Brewster published the firstaccount of his long and important series of observations upon thephysical peculiarities of tabasheer (Phil. Trans., vol. cix., 1819, p.283). The specimens which he first examined were obtained from India byDr. Kennedy, by whom they were given to Brewster.Brewster found the specimens which he examined to be perfectly_isotropic_, exercising no influence in depolarizing light. When heated,however, it proved to be remarkably _phosphorescent_. The translucentvarieties were found to transmit a yellowish and to reflect a bluishwhite light--or, in other words, to exhibit the phenomenon of_opalescence_. When tabasheer is slightly wetted, it becomes white andopaque; but when thoroughly saturated with water, perfectly transparent.By preparing prisms of different varieties of tabasheer, Brewsterproceeded to determine its refractive index, arriving at the remarkableresult that tabasheer "has a lower index of refraction than any otherknown solid or liquid, and that it actually holds an intermediate placebetween water and gaseous bodies!" This excessively low refractive powerBrewster believes to afford a complete explanation of the extraordinarybehavior exhibited by tabasheer when wholly or partially saturated withfluids. A number of interesting experiments were performed by saturatingthe tabasheer with oils of different refractive powers, and by heating itin various ways and under different conditions, and also by introducingcarbonaceous matter into the minute pores of the substance by settingfire to paper in which fragments were wrapped.The mean of experiments undertaken by Mr. James Jardine, on behalf ofBrewster, for determining the specific gravity of tabasheer, gave as aresult 2.235. From these experiments Brewster concluded that the spaceoccupied by the pores of the tabasheer is about two and a half times asgreat as that of the colloid silica itself!From this time forward Brewster seems to have manifested the keenestinterest in all questions connected with the origin and history of asubstance possessing such singular physical properties. By the aid of Mr.Swinton, secretary to the government at Calcutta, he formed a large andinteresting collection of all the different varieties of tabasheer fromvarious parts of India. He also obtained specimens of the bamboo with thetabasheer _in situ_. In 1828 he published an interesting paper on "TheNatural History and Properties of Tabasheer" (_Edinburgh Journal ofScience_, vol. viii., 1828, p. 288), in which he discussed many of theimportant problems connected with the origin of the substance. From hisinquiries and observations, Brewster was led to conclude that tabasheerwas only produced in those joints of bamboos which are in an injured,unhealthy, or malformed condition, and that the siliceous fluid onlyfinds its way into the hollow spaces between the joints of the stem whenthe membrane lining the cavities is destroyed or rent by disease.Prof. Edward Turner, of the University of London, undertook an analysisof tabasheer, the specimens being supplied from Brewster's collection(_Edinburgh Journal of Science_, vol. viii., 1828, p. 335). Hisdeterminations of the specific gravities of different varieties were asfollows:Chalky tabasheer.         2.189Translucent tabasheer.    2.167Transparent tabasheer.    2.160All the varieties lose air and hygroscopic water at 100 deg. C., and a largerquantity of water and organic matter (indicated by faint smoke and anempyreumatic odor) at a red heat. The results obtained were as follows:                       Loss at 100 deg. C.   Loss at red heat.Chalky tabasheer.      0.838 per cent.   1.277 per cent.Translucent tabasheer. 1.620  "   "      3.840  "   "Transparent tabasheer. 2.411  "   "      4.518  "   "Dr. Turner found the ignited Indian tabasheer to consist almost entirelyof pure silica with a minute quantity of lime and vegetable matter. Hefailed to find any trace of alkalies in it.In 1855, Guibourt (_Journ. de Pharm_. [3], xxvii., 81, 161, 252; _Phil.Mag_, [4], x., 229) analyzed a specimen of tabasheer having a specificgravity of 2.148. It gave the following result:Silica.            = 96.94Potash and lime.   =  0.13Water.             =  2.93Organic matter.    = traceGuibourt criticised some of the conclusions arrived at by Brewster, andsought to explain the source of the silica by studying the composition ofdifferent parts of the bamboo. While the ashes of the wood contained0.0612 of the whole weight of the wood, the pith was found to contain0.448 per cent., the inner wood much less, and the greatest proportionoccurred in the external wood. On these determinations Guibourt founded atheory of the mode of formation of tabasheer based on the suggestion thatat certain periods of its growth the bamboo needed less silica than atother times, and that when not needed, the silica was carried inward anddeposited in the interior.In the year 1857, D.W. Host van Tonningen, of Buitenzorg, undertook aninvestigation of the tabasheer of Java, which is known to the natives ofthat island under the name of "singkara" (_Naturkundig Tijdschrift voorNederlandsch Indie_, vol. xiii., 1857, p. 391). The specimens examinedwere obtained from the _Bambusa apus_, growing in the Residency ofBantam. It is described as resembling in appearance the Indiantabasheers. Its analysis gave the following result:Silica.          = 86.387Iron oxide.      =  0.424Lime.            =  0.244Potash.          =  4.806Organic matter.  =  0.507Water.           =  7.632                   ------Total.            100.000Apart from the question of its singular mode of origin, however, and itsremarkable and anomalous physical properties, tabasheer is of muchinterest to mineralogists and geologists. All the varieties hithertoexamined, with the exception of the peculiar one from the Andes, are incomposition and physical characters true opals. This is the case with allthe Indian and Java varieties. They consist essentially of silica in itscolloidal form, the water, lime, potash, and organic matter being assmall and variable in amount as in the mineral opals; and, as in them,these substances must be regarded merely as mechanical impurities.The tabasheers must be studied in their relations on the one hand withcertain varieties of the natural semi-opals, hydrophanes, beekites, andfloatstones, some of which they closely resemble in their physicalcharacters, and on the other hand with specimens of artificiallydeposited colloid silica formed under different conditions. Prof. Church,who has so successfully studied the beekites, informs me that some ofthose remarkable bodies present singular points of analogy withtabasheer.By the study of thin sections I have, during several years, beenendeavoring to trace the minute structure of some of these substances. Inno class of materials is it more necessary to guard one's self againsterrors of observation arising from changes induced in the substanceduring the operations which are necessary to the preparation oftransparent sections of hard substances. Unfortunately, too, it is thecustom of the natives to prepare the substance for the market by animperfect calcination, and hitherto I have only been able to studyspecimens procured in the markets which have been subjected to thisprocess. It is obviously desirable, before attempting to interpret thestructures exhibited, under the microscope, to compare the fresh anduncalcined materials with those that have been more or less altered byheat.Tabasheer would seem, from Brewster's experiments, to be a very intimateadmixture of two and a half parts of air with one part of colloidalsilica. The interspaces filled with air appear, at all events, in mostcases, to be so minute that they cannot be detected by the highest powersof the microscope which I have been able to employ. It is this intimateadmixture of a solid with a gas which probably gives rise to the curiousand anomalous properties exhibited by this singular substance.The ultra-microscopical vesicles filled with air in all probability giverise to the opalescence which is so marked a property of the substance.Their size is such as to scatter and throw back the rays at the blue endof the spectrum and to transmit those at the red end.When the vesicles of the substance are filled with Canada balsam, and athin slice is cut from it, this opalescence comes out in the moststriking manner. Very thin sections are of a rich orange yellow bytransmitted light, and a delicate blue tint by reflected light. I do notknow of any substance which in such thin films displays such strikingopalescence.That the excessively low refractive power of tabasheer is connected withthe mechanical admixture of the colloidal silica with air seems to beproved by the experiments of Brewster, showing that with increase ofdensity there was an increase in the refractive index from 1.111 inspecimens of the lowest specific gravity to 1.182 in those of the highestspecific gravity. Where the surface was hard and dense, Brewster foundthe refractive index to approach that of semi opal. The wonderful thingis that a substance so full of cavities containing gas shouldnevertheless be transparent.By the kindness of Mr. F. Rutley, F.G.S., I am able to supply a drawingtaken from one of my sections of tabasheer.The accompanying woodcut gives some idea of the interesting structuresexhibited in some sections of tabasheer, though much of the delicacy andfidelity of the original drawing has been lost in transferring it to thewood.In this particular case, the faint punctation of the surface may possiblyindicate the presence of air vesicles of a size sufficiently great to bevisible under the microscope. But in many other instances I have failedto detect any such indication, even with much higher powers. The smallramifying tubules might at first sight be taken for some traces of avegetable tissue, but my colleague, Dr. Scott, assures me that they donot in the least resemble any tissue found in the bamboo. I have myselfno doubt that it is an inorganic structure. It is not improbablyanalogous to the peculiar ramifying tubules formed in a solution of waterglass when a crystal of copper sulphate is suspended in it, as shown byDr. Heaton (Proc. Brit. Assoc., 1869, p. 127). Similar forms also occuron a larger scale in some agates, and the artificial cells of Traube mayprobably be regarded as analogous phenomena.The aggregates of globular bodies seen in the section so greatly resemblethe globulites of slags and natural glasses, and in their arrangement soforcibly recall the structures seen in the well known pitchstone ofCorriegills in Arran, that one is tempted to regard them as indicatingthe beginnings of the development of crystalline structure in thetabasheer. But I have good grounds for believing the structure to have atotally different origin. They seem in fact to be the portions of themass which the fluid Canada balsam has not succeeded in penetrating. Byheating they may be made to grow outward, and as more balsam is imbibedthey gradually diminish, and finally disappear.I must postpone till a future occasion a discussion of all the structuresof this remarkable substance and of the resemblances and differenceswhich they present to the mineral opals on the one hand, and to those ofthe opals of animal origin found in sponge spicules, radiolarians, andthe rocks formed from them, some of which have recently been admirablyinvestigated by Dr. G.J. Hinde (Phil. Trans., 1885, pp. 425-83).I cannot, however, but think that it would be of the greatest service tobotanists, physicists, and mineralogists alike, if some resident in Indiawould resume the investigations so admirably commenced by Dr. PatrickRussell nearly a century ago; and it is in the hope of inducing some oneto undertake this task that I have put together these notes. There arecertain problems with regard to the mode of occurrence of this singularsubstance which could only be solved by an investigator in the countrywhere it is found.[Illustration: SECTION OF INDIAN TABASHEER, SEEN WITH A MAGNIFYING POWER OF250 DIAMETERS.]Most parcels of the commercial tabasheer appear to contain differentvarieties, from the white, opaque, chalk like forms through thetranslucent kinds to those that are perfectly transparent. It would be ofmuch interest if the exact relation and modes of origin of thesedifferent varieties could be traced. It would also be important todetermine if Brewster was right in his conclusion that the particularinternodes of a bamboo which contain tabasheer always have their innerlining tissue rent or injured. The repetition of Dr. Russell's experimentof drawing off the liquids from the joints of bamboos and allowing themto evaporate is also greatly to be desired. My colleague, Prof. Rucker,F.R.S., has kindly undertaken to re-examine the results arrived at byBrewster in the light of more recent physical investigations, and I doubtnot that some of the curious problems suggested by this very remarkablesubstance may ere long find a solution.JOHN W. JUDD.       *       *       *       *       *THE EDIBLE EARTH OF JAVA.In 1883 Mr. Hekmeyer, pharmaceutist in chief of the Dutch Indies,exhibited at Amsterdam some specimens of Javanese edible earth, both in anatural state and in the form of various natural objects. A portion ofthis collection he has placed at our disposal, and has given us someinformation regarding its nature, use, etc.These clays, which are eaten not only in Java, but also in Sumatra, NewCaledonia, Siberia, Guiana, Terra del Fuego, etc., are essentiallycomposed of silex, alumina, and water in variable proportions, and arecolored with various metallic oxides. They are in amorphous masses, areunctuous to the touch, stick to the tongue, and form a fine, smooth pastewith water. The natives of Java and Sumatra prepare them in a peculiarway. They free them of foreign substances, spread them out in thinsheets, which they cut into small pieces and parch in an iron saucepanover a coal fire.Each of these little cakes, when shrunken up into a little roll, lookssomewhat like a grayish or reddish fragment of cinnamon bark. The clay isalso formed into imitations of various objects.We have tasted this Javanese dainty, and we must very humbly confess thatwe have found nothing attractive in the earthy and slightly empyreumatictaste of this singular food. However, a sweet and slightly aromatic tastethat follows the first impression is an extenuating circumstance.According to the account given by Labillardiere, confirmed by theinformation given by Mr. Hekmeyer, the figures are often craunched bywomen and children, to the latter of whom they serve as dolls, toys, andeven money-boxes, as shown by the slits formed in the upper part of thelarger objects, which are usually hollow.We have not sufficient documents to carry us back to the origin of thattradition that would have it that the human form has been given tocertain food preparations from remote times. Savants will not be slow tosee in this a vague relic of the horrible festivities that succeededhuman sacrifices among primitive peoples. For want of prisoners and ofdesignated victims, a symbolic representation would have graduallydeveloped, and been kept up, though losing its religious character. Wemerely call brief attention to this obscure problem, not having thepretension to solve it.--_Revue d'Ethnographie_.       *       *       *       *       *THE SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN SUPPLEMENT.PUBLISHED WEEKLY.Terms of Subscription, 5 a Year.Sent by mail, postage prepaid, to subscribers in any part of the UnitedStates or Canada. Six dollars a year, sent, prepaid, to any foreigncountry.All the back numbers of THE SUPPLEMENT, from the commencement, January 1,1876, can be had. Price, 10 cents each.All the back volumes of THE SUPPLEMENT can likewise be supplied. Twovolumes are issued yearly. Price of each volume, 2.50, stitched inpaper, or 3.50, bound in stiff covers.COMBINED RATES--One copy of SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN and one copy ofSCIENTIFIC AMERICAN SUPPLEMENT, one year, postpaid, 7.00.A liberal discount to booksellers, news agents, and canvassers.MUNN & CO., Publishers,361 Broadway, New York, N.Y.       *       *       *       *       *PATENTS.In connection with the Scientific American, Messrs. MUNN & Co. areSolicitors of American and Foreign Patents, have had 42 years'experience, and now have the largest establishment in the world. Patentsare obtained on the best terms.A special notice is made in the Scientific American of allinventions patented through this Agency, with the name and residence ofthe Patentee. By the immense circulation thus given, public attention isdirected to the merits of the new patent, and sales or introduction ofteneasily effected.Any person who has made a new discovery or invention can ascertain, freeof charge, whether a patent can probably be obtained, by writing to MUNN& Co.We also send free our Hand Book about the Patent Laws, Patents, Caveats.Trade Marks, their costs, and how procured. AddressMUNN & CO., 361 Broadway, New York.Branch Office, 622 and 624 F St., Washington, D.C.       *       *       *       *       *THE SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN Architects and Builders Edition.2.50 a Year. Single Copies, 25 Cents.This is a Special Edition of THE SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, issued monthly--onthe first day of the month. Each number contains about forty large quartopages, equal to about two hundred ordinary book pages, forming,practically, a large and splendid Magazine of Architecture, richlyadorned with _elegant plates in colors_ and with fine engravings;illustrating the most interesting examples of modern ArchitecturalConstruction and allied subjects.A special feature is the presentation in each number of a variety of thelatest and best plans for private residences, city and country, includingthose of very moderate cost as well as the more expensive. Drawings inperspective and in color are given, together with full Plans,Specifications, Costs, Bills of Estimate, and Sheets of Details.No other building paper contains so many plans, details, andspecifications regularly presented as the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN. Hundredsof dwellings have already been erected on the various plans we haveissued during the past year, and many others are in process ofconstruction.Architects, Builders, and Owners will find this work valuable infurnishing fresh and useful suggestions. All who contemplate building orimproving homes, or erecting structures of any kind, have before them inthis work an almost _endless series of the latest and best examples_ fromwhich to make selections, thus saving time and money.Many other subjects, including Sewerage, Piping, Lighting, Warming,Ventilating, Decorating, Laying out of grounds, etc., are illustrated. Anextensive Compendium of Manufacturers' Announcements is also given, inwhich the most reliable and approved Building Materials, Goods, Machines,Tools, and Appliances are described and illustrated, with addresses ofthe makers, etc.The fullness, richness, cheapness, and convenience of this work have wonfor it the Largest Circulation of any Architectural publication inthe world.MUNN & CO., Publishers, 361 Broadway, New York.A Catalogue of valuable books on Architecture, Building, Carpentry,Masonry, Heating, Warming, Lighting, Ventilation, and all branches ofindustry pertaining to the art of Building, is supplied free of charge,sent to any address.       *       *       *       *       *BUILDING PLANS and SPECIFICATIONS.In connection with the publication of the BUILDING EDITION of theSCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, Messrs. Munn & Co. furnish plans and specificationsfor buildings of every kind, including Churches, Schools, Stores,Dwellings, Carriage Houses, Barns, etc.In this work they are assisted by able and experienced architects. Fullplans, details, and specifications for the various buildings illustratedin this paper can be supplied.Those who contemplate building, or who wish to alter, improve, extend, oradd to existing buildings, whether wings, porches, bay windows, or atticrooms, are invited to communicate with the undersigned. Our work extendsto all parts of the country. Estimates, plans, and drawings promptlyprepared. Terms moderate. AddressMUNN & CO., 361 Broadway, New York.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Scientific American Supplement, No.595, May 28, 1887, by Various*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN SUPPL. 595 ******** This file should be named 11648.txt or 11648.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/1/6/4/11648/Produced by by Don Kretz, Juliet Sutherland, Charles Franks and theDP TeamUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want todownload any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year. For example:     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer partof the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234or filename 24689 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALLThe Project Gutenberg EBook of The Devil's Pool, by George SandThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Devil's PoolAuthor: George SandRelease Date: July 4, 2004 [EBook #12816]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DEVIL'S POOL ***Produced by Audrey Longhurst, Wilelmina Malliere and the OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team.THE ROMANCISTSGEORGE SANDTHE DEVIL'S POOL[Illustration: Chapter V_He saw my little Marie watching her three sheep on the common land_. ]BIBLIOTHEQUE DES CHEFS-D'OEUVREDU ROMAN CONTEMPORAIN_THE DEVIL'S POOL_GEORGE SANDPRINTED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY BY GEORGE BARRIE & SONS, PhiladelphiaCOPYRIGHT, 1901, BY GEORGE BARRIE & SONTHIS EDITION OFTHE DEVIL'S POOLHAS BEEN COMPLETELY TRANSLATEDBYGEORGE B. IVESTHE ETCHINGS AND DRAWINGS ARE BYEDMOND RUDAUXNOTICEWhen I began, with _The Devil's Pool_, a series of rustic pictures whichI proposed to collect under the title of _The Hemp-Beater's Tales_, Ihad no theory, no purpose to effect a revolution in literature. No onecan bring about a revolution by himself alone, and there arerevolutions, especially in matters of art, which mankind accomplisheswithout any very clear idea how it is done, because everybody takes ahand in them. But this is not applicable to the romance of rusticmanners: it has existed in all ages and under all forms, sometimespompous, sometimes affected, sometimes artless. I have said, and I sayagain here: the dream of a country-life has always been the ideal ofcities, aye, and of courts. I have done nothing new in following theincline that leads civilized man back to the charms of primitive life. Ihave not intended to invent a new language or to create a new style. Ihave been assured of the contrary in a large number of _feuilletons_,but I know better than any one what to think about my own plans, and Iam always astonished that the critics dig so deep for them, when thesimplest ideas, the most commonplace incidents, are the onlyinspirations to which the products of art owe their being. As for _TheDevil's Pool_ in particular, the incident that I have related in thepreface, an engraving of Holbein's that had made an impression upon me,and a scene from real life that came under my eyes at the same moment,in sowing time,--those were what impelled me to write this modest tale,the scene of which is laid amid humble localities that I used to visitevery day. If any one asks me my purpose in writing it, I shall replythat I desired to do a very simple and very touching thing, and that Ihave not succeeded as I hoped. I have seen, I have felt the beautiful inthe simple, but to see and to depict are two different things! The mostthat the artist can hope to do is to induce those who have eyes to lookwith him. Therefore, my friends, look at simple things, look at the skyand the fields and the trees and the peasants, especially at what isgood and true in them: you will see them to a slight extent in my book,you will see them much better in nature.GEORGE SAND.NOHANT, _April 12, 1851_.THE DEVIL'S POOLITHE AUTHOR TO THE READER    A la sueur de ton visaige     Tu gagnerois ta pauvre vie,    Apres long travail et usaige,     Voicy la _mort_ qui te convie.[1]The quatrain in old French written below one of Holbein's pictures isprofoundly sad in its simplicity. The engraving represents a ploughmandriving his plough through a field. A vast expanse of country stretchesaway in the distance, with some poor cabins here and there; the sun issetting behind the hill. It is the close of a hard day's work. Thepeasant is a short, thick-set man, old, and clothed in rags. The fourhorses that he urges forward are thin and gaunt; the ploughshare isburied in rough, unyielding soil. A single figure is joyous and alert inthat scene of _sweat and toil_. It is a fantastic personage, a skeletonarmed with a whip, who runs in the furrow beside the terrified horsesand belabors them, thus serving the old husbandman as ploughboy. Thisspectre, which Holbein has introduced allegorically in the succession ofphilosophical and religious subjects, at once lugubrious and burlesque,entitled the _Dance of Death_, is Death itself.In that collection, or rather in that great book, in which Death,playing his part on every page, is the connecting link and the dominantthought, Holbein has marshalled sovereigns, pontiffs, lovers, gamblers,drunkards, nuns, courtesans, brigands, paupers, soldiers, monks, Jews,travellers, the whole world of his day and of ours; and everywhere thespectre of Death mocks and threatens and triumphs. From a single pictureonly, is it absent. It is that one in which Lazarus, the poor man, lyingon a dunghill at the rich man's door, declares that he does not fearDeath, doubtless because he has nothing to lose and his life ispremature death.Is that stoicist idea of the half-pagan Christianity of the Renaissancevery comforting, and do devout souls find consolation therein? Theambitious man, the rascal, the tyrant, the rake, all those haughtysinners who abuse life, and whom Death holds by the hair, are destinedto be punished, without doubt; but are the blind man, the beggar, themadman, the poor peasant, recompensed for their long life of misery bythe single reflection that death is not an evil for them? No! Animplacable melancholy, a ghastly fatality, overshadows the artist'swork. It resembles a bitter imprecation upon the fate of mankind.There truly do we find the grievous satire, the truthful picture of thesociety Holbein had under his eyes. Crime and misfortune, those are whatimpressed him; but what shall we depict, we artists of another age?Shall we seek in the thought of death the reward of mankind in thepresent day? Shall we invoke it as the punishment of injustice and theguerdon of suffering?No, we have no longer to deal with Death, but with Life. We no longerbelieve either in the nothingness of the tomb or in salvation purchasedby obligatory renunciation; we want life to be good because we want itto be fruitful. Lazarus must leave his dunghill, so that the poor may nolonger rejoice at the death of the rich. All must be happy, so that thehappiness of some may not be a crime and accursed of God. The husbandmanas he sows his grain must know that he is working at the work of life,and not rejoice because Death is walking beside him. In a word, deathmust no longer be the punishment of prosperity or the consolation ofadversity. God did not destine death as a punishment or a compensationfor life; for he blessed life, and the grave should not be a refuge towhich it is permitted to send those who cannot be made happy.Certain artists of our time, casting a serious glance upon theirsurroundings, strive to depict grief, the abjectness of poverty,Lazarus's dunghill. That may be within the domain of art and philosophy;but, by representing poverty as so ugly, so base, and at times sovicious and criminal a thing, do they attain their end, and is theeffect as salutary as they could wish? We do not dare to say. We may betold that by pointing out the abyss that yawns beneath the fragile crustof opulence, they terrify the wicked rich man, as, in the time of the_Danse Macabre_, they showed him its yawning ditch, and Death ready towind its unclean arms about him. To-day, they show him the thief pickinghis lock, the assassin watching until he sleeps. We confess that we donot clearly understand how they will reconcile him with the humanity hedespises, how they will move his pity for the sufferings of the poor manwhom he fears, by showing him that same poor man in the guise of theescaped felon and the burglar. Ghastly Death, gnashing his teeth andplaying the violin in the productions of Holbein and his predecessors,found it impossible in that guise to convert the perverse and to comforttheir victims. Is it not a fact that the literature of our day is inthis respect following to some extent in the footsteps of the artists ofthe Middle Ages and the Renaissance?Holbein's drunkards fill their glasses in a sort of frenzied desire toput aside the thought of Death, who, unseen by them, acts as theircup-bearer. The wicked rich men of to-day demand fortifications andcannon to put aside the thought of a rising of the Jacquerie, whom artshows them at work in the shadow, separately awaiting the moment toswoop down upon society. The Church of the Middle Ages answered theterrors of the powerful ones of the earth by selling indulgences. Thegovernment of to-day allays the anxiety of the rich by making them payfor many gendarmes and jailers, bayonets and prisons.Albert Duerer, Michael Angelo, Holbein, Callot, Goya, produced powerfulsatires upon the evils of their age and their country. They are immortalworks, historical pages of unquestionable value; we do not undertake,therefore, to deny artists the right to probe the wounds of society andlay them bare before our eyes; but is there nothing better to be doneto-day than to depict the terrifying and the threatening? In thisliterature of mysteries of iniquity, which talent and imagination havemade fashionable, we prefer the mild, attractive figures to the villainsfor dramatic effect. The former may undertake and effect conversions,the others cause fear, and fear does not cure egoism, but increases it.We believe that the mission of art is a mission of sentiment and love,that the novel of to-day ought to replace the parable and the fable ofsimpler times, and that the artist has a broader and more poetic taskthan that of suggesting a few prudential and conciliatory measures tolessen the alarm his pictures arouse. His object should be to make theobjects of his solicitude lovable, and I would not reproach him forflattering them a little, in case of need. Art is not a study ofpositive reality, it is a quest for ideal truth, and the _Vicar ofWakefield_ was a more useful and healthy book for the mind than the_Paysan Perverti_ or the _Liaisons Dangereuses._Reader, pardon these reflections, and deign to accept them by way ofpreface. There will be no other to the little tale I propose to tellyou, and it will be so short and so simple that I felt that I mustapologize beforehand by telling you what I think of terrifying tales.I allowed myself to be drawn into this digression apropos of aploughman. It is the story of a ploughman that I set out to tell you,and will tell you forthwith.IITHE PLOUGHINGI had been gazing for a long time and with profound sadness at Holbein'sploughman, and I was walking in the fields, musing upon country-life andthe destiny of the husbandman. Doubtless it is a depressing thing toconsume one's strength and one's life driving the plough through thebosom of the jealous earth, which yields the treasures of its fecundityonly under duress, when a bit of the blackest and coarsest bread at theend of the day is the only reward and the only profit of such laborioustoil. The wealth that covers the ground, the crops, the fruit, the proudcattle fattening on the long grass, are the property of a few, and theinstruments of fatigue and slavery of the majority. As a general rule,the man of leisure does not love, for themselves, the fields, or themeadows, or the spectacle of nature, or the superb beasts that are to beconverted into gold pieces for his use. The man of leisure comes to thecountry in search of a little air and health, then returns to the cityto spend the fruit of his vassal's toil.The man of toil, for his part, is too crushed, too wretched, and toofrightened concerning the future, to enjoy the beauties of the landscapeand the charms of rustic life. To him also the golden fields, the lovelymeadows, the noble animals, represent bags of crowns, of which he willhave only a paltry share, insufficient for his needs, and yet thosecursed bags must be filled every year to satisfy the master and pay forthe privilege of living sparingly and wretchedly on his domain.And still nature is always young and beautiful and generous. She shedspoetry and beauty upon all living things, upon all the plants that areleft to develop in their own way. Nature possesses the secret ofhappiness, and no one has ever succeeded in wresting it from her. Hewould be the most fortunate of men who, possessing the science of hiscraft and working with his hands, deriving happiness and liberty fromthe exercise of his intelligent strength, should have time to live inthe heart and the brain, to understand his work, and to love the work ofGod. The artist has enjoyment of that sort in contemplating andreproducing the beauties of Nature; but, when he sees the suffering ofthe men who people this paradise called the earth, the just,kind-hearted artist is grieved in the midst of his enjoyment. Where themind, heart, and arms work in concert under the eye of Providence, truehappiness would be found, and a holy harmony would exist between themunificence of God and the delights of the human soul. Then, instead ofpiteous, ghastly Death walking in his furrow, whip in hand, the painterof allegories could place beside the ploughman a radiant angel, sowingthe blessed grain in the smoking furrows with generous hand.And the dream of a peaceful, free, poetical, laborious, simple existencefor the husbandman is not so difficult of conception that it need berelegated to a place among chimeras. The gentle, melancholy words ofVirgil: "O how happy the life of the husbandman, if he but knew hishappiness!" is an expression of regret; but, like all regrets, it isalso a prediction. A day will come when the ploughman may be an artist,if not to express,--which will then matter but little, perhaps,--at allevents, to feel, the beautiful. Do you believe that this mysteriousintuition of poesy does not already exist within him in the state ofinstinct and vague revery? In those who have a little hoard for theirprotection to-day, and in whom excess of misery does not stifle allmoral and intellectual development, pure happiness, felt andappreciated, is at the elementary stage; and, furthermore, if poets'voices have already arisen from the bosom of sorrow and fatigue, whyshould it be said that the work of the hands excludes the exercise ofthe functions of the mind? That exclusion is probably the general resultof excessive toil and profound misery; but let it not be said that whenman shall work only moderately and profitably, then there will be nonebut bad workmen and bad poets. He who derives noble enjoyment from theinward sentiment of poesy is a true poet, though he has never written aline in his life.My thoughts had taken this course, and I did not notice that thisconfidence in man's capacity for education was strengthened in my mindby external influences. I was walking along the edge of a field whichthe peasants were preparing for the approaching sowing. The field was anextensive one, like that in Holbein's picture. The landscape, too, wasof great extent and framed in broad lines of verdure, slightly reddenedby the approach of autumn, the lusty brown earth, where recent rains hadleft in some of the furrows lines of water which sparkled in the sunlike slender silver threads. It was a blight, warm day, and the ground,freshly opened by the sharp ploughshares, exhaled a slight vapor. Atthe upper end of the field, an old man, whose broad back and stern facerecalled the man in Holbein's picture, but whose clothing did notindicate poverty, gravely drove his old-fashioned _areau_, drawn by twoplacid oxen, with pale yellow hides, veritable patriarchs of the fields,tall, rather thin, with long, blunt horns, hard-working old beasts whomlong companionship has made _brothers_, as they are called in ourcountry districts, and who, when they are separated, refuse to work withnew mates and die of grief. People who know nothing of the country callthis alleged friendship of the ox for his yoke-fellow fabulous. Let themgo to the stable and look at a poor, thin, emaciated animal, lashing hissunken sides with his restless tail, sniffing with terror and contemptat the fodder that is put before him, his eyes always turned toward thedoor, pawing the empty place beside him, smelling the yoke and chainshis companion wore, and calling him incessantly with a pitiful bellow.The driver will say: "There's a yoke of oxen lost; his brother's dead,and he won't work. We ought to fatten him for killing; but he won't eat,and he'll soon starve to death."The old ploughman was working slowly, in silence, without uselessexpenditure of strength. His docile team seemed in no greater hurrythan he; but as he kept constantly at work, never turning aside, andexerting always just the requisite amount of sustained power, his furrowwas as quickly cut as his son's, who was driving four less powerful oxenon some harder and more stony land a short distance away.But the spectacle that next attracted my attention was a fine oneindeed, a noble subject for a painter. At the other end of the arabletract, a young man of attractive appearance was driving a superb team:four yoke of young beasts, black-coated with tawny spots that gleamedlike fire, with the short, curly heads that suggest the wild bull, thegreat, wild eyes, the abrupt movements, the nervous, jerky way of doingtheir work, which shows that the yoke and goad still irritate them andthat they shiver with wrath as they yield to the domination newlyimposed upon them. They were what are called oxen _freshly yoked_. Theman who was guiding them had to clear a field until recently used forpasturage, and filled with venerable stumps--an athlete's task which hisenergy, his youth, and his eight almost untamed beasts were hardlysufficient to accomplish.A child of six or seven years, as beautiful as an angel, with a lamb'sfleece covering his shoulders, over his blouse, so that he resembledthe little Saint John the Baptist of the painters of the Renaissance,was trudging along in the furrow beside the plough and pricking thesides of the oxen with a long, light stick, the end of which was armedwith a dull goad. The proud beasts quivered under the child's smallhand, and made the yokes and the straps about their foreheads groan,jerking the plough violently forward. When the ploughshare struck aroot, the driver shouted in a resonant voice, calling each beast by hisname, but rather to soothe than to excite them; for the oxen, annoyed bythe sudden resistance, started forward, digging their broad forked feetinto the ground, and would have turned aside and dragged the ploughacross the field, had not the young man held the four leaders in checkwith voice and goad, while the child handled the other four. He, too,shouted, poor little fellow, in a voice which he tried to renderterrible, but which remained as sweet as his angelic face. The wholepicture was beautiful in strength and in grace: the landscape, the man,the child, the oxen under the yoke; and, despite the mighty struggle inwhich the earth was conquered, there was a feeling of peace and profoundtranquillity hovering over everything. When the obstacle was surmountedand the team resumed its even, solemn progress, the ploughman, whosepretended violence was only to give his muscles a little practice andhis vitality an outlet, suddenly resumed the serenity of simple soulsand cast a contented glance upon his child, who turned to smile at him.Then the manly voice of the young _paterfamilias_ would strike up thesolemn, melancholy tune which the ancient tradition of the provincetransmits, not to all ploughmen without distinction, but to those mostexpert in the art of arousing and sustaining the spirit ofworking-cattle. That song, whose origin was perhaps held sacred, and towhich mysterious influences seem to have been attributed formerly, isreputed even to the present day to possess the virtue of keeping up thecourage of those animals, of soothing their discontent, and of whilingaway the tedium of their long task. It is not enough to have the art ofdriving them so as to cut the furrow in an absolutely straight line, tolighten their labor by raising the share or burying it deeper in theground: a man is not a perfect ploughman if he cannot sing to hiscattle, and that is a special science which requires special taste andpowers.To speak accurately, this song is only a sort of recitative, broken offand taken up again at pleasure. Its irregular form and its intonations,false according to the rules of musical art, make it impossible toreproduce. But it is a fine song none the less, and so entirelyappropriate to the nature of the work it accompanies, to the gait of theox, to the tranquillity of rural scenes, to the simple manners of themen who sing it, that no genius unfamiliar with work in the fields couldhave invented it, and no singer other than a _cunning ploughman_ of thatregion would know how to render it. At the time of year when there is noother work and no other sign of activity in the country than theploughing, that sweet and powerful chant rises like the voice of thebreeze, which it resembles somewhat in its peculiar pitch. The finalword of each phrase, sustained at incredible length, and with marvellouspower of breath, ascends a fourth of a tone, purposely making a discord.That is barbarous, perhaps, but the charm of it is indescribable, andwhen one is accustomed to hear it, one cannot conceive of any other songat that time and in those localities that would not disturb the harmony.It happened, therefore, that I had before my eyes a picture in strikingcontrast with Holbein's, although it might be a similar scene. Insteadof a sad old man, a cheerful young man; instead of a team of thin, sorryhorses, two yoke of four sturdy, spirited cattle; instead of Death, alovely child; instead of an image of despair and a suggestion ofdestruction, a spectacle of energetic action and a thought of happiness.Then it was that the French quatrain:    "A la sueur de ton visaige," etc.,and the _O fortunatos_----_agricolas_ of Virgil, came to my mindsimultaneously, and when I saw that handsome pair, the man and thechild, performing a grand and solemn task under such poetic conditions,and with so much grace combined with so much strength, I had a feelingof profound compassion mingled with involuntary respect. Happy thehusbandman. Yes, so I should be in his place, if my arm should suddenlybecome strong and my chest powerful, so that they could thus fertilizenature and sing to her, without my eyes losing the power to see and mybrain to understand the harmony of colors and sounds, the delicacy oftones, and the gracefulness of contours,--in a word, the mysteriousbeauty of things, and, above all, without my heart ceasing to be inrelation with the divine sentiment that presided at the immortal andsublime creation.But, alas! that man has never understood the mystery of the beautiful,that child will never understand it! God preserve me from the thoughtthat they are not superior to the animals they guide, and that they havenot at times a sort of ecstatic revelation that charms away theirweariness and puts their cares to sleep! I see upon their noble browsthe seal of the Lord God, for they are born kings of the earth much moretruly than they who possess it, because they have paid for it. And theproof that they feel that it is so is found in the fact that you cannotexpatriate them with impunity, and that they love the ground watered bythe sweat of their brow, that the true peasant dies of homesickness inthe uniform of the soldier, far from the fields where he was born. Butthat man lacks a part of the enjoyments I possess, immaterial enjoymentsto which he is abundantly entitled, he the workman in the vast templewhich the heavens are vast enough to embrace. He lacks knowledge of hisown sentiments. They who condemned him to servitude from his mother'swomb, being unable to take from him the power of reverie, have taken thepower of reflection.Ah! well, such as he is, incomplete and doomed to never-endingchildhood, he is nobler even so than he in whom knowledge has stifledsentiment. Do not place yourselves above him, you who consideryourselves endowed with the lawful and inalienable right to command him,for that terrible error proves that in you the mind has killed the heartand that you are the most incomplete and the blindest of men!--I preferthe simplicity of his mind to the false enlightenment of yours; and if Ihad to tell his life, it would be more pleasant for me to bring out itsattractive and affecting aspects than it is creditable to you to depictthe abject condition to which the scornful rigor of your social preceptsmay debase him.I knew that young man and that beautiful child; I knew their story, forthey had a story, everybody has his story, and everybody might arouseinterest in the romance of his own life if he but understood it.Although a peasant and a simple ploughman, Germain had taken account ofhis duties and his affections. He had detailed them to me ingenuouslyone day, and I had listened to him with interest. When I had watched himat work for a considerable time, I asked myself why his story should notbe written, although it was as simple, as straightforward, and as devoidof ornament as the furrow he made with his plough.Next year that furrow will be filled up and covered by a new furrow.Thus the majority of men make their mark and disappear in the field ofhumanity. A little earth effaces it, and the furrows we have madesucceed one another like graves in the cemetery. Is not the furrow ofthe ploughman as valuable as that of the idler, who has a name, however,a name that will live, if, by reason of some peculiarity or some absurdexploit, he makes a little noise in the world?So let us, if we can, rescue from oblivion the furrow of Germain, the_cunning ploughman_. He will know nothing about it, and will not bedisturbed; but I shall have had a little pleasure in making the attempt.IIIPERE MAURICE"Germain," his father-in-law said to him one day, "you must make up yourmind to marry again. It's almost two years since you lost my daughter,and your oldest boy is seven years old. You're getting on toward thirty,my boy, and when a man passes that age, you know, in our province, he'sconsidered too old to begin housekeeping again. You have three finechildren, and thus far they haven't been a trouble to us. My wife anddaughter-in-law have looked after them as well as they could, and lovedthem as they ought. There's Petit-Pierre, he's what you might calleducated; he can drive oxen very handily already; he knows enough tokeep the cattle in the meadow, and he's strong enough to drive thehorses to water. So he isn't the one to be a burden to us; but the othertwo--we love them, God knows! poor innocent creatures!--cause us muchanxiety this year. My daughter-in-law is about lying-in, and she stillhas a little one in her arms. When the one we expect has come, she won'tbe able to look after your little Solange, and especially your littleSylvain, who isn't four years old and hardly keeps still a minute day ornight. His blood is hot, like yours: he'll make a good workman, but he'sa terrible child, and my old woman can't run fast enough now to catchhim when he runs off toward the ditch or in among the feet of thecattle. And then, when my daughter-in-law brings this other one into theworld, her last but one will be thrown on my wife's hands for a month,at least. So your children worry us and overburden us. We don't like tosee children neglected; and when you think of the accidents that mayhappen to them for lack of watching, your mind's never at rest. So youmust have another wife, and I another daughter-in-law. Think it over, myboy. I've already warned you more than once; time flies, and the yearswon't wait for you. You owe it to your children and to us, who want tohave everything go right in the house, to marry as soon as possible.""Well, father," the son-in-law replied, "if you really want me to do it,I must gratify you. But I don't propose to conceal from you that it willcause me a great deal of annoyance, and that I'd about as lief drownmyself. You know what you've lost, and you don't know what you mayfind. I had an excellent wife, a good-looking wife, sweet and brave,good to her father and mother, good to her husband, good to herchildren, a good worker, in the fields or in the house, clever about herwork, good at everything, in fact; and when you gave her to me, when Itook her, it wasn't one of the conditions that I should forget her if Ihad the bad luck to lose her.""What you say shows a good heart, Germain," rejoined Pere Maurice; "Iknow you loved my daughter, that you made her happy, and that if youcould have satisfied Death by going in her place, Catherine would bealive at this moment and you in the cemetery. She well deserved to haveyou love her like that, and if you don't get over her loss, no more dowe. But I'm not talking about forgetting her. The good God willed thatshe should leave us, and we don't let a day pass without showing Him, byour prayers, our thoughts, our words, our acts, that we respect hermemory and are grieved at her departure. But if she could speak to youfrom the other world and tell you her will, she would bid you seek amother for her little orphans. The question, then, is to find a womanworthy to take her place. It won't be very easy; but it isn'timpossible; and when we have found her for you, you will love her as youloved my daughter, because you are an honest man and because you will begrateful to her for doing us a service and loving your children.""Very good, Pere Maurice," said Germain, "I will do what you wish, as Ialways have done.""I must do you the justice to say, my son, that you have always listenedto the friendship and sound arguments of the head of your family. So letus talk over the matter of your choice of a new wife. In the firstplace, I don't advise you to take a young woman. That isn't what youneed. Youth is fickle; and as it's a burden to bring up three children,especially when they're the children of another marriage, what you musthave is a kind-hearted soul, wise and gentle, and used to hard work. Ifyour wife isn't about as old as yourself, she won't have sense enough toaccept such a duty. She will think you too old and your children tooyoung. She will complain, and your children will suffer.""That is just what disturbs me," said Germain. "Suppose she should hatethe poor little ones, and they should be maltreated and beaten?""God forbid!" said the old man. "But evil-minded women are rarer inthese parts than good ones, and a man must be a fool not to be able toput his hand on the one that suits him.""True, father: there are some good girls in our village. There's Louiseand Sylvaine and Claudie and Marguerite--any one you please, in fact.""Softly, softly, my boy, all those girls are too young or too poor--ortoo pretty; for we must think of that, too, my son. A pretty woman isn'talways as steady as a plainer one.""Do you want me to take an ugly one, pray?" said Germain, a littledisturbed."No, not ugly, for you will have other children by her, and there'snothing so sad as to have ugly, puny, unhealthy children. But a womanstill in her prime, in good health and neither ugly nor pretty, would doyour business nicely.""It is easy to see," said Germain, smiling rather sadly, "that to getsuch a one as you want we must have her made to order; especially as youdon't want her to be poor, and rich wives aren't easy to get, especiallyfor a widower.""Suppose she was a widow herself, Germain? what do you say to a widowwithout children, and a snug little property?""I don't know of any just now in our parish.""Nor do I, but there are other places.""You have some one in view, father; so tell me at once who it is."IVGERMAIN, THE CUNNING PLOUGHMAN"Yes, I have some one in view," replied Pere Maurice. "It's one Leonard,widow of one Guerin, who lives at Fourche.""I don't know the woman or the place," replied Germain, resigned, butbecoming more and more depressed."Her name is Catherine, like your deceased wife's.""Catherine? Yes, I shall enjoy having to say that name: Catherine! Andyet, if I can't love her as well as I loved the other, it will cause memore pain than pleasure, for it will remind me of her too often.""I tell you that you will love her: she's a good creature, a woman witha big heart; I haven't seen her for a long time, she wasn't abad-looking girl then; but she is no longer young, she is thirty-two.She belongs to a good family, all fine people, and she has eight or tenthousand francs in land which she would be glad to sell, and buy otherland where she goes to live; for she, too, is thinking of marryingagain, and I know that, if her disposition should suit you, she wouldn'tthink you a bad match.""So you have arranged it all?""Yes, subject to the judgment of you two; and that is what you must askeach other after you are acquainted. The woman's father is a distantrelation of mine and has been a very close friend. You know him, don'tyou--Pere Leonard?""Yes, I have seen him talking with you at the fairs, and at the last oneyou breakfasted together: is this what you were talking about at suchlength?""To be sure; he watched you selling your cattle and thought you did thebusiness very well, that you were a fine-appearing fellow, that youseemed active and shrewd; and when I told him all that you are and howwell you have behaved to us during the eight years we've lived andworked together, without ever an angry or discontented word, he took itinto his head that you must marry his daughter; and the plan suits me,too, I confess, considering the good reputation she has, the integrityof her family, and what I know about their circumstances.""I see, Pere Maurice, that you think a little about worldly goods.""Of course I think about them. Don't you?""I will think about them, if you choose, to please you; but you knowthat, for my part, I never trouble myself about what is or is not comingto me in our profits. I don't understand about making a division, and myhead isn't good for such things. I know about the land and cattle andhorses and seed and fodder and threshing. As for sheep and vines andgardening, the niceties of farming, and small profits, all that, youknow, is your son's business, and I don't interfere much in it. As formoney, my memory is short, and I prefer to yield everything rather thandispute about thine and mine. I should be afraid of making a mistake andclaiming what is not due me, and if matters were not simple and clear, Ishould never find my way through them.""So much the worse, my son, and that's why I would like you to have awife with brains to take my place when I am no longer here. You havenever been willing to look into our accounts, and that might maketrouble between you and my son, when you don't have me to keep the peacebetween you and tell you what is coming to each of you.""May you live many years, Pere Maurice! But don't you worry about whatwill happen when you are gone; I shall never dispute with your son. Itrust Jacques as I trust myself, and as I have no property of my own, aseverything that can possibly come to me, comes to me as your daughter'shusband and belongs to our children, I can be easy in my mind and so canyou; Jacques would never try to defraud his sister's children for hisown, as he loves them almost equally.""You are right in that, Germain. Jacques is a good son, a good brother,and a man who loves the truth. But Jacques may die before you, beforeyour children are grown up, and one must always have a care not to leaveminors without a head to give them good advice and arrange theirdifferences. Otherwise the lawyers interfere, set them at odds with eachother, and make them eat everything up in lawsuits. So we ought not tothink of bringing another person into our house, man or woman, withoutsaying to ourselves that that person may some day have to direct theconduct and manage the business of thirty or more children,grandchildren, sons-in-law, and daughters-in-law. No one knows how mucha family may grow, and when the hive is too full and the time has cometo swarm, every one thinks about carrying off his honey. When I tookyou for my son-in-law, although my daughter was rich and you poor, Inever reproached her for choosing you. I saw you were a good worker, andI knew well that the best sort of riches for country people like us is agood pair of arms and a heart like yours. When a man brings those thingsinto a family, he brings enough. But it's different with a woman: herwork in the house is to keep, not to get. Besides, now that you are afather and are looking for a wife, you must remember that your newchildren, having no sort of claim on the inheritance of your firstwife's children, would be left in want if you should die, unless yourwife had some property of her own. And then, it would cost something tofeed the children you are going to add to our little colony. If thatshould fall on us alone, we would take care of them, never fear, andwithout complaining; but everybody's comfort would be diminished, andthe first children would have to take their share of the privations.When families increase beyond measure, and their means do not increasein proportion, then want comes, however bravely we may struggle againstit. This is all I have to say, Germain; think it over, and try to makeyourself agreeable to Widow Guerin; for her good management and hercrowns will bring us aid for the present and peace of mind for thefuture.""Very good, father. I will try to like her and make her like me.""To do that you must go to see her.""At her home? At Fourche? That's a long way, isn't it? and we don't havemuch time to run about at this season.""When a marriage for love is on the carpet, you must expect to wastetime; but when it's a marriage of convenience between two people whohave no whims and who know what they want, it's soon arranged. Tomorrowwill be Saturday; you can shorten your day's ploughing a bit and startabout two o'clock, after dinner; you will be at Fourche by night;there's a good moon just now, the roads are excellent, and it isn't morethan three leagues. Fourche is near Magnier. Besides, you can take themare.""I should rather go afoot in this cool weather.""True, but the mare's a fine beast, and a suitor makes a betterappearance if he comes well mounted. You must wear your new clothes andcarry a nice present of game to Pere Leonard. You will say that you comewith a message from me, you will talk with him, you will pass theSunday with his daughter, and you will return with a _yes_ or a _no_ onMonday morning.""Very good," replied Germain calmly, and yet he was not altogether calm.Germain had always lived a virtuous life, as hard-working peasants do.Married at twenty, he had loved but one woman in his life, and since hehad become a widower, although he was naturally impulsive and vivacious,he had never laughed and dallied with any other. He had faithfullycherished a genuine regret in his heart, and he did not yield to hisfather-in-law without a feeling of dread and melancholy; but thefather-in-law had always managed his family judiciously, and Germain,who had devoted himself unreservedly to the common work, andconsequently to him who personified it, the father of thefamily,--Germain did not understand the possibility of rebelling againstsound arguments, against the common interest of all.Nevertheless, he was sad. Few days passed that he did not weep for hiswife in secret, and, although solitude was beginning to weigh upon him,he was more terrified at the thought of forming a new union, thandesirous to escape from his grief. He said to himself vaguely that lovemight have consoled him if it had taken him by surprise, for love doesnot console otherwise. One cannot find it by seeking it; it comes to uswhen we do not expect it. This project of marriage, conceived in coldblood, which Pere Maurice laid before him, the unknown fiancee, and,perhaps, even all the good things that were said of her common-sense andher virtue, gave him food for thought. And he went his way, musing as aman muses who has not enough ideas to fight among themselves; that is tosay, not formulating in his mind convincing reasons for selfishresistance, but conscious of a dull pain, and not struggling against anevil which it was necessary to accept.Meanwhile, Pere Maurice had returned to the farm-house, while Germainemployed the last hour of daylight, between sunset and darkness, inmending the breaches made by the sheep in the hedge surrounding avineyard near the farm buildings. He raised the stalks of the bushes,and supported them with clods of earth, while the thrushes chattered inthe neighboring thicket, and seemed to call to him to make haste, theywere so curious to come to examine his work as soon as he had gone.VLA GUILLETTEPere Maurice found in the house an elderly neighbor, who had come tohave a chat with his wife, and borrow some embers to light her fire.Mere Guillette lived in a wretched hovel within two gunshots of thefarm. But she was a decent woman and a woman of strong will. Her poorhouse was neat and clean, and her carefully patched clothes denotedproper self-respect with all her poverty."You came to get some fire for the night, eh, Mere Guillette?" said theold man. "Is there anything else you would like?""No, Pere Maurice," she replied; "nothing just now. I'm no beggar, youknow, and I don't abuse my friends' kindness.""That's the truth; and so your friends are always ready to do you aservice.""I was just talking with your wife, and I was asking her if Germain hadat last made up his mind to marry again.""You're no gossip," replied Pere Maurice, "and one can speak before youwithout fear of people talking; so I will tell my wife and you thatGermain has really made up his mind; he starts to-morrow for Fourche.""Bless me!" exclaimed Mere Maurice; "the poor fellow! God grant that hemay find a wife as good and honest as himself!""Ah! he is going to Fourche?" observed La Guillette. "Just see howthings turn out! that helps me very much, and as you asked me just now,Pere Maurice, if there was anything I wanted, I'll tell you what you cando to oblige me.""Tell us, tell us, we shall be glad to oblige.""I would like to have Germain take the trouble to take my daughter withhim.""Where? to Fourche?""Not to Fourche, but to Ormeaux, where she is going to stay the rest ofthe year.""What!" said Mere Maurice, "are you going to part from your daughter?""She has got to go out to service and earn something. It comes hardenough to me and to her, too, poor soul! We couldn't make up our mindsto part at midsummer; but now Martinmas is coming, and she has found agood place as shepherdess on the farms at Ormeaux. The farmer passedthrough here the other day on his way back from the fair. He saw mylittle Marie watching her three sheep on the common land.--'You don'tseem very busy, my little maid,' he said; 'and three sheep are hardlyenough for a shepherd. Would you like to keep a hundred? I'll take youwith me. The shepherdess at our place has been taken sick and she'sgoing back to her people, and if you'll come to us within a week, youshall have fifty francs for the rest of the year, up to midsummer.'--Thechild refused, but she couldn't help thinking about it and telling mewhen she came home at night and found me sad and perplexed about gettingthrough the winter, which is sure to be hard and long, for we saw thecranes and wild geese fly south this year a full month earlier thanusual. We both cried; but at last we took courage. We said to each otherthat we couldn't stay together, because there's hardly enough to keepone person alive on our little handful of land; and then Marie's gettingold--here she is nearly sixteen--and she must do as others do, earn herbread and help her poor mother.""Mere Guillette," said the old ploughman, "if fifty francs was all thatwas needed to put an end to your troubles and make it unnecessary foryou to send your daughter away, why, I would help you to find them,although fifty francs begins to mean something to people like us. But wemust consult good sense as well as friendship in everything. If you weresaved from want for this winter, you wouldn't be safe from future want,and the longer your daughter postpones taking the step, the harder itwill be for you and for her to part. Little Marie is getting to be talland strong, and she has nothing to do at home. She might fall into lazyhabits--""Oh! as far as that goes, I'm not afraid," said Mere Guillette. "Marie'sas brave as a rich girl at the head of a big establishment could be. Shedoesn't sit still a minute with her arms folded, and when we haven't anywork, she cleans and rubs our poor furniture and makes every piece shinelike a looking-glass. She's a child that's worth her weight in gold, andI'd have liked it much better to have her come to you as a shepherdessinstead of going so far away among people I don't know. You'd havetaken her at midsummer if we could have made up our minds; but nowyou've hired all your help, and we can't think of it again untilmidsummer next year.""Oh! I agree with all my heart, Guillette! I shall be very glad to doit. But, meanwhile, she will do well to learn a trade and get used toworking for others.""Yes, of course; the die is cast. The farmer at Ormeaux sent for herthis morning; we said yes, and she must go. But the poor child doesn'tknow the way, and I shouldn't like to send her so far all alone. As yourson-in-law is going to Fourche to-morrow, he can just as well take her.It seems that it's very near the farm she's going to, according to whatthey tell me; for I have never been there myself.""They're right side by side, and my son-in-law will take her. That's asit should be; indeed, he can take her behind him on the mare, and thatwill save her shoes. Here he is, coming in to supper. I say, Germain,Mere Guillette's little Marie is going to Ormeaux as shepherdess. You'lltake her on your horse, won't you?""Very well," said Germain, who was preoccupied, but always ready to dohis neighbor a service.In our world, it would never occur to a mother to entrust a daughter ofsixteen to a man of twenty-eight! for Germain was really onlytwenty-eight, and although, according to the ideas of his province, hewas considered an old man so far as marriage was concerned, he was stillthe handsomest man in the neighborhood. Work had not furrowed andwrinkled his face, as is the case with most peasants who have ten yearsof ploughing behind them. He was strong enough to plough ten more yearswithout looking old, and the prejudice of age must have been very strongin a young girl's mind to prevent her remarking that Germain had a freshcomplexion, a bright eye, blue as the heavens in May, ruddy lips, superbteeth, and a body as graceful and supple as that of a colt that hasnever left the pasture.But chastity is a sacred tradition in certain country districts, farremoved from the corrupt animation of large cities, and Maurice's familywas noted among all the families of Belair for uprightness, and fidelityto the truth. Germain was going in search of a wife; Marie was too youngand too pure for him to think of her in that light, and, unless he was aheartless, bad man, it was impossible that he should have a guiltythought in connection with her. Pere Maurice was in no way disturbed,therefore, to see him take the pretty girl _en croupe_; La Guillettewould have considered that she was insulting him if she had requestedhim to respect her as his sister. Marie mounted the mare, weepingbitterly, after she had kissed her mother and her young friends twentytimes over. Germain, who was also in a melancholy mood, had the moresympathy with her grief, and rode away with a grave face, while theneighbors waved their hands in farewell to poor Marie, with no thoughtof evil to come.VIPETIT-PIERRE_Grise_ was young and strong and handsome. She carried her double loadeasily, putting back her ears and champing her bit like the proud,high-spirited mare she was. As they rode by the long pasture, she spiedher mother--who was called Old Grise, as she was called Young Grise--andneighed an adieu. Old Grise approached the fence, making her hopplesring, tried to leap over into the road to follow her daughter; then,seeing that she started off at a fast trot, she neighed in her turn, andstood looking after her, pensive and disturbed in mind, with her nose inthe air, and her mouth filled with grass which she forgot to eat."The poor creature still knows her progeny," said Germain to divertlittle Marie's thoughts from her grief. "That makes me think that Ididn't kiss my Petit-Pierre before I started. The bad boy wasn't there.Last night, he strove to make me promise to take him along, and hecried a good hour in his bed. This morning again he tried everything topersuade me. Oh! what a shrewd, wheedling little rascal he is! but whenhe saw that it couldn't be, monsieur lost his temper: he went off intothe fields, and I haven't seen him all day.""I saw him," said Marie, trying to force back her tears. "He was runningtoward the woods with the Soulas children, and I thought it likely hehad been away for some time, for he was hungry, and was eating wildplums and blackberries off the bushes. I gave him some bread from myluncheon, and he said: 'Thanks, my dear little Marie; when you come toour house, I'll give you some cake.' The little fellow is just toowinning, Germain!""Yes, he is a winning child, and I don't know what I wouldn't do forhim," the ploughman replied. "If his grandmother hadn't had more sensethan I, I couldn't have kept from taking him with me when I saw himcrying so hard that his poor little heart was all swollen.""Well! why didn't you bring him, Germain? he wouldn't have been in theway; he's so good when you do what he wants you to.""It seems that he would have been in the way where I am going. Atleast, that was Pere Maurice's opinion.--For my part, I should havesaid, on the contrary, that we ought to see how he would be received,and that nobody could help taking kindly to such a dear child.--But theysay at the house that I mustn't begin by exhibiting the burdens of thehousehold.--I don't know why I talk to you about this, little Marie: youdon't understand it.""Yes, I do, Germain; I know you are going to get a wife; my mother toldme, and bade me not mention it to any one, either at home or where I amgoing, and you needn't be afraid: I won't say a word.""You will do well, for it isn't settled; perhaps I shan't suit the ladyin question.""We must hope you will, Germain. Pray, why shouldn't you suit her?""Who knows? I have three children, and that's a heavy load for a womanwho isn't their mother!""That's true; but your children aren't like other children.""Do you think so?""They are as beautiful as little angels, and so well brought up that youcan't find more lovable children anywhere.""There's Sylvain, he's not over good.""He's very small! he can't be anything but terrible; but he's sobright!""True, he is bright: and such courage! he isn't a bit afraid of cows orbulls, and if I would permit him, he'd be climbing up on the horses withhis older brother.""If I had been in your place, I'd have brought the older one. Yourhaving such a beautiful child would surely make her love you on thespot!""Yes, if the woman is fond of children; but suppose she doesn't likethem?""Are there women who don't like children?""Not many, I think; but there are some, and that is what worries me.""Then you don't know this woman at all?""No more than you do, and I am afraid I shall not know her any betterafter I have seen her. I am not suspicious. When any one says pleasantwords to me, I believe them; but I have had reason to repent more thanonce, for words are not deeds.""They say she's a fine woman.""Who says so? Pere Maurice?""Yes, your father-in-law.""That's all right; but he doesn't know her, either.""Well, you will soon see her; you will be very careful, and it's to behoped you won't make any mistake, Germain.""Look you, little Marie, I should be very glad if you would go into thehouse for a little while before going on to Ormeaux: you're a shrewdgirl, you have always shown that you have a keen mind, and you noticeeverything. If you see anything that makes you think, you can quietlytell me about it.""Oh! no, Germain, I wouldn't do that! I should be too much afraid ofbeing mistaken; and, besides, if a word spoken thoughtlessly shoulddisgust you with this marriage, your people would blame me for it, and Ihave enough troubles without bringing fresh ones on my poor dearmother's head."As they were talking thus, Grise pricked up her ears and shied, thenretraced her steps and approached the hedge, where there was somethingwhich had frightened her at first, but which she now began to recognize.Germain looked at the hedge and saw something that he took for a lamb inthe ditch, under the branches of an oak still thick and green."It's a stray lamb," he said, "or a dead one, for it doesn't move.Perhaps some one is looking for it; we must see.""It isn't a lamb," cried little Marie; "it's a child asleep; it's yourPetit-Pierre.""Upon my word!" exclaimed Germain, dismounting; "just see the little implying there asleep, so far from home, and in a ditch, where a snakemight find him!"He raised the child, who opened his eyes and smiled at him, saying, ashe threw his arms around his neck:"Little father, you're going to take me with you!""Oh, yes! still the same song! what were you doing there, naughtyPierre?""I was waiting for my little father to pass; I was looking out on theroad, and I looked so hard I went to sleep.""And if I had passed without seeing you, you would have stayed out allnight and the wolf would have eaten you!""Oh! I knew you'd see me!" rejoined Petit-Pierre confidently."Well, kiss me now, Pierre, bid me good-by, and run back to the house ifyou don't want them to have supper without you.""Why, ain't you going to take me with you?" cried the child, beginningto rub his eyes to show that he proposed to weep."You know grandpa and grandma don't approve of it," said Germain, takingrefuge behind the authority of the old people, like one who places butslight reliance on his own.But the child heard nothing. He began to cry in good earnest, sayingthat as long as his father took little Marie, he could take him too. Hewas told that they would have to go through great forests, that therewere many wicked animals there that ate little children, that Grisewould not carry three, that she said so when they started, and that inthe country they were going to there was no bed or supper for littlemonkeys. All these excellent reasons did not convince Petit-Pierre; hethrew himself on the grass and rolled about, crying that his father didnot love him, and that, if he refused to take him with him, he would notgo back to the house day or night.Germain's fatherly heart was as soft and weak as a woman's. His wife'sdeath, the care he had been compelled to bestow upon his little ones,together with the thought that the poor motherless children needed to bedearly loved, had combined to make it so, and such a hard struggle tookplace within him, especially as he was ashamed of his weakness, andtried to conceal his distress from little Marie, that the perspirationstood out on his forehead and his eyes were bordered with red as ifthey, too, were all ready to shed tears. Finally, he tried to be angry;but as he turned to little Marie, as if to call her to witness hisfirmness of will, he saw that the dear girl's face was bathed in tears,and, all his courage deserting him, it was impossible for him to keepback his own, although he continued to scold and threaten."Really, your heart is too hard," said little Marie at last, "and for mypart, I could never hold out like that against a child who is sounhappy. Come, Germain, take him along. Your mare is used to carryingtwo grown people and a child, for your brother-in-law and his wife, whois much heavier than I am, go to market every Saturday, with their boy,on the honest creature's back. You can put him up in front of you;indeed, I'd rather go all alone on foot than make the little fellowsuffer so.""Don't be disturbed about that," said Germain, who was dying withanxiety to be persuaded. "Grise is strong, and would carry two more ifthere was room on her backbone. But what shall we do with the child onthe way? he will be cold and hungry--and who will look after himto-night and to-morrow, put him to bed, wash him and dress him? I don'tdare put that trouble on a woman whom I don't know, and who will think,I have no doubt, that I stand very little on ceremony with her for abeginning.""According to the good-will or annoyance she shows, you will be able tojudge her at once, Germain, believe me; and at all events, if shedoesn't take to your Pierre, I will take charge of him. I will go to herhouse to dress him, and I'll take him into the fields to-morrow. I'llamuse him all day, and see that he has all he needs.""And he'll tire you out, my poor girl! He'll be a burden to you! a wholeday--that's a long while!""On the contrary, I shall enjoy it; he will be company for me, and makeme less unhappy the first day I shall have to pass in a new country. Ishall fancy I am still at home."The child, seeing that little Marie was taking his part, had clung toher skirt and held it so tight that she would have had to hurt him totake it away. When he saw that his father was yielding, he took Marie'shand in both his little sunburned ones and kissed it, leaping for joy,and pulling her toward the mare with the burning impatience thatchildren show in all their desires."Well, well," said the girl, taking him in her arms, "we must try tosoothe this poor heart that is jumping like a little bird's, and if youfeel cold when night comes, my Pierre, just tell me, and I'll wrap youin my cloak. Kiss your little father, and ask him to forgive you forbeing such a bad boy. Tell him that it shall never happen again! never,do you hear?""Yes, yes, on condition that I always do what he wants me to, eh?" saidGermain, wiping the little fellow's eyes with his handkerchief. "Ah!Marie, you will spoil the rascal for me!--And really, little Marie,you're too good. I don't know why you didn't come to us as shepherdesslast midsummer. You could have taken care of my children, and I wouldrather have paid you a good price for waiting on them than go in searchof a wife who will be very likely to think that she's doing me a greatfavor by not detesting them."[Illustration: Chapter VI_He raised the child, who opened his eyes and smiled at him, saying, ashe threw his arms around his neck."Little father, you are going to take me with you_!"]"You mustn't look on the dark side of things like that," replied littleMarie, holding the rein while Germain placed his son on the front ofthe heavy goat-skin-covered saddle; "if your wife doesn't like children,you can hire me next year, and I'll amuse them so well that they won'tnotice anything, never you fear."VIION THE MOOR"By the way," said Germain, when they had ridden on a short distance,"what will they think at home when this little man doesn't appear? Theold people will be anxious, and they will scour the country for him.""You can tell the man working on the road yonder that you have taken himwith you, and send him back to tell your people.""True, Marie, you think of everything! It didn't even occur to me thatJeannie would be in this neighborhood.""He lives close to the farm, too: he won't fail to do your errand."When they had taken that precaution, Germain started the mare off at atrot, and Petit Pierre was so overjoyed that he did not notice at firstthat he had not dined; but as the rapid movement of the horse dug a pitin his stomach, he began, after a league or more, to yawn and turnpale, and at last confessed that he was dying of hunger."Now he's beginning," said Germain. "I knew that we shouldn't go farbefore monsieur would cry from hunger or thirst.""I'm thirsty, too!" said Petit-Pierre."Well, we will go to Mere Rebec's wine-shop at Corlay, at the sign ofthe _Break of Day_. A fine sign, but a poor inn! Come, Marie, you willdrink a finger of wine too.""No, no, I don't need anything," she said, "I'll hold the mare while yougo in with the little one.""But now I think of it, my dear girl, you gave the bread you had foryour luncheon to my Pierre, and you haven't had anything to eat; yourefused to dine with us at the house, and did nothing but weep.""Oh! I wasn't hungry, I was too sad! and I promise you that I haven'tthe slightest desire to eat now.""We must force you to, little one; otherwise you'll be sick. We have along way to go, and we mustn't arrive there half-starved, and ask forbread before we say good-day. I propose to set you the example, althoughI'm not very hungry; but I shall make out to eat, considering that Ididn't dine very well, either. I saw you and your mother weeping, and itmade my heart sick. Come, come, I will tie Grise at the door; get down,I insist upon it."All three entered Mere Rebec's establishment, and in less than a quarterof an hour the stout, limping hostess succeeded in serving them anomelet of respectable appearance with brown-bread and light wine.Peasants do not eat quickly, and Petit-Pierre had such an enormousappetite that nearly an hour passed before Germain could think ofrenewing their journey. Little Marie ate to oblige at first; then herappetite came, little by little; for at sixteen one cannot fast long,and the country air is an imperious master. The kind words Germain saidto her to comfort her and give her courage also produced their effect;she made an effort to persuade herself that seven months would soon bepassed, and to think how happy she would be to be at home once more, inher own village, since Pere Maurice and Germain were agreed in promisingto take her into their service. But as she was beginning to brighten upand play with Petit-Pierre, Germain conceived the unfortunate idea oftelling her to look out through the wine-shop window at the lovely viewof the valley, which they could see throughout its whole length fromthat elevation, laughing and verdant and fertile. Marie looked, andasked if they could see the houses at Belair from there."To be sure," replied Germain, "and the farm, and your house too. Look,that little gray speck, not far from the great poplar at Godard, justbelow the church-spire.""Ah! I see it," said the girl; and thereupon she began to weep again."I did wrong to remind you of that," said Germain, "I keep doing foolishthings to-day! Come, Marie, my girl, let's be off; the days are short,and when the moon comes up, an hour from now, it won't be warm."They resumed their journey, and rode across the great heath, and asGermain did not urge the mare, in order not to fatigue the girl and thechild by a too rapid gait, the sun had set when they left the road toenter the woods.Germain knew the road as far as Magnier; but he thought that he couldshorten it by not taking the avenue of Chanteloube, but going by Preslesand La Sepulture, a route which he was not in the habit of taking whenhe went to the fair. He went astray and lost a little more time beforeentering the woods; even then he did not enter at the right place, andfailed to discover his mistake, so that he turned his back to Fourcheand headed much farther up, in the direction of Ardentes.He was prevented then from taking his bearings by a mist which came withthe darkness, one of those autumn evening mists which the whitemoonlight makes more vague and more deceptive. The great pools of waterwhich abound in the clearings exhaled such dense vapor that when Grisepassed through them, they only knew it by the splashing of her feet andthe difficulty she had in pulling them out of the mud.When they finally found a straight, level path, and had ridden to theend of it, Germain, upon endeavoring to ascertain where he was, realizedthat he was lost; for Pere Maurice, in describing the road, had told himthat, on leaving the woods, he would have to descend a very steep hill,cross a very large meadow, and ford the river twice. He had advised himto be cautious about riding into the river, because there had been heavyrains at the beginning of the season, and the water might be a littlehigh. Seeing no steep hill, no meadow, no river, but the level moor,white as a sheet of snow, Germain drew rein, looked about for a house,waited for some one to pass, but saw nothing to give him anyinformation. Thereupon he retraced his steps, and rode back into thewoods. But the mist grew denser, the moon was altogether hidden, theroads were very bad, the ruts deep. Twice Grise nearly fell; laden asshe was, she lost courage, and although she retained sufficientdiscernment to avoid running against trees, she could not prevent herriders from having to deal with huge branches which barred the road atthe level of their heads and put them in great danger. Germain lost hishat in one of these encounters, and had great difficulty in finding it.Petit-Pierre had fallen asleep, and, lying back like a log, soembarrassed his father's arms that he could not hold the mare up orguide her."I believe we're bewitched," said Germain, drawing rein once more: "forthese woods aren't big enough for a man to lose himself in unless he'sdrunk, and here we have been riding round and round for two hours,unable to get out of them. Grise has only one idea in her head, and thatis to go back to the house, and she was the one that made me go astray.If we want to go home, we have only to give her her head. But when wemay be within two steps of the place where we are to spend the night,we should be mad to give up finding it, and begin such a long ride overagain. But I don't know what to do. I can't see either the sky or theground, and I am afraid this child will take the fever if we stay inthis infernal fog, or be crushed by our weight if the horse should fallforward.""We mustn't persist in riding any farther," said little Marie. "Let'sget down, Germain; give me the child; I can carry him very well, andkeep him covered up with the cloak better than you can. You can lead themare, and perhaps we shall see better when we're nearer the ground."That expedient succeeded only so far as to save them from a fall, forthe fog crawled along the damp earth and seemed to cling to it. It wasvery hard walking, and they were so exhausted by it that they stoppedwhen they at last found a dry place under some great oaks. Little Mariewas drenched, but she did not complain or seem disturbed. Thinking onlyof the child, she sat down in the sand and took him on her knees, whileGermain explored the neighborhood after throwing Grise's rein over thebranch of a tree.But Grise, who was thoroughly disgusted with the journey, jumped back,released the reins, broke the girths, and, kicking up her heels higherthan her head some half-dozen times, by way of salutation, started offthrough the brush, showing very plainly that she needed no one'sassistance in finding her way."Well, well," said Germain, after he had tried in vain to catch her,"here we are on foot, and it would do us no good if we should find theright road, for we should have to cross the river on foot; and when wesee how full of water these roads are, we can be sure that the meadow isunder water. We don't know the other fords. So we must wait till themist rises; it can't last more than an hour or two. When we can see, wewill look for a house, the first one we can find on the edge of thewood; but at present we can't stir from here; there's a ditch and a pondand I don't know what not in front of us; and I couldn't undertake tosay what there is behind us, for I don't know which way we came."VIIIUNDER THE GREAT OAKS"Oh! well, Germain, we must be patient," said little Marie. "We are notbadly off on this little knoll. The rain doesn't come through the leavesof these great oaks, for I can feel some old broken branches that aredry enough to burn. You have flint and steel, Germain? You were smokingyour pipe just now.""I had them. My steel was in the bag on the saddle with the game I wascarrying to my intended; but the cursed mare carried off everything,even my cloak, which she will lose or tear on all the branches." "Oh!no, Germain; the saddle and cloak and bag are all there on the ground,by your feet. Grise broke the girths and threw everything off when sheleft.""Great God, that's so!" said the ploughman; "and if we can feel roundand find a little dead wood, we can succeed in drying and warmingourselves.""That's not hard to do," said little Marie; "the dead wood cracks underyour feet wherever you step; but give me the saddle first.""What are you going to do with it?""Make a bed for the little one: no, not like that; upside-down, so hewon't roll out; and it's still warm from the mare's back. Prop it up oneach side with those stones you see there.""I don't see them! Your eyes are like a cat's, aren't they?""There! now that's done, Germain! Give me your cloak to wrap up hislittle feet, and I'll put mine over his body. Look! isn't he ascomfortable there as he would be in his bed? and feel how warm he is!""Yes, indeed! you know how to take care of children, Marie!""That doesn't take much magic. Now look for your steel in your bag, andI'll fix the wood.""That wood will never light, it's too damp.""You doubt everything, Germain! Why, can't you remember taking care ofsheep and making big fires in the fields when it was raining hard?""Yes, that's a knack that children who tend sheep have; but I've been anox-driver ever since I knew how to walk.""That's how you came to be stronger in your arms than clever with yourhands. There's your fire all built; now you'll see if it won't burn!Give me the fire and a few dry ferns. Good! now blow; you're notweak-lunged, are you?""Not that I know of," said Germain, blowing like a forge-bellows. In amoment, the flame shot up, cast a red light at first, and finally rosein bluish flashes under the branches of the oaks, struggling with themist, and gradually drying the atmosphere for ten feet around."Now, I'll sit down beside the little one and see that no sparks fall onhim," said the girl. "You must throw on wood and keep the fire bright,Germain! we shall not catch cold or the fever here, I promise you.""Faith, you're a smart girl," said Germain, "and you can make a firelike a little witch. I feel like a new man, and my courage is comingback to me; for, with my legs wet to the knees, and the prospect ofstaying here till daybreak in that condition, I was in a very bad humorjust now.""And when one is in a bad humor, one never thinks of anything," rejoinedlittle Marie."And are you never in a bad humor, pray?""Oh! no, never! What's the use?""Why, it's of no use, that's certain; but how can you help it, when youhave things to annoy you? God knows that you have plenty of them, poorchild; for you haven't always been happy!""True, my poor mother and I have suffered. We have been unhappy, but wenever lost courage.""I wouldn't lose courage for any work that ever was," said Germain; "butpoverty would grieve me, for I have never lacked anything. My wife mademe rich, and I am rich still; I shall be as long as I work at the farm:that will be always, I hope; but every one has his own troubles! I havesuffered in another way.""Yes, you lost your wife, and it was a great pity!""Wasn't it?""Oh! I cried bitterly for her, Germain, I tell you! for she was so kind!But let's not talk about her any more or I shall cry again; all mysorrows seem to be coming back to me to-day.""Indeed, she loved you dearly, little Marie; she thought a deal of youand your mother. What! you are crying! Come, come, my girl, I don't wantto cry, you know--""But you are crying, Germain! You are crying, too! Why should a man beashamed to cry for his wife? Cry on, don't mind me! I share that griefwith you!""You have a kind heart, Marie, and it does me good to weep with you. Butput your feet near the fire; your skirts are all damp, too, poor littlegirl! Let me take your place by the child, and do you warm yourselfbetter than that.""I'm warm enough," said Marie; "if you want to sit down, take a cornerof the cloak; I am very comfortable.""To tell the truth, we're not badly off here," said Germain, seatinghimself close beside her. "The only thing that troubles me now ishunger. It must be nine o'clock, and I had such hard work walking inthose wretched roads, that I feel all fagged out. Aren't you hungry,too, Marie?""I? Not at all. I'm not used to four meals a day as you are, and I havebeen to bed without supper so many times, that once more doesn't worryme much.""Well, a wife like you is a great convenience; she doesn't cost much,"said Germain, with a smile."I am not a wife," said Marie artlessly, not perceiving the turn theploughman's ideas were taking. "Are you dreaming?""Yes, I believe I am dreaming," was Germain's reply; "perhaps it'shunger that makes my mind wander.""What a gourmand you must be!" she rejoined, brightening up a little inher turn; "well, if you can't live five or six hours without eating,haven't you some game in your bag, and fire to cook it with?""The devil! that's a good idea! but what about the gift to my futurefather-in-law?""You have six partridges and a hare! I don't believe you need all thatto satisfy your hunger, do you?""But if we undertake to cook it here, without a spit or fire-dogs, weshall burn it to a cinder!""Oh! no," said little Marie; "I'll agree to cook it for you in the ashesso it won't smell of smoke. Didn't you ever catch larks in the fields,and haven't you cooked them between two stones? Ah! true! I forget thatyou never tended sheep! Come, pluck that partridge! Not so hard! you'llpull off the skin!""You might pluck another one to show me how!""What! do you propose to eat two? What an ogre! Well, there they are allplucked, and now I'll cook them.""You would make a perfect _cantiniere_, little Marie; but unluckily youhaven't any canteen, and I shall be reduced to drink water from thispool.""You'd like some wine, wouldn't you? Perhaps you need coffee, too? youimagine you're at the fair under the arbor! Call the landlord: liquorfor the cunning ploughman of Belair!""Ah! bad girl, you're laughing at me, are you? You wouldn't drink somewine, I suppose, if you had some?""I? I drank with you to-night at La Rebec's for the second time in mylife; but if you'll be very good, I will give you a bottle almost full,and of good wine too!""What, Marie, are you really a magician?""Weren't you foolish enough to order two bottles of wine at La Rebec's?You drank one with the boy, and I took barely three drops out of the oneyou put before me. But you paid for both of them without looking tosee.""Well?""Well, I put the one you didn't drink in my basket, thinking that you orthe little one might be thirsty on the way; and here it is.""You are the most thoughtful girl I ever saw. Well, well! the poorchild was crying when we left the inn, but that didn't prevent her fromthinking more of others than herself! Little Marie, the man who marriesyou will be no fool.""I hope not, for I shouldn't like a fool. Come, eat your partridges,they are cooked to a turn; and, having no bread, you must be satisfiedwith chestnuts.""And where the devil did you get chestnuts?""That's wonderful, certainly! why, all along the road, I picked themfrom the branches as we passed, and filled my pockets with them.""Are they cooked, too?""What good would my wits do me if I hadn't put some chestnuts in thefire as soon as it was lighted? We always do that in the fields.""Now, little Marie, we will have supper together! I want to drink yourhealth and wish you a good husband--as good as you would wish yourself.Tell me what you think about it!""I should have hard work, Germain, for I never yet gave it a thought.""What! not at all? never?" said Germain, falling to with a ploughman'sappetite, but cutting off the best pieces to offer his companion, whoobstinately refused them, and contented herself with a few chestnuts."Tell me, little Marie," he continued, seeing that she did not proposeto reply, "haven't you ever thought about marrying? you're old enough,though!""Perhaps I am," she said; "but I am too poor. You need at least ahundred crowns to begin housekeeping, and I shall have to work five orsix years to save that much.""Poor girl! I wish Pere Maurice would let me have a hundred crowns togive you.""Thank you very much, Germain. What do you suppose people would sayabout me?""What could they say? everybody knows that I'm an old man and can'tmarry you. So they wouldn't imagine that I--that you--""Look, ploughman! here's your son waking up," said little Marie.IXTHE EVENING PRAYERPetit-Pierre had sat up, and was looking all about with a thoughtfulexpression."Ah! the rascal never does anything else when he hears anybody eating!"said Germain; "a cannon-shot wouldn't wake him, but move your jaws inhis neighborhood, and he opens his eyes at once.""You must have been like that at his age," said little Marie, with amischievous smile. "Well, my little Pierre, are you looking for the topof your cradle? It's made of green leaves to-night, my child; but yourfather's having his supper, all the same. Do you want to sup with him? Ihaven't eaten your share; I thought you would probably claim it!""Marie, I insist on your eating," cried the ploughman; "I shan't eat anymore. I am a glutton, a boor; you go without on our account, and it'snot right; I'm ashamed of myself. It takes away my appetite, I tellyou; I won't let my son have any supper unless you take some.""Let us alone," replied little Marie, "you haven't the key to ourappetites. Mine is closed to-day, but your Pierre's is wide open, like alittle wolf's. Just see how he goes at it! Oh! he'll be a sturdyploughman, too!"In truth, Petit-Pierre soon showed whose son he was, and, although hewas hardly awake and did not understand where he was or how he camethere, he began to devour. Then, when his hunger was appeased, beingintensely excited as children generally are when their regular habitsare interrupted, he exhibited more quick wit, more curiosity, and moreshrewdness than usual. He made them tell him where he was, and when helearned that he was in the middle of a forest, he was a little afraid."Are there naughty beasts in this forest?" he asked his father."No, there are none at all," was the reply. "Don't be afraid.""Then you lied when you told me that the wolves would carry me off if Iwent through the big forest with you?""Do you hear this reasoner?" said Germain in some embarrassment."He is right," replied little Marie, "you told him that; he has a goodmemory, and he remembers it. But you must understand, my little Pierre,that your father never lies. We passed the big forest while you wereasleep, and now we're in the little forest, where there aren't anynaughty beasts.""Is the little forest very far from the big one?""Pretty far; and then the wolves never leave the big forest. Even if oneshould come here, your father would kill him.""And would you kill him, too, little Marie?""We would all kill him, for you would help us, my Pierre, wouldn't you?You're not afraid, I know. You would hit him hard!""Yes, yes," said the child, proudly, assuming a heroic attitude, "wewould kill 'em.""There's no one like you for talking to children," said Germain tolittle Marie, "and for making them hear reason. To be sure, it isn'tlong since you were a child yourself, and you remember what your motherused to say to you. I believe that the younger one is, the better oneunderstands the young. I am very much afraid that a woman of thirty,who doesn't know what it is to be a mother, will find it hard to learnto prattle and reason with young brats.""Why so, Germain? I don't know why you have such a bad idea of thiswoman; you'll get over it!""To the devil with the woman!" said Germain. "I would like to go homeand never come back here. What do I need of a woman I don't know!""Little father," said the child, "why do you keep talking about yourwife to-day, when she is dead?""Alas! you haven't forgotten your poor dear mother, have you?""No, for I saw them put her in a pretty box of white wood, and mygrandma took me to her to kiss her and bid her good-by!--She was allwhite and cold, and every night my aunt tells me to pray to the goodLord to let her get warm with Him in heaven. Do you think she's therenow?""I hope so, my child; but you must keep on praying: that shows yourmother that you love her.""I am going to say my prayer," replied the child; "I did not think ofsaying it this evening. But I can't say it all by myself; I alwaysforget something. Little Marie must help me.""Yes, Pierre, I will help you," said the girl. "Come, kneel here by myside."The child knelt on the girl's skirt, clasped his little hands, and beganto repeat his prayer with interest and fervently at first, for he knewthe beginning very well; then more slowly and hesitatingly, and at lastrepeating word for word what Marie dictated to him, when he reached thatpoint in his petition beyond which he had never been able to learn, ashe always fell asleep just there every night. On this occasion, thelabor of paying attention and the monotony of his own tones producedtheir customary effect, so that he pronounced the last syllables onlywith great effort, and after they had been repeated three times; hishead grew heavy, and fell against Marie's breast: his hands relaxed,separated, and fell open upon his knees. By the light of the camp-fire,Germain looked at his little angel nodding against the girl's heart,while she, holding him in her arms and warming his fair hair with hersweet breath, abandoned herself to devout reverie and prayed mentallyfor Catherine's soul.Germain was deeply moved, and tried to think of something to say tolittle Marie to express the esteem and gratitude she inspired in him,but he could find nothing that would give voice to his thoughts. Heapproached her to kiss his son, whom she was still holding against herbreast, and it was hard for him to remove his lips from Petit-Pierre'sbrow."You kiss him too hard," said Marie, gently pushing the ploughman's headaway, "you will wake him. Let me put him to bed again, for he has goneback to his dreams of paradise."The child let her put him down, but as he stretched himself out on thegoat-skin of the saddle, he asked if he were on Grise. Then, opening hisgreat blue eyes, and gazing at the branches for a moment, he seemed tobe in a waking dream, or to be impressed by an idea that had come intohis mind during the day and took shape at the approach of sleep. "Littlefather," he said, "if you're going to give me another mother, I want itto be little Marie."And, without awaiting a reply, he closed his eyes and went to sleep.XDESPITE THE COLDLittle Marie seemed to pay no further heed to the child's strange wordsthan to look upon them as a proof of friendship; she wrapped him upcarefully, stirred the fire, and, as the mist lying upon the neighboringpool gave no sign of lifting, she advised Germain to lie down near thefire and have a nap."I see that you're almost asleep now," she said, "for you don't say aword, and you are staring at the fire just as your little one did justnow. Come, go to sleep, and I will watch over you and the child.""You're the one to go to sleep," replied the ploughman, "and I willwatch both of you, for I never was less inclined to sleep; I have fiftyideas in my head.""Fifty, that's a good many," said the maiden, with some suggestion ofmockery in her tone; "there are so many people who would like to haveone!""Well, if I am not capable of having fifty, at all events I have onethat hasn't left me for an hour.""And I'll tell you what it is, as well as the ones you had before it.""Very good! tell me, if you can guess, Marie; tell me yourself, I shalllike that.""An hour ago," she retorted, "you had the idea of eating, and now youhave the idea of sleeping.""Marie, I am only an ox-driver at best, but really, you seem to take mefor an ox. You're a bad girl, and I see that you don't want to talk withme. Go to sleep, that will be better than criticising a man who isn't ingood spirits.""If you want to talk, let us talk," said the girl, half-reclining besidethe child and resting her head against the saddle. "You're determined toworry, Germain, and in that you don't show much courage for a man. Whatshould I not say, if I didn't fight as hard as I can against my owngrief?""What, indeed; and that is just what I have in my head, my poor child!You're going to live far away from your people in a wretched place, allmoors and bogs, where you will catch the fever in autumn, where there'sno profit in raising sheep for wool, which always vexes a shepherdesswho is interested in her business; and then you will be among strangerswho may not be kind to you, who won't understand what you are worth.Upon my word, it pains me more than I can tell you, and I have a mind totake you back to your mother, instead of going to Fourche.""You speak very kindly, but without sense, my poor Germain; oneshouldn't be cowardly for his friends, and instead of pointing out thedark side of my lot, you ought to show me the bright side, as you didwhen we dined at La Rebec's.""What would you have? that's the way things looked to me then, and theylook different now. You would do better to find a husband.""That can't be, Germain, as I told you; and as it can't be, I don'tthink about it.""But suppose you could find one, after all? Perhaps, if you would tellme what sort of a man you'd like him to be, I could succeed in thinkingup some one.""To think up some one is not to find him. I don't think about it at all,for it's of no use.""You have never thought of finding a rich husband?""No, of course not, as I am poor as Job.""But if he should be well off, you wouldn't be sorry to be well lodged,well fed, well dressed, and to belong to a family of good people whowould allow you to help your mother along?""Oh! as to that, yes! to help my mother is my only wish.""And if you should meet such a man, even if he wasn't in his firstyouth, you wouldn't object very much?""Oh! excuse me, Germain. That's just the thing I am particular about. Ishouldn't like an old man.""An old man, of course not; but a man of my age, for instance?""Your age is old for me, Germain; I should prefer Bastien so far as agegoes, though Bastien isn't such a good-looking man as you.""You would prefer Bastien the swineherd?" said Germain bitterly. "Afellow with eyes like the beasts he tends!""I would overlook his eyes for the sake of his eighteen years."Germain had a horrible feeling of jealousy.--"Well, well," he said, "Isee that your mind is set on Bastien. It's a queer idea, all the same!""Yes, it would be a queer idea," replied little Marie, laughingheartily, "and he would be a queer husband. You could make him believewhatever you chose. For instance, I picked up a tomato in monsieur lecure's garden the other day; I told him it was a fine red apple, and hebit into it like a glutton. If you had seen the wry face he made! _MonDieu_, how ugly he was!""You don't love him then, as you laugh at him?""That wouldn't be any reason. But I don't love him: he's cruel to hislittle sister, and he isn't clean.""Very good! and you don't feel inclined toward anybody else?""What difference does it make to you, Germain?""No difference, it's just for something to talk about. I see, my girl,that you have a sweetheart in your head already.""No, Germain, you're mistaken, I haven't one yet; it may come later: butas I shall not marry till I have saved up a little money, it will be mylot to marry late and to marry an old man.""Well, then, take an old man now.""No indeed! when I am no longer young myself, it will be all the same tome; now it would be different.""I see, Marie, that you don't like me; that's very clear," said Germainangrily, and without weighing his words.Little Marie did not reply. Germain leaned over her: she was asleep; shehad fallen back, conquered, struck down, as it were, by drowsiness, likechildren who fall asleep while they are prattling.Germain was well pleased that she had not heard his last words; herealized that they were unwise, and he turned his back upon her, tryingto change the current of his thoughts.But it was of no avail, he could not sleep, nor could he think ofanything else than what he had just said. He walked around the firetwenty times, walked away and returned; at last, feeling as excited asif he had swallowed a mouthful of gunpowder, he leaned against the treethat sheltered the two children and watched them sleeping.[Illustration: Chapter IX_The child knelt on the girl's skirt, clasped his little hands, andbegan to repeat his prayer with interest and fervently at first, for heknew the beginning very well_.]"I don't know why I never noticed that little Marie is the prettiestgirl in the province!" he thought. "She hasn't a great deal of color,but her little face is as fresh as a wild rose! What a pretty mouth andwhat a cunning little nose!--She isn't tall for her age, but she's builtlike a little quail and light as a lark!--I don't know why they thinkso much at home of a tall, stout, red-faced woman. My wife was ratherthin and pale, and she suited me above all others.--This girl isdelicate, but she's perfectly well and as pretty to look at as a whitekid! And what a sweet, honest way she has! how well you can read herkind heart in her eyes, even when they are closed in sleep!--As for wit,she has more than my dear Catherine had, I must admit, and one wouldnever be bored with her.--She's light-hearted, she's virtuous, she's ahard worker, she's affectionate, and she's amusing.--I don't see whatmore one could ask."But what business have I to think of all that?" resumed Germain, tryingto look in another direction. "My father-in-law wouldn't listen to it,and the whole family would treat me as a madman! Besides, she herselfwouldn't have me, poor child!--She thinks I am too old: she told me so.She isn't interested; it doesn't worry her much to think of being inwant and misery, of wearing poor clothes and suffering with hunger twoor three months in the year, provided that she satisfies her heart someday and can give herself to a husband who suits her--and she's right,too! I would do the same in her place--and at this moment, if I couldfollow my own will, instead of embarking on a marriage that I don'tlike the idea of, I would choose a girl to my taste."The more Germain strove to argue with himself and calm himself, the lesshe succeeded. He walked twenty steps away, to lose himself in the mist;and then he suddenly found himself on his knees beside the two sleepingchildren. Once he even tried to kiss Petit-Pierre, who had one armaround Marie's neck, and he went so far astray that Marie, feeling abreath as hot as fire upon her lips, awoke and looked at him in terror,understanding nothing of what was taking place within him."I didn't see you, my poor children!" said Germain, quickly drawingback. "I came very near falling on you and hurting you."Little Marie was innocent enough to believe him and went to sleep again.Germain went to the other side of the fire, and vowed that he would notstir until she was awake. He kept his word, but it was a hard task. Hethought that he should go mad.At last, about midnight, the fog disappeared, and Germain could see thestars shining through the trees. The moon also shook itself clear of thevapors that shrouded it and began to sow diamonds on the damp moss. Thetrunks of the oak-trees remained in majestic obscurity; but, a littlefarther away, the white stems of the birches seemed like a row ofphantoms in their shrouds. The fire was reflected in the pool; and thefrogs, beginning to become accustomed to it, hazarded a few shrill,timid notes; the knotty branches of the old trees, bristling with palelichens, crossed and recrossed, like great fleshless arms, over ourtravellers' heads; it was a lovely spot, but so lonely and melancholythat Germain, weary of suffering there, began to sing and to throwstones into the water to charm away the ghastly _ennui_ of solitude. Hewanted also to wake little Marie; and when he saw her rise and lookabout to see what the weather was like, he suggested that they shouldresume their journey."In two hours," he said, "the approach of dawn will make the air so coldthat we couldn't stay here, notwithstanding our fire.--Now we can seewhere we are going, and we shall be sure to find a house where they willlet us in, or at least a barn where we can pass the rest of the nightunder cover."Marie had no wish in the matter; and although she was still very sleepy,she prepared to go with Germain.He took his son in his arms without waking him, and insisted that Marieshould come and take a part of his cloak as she would not take her ownfrom around Petit-Pierre.When he felt the girl so near him, Germain, who had succeeded indiverting his thoughts and had brightened up a little for a moment,began to lose his head again. Two or three times he walked abruptly awayfrom her and left her to walk by herself. Then, seeing that she haddifficulty in keeping up with him, he waited for her, drew her hastilyto his side, and held her so tight that she was amazed and angry too,although she dared not say so.As they had no idea in what direction they had started out, they did notknow in what direction they were going; so that they passed through thewhole forest once more, found themselves again on the edge of thedeserted moor, retraced their steps, and, after turning about andwalking a long while, they spied a light through the trees."Good! there's a house," said Germain, "and people already awake, as thefire's lighted. Can it be very late?"But it was not a house: it was their camp-fire which they had coveredwhen they left it, and which had rekindled in the breeze.They had walked about for two hours, only to find themselves back attheir starting-point.XIIN THE OPEN AIR"This time I give it up!" said Germain, stamping on the ground. "A spellhas been cast on us, that's sure, and we shall not get away from heretill daylight. This place must be bewitched.""Well, well, let's not lose our tempers," said Marie, "but let us makethe best of it. We'll make a bigger fire, the child is so well wrappedup that he runs no risk, and it won't kill us to pass a nightout-of-doors. Where did you hide the saddle, Germain? In the middle ofthe holly-bushes, you great stupid! It's such a convenient place to goand get it!""Here, take the child, while I pull his bed out of the brambles; I don'twant you to prick your fingers.""It's all done, there's the bed, and a few pricks aren't sword-cuts,"retorted the brave girl.She proceeded to put little Pierre to bed once more; the boy was sosound asleep by that time, that he knew nothing about their lastjourney. Germain piled so much wood on the fire that it lighted up theforest all around; but little Marie was at the end of her strength, and,although she did not complain, her legs refused to hold her. She wasdeathly pale, and her teeth chattered with cold and weakness. Germaintook her in his arms to warm her; and anxiety, compassion, anirresistible outburst of tenderness taking possession of his heart,imposed silence on his passions. His tongue was loosened, as if by amiracle, and as all feeling of shame disappeared, he said to her:"Marie, I like you, and I am very unfortunate in not making you like me.If you would take me for your husband, neither father-in-law norrelations nor neighbors nor advice could prevent me from giving myselfto you. I know you would make my children happy and teach them torespect their mother's memory, and, as my conscience would be at rest, Icould satisfy my heart. I have always been fond of you, and now I am soin love with you that if you should ask me to spend my life fulfillingyour thousand wishes, I would swear on the spot to do it. Pray, pray,see how I love you and forget my age! Just think what a false idea it isthat people have that a man of thirty is old. Besides, I am onlytwenty-eight! a girl is afraid of being criticised for taking a man tenor twelve years older than she is, because it isn't the custom of theprovince; but I have heard that in other places they don't think aboutthat; on the other hand, they prefer to give a young girl, for hersupport, a sober-minded man and one whose courage has been put to thetest, rather than a young fellow who may go wrong, and turn out to be abad lot instead of the nice boy he is supposed to be. And then, too,years don't always make age. That depends on a man's health andstrength. When a man is worn out by overwork and poverty, or by evilliving, he is old before he's twenty-five. While I--But you're notlistening to me, Marie.""Yes, I am, Germain, I hear what you say," replied little Marie; "but Iam thinking of what my mother has always told me: that a woman of sixtyis much to be pitied when her husband is seventy or seventy-five andcan't work any longer to support her. He grows infirm, and she must takecare of him at an age when she herself is beginning to have great needof care and rest. That is how people come to end their lives in thegutter.""Parents are right to say that, I agree, Marie," said Germain; "but,after all, they would sacrifice the whole of youth, which is the bestpart of life, to provide against what may happen at an age when one hasceased to be good for anything, and when one is indifferent about endinghis life in one way or another. But I am in no danger of dying of hungerin my old age. I am in a fair way to save up something, because, livingas I do with my wife's people, I work hard and spend nothing. Besides, Iwill love you so well, you know, that that will prevent me from growingold. They say that when a man's happy he retains his youth, and I feelthat I am younger than Bastien just from loving you; for he doesn't loveyou, he's too stupid, too much of a child to understand how pretty andgood you are, and made to be courted. Come, Marie, don't hate me, I amnot a bad man; I made my Catherine happy; she said before God, on herdeath-bed, that she had never been anything but contented with me, andshe advised me to marry again. It seems that her heart spoke to herchild to-night, just as he went to sleep. Didn't you hear what he said?and how his little mouth trembled while his eyes were looking atsomething in the air that we couldn't see! He saw his mother, you may besure, and she made him say that he wanted you to take her place.""Germain," Marie replied, greatly surprised and very grave, "you talkstraightforwardly, and all you say is true. I am sure that I should dowell to love you, if it wouldn't displease your relations too much; butwhat would you have me do? my heart says nothing to me for you. I likeyou very much; but although your age doesn't make you ugly, it frightensme. It seems to me as if you were something like an uncle or godfatherto me; that I owe you respect, and that there would be times when youwould treat me as a little girl rather than as your wife and your equal.And then my girl friends would laugh at me, perhaps, and although itwould be foolish to pay any attention to that, I think I should beashamed and a little bit sad on my wedding-day.""Those are childish reasons; you talk exactly like a child, Marie!""Well, yes, I am a child," she said, "and that is just why I am afraidof a man who knows too much. You see, I'm too young for you, for you arefinding fault with me already for talking foolishly! I can't have moresense than belongs to my years.""Alas! _mon Dieu_! how I deserve to be pitied for being so awkward andfor my ill-success in saying what I think! Marie, you don't love me,that's the fact; you think I am too simple and too dull. If you loved mea little, you wouldn't see my defects so plainly. But you don't love me,you see!""Well, it isn't my fault," she replied, a little wounded by his droppingthe familiar form of address he had hitherto used; "I do the best I canwhile I listen to you, but the harder I try, the less able I am to makemyself believe that we ought to be husband and wife."Germain did not reply. He hid his face in his hands and it wasimpossible for little Marie to tell whether he was crying or sulking orasleep. She was a little disturbed to see him so depressed, and to beunable to divine what was going on in his mind; but she dared say nomore to him, and as she was too much astonished by what had taken placeto have any desire to go to sleep again, she waited impatiently fordaybreak, continuing to keep up the fire and watching the child, whomGermain seemed to have forgotten. Germain, meanwhile, was not asleep; hewas not reflecting on his lot, nor was he devising any bold stroke, orany plan of seduction. He was suffering keenly, he had a mountain of_ennui_ upon his heart. He wished he were dead. Everything seemed to beturning out badly for him, and if he could have wept, he would not havedone it by halves. But there was a little anger with himself mingledwith his suffering, and he was suffocating, unable and unwilling tocomplain.When day broke and the noise in the fields announced the fact toGermain, he took his hands from his face and rose. He saw that littleMarie had not slept, either, but he could think of nothing to say to herto show his solicitude. He was utterly discouraged. He concealed Grise'ssaddle in the bushes once more, took his bag over his shoulder, andsaid, taking his son's hand:"Now, Marie, we'll try and finish our journey. Do you want me to takeyou to Ormeaux?""We will go out of the woods together," she replied, "and when we knowwhere we are, we will go our separate ways."Germain said nothing. He was wounded because the girl did not ask him toescort her to Ormeaux, and he did not realize that he had made the offerin a tone that seemed to challenge a refusal.A wood-cutter, whom they met within two hundred paces, pointed out thepath they must take, and told them that after crossing the great meadowthey had only to go, in the one case straight ahead, in the other tothe left, to reach their respective destinations, which, by the way,were so near together that the houses at Fourche could be distinctlyseen from the farm of Ormeaux, and _vice versa_.When they had thanked the wood-cutter and passed on, he called them backto ask if they had not lost a horse."I found a fine gray mare in my yard," he said, "where she may have goneto escape the wolf. My dogs barked all night long, and at daybreak I sawthe beast under my shed; she's there still. Go and look at her, and ifyou know her, take her."Germain, having described Grise and being convinced that it was reallyshe, started back to get his saddle. Little Marie thereupon offered totake the child to Ormeaux, where he could come and get him after he hadpaid his respects at Fourche."He isn't very clean after the night we have passed," she said. "I willbrush his clothes, wash his pretty little face, and comb his hair, andwhen he's all spick and span, you can present him to your new family.""How do you know that I am going to Fourche?" rejoined Germain testily."Perhaps I shan't go there.""Oh! yes, Germain, you ought to go, and you will," said the girl."You are in a great hurry to have me married to somebody else, so thatyou can be sure I won't make myself a nuisance to you.""Come, come, Germain, don't think any more about that; that's an ideathat came to you in the night, because our unpleasant adventuredisturbed your wits a little. But now you must be reasonable again; Ipromise to forget what you said to me and never to mention it to anyone.""Oh! mention it, if you choose. I am not in the habit of taking backwhat I say. What I said to you was true and honest, and I shan't blushfor it before any one.""Very good; but if your wife knew that you had thought of another womanjust at the moment you called on her, it might turn her against you. Sobe careful what you say now; don't look at me like that, with such astrange expression, before other people. Think of Pere Maurice, whorelies on your obedience, and who would be very angry with me if Iturned you from doing as he wants you to. Good-by, Germain; I'll takePetit-Pierre with me so as to force you to go to Fourche. I keep him asa pledge.""Do you want to go with her?" said the ploughman to his son, seeingthat he was clinging to little Marie's hands and following herresolutely."Yes, father," replied the child, who had been listening and understoodin his own way what they had been saying unsuspectingly before him. "Iam going with my darling Marie: you can come and get me when you're donegetting married; but I want Marie to be my little mother, just thesame.""You see that he wants it to be so," Germain said to the young girl."Listen, Petit-Pierre," he added, "I want her to be your mother and staywith you always: she's the one that isn't willing. Try to make her dowhat I want her to.""Don't you be afraid, papa, I'll make her say yes: little Marie alwaysdoes what I want her to."He walked away with the girl. Germain was left alone, more depressed andirresolute than ever.XIITHE VILLAGE LIONESSHowever, when he had repaired the disorder of travel in his clothes andhis horse's accoutrements, when he was mounted upon Grise and hadascertained the road to Fourche, he reflected that there was no drawingback and that he must forget that night of excitement as a dangerousdream.He found Pere Leonard in the doorway of his white house, sitting on apretty wooden bench painted spinach green. There were six stone stepsleading to the frontdoor, showing that the house had a cellar. The wallbetween the garden and hemp-field was roughcast with lime and pebbles.It was an attractive place; one might almost have taken it for the abodeof a substantial bourgeois.Germain's prospective father-in-law came to meet him, and, after fiveminutes spent in questioning him concerning his whole family, he addedthis phrase, invariably used to question courteously those whom onemeets as to the object of their journey: "So you have come out this wayfor a little ride, eh?""I came to see you," replied the ploughman, "and to offer you thislittle gift of game from my father-in-law, and to say, also from him,that you would know my purpose in coming.""Ha! ha!" laughed Pere Leonard, patting his round paunch, "I see, Ihear, I understood!" And he added, with a wink: "You'll not be alone inpaying your respects, my young friend. There are three in the housealready, dancing attendance like you. I don't turn anybody away, and Ishould be hard put to it to decide against any one of them, for they'reall good matches. However, on account of Pere Maurice and the quality ofyour lands, I should prefer you. But my daughter's of age and mistressof her own property; so she will do as she pleases. Go in and introduceyourself; I hope you may draw the lucky number!""Pardon, excuse me," replied Germain, greatly surprised to find himselfone of several, where he had expected to be alone. "I didn't know thatyour daughter was already provided with suitors, and I didn't come todispute for her with others.""If you thought that because you were slow in coming," retorted PereLeonard, with undiminished good-humor, "you would catch my daughternapping, you made a very great mistake, my boy. Catherine has somethingto attract husbands with, and she'll have only too many to choose from.But go into the house, I tell you, and don't lose courage. She's a womanworth disputing for."And, pushing Germain by the shoulders with rough good-humor, "Here,Catherine," he cried, entering the house, "here's one more!"This jovial but vulgar manner of being introduced to the widow, in thepresence of her other suitors, put the finishing touch to theploughman's confusion and annoyance. He felt ill at ease, and stood forsome moments without venturing to turn his eyes on the fair one and hercourt.The Widow Guerin was well made, and did not lack freshness. But theexpression of her face and her costume repelled Germain at the firstglance. She had a forward, self-satisfied air, and her mob-cap trimmedwith a triple row of lace, her silk apron, and her black lace fichu weredecidedly not in harmony with the idea he had conceived of a sedate,serious-minded widow.This elegance in dress and her free and easy manners made her appearold and ugly to him, although she was neither. He thought that suchcoquettish attire and such playful manners would be well suited to theage and keen wit of little Marie, but that such pleasantry on thewidow's part was heavy and stale, and that there was no distinction inthe way she wore her fine clothes.The three suitors were sitting at a table laden with food and wine,which were kept there for them through the whole of Sunday morning; forPere Leonard loved to exhibit his opulence, nor was the widow sorry todisplay her fine plate and to keep open house like a woman of means.Germain, simple and trustful as he was, did not lack penetration in hisobservation of things, and for the first time in his life he stood onthe defensive while drinking. Pere Leonard had compelled him to take aseat with his rivals, and, seating himself opposite him, he treated himas handsomely as possible, and devoted himself to him with evidentpartiality. The gift of game, despite the breach Germain had made in iton his own account, was still considerable enough to produce an effect.The widow seemed to appreciate it, and the suitors eyed it disdainfully.Germain felt ill at ease in that company, and did not eat with anyheartiness. Pere Leonard rallied him about it.--"You seem very down inthe mouth," he said, "and you're sulking with your glass. You mustn'tlet love spoil your appetite, for a fasting lover can't find so manypretty things to say as the man who has sharpened up his wits with amouthful of wine."Germain was mortified that it should be assumed that he was in love; andthe affected demeanor of the widow, who lowered her eyes with a smile,like one who is sure of her game, made him long to protest against hisalleged surrender; but he feared to seem discourteous, so he smiled andtook patience.The widow's lovers seemed to him like three rustic clowns. They musthave been rich, or she would not have listened to their suits. One ofthem was more than forty, and was about as stout as Pere Leonard;another had but one eye, and drank so much that it made him stupid; thethird was young and not a bad-looking fellow; but he attempted to bewitty, and said such insane things that one could but pity him. But thewidow laughed as if she admired all his idiotic remarks, and therein shegave no proof of good taste. Germain thought at first that she was inlove with the young man; but he soon perceived that he was himself therecipient of marked encouragement, and that she wished him to yield morereadily to her charms. That was to him a reason for feeling andappearing even colder and more solemn.The hour of Mass arrived, and they left the table to attend in a body.They had to go to Mers, a good half-league away, and Germain was sotired that he would have been glad of an opportunity to take a napfirst: but he was not in the habit of being absent from Mass, and hestarted with the others.The roads were filled with people, and the widow walked proudly along,escorted by her three suitors, taking the arm of one, then of another,bridling up and carrying her head high. She would have been very glad toexhibit the fourth to the passers-by; but it seemed so ridiculous to beparaded thus in company by a petticoat, in everybody's sight, that hekept at a respectful distance, talking with Pere Leonard and finding away to divert his thoughts and occupy his mind so that they did not seemto belong to the party.XIIITHE MASTERWhen they reached the village, the widow stopped to wait for them. Shewas determined to make her entry with her whole suite; but Germain,refusing to afford her that satisfaction, left Pere Leonard, spoke withseveral people of his acquaintance, and entered the church by anotherdoor. The widow was vexed with him.After the Mass, she made her appearance in triumph on the greenswardwhere dancing was in progress, and opened three successive dances withher three lovers. Germain watched her, and concluded that she dancedwell, but with affectation."Well!" said Leonard, clapping him on the shoulder, "so you don't ask mydaughter to dance? You are altogether too bashful!""I don't dance since I lost my wife," the ploughman replied."Oh! but when you're looking for another, mourning's at an end in yourheart as well as in your clothes.""That's no argument, Pere Leonard; besides, I feel too old, I don't carefor dancing any more.""Hark ye," rejoined Leonard, leading him apart, "you took offence whenyou entered my house, because you found the citadel already surroundedby besiegers, and I see that you're very proud; but that isn'treasonable, my boy. My daughter's used to being courted, especiallythese last two years since her mourning came to an end, and it isn't herplace to make advances to you.""Your daughter has been free to marry again for two years, you say, andhasn't made up her mind yet?" said Germain."She doesn't choose to hurry, and she's right. Although she has rather alively way with her, and you may think she doesn't reflect much, she's awoman of great good sense and one who knows very well what she's about.""I don't see how that can be," said Germain ingenuously, "for she hasthree gallants in her train, and if she knew what she wanted, at leasttwo of them would seem to her to be in the way and she would requestthem to stay at home.""Why so? you don't know anything about it, Germain. She doesn't wanteither the old man or the one-eyed one or the young one, I'm almostcertain of it; but if she should turn them away, people would say shemeant to remain a widow and no others would come.""Ah, yes! they act as a sign-post for her!""As you say. Where's the harm if they like it?""Every one to his taste!" said Germain."That wouldn't be to your taste, I see. But come, now, we can come to anunderstanding: supposing that she prefers you, the field could be leftclear for you.""Yes, supposing! And how long must I stand with my nose in the airbefore I can find out?""That depends on yourself, I fancy, if you know how to talk and argue.So far my daughter has understood very clearly that the best part of herlife would be the part that she passed in letting men court her, and shedoesn't feel in any hurry to become one man's servant when she can giveorders to several. And so, as long as the game pleases her, she candivert herself with it; but if you please her more than the game, thegame may be stopped. All you have to do is not to be discouraged. Comeevery Sunday, ask her to dance, give her to understand that you're onthe list, and if she finds you more likeable and better informed thanthe others, I don't doubt that she'll tell you so some fine day.""Excuse me, Pere Leonard, your daughter is entitled to act as shepleases, and I have no right to blame her. I would act differently if Iwere in her place; I'd be more honest, and I wouldn't let men throw awaytheir time who probably have something better to do than hang around awoman who laughs at them. But, after all, if that entertains her andmakes her happy, it's none of my business. But I must tell you one thingthat is a little embarrassing for me to confess since this morning,seeing that you began by making a mistake as to my intentions and didn'tgive me any time to reply; so that you believe something that isn't so.Pray understand that I didn't come here to ask for your daughter's hand,but to buy a pair of oxen that you intend to take to the fair next weekand that my father-in-law thinks will suit him.""I understand, Germain," said Leonard calmly; "you changed your mindwhen you saw my daughter with her lovers. That's as you please. It seemsthat what attracts one repels another, and you have the right towithdraw as long as you haven't spoken yet. If you really want to buymy oxen, come and look at them in the pasture; we'll talk it over, andwhether we strike a bargain or not, you'll come and take dinner with usbefore you go back.""I don't want you to put yourself out," replied Germain, "perhaps youhave business here; I'm a little tired of watching them dance and ofdoing nothing. I'll go to look at your cattle, and join you later atyour house."Thereupon, Germain slipped away and walked toward the meadows, whereLeonard had pointed out some of his beasts in the distance. It was truethat Pere Maurice wanted to buy, and Germain thought that if he shouldtake back a good yoke at a moderate price, he would be pardoned morereadily for having voluntarily failed to accomplish the real object ofhis journey.He walked fast, and was soon within a short distance of Ormeaux.Thereupon he felt that he must go and kiss his son and see little Marieonce more, although he had lost the hope and banished from his mind thethought of owing his happiness to her. All that he had seen andheard--the vain, giddy woman; the father, at once cunning and shallow,who encouraged his daughter in her pride and disingenuous habits; theimitation of city luxury, which seemed to him an offence against thedignity of country manners; the time wasted in indolent, foolishconversation, that household so different from his own, and, above all,the profound discomfort that the husbandman feels when he lays aside hislaborious habits; all the _ennui_ and annoyance he had undergone withinthe last few hours--made Germain long to be once more with his child andhis little neighbor. Even if he had not been in love with the latter, hewould have sought her none the less for distraction, and to restore hismind to its accustomed channels.But he looked in vain in the neighboring fields, he saw neither littleMarie nor little Pierre; and yet it was the time when the shepherds arein the fields. There was a large flock in a pasture; he asked a youngboy who was tending them if the sheep belonged to the farm of Ormeaux."Yes," said the child."Are you the shepherd? do boys tend woolly beasts for the farmers inyour neighborhood?""No. I'm tending 'em to-day because the shepherdess has gone away: shewas sick.""But haven't you a new shepherdess who came this morning?""Oh! yes! she's gone, too, already.""What! gone? didn't she have a child with her?""Yes, a little boy; he cried. They both went away after they'd been heretwo hours.""Where did they go?""Where they came from, I suppose. I didn't ask 'em.""But what did they go away for?" said Germain, with increasing anxiety."Why, how do I know?""Didn't they agree about wages? but that must have been agreed onbeforehand.""I can't tell you anything about it. I saw them go in and come out,that's all."Germain went on to the farm and questioned the farm-hands. No one couldexplain what had happened; but all agreed that, after talking with thefarmer, the girl had gone away without saying a word, taking with herthe child, who was weeping."Did they ill-treat my son?" cried Germain, his eyes flashing fire."He was your son, was he? How did he come to be with that girl? Whereare you from, and what's your name?"Germain, seeing that his questions were answered by other questions,according to the custom of the country, stamped his foot impatiently,and asked to speak with the master.The master was not there: he was not in the habit of staying the wholeday when he came to the farm. He had mounted his horse, and ridden offto some other of his farms."But surely you can find out the reason of that young girl's goingaway?" said Germain, assailed by keen anxiety.The farm-hand exchanged a strange smile with his wife, then replied thathe knew nothing about it, that it did not concern him. All that Germaincould learn was that the girl and the child had gone in the direction ofFourche. He hurried to Fourche: the widow and her lovers had notreturned, nor had Pere Leonard. The servant told him that a young girland a child had come there and inquired for him, but that she, notknowing them, thought it best not to admit them and advised them to goto Mers."Why did you refuse to let them in?" said Germain angrily. "Are you sosuspicious in these parts that you don't open your door to yourneighbor?""Oh! bless me!" the servant replied, "in a rich house like this, onehas to keep a sharp lookout. I am responsible for everything when themasters are away, and I can't open the door to everybody that comes.""That's a vile custom," said Germain, "and I'd rather be poor than livein fear like that. Adieu, girl! adieu to your wretched country!"He inquired at the neighboring houses. Everybody had seen theshepherdess and the child. As the little one had left Belairunexpectedly, without being dressed for the occasion, with a torn blouseand his little lamb's fleece over his shoulders; and as little Marie wasnecessarily very shabbily dressed at all times, they had been taken forbeggars. Some one had offered them bread; the girl had accepted a piecefor the child, who was hungry, then she had walked away very fast withhim and had gone into the woods.Germain reflected a moment, then asked if the farmer from Ormeaux hadnot come to Fourche."Yes," was the reply; "he rode by on horseback a few minutes after thegirl.""Did he ride after her?""Ah! you know him, do you?" laughed the village innkeeper, to whom hehad applied for information."Yes, to be sure; he's a devil of a fellow for running after the girls.But I don't believe he caught that one; although, after all, if he hadseen her--""That's enough, thanks!" And he flew rather than ran to Leonard'sstable. He threw the saddle on Grise's back, leaped upon her, andgalloped away in the direction of the woods of Chanteloube.His heart was beating fast with anxiety and wrath, the perspirationrolled down his forehead. He covered Grise's sides with blood, althoughthe mare, when she found that she was on the way to her stable, did notneed to be urged to go at full speed.XIVTHE OLD WOMANGermain soon found himself at the spot on the edge of the pool where hehad passed the night. The fire was still smoking; an old woman waspicking up what was left of the dead wood Marie had collected. Germainstopped to question her. She was deaf, and misunderstood his questions."Yes, my boy," she said, "this is the Devil's Pool. It's a bad place,and you mustn't come near it without throwing three stones in with yourleft hand and crossing yourself with your right: that drives away thespirits. Unless they do that, misfortune comes to those who walk aroundit.""I didn't ask you about that," said Germain, drawing nearer to her andshouting at the top of his voice: "Haven't you seen a girl and a youngchild going through the woods?""Yes," said the old woman, "there was a small child drowned there!"Germain shivered from head to foot; but luckily the old woman added:"That was a long, long while ago; they put up a beautiful cross; but ona fine stormy night the evil spirits threw it into the water. You canstill see one end of it. If any one had the bad luck to stop here atnight, he would be very sure not to be able to go away before dawn. Itwould do him no good to walk, walk: he might travel two hundred leaguesthrough the woods and find himself still in the same place."--Theploughman's imagination was impressed, do what he would, by what heheard, and the idea of the misfortune which might follow, to justify theremainder of the old woman's assertions, took such complete possessionof his brain that he felt cold all over his body. Despairing ofobtaining any additional information, he mounted his horse and began toride through the woods, calling Pierre at the top of his voice,whistling, cracking his whip, breaking off branches to fill the forestwith the noise of his progress, then listening to see if any voiceanswered; but he heard naught but the bells on the cows scattered amongthe bushes, and the fierce grunting of pigs fighting over the acorns.At last, Germain heard behind him the footsteps of a horse following inhis track, and a man of middle age, swarthy, robust, dressed like asemi-bourgeois, shouted to him to stop. Germain had never seen thefarmer of Ormeaux; but an angry instinct led him to determine at oncethat it was he. He turned, and, eyeing him from head to foot, waited tohear what he had to say to him."Haven't you seen a young girl of fifteen or sixteen, with a little boy,pass this way?" said the farmer, affecting an indifferent manner,although he was visibly moved."What do you want of her?" demanded Germain, not seeking to disguise hisindignation."I might tell you that that was none of your business, my friend, but asI have no reason to hide it, I will tell you that she's a shepherdess Ihired for the year without knowing her.--When she came to the farm, sheseemed to me too young and not strong enough for the work. I thankedher, but I insisted on paying her what her little journey had cost; andshe went off in a rage while my back was turned.--She was in such ahurry that she even forgot part of her things and her purse, whichhasn't very much in it, to be sure; a few sous, I suppose!--but as I hadbusiness in this direction, I thought I might meet her and give her whatshe forgot and what I owe her."Germain was too honest a soul not to hesitate when he heard that story,which was possible at least, if not very probable. He fixed a piercinggaze on the farmer, who bore his scrutiny with much impudence or elsewith perfect innocence."I want to have a clear conscience," said Germain to himself, and,restraining his indignation, he continued aloud:"She's a girl from our neighborhood; I know her: she must be somewhereabout here. Let us go on together--we shall find her, I've no doubt.""You are right," said the farmer. "Let's go on--but, if we don't findher at the end of the path, I give it up--for I must take the Ardentesroad.""Oho!" thought the ploughman, "I won't leave you! even if I should haveto twist around the Devil's Pool with you for twenty-four hours!""Stay!" said Germain suddenly, fixing his eyes on a clump of furze whichwas moving back and forth in a peculiar way: "hola! hola! Petit-Pierre,my child, is that you?"The child, recognizing his father's voice, leaped out of the bushes likea kid, but when he saw that he was with the farmer, he stopped as if interror, and stood still, uncertain what to do."Come, my Pierre, come, it's me!" cried the ploughman, riding toward himand leaping down from his horse to take him in his arms: "and where'slittle Marie?""She's hiding there, because she's afraid of that bad black man, and soam I.""Oh! don't you be afraid; I am here--Marie! Marie! it's me!"Marie came crawling out from the bushes, and as soon as she saw Germain,whom the farmer was following close, she ran and threw herself into hisarms; and, clinging to him like a daughter to her father, she exclaimed:"Ah! my good Germain, you will defend me; I'm not afraid with you."Germain shuddered. He looked at Marie: she was pale, her clothes weretorn by the brambles through which she had run, seeking the thickestunderbrush, like a doe with the hunters on her track. But there wasneither despair nor shame on her face."Your master wants to speak to you," he said, still watching herfeatures."My master?" she said proudly; "that man is not my master and never willbe!--You are my master, you, Germain. I want you to take me back withyou--will work for you for nothing!"The farmer had ridden forward, feigning some impatience."Ah! little one," he said, "you forgot something which I have broughtyou.""No, no, monsieur," replied little Marie, "I didn't forget anything, andthere's nothing I want to ask you for--""Hark ye a minute," said the farmer, "I have something to say toyou!--Come!--don't be afraid--just two words.""You can say them out loud. I have no secrets with you.""Come and get your money, at least.""My money? You don't owe me anything, thank God!""I suspected as much," said Germain in an undertone; "but never mind,Marie, listen to what he has to say to you--for, for my part, I amcurious to find out. You can tell me afterward: I have my reasons forthat. Go beside his horse--I won't lose sight of you."Marie took three steps toward the farmer, who said to her, leaningforward on the pommel of his saddle, and lowering his voice:"Here's a bright louis-d'or for you, little one! you won't say anything,understand? I'll say that I concluded you weren't strong enough for thework on my farm.--And don't let anything more be said about it. I'llcome and see you again one of these days, and if you haven't saidanything, I'll give you something else. And then, if you're morereasonable, you'll only have to say the word: I will take you home withme, or else come and talk with you in the pasture at dusk. What presentshall I bring you?""There is my gift to you, monsieur!" replied little Marie aloud,throwing his louis-d'or in his face with no gentle hand. "I thank youvery much, and I beg you to let me know beforehand when you are comingour way: all the young men in my neighborhood will turn out to receiveyou, because our people are very fond of bourgeois who try to make loveto poor girls! You'll see, they'll be on the lookout for you!""You're a liar and a silly babbler!" said the farmer in a rage, raisinghis stick threateningly. "You'd like to make people believe what isn'ttrue, but you won't get any money out of me: I know your kind!"Marie had recoiled in terror; but Germain darted to the farmer's horse'shead, seized the rein, and shook it vigorously:"I understand now!" he said, "and I see plainly enough what the troublewas. Dismount! my man! come down and let us have a talk!"The farmer was by no means anxious to take a hand in the game: hespurred his horse in order to free himself, and tried to strike theploughman's hands with his stick and make him relax his hold; butGermain eluded the blow, and, taking him by the leg, unhorsed him andbrought him to the heather, where he knocked him down, although thefarmer was soon upon his feet again and defended himself sturdily.[Illustration: Chapter XIV_Marie had recoiled in terror; but Germain darted to the farmer'shorse's head, seized the rein, and shook it vigorously._]"Coward!" said Germain, when he had him beneath him, "I could breakevery bone in your body if I chose! But I don't like to harm anybody,and besides, no punishment would mend your conscience. However, youshan't stir from this spot until you have asked this girl's pardon onyour knees."The farmer, who was familiar with affairs of that sort, tried to turn itoff as a joke. He claimed that his offence was not so very serious, asit consisted only in words, and said that he was willing to beg thegirl's pardon, on condition that he might kiss her and that they shouldall go and drink a pint of wine at the nearest inn and part goodfriends."You disgust me!" replied Germain, pressing his face against the ground,"and I long to see the last of your ugly face. There, blush if you can,and you had better take the road of the _affronteux_[2] when you come toour town."He picked up the farmer's holly staff, broke it across his knee to showthe strength of his wrists, and threw the pieces away with acontemptuous gesture.Then, taking his son's hand in one of his, and little Marie's in theother, he walked away, trembling with indignation.XVTHE RETURN TO THE FARMWithin a quarter of an hour they had crossed the moors. They trottedalong the high-road, and Grise neighed at every familiar object.Petit-Pierre told his father what had taken place so far as he had beenable to understand it."When we got there," he said, "_that man_ came and talked to _my Marie_in the sheepfold, where we went first to see the fine sheep. I'd got upinto the crib to play, and _that man_ didn't see me. Then he saidgood-day to my Marie and then he kissed her.""You let him kiss you, Marie?" said Germain, trembling with anger."I thought it was a compliment, a custom of the place for new arrivals,just as grandma, at your house, kisses the girls who take service withher, to show that she adopts them and will be like a mother to them.""And then," continued Petit-Pierre, who was very proud to have a storyto tell, "_that man_ said something naughty, something you told me notto say and not to remember: so I forgot it right away. But if my papawants me to tell him what it was--""No, my Pierre, I don't want to hear it, and I don't want you toremember it ever.""Then I'll forget it again," said the child. "And then _that man_ actedas if he was mad because Marie said she was going away. He told her he'dgive her all she wanted,--a hundred francs! And my Marie got mad, too.Then he went at her, just like he was going to hurt her. I was afraid,and I ran up to Marie and cried. Then _that man_ said like this: 'What'sthat? where did that child come from? Put him out of here.' And he putup his stick to beat me. But my Marie stopped him, and she said likethis: 'We will talk by and by, monsieur; now I must take this child toFourche, and then I'll come back again.' And as soon as he'd gone out ofthe sheepfold, my Marie says to me like this: 'Let's run away, myPierre, we must go away right off, for that man's a bad man, and hewould only hurt us.'--Then we went behind the barns and crossed a littlefield and went to Fourche to look for you. But you weren't there, andthey wouldn't let us wait for you. And then _that man_ came up behindus on his black horse, and we ran still farther away, and then we wentand hid in the woods. Then he came, too, and we hid when we heard himcoming. And then, when he'd gone by, we began to run for ourselves so asto go home; and then at last you came and found us; and that's all therewas. I didn't forget anything, did I, my Marie?""No, Pierre, and it's the truth. Now, Germain, you will bear witness forme and tell everybody at home that it wasn't for lack of courage andbeing willing to work that I couldn't stay over yonder.""And I will ask you, Marie," said Germain, "to ask yourself thequestion, whether, when it comes to defending a woman and punishing aknave, a man of twenty-eight isn't too old? I'd like to know if Bastien,or any other pretty boy who has the advantage of being ten years youngerthan I am, wouldn't have been crushed by _that man_, as Petit-Pierrecalls him: what do you think about it?""I think, Germain, that you have done me a very great service, and thatI shall thank you for it all my life.""Is that all?""My little father," said the child, "I didn't think to tell little Mariewhat I promised you. I didn't have time, but I'll tell her at home, andI'll tell grandma, too."This promise on his child's part gave Germain abundant food forreflection. The problem now was how to explain his position to hisfamily, and while setting forth his grievances against the widow Guerin,to avoid telling them what other thoughts had predisposed him to be sokeen-sighted and so harsh in his judgment.When one is happy and proud, the courage to make others accept one'shappiness seems easily within reach; but to be rebuffed in one directionand blamed in another is not a very pleasant plight.Luckily, Pierre was asleep when they reached the farm, and Germain puthim down on his bed without waking him. Then he entered upon suchexplanations as he was able to give. Pere Maurice, sitting upon histhree-legged stool in the doorway, listened gravely to him, and,although he was ill pleased with the result of the expedition, whenGermain, after describing the widow's system of coquetry, asked hisfather in-law if he had time to go and pay court to her fifty-twoSundays in the year with the chance of being dismissed at the end of theyear, the old man replied, nodding his head in token of assent: "You arenot wrong, Germain; that couldn't be." And again, when Germain told howhe had been compelled to bring little Marie home again without loss oftime to save her from the insults, perhaps from the violence, of anunworthy master, Pere Maurice again nodded assent, saying: "You are notwrong, Germain; that's as it should be."When Germain had finished his story and given all his reasons, hisfather-in-law and mother-in-law simultaneously uttered a heavy sigh ofresignation as they exchanged glances.Then the head of the family rose, saying: "Well! God's will be done!affection isn't made to order!""Come to supper, Germain," said the mother-in-law. "It's a pity thatcouldn't be arranged better; however, it wasn't God's will, it seems. Wemust look somewhere else.""Yes," the old man added, "as my wife says, we must look somewhereelse."There was no further sound in the house, and when Petit-Pierre rose thenext morning with the larks, at dawn, being no longer excited by theextraordinary events of the last two days, he relapsed into the normalapathy of little peasants of his age, forgot all that had filled hislittle head, and thought of nothing but playing with his brothers, and_being a man_ with the horses and oxen.Germain tried to forget, too, by plunging into his work again; but hebecame so melancholy and so absent-minded that everybody noticed it. Hedid not speak to little Marie, he did not even look at her; and yet, ifany one had asked him in which pasture she was, or in what direction shehad gone, there was not an hour in the day when he could not have toldif he had chosen to reply. He had not dared ask his people to take heron at the farm during the winter, and yet he was well aware that shemust be suffering from poverty. But she was not suffering, and MereGuillette could never understand why her little store of wood never grewless, and how her shed was always filled in the morning when she hadleft it almost empty the night before. It was the same with the wheatand potatoes. Some one came through the window in the loft, and emptieda bag on the floor without waking anybody or leaving any tracks. The oldwoman was anxious and rejoiced at the same time; she bade her daughternot mention the matter, saying that if people knew what was happening inher house they would take her for a witch. She really believed that thedevil had a hand in it, but she was by no means eager to fall out withhim by calling upon the cure to exorcise him from her house; she said toherself that it would be time to do that when Satan came and demandedher soul in exchange for his benefactions.Little Marie had a clearer idea of the truth, but she dared not speak toGermain for fear that he would recur to his idea of marriage, and shepretended when with him to notice nothing.XVIMERE MAURICEOne day, Mere Maurice, being alone in the orchard with Germain, said tohim affectionately: "My poor son, I don't think you're well. You don'teat as much as usual, you never laugh, and you talk less and less. Hasany one in the house, have we ourselves wounded you, without meaning todo it or knowing that we had done it?""No, mother," replied Germain, "you have always been as kind to me asthe mother who brought me into the world, and I should be an ungratefulfellow if I complained of you, or your husband, or any one in thehouse.""In that case, my child, it must be that your grief for your wife'sdeath has come back. Instead of lessening with time, your lonelinessgrows worse, and you absolutely must do what your father-in-law verywisely advised, you must marry again.""Yes, mother, that would be my idea, too; but the women you advised meto seek don't suit me. When I see them, instead of forgetting Catherine,I think of her all the more.""The trouble apparently is, Germain, that we haven't succeeded indivining your taste. So you must help us by telling us the truth.Doubtless there's a woman somewhere who was made for you, for the goodLord doesn't make anybody without putting by his happiness for him insomebody else. So if you know where to go for the wife you need, go andget her; and whether she's pretty or ugly, young or old, rich or poor,we have made up our minds, my old man and I, to give our consent; forwe're tired of seeing you so sad, and we can't live at peace if you arenot.""You are as good as the good Lord, mother, and so is father," repliedGermain; "but your compassion can't cure my trouble: the girl I wouldlike won't have me.""Is it because she's too young? It's unwise for you to put your thoughtson a young girl.""Well, yes, mother, I am foolish enough to have become attached to ayoung girl, and I blame myself for it. I do all I can not to think ofher; but whether I am at work or resting, whether I am at Mass or in mybed, with my children or with you, I think of her all the time, andcan't think of anything else.""Why, it's as if there'd been a spell cast on you, Germain, isn't it?There's only one cure for it, and that is to make the girl change hermind and listen to you. So I must take a hand in it, and see if it canbe done. You tell me where she lives and what her name is.""Alas! my dear mother, I don't dare," said Germain, "for you'll laugh atme.""No, I won't laugh at you, Germain, because you're in trouble, and Idon't want to make it any worse for you. Can it be Fanchette?""No, mother, not her.""Or Rosette?""No.""Tell me, then, for I won't stop, if I have to name all the girls in theprovince."Germain hung his head, and could not make up his mind to reply."Well," said Mere Maurice, "I leave you in peace for to-day, Germain;perhaps to-morrow you will feel more like trusting me, or yoursister-in-law will show more skill in questioning you."And she picked up her basket to go and stretch her linen on the bushes.Germain acted like children who make up their minds when they see thatyou have ceased to pay any attention to them. He followed hismother-in-law, and at last gave her the name in fear and trembling--_LaGuillette's little Marie_.Great was Mere Maurice's surprise: she was the last one of whom shewould have thought. But she had the delicacy not to cry out at it, andto make her comments mentally. Then, seeing that her silence wasoppressive to Germain, she held out her basket to him, saying: "Well, isthat any reason why you shouldn't help me in my work? Carry this load,and come and talk with me. Have you reflected, Germain? have you made upyour mind?""Alas! my dear mother, that's not the way you must talk: my mind wouldbe made up if I could succeed; but as I shouldn't be listened to, I havemade up my mind simply to cure myself if I can.""And if you can't?""Everything in its time, Mere Maurice: when the horse is overloaded, hefalls; and when the ox has nothing to eat, he dies.""That is to say that you will die if you don't succeed, eh? God forbid,Germain! I don't like to hear a man like you say such things as that,because when he says them he thinks them. You're a very brave man, andweakness is a dangerous thing in strong men. Come, take hope. I can'timagine how a poor girl, who is much honored by having you want her, canrefuse you.""It's the truth, though, she does refuse me.""What reasons does she give you?""That you have always been kind to her, that her family owes a greatdeal to yours, and that she doesn't want to displease you by turning meaway from a wealthy marriage.""If she says that, she shows good feeling, and it's very honest on herpart. But when she tells you that, Germain, she doesn't cure you, forshe tells you she loves you, I don't doubt, and that she'd marry you ifwe were willing.""That's the worst of it! she says that her heart isn't drawn toward me.""If she says what she doesn't mean, the better to keep you away fromher, she's a child who deserves to have us love her and to have usoverlook her youth because of her great common-sense.""Yes," said Germain, struck with a hope he had not before conceived;"it would be very good and very _comme il faut_ on her part! but ifshe's so sensible, I am very much afraid it's because she doesn't likeme.""Germain," said Mere Maurice, "you must promise to keep quiet the wholeweek and not worry, but eat and sleep, and be gay as you used to be.I'll speak to my old man, and if I bring him round, then you can findout the girl's real feeling with regard to you."Germain promised, and the week passed without Pere Maurice saying a wordto him in private or giving any sign that he suspected anything. Theploughman tried hard to seem tranquil, but he was paler and moreperturbed than ever.XVIILITTLE MARIEAt last, on Sunday morning as they came out from Mass, his mother-in-lawasked him what he had obtained from his sweetheart since their interviewin the orchard."Why, nothing at all," he replied. "I haven't spoken to her.""How do you expect to persuade her, pray, if you don't speak to her?""I have never spoken to her but once," said Germain. "That was when wewent to Fourche together; and since then I haven't said a single word toher. Her refusal hurt me so, that I prefer not to hear her tell me againthat she doesn't love me.""Well, my son, you must speak to her now; your father-in-law authorizesyou to do it. Come, make up your mind! I tell you to do it, and, ifnecessary, I insist on it; for you can't remain in this state of doubt."Germain obeyed. He went to Mere Guillette's, with downcast eyes and anair of profound depression. Little Marie was alone in thechimney-corner, musing so deeply that she did not hear Germain come in.When she saw him before her, she leaped from her chair in surprise andher face flushed."Little Marie," he said, sitting beside her, "I have pained you andwearied you, I know; but _the man and the woman at our house_"--sodesignating the heads of the family in accordance with custom--"want meto speak to you and ask you to marry me. You won't be willing to do it,I expect that.""Germain," replied little Marie, "have you made up your mind that youlove me?""That offends you, I know, but it isn't my fault; if you could changeyour mind, I should be too happy, and I suppose I don't deserve to haveit so. Come, look at me, Marie, am I so very frightful?""No, Germain," she replied, with a smile, "you're better looking than Iam.""Don't laugh at me; look at me indulgently; I haven't lost a hair or atooth yet. My eyes tell you that I love you. Look into my eyes, it'swritten there, and every girl knows how to read that writing."Marie looked into Germain's eyes with an air of playful assurance; thenshe suddenly turned her head away and began to tremble."Ah! _mon Dieu!_ I frighten you," said Germain; "you look at me as if Iwere the farmer of Ormeaux. Don't be afraid of me, I beg of you, thathurts me too much. I won't say bad words to you, I won't kiss youagainst your will, and when you want me to go away, you have only toshow me the door. Tell me, must I go out so that you can stoptrembling?"Marie held out her hand to the ploughman, but without turning her head,which was bent toward the fire-place, and without speaking."I understand," said Germain; "you pity me, for you are kind-hearted;you are sorry to make me unhappy; but still you can't love me, can you?""Why do you say such things to me, Germain?" little Marie replied atlast, "do you want to make me cry?""Poor little girl, you have a kind heart, I know; but you don't love me,and you hide your face from me because you're afraid to let me see yourdispleasure and your repugnance. And for my part, I don't dare do somuch as press your hand! In the woods, when my son was asleep, and youwere asleep too, I came near kissing you softly. But I should have diedof shame rather than ask you for a kiss, and I suffered as much thatnight as a man roasting over a slow fire. Since then, I've dreamed ofyou every night. Ah! how I have kissed you, Marie! But you slept withoutdreaming all the time. And now do you know what I think? that if youshould turn and look at me with such eyes as I have for you, and if youshould put your face to mine, I believe I should fall dead with joy. Andas for you, you are thinking that if such a thing should happen to you,you would die of anger and shame!"Germain talked as if he were dreaming, and did not know what he said.Little Marie was still trembling; but as he was trembling even more thanshe, he did not notice it. Suddenly she turned; she was all in tears,and looked at him with a reproachful expression.The poor ploughman thought that that was the last stroke, and rose togo, without awaiting his sentence, but the girl detained him by throwingher arms about him, and hid her face against his breast."Ah! Germain," she said, sobbing, "haven't you guessed that I love you?"Germain would have gone mad, had not his son, who was looking for himand who entered the cottage galloping on a stick, with his little sister_en croupe_, lashing the imaginary steed with a willow switch, recalledhim to himself. He lifted him up, and said, as he put him in hisfiancee's arms:"You have made more than one person happy by loving me!"APPENDIXITHE COUNTRY WEDDINGHere ends the story of Germain's courtship, as he told it to me himself,cunning ploughman that he is! I ask your pardon, dear reader, for havingbeen unable to translate it better; for the old-fashioned, artlesslanguage of the peasants of the district that _I sing_--as they used tosay--really has to be translated. Those people speak too much French forus, and the development of the language since Rabelais and Montaigne hasdeprived us of much of the old wealth. It is so with all progress, andwe must make up our minds to it. But it is pleasant still to hear thosepicturesque idioms in general use on the old soil of the centre ofFrance; especially as they are the genuine expressions of the mockinglytranquil and pleasantly loquacious character of the people who use them.Touraine has preserved a considerable number of precious patriarchallocutions. But Touraine has progressed rapidly in civilization duringand since the Renaissance. It is covered with chateaux, roads,activity, and foreigners. Berry has remained stationary, and I thinkthat, next to Bretagne and some provinces in the extreme south ofFrance, it is the most _conservative_ province to be found at thepresent moment. Certain customs are so strange, so curious, that I hopeto be able to entertain you a moment longer, dear reader, if you willpermit me to describe in detail a country wedding, Germain's forinstance, which I had the pleasure of attending a few years ago.For everything passes away, alas! In the short time that I have lived,there has been more change in the ideas and customs of my village thanthere was for centuries before the Revolution. Half of the Celtic,pagan, or Middle-Age ceremonials that I saw in full vigor in mychildhood, have already been done away with. Another year or two,perhaps, and the railroads will run their levels through our deepvalleys, carrying away, with the swiftness of lightning, our ancienttraditions and our wonderful legends.It was in winter, not far from the Carnival, the time of year when it isconsidered becoming and proper, among us, to be married. In the summer,we hardly have time, and the work on a farm cannot be postponed threedays, to say nothing of the extra days required for the more or lesslaborious digestion attending the moral and physical intoxication thatfollows such a festivity.--I was sitting under the huge mantel-piece ofan old-fashioned kitchen fire-place, when pistol-shots, the howling ofdogs, and the shrill notes of the bagpipe announced the approach of thefiances. Soon Pere and Mere Maurice, Germain, and little Marie, followedby Jacques and his wife, the nearest relations of the bride and groom,and their godfathers and godmothers, entered the court-yard.Little Marie, not having as yet received the wedding-gifts, called_livrees_, was dressed in the best that her modest wardrobe afforded: adress of dark-gray cloth, a white fichu with large bright-coloredflowers, an apron of the color called _incarnat_, an Indian red thenmuch in vogue but despised to-day, a cap of snow-white muslin and of theshape, fortunately preserved, which recalls the head-dress of AnneBoleyn and Agnes Sorel. She was fresh and smiling, and not at all proud,although she had good reason to be. Germain was beside her, grave anddeeply moved, like the youthful Jacob saluting Rachel at Laban's well.Any other girl would have assumed an air of importance and a triumphantbearing; for in all ranks of life it counts for something to be marriedfor one's _beaux yeux_. But the girl's eyes were moist and beaming withlove; you could see that she was deeply smitten, and that she had notime to think about the opinions of other people. She had not lost herlittle determined manner; but she was all sincerity and good nature;there was nothing impertinent in her success, nothing personal in herconsciousness of her strength. I never saw such a sweet fiancee as shewhen she quickly answered some of her young friends who asked her if shewas content: "Bless me! indeed I am! I don't complain of the good Lord."Pere Maurice was the spokesman; he had come to offer the customarycompliments and invitations. He began by fastening a laurel branchadorned with ribbons to the mantel-piece; that is called the _exploit_,that is to say, the invitation; then he gave to each of the guests alittle cross made of a bit of blue ribbon crossed by another bit of pinkribbon; the pink for the bride, the blue for the groom; and the guestswere expected to keep that token to wear on the wedding-day, the womenin their caps, the men in their button-holes. It was the ticket ofadmission.Then Pere Maurice delivered his speech. He invited the master of thehouse and all _his company_, that is to say, all his children, all hisrelations, all his friends, all his servants, to the marriage-ceremony,_to the feast, to the sports, to the dancing, and to everything thatcomes after_. He did not fail to say:--I come _to do you the honor_ to_invite_ you. A very proper locution, although it seems a misuse ofwords to us, as it expresses the idea of rendering honor to those whoare deemed worthy thereof.Despite the general invitation carried thus from house to housethroughout the parish, good-breeding, which is extremely conservativeamong the peasantry, requires that only two persons in each familyshould take advantage of it,--one of the heads of the family torepresent the household, one of their children to represent the othermembers.The invitations being delivered, the fiances and their relations went tothe farm and dined together.Little Marie tended her three sheep on the common land, and Germainturned up the ground as if there were nothing in the air.On the day before that fixed for the marriage, about two o'clock in theafternoon, the musicians arrived, that is to say, the bagpipers andviol-players, with their instruments decorated with long floatingribbons, and playing a march written for the occasion, in a measuresomewhat slow for the feet of any but natives, but perfectly adapted tothe nature of the heavy ground and the hilly roads of that region.Pistol-shots, fired by youths and children, announced the beginning ofthe ceremony. The guests assembled one by one and danced on thegreensward in front of the house, for practice. When night had come,they began to make strange preparations: they separated into twoparties, and when it was quite dark, they proceeded to the ceremony ofthe _livrees_.That ceremony was performed at the home of the fiancee, La Guillette'scabin. La Guillette took with her her daughter, a dozen or more youngand pretty shepherdesses, her daughter's friends or relations, two orthree respectable matrons, neighbors with well-oiled tongues, quick atretort, and unyielding observers of the ancient customs. Then sheselected a dozen sturdy champions, her relations and friends; and,lastly, the old _hemp-beater_ of the parish, a fine and fluent talker,if ever there was one.The role played in Bretagne by the _bazvalan_, or village tailor, isassumed in our country districts by the hemp-beater or the wool-carder,the two professions being often united in a single person. He attendsall solemnities, sad or gay, because he is essentially erudite and afine speaker, and on such occasions it is always his part to act asspokesman in order that certain formalities that have been observed fromtime immemorial may be worthily performed. The wandering trades whichtake men into the bosoms of other families and do not permit them toconcentrate their attention upon their own, are well calculated to makethem loquacious, entertaining, good talkers, and good singers.The hemp-beater is peculiarly sceptical. He and another rusticfunctionary, of whom we shall speak anon, the grave-digger, are alwaysthe strong-minded men of the neighborhood. They have talked so muchabout ghosts, and are so familiar with all the tricks of which thosemischievous spirits are capable, that they fear them hardly at all.Night is the time when all three, hemp-beaters, grave-diggers, andghosts, principally exercise their callings. At night, too, thehemp-beater tells his harrowing tales. May I be pardoned for a slightdigression.When the hemp has reached the proper point, that is to say, when it hasbeen sufficiently soaked in running water and half dried on the bank,it is carried to the yards of the different houses; there they stand itup in little sheaves, which, with their stalks spread apart at thebottom and their heads tied together in balls, greatly resemble, in thedark, a long procession of little white phantoms, planted on their slimlegs and walking noiselessly along the walls.At the end of September, when the nights are still warm, they begin theprocess of beating, by the pale moonlight. During the day, the hemp hasbeen heated in the oven; it is taken out at night to be beaten hot. Forthat purpose, they use a sort of wooden horse, surmounted by a woodenlever, which, falling upon the grooves, breaks the plant without cuttingit. Then it is that you hear at night, in the country, the sharp,clean-cut sound of three blows struck in rapid succession. Then there issilence for a moment; that means that the arm is moving the handful ofhemp, in order to break it in another place. And the three blows arerepeated; it is the other arm acting on the lever, and so it goes onuntil the moon is dimmed by the first rays of dawn. As this work is doneonly a few days in the year, the dogs do not become accustomed to it,and howl plaintively at every point of the compass.It is the time for unusual and mysterious noises in the country. Themigrating cranes fly southward at such a height that the eye can hardlydistinguish them in broad daylight. At night, you can only hear them;and their hoarse, complaining voices, lost among the clouds, seem likethe salutation and the farewell of souls in torment, striving to findthe road to heaven and compelled by an irresistible fatality to hoverabout the abodes of men, not far from earth; for these migratory birdsexhibit strange uncertainty and mysterious anxiety in their aerialwanderings. It sometimes happens that they lose the wind, when fitfulbreezes struggle for the mastery or succeed one another in the upperregions. Thereupon, when one of those reverses happens during the day,we see the leader of the line soar at random through the air, then turnsharply about, fly back, and take his place at the rear of thetriangular phalanx, while a skilful manoeuvre on the part of hiscompanions soon brings them into line behind him. Often, after vainefforts, the exhausted leader abandons the command of the caravan;another comes forward, takes his turn at the task, and gives place to athird, who finds the current and leads the host forward in triumph. Butwhat shrieks, what reproaches, what remonstrances, what fiercemaledictions or anxious questions are exchanged by those winged pilgrimsin an unfamiliar tongue!In the resonant darkness you hear the dismal uproar circling above thehouses sometimes for a long while; and as you can see nothing, you feel,in spite of yourself, a sort of dread and a sympathetic uneasiness untilthe sobbing flock has passed out of hearing in space.There are other sounds that are peculiar to that time of year, and areheard principally in the orchards. The fruit is not yet gathered, and athousand unaccustomed snappings and crackings make the trees resembleanimate beings. A branch creaks as it bends under a weight that hassuddenly reached the last stage of development; or an apple detachesitself and falls at your feet with a dull thud on the damp ground. Thenyou hear a creature whom you cannot see, brushing against the branchesand bushes as he runs away; it is the peasant's dog, the restless,inquisitive prowler, impudent and cowardly as well, who insinuateshimself everywhere, never sleeps, is always hunting for nobody knowswhat, watches you from his hiding-place in the bushes and runs away atthe noise made by a falling apple, thinking that you are throwing astone at him.On such nights as those--gray, cloudy nights--the hemp-beater narrateshis strange adventures with will-o'-the-wisps and white hares, souls intorment and witches transformed into wolves, the witches' dance at thecross-roads and prophetic night-owls in the grave-yard. I rememberpassing the early hours of the night thus around the moving flails,whose pitiless blow, interrupting the beater's tale at the most excitingpoint, caused a cold shiver to run through our veins. Often, too, thegoodman went on talking as he worked; and four or five words would belost: awful words, of course, which we dared not ask him to repeat, andthe omission of which imparted a more awe-inspiring mystery to themysteries, sufficiently harrowing before, of his narrative. In vain didthe servants warn us that it was very late to remain out-of-doors, andthat the hour for slumber had long since struck for us; they themselveswere dying with longing to hear more. And with what terror did weafterward walk through the hamlet on our homeward way! how deep thechurch porch seemed, and how dense and black the shadow of the oldtrees! As for the grave-yard, that we did not see; we closed our eyes aswe passed it.But the hemp-beater does not devote himself exclusively to frighteninghis hearers any more than the sacristan does; he likes to make themlaugh, he is jocose and sentimental at need, when love and marriage areto be sung; he it is who collects and retains in his memory the mostancient ballads and transmits them to posterity. He it is, therefore,who, at wedding-festivals, is entrusted with the character which we areto see him enact at the presentation of the _livrees_ to little Marie.IITHE LIVREESWhen everybody was assembled in the house, the doors and windows wereclosed and fastened with the greatest care; they even barricaded theloop-hole in the attic; they placed boards, trestles, stumps, and tablesacross all the issues as if they were preparing to sustain a siege; andthere was the solemn silence of suspense in that fortified interioruntil they heard in the distance singing and laughing, and the notes ofthe rustic instruments. It was the bridegroom's contingent, Germain atthe head, accompanied by his stoutest comrades, by his relations,friends, and servants and the grave-digger,--a substantial, joyousprocession.But, as they approached the house, they slackened their pace, tookcounsel together, and became silent. The maidens, shut up in the house,had arranged little cracks at the windows, through which they watchedthem march up and form in battle-array. A fine, cold rain was falling,and added to the interest of the occasion, while a huge fire wascrackling on the hearth inside. Marie would have liked to abridge theinevitable tedious length of this formal siege; she did not like to seeher lover catching cold, but she had no voice in the council under thecircumstances, and, indeed, she was expected to join, ostensibly, in themischievous cruelty of her companions.When the two camps were thus confronted, a discharge of fire-armswithout created great excitement among all the dogs in the neighborhood.Those of the household rushed to the door barking vociferously, thinkingthat a real attack was in progress, and the small children, whom theirmothers tried in vain to reassure, began to tremble and cry. The wholescene was so well played that a stranger might well have been deceivedby it and have considered the advisability of preparing to defendhimself against a band of brigands.Thereupon, the grave-digger, the bridegroom's bard and orator, took hisplace in front of the door, and, in a lugubrious voice, began thefollowing dialogue with the hemp-beater, who was stationed at the smallround window above the same door:THE GRAVE-DIGGER.Alas! my good people, my dear parishioners, for the love of God open thedoor.THE HEMP-BEATER.Who are you, pray, and why do you presume to call us your dearparishioners? We do not know you.THE GRAVE-DIGGER.We are honest folk in sore distress. Be not afraid of us, my friends!receive us hospitably. The rain freezes as it falls, our poor feet arefrozen, and we have come such a long distance that our shoes are split.THE HEMP-BEATER.If your shoes are split, you can look on the ground; you will surelyfind osier withes to make _arcelets_ [little strips of iron in the shapeof bows, with which shoes (wooden) were mended].THE GRAVE-DIGGER.Osier _arcelets_ are not very strong. You are making sport of us, goodpeople, and you would do better to open the door to us. We can see thegleam of a noble blaze within your house; doubtless the spit is inplace, and your hearts and your stomachs are rejoicing together. Open,then, to poor pilgrims, who will die at your door if you do not havemercy on them.THE HEMP-BEATER.Aha! you are pilgrims? you did not tell us that. From what pilgrimageare you returning, by your leave?THE GRAVE-DIGGER.We will tell you that when you have opened the door, for we come from sofar away that you would not believe it.THE HEMP-BEATER.Open the door to you? indeed! we should not dare trust you. Let us see:are you from Saint-Sylvain de Pouligny?THE GRAVE-DIGGER.We have been to Saint-Sylvain de Pouligny, but we have been farther thanthat.THE HEMP-BEATER.Then you have been as far as Sainte-Solange?THE GRAVE-DIGGER.We have been to Sainte-Solange, for sure; but we have been fartherstill.THE HEMP-BEATER.You lie; you have never been as far as Sainte-Solange.THE GRAVE-DIGGER.We have been farther, for we have just returned from Saint-Jacques deCompostelle.THE HEMP-BEATER.What foolish tale are you telling us? We don't know that parish. We seeplainly enough that you are bad men, brigands, _nobodies_, liars. Gosomewhere else and sing your silly songs; we are on our guard, and youwon't get in here.THE GRAVE-DIGGER.Alas! my dear man, have pity on us! We are not pilgrims, as you haverightly guessed; but we are unfortunate poachers pursued by the keepers.The gendarmes are after us, too, and, if you don't let us hide in yourhay-loft, we shall be caught and taken to prison.THE HEMP-BEATER.But what proof have we this time that you are what you say? for here isone falsehood already that you could not follow up.THE GRAVE-DIGGER.If you will open the door, we will show you a fine piece of game we havekilled.THE HEMP-BEATER.Show it now, for we are suspicious.THE GRAVE-DIGGER.Well, open a door or a window, so that we can pass in the creature.THE HEMP-BEATER.Oh! nay, nay! not such fools! I'm looking at you through a little hole,and I see neither hunters nor game.At that point, a drover's boy, a thick-set youth of herculean strength,came forth from the group in which he had been standing unnoticed, andheld up toward the window a goose all plucked and impaled on a stoutiron spit, decorated with bunches of straw and ribbons."Hoity-toity!" cried the hemp-beater, after he had cautiously put out anarm to feel the bird; "that's not a quail or a partridge, a hare or arabbit; it looks like a goose or a turkey. Upon my word, you are noblehunters! and that game did not make you ride very fast. Go elsewhere,my knaves! all your falsehoods are detected, and you may as well go homeand cook your supper. You won't eat ours."THE GRAVE-DIGGER.Alas! _mon Dieu_! where shall we go to have our game cooked? it's verylittle among so many of us; and, besides, we have no fire nor place togo to. At this time of night, every door is closed, everybody has goneto bed; you are the only ones who are having a wedding-feast in yourhouse, and you must be very hardhearted to leave us to freeze outside.Once more, good people, let us in; we won't cause you any expense. Yousee we bring our own food; only a little space at your fireside, alittle fire to cook it, and we will go hence satisfied.THE HEMP-BEATER.Do you think that we have any too much room, and that wood costsnothing?THE GRAVE-DIGGER.We have a little bundle of straw to make a fire with, we will besatisfied with it; only give us leave to place the spit across yourfire-place.THE HEMP-BEATER.We will not do it; you arouse disgust, not pity, in us. It's my opinionthat you are drank, that you need nothing, and that you simply want toget into our house to steal our fire and our daughters.THE GRAVE-DIGGER.As you refuse to listen to any good reason, we propose to force our wayinto your house.THE HEMP-BEATER.Try it, if you choose. We are so well protected that we need not fearyou. You are insolent knaves, too, and we won't answer you any more.Thereupon, the hemp-beater closed the window-shutter with a great noise,and went down to the lower room by a ladder. Then he took the bride bythe hand, the young people of both sexes joined them, and they all beganto dance and utter joyous exclamations, while the matrons sang inpiercing tones and indulged in loud peals of laughter in token of theirscorn and defiance of those who were attempting an assault without.The besiegers, on their side, raged furiously together: they dischargedtheir pistols against the doors, made the dogs growl, pounded on thewalls, rattled the shutters, and uttered terror-inspiring yells; inshort, there was such an uproar that you could not hear yourself talk,such a dust and smoke that you could not see yourself.The attack was a mere pretence, however: the moment had not come toviolate the laws of etiquette. If they could succeed, by prowling aboutthe house, in finding an unguarded passage, any opening whatsoever, theycould try to gain an entrance by surprise, and then, if the bearer ofthe spit succeeded in placing his bird in front of the fire, thatconstituted a taking possession of the hearth-stone, the comedy was atan end, and the bridegroom was victor.But the entrances to the house were not so numerous that they werelikely to have neglected the usual precautions, and no one would haveassumed the right to employ violence before the moment fixed for theconflict.When they were weary of jumping about and shouting, the hemp-beatermeditated a capitulation. He went back to his window, opened itcautiously, and hailed the discomfited besiegers with a roar oflaughter:"Well, my boys," he said, "you're pretty sheepish, aren't you? Youthought that nothing could be easier than to break in here, and youhave discovered that our defences are strong. But we are beginning tohave pity on you, if you choose to submit and accept our conditions."THE GRAVE-DIGGER.Speak, my good friends; tell us what we must do to be admitted to yourfireside.THE HEMP-BEATER.You must sing, my friends, but sing some song that we don't know, andthat we can't answer with a better one."Never you fear!" replied the grave-digger, and he sang in a powerfulvoice:"'_Tis six months since the spring-time_,""_When I walked upon the springing grass_," replied the hemp-beater, ina somewhat hoarse but awe-inspiring voice. "Are you laughing at us, mypoor fellows, that you sing us such old trash? you see that we stop youat the first word.""_It was a prince's daughter_--""_And she would married be_" replied the hemp-beater. "Go on, go on toanother! we know that a little too well."THE GRAVE-DIGGER.What do you say to this:"_When from Nantes I was returning_--"THE HEMP-BEATER."_I was weary, do you know! oh! so weary_." That's a song of mygrandmother's day. Give us another one.THE GRAVE-DIGGER."_The other day as I was walking_--"THE HEMP-BEATER."_Along by yonder charming wood_!" That's a silly one! Our grandchildrenwouldn't take the trouble to answer you! What! are those all you know?THE GRAVE-DIGGER.Oh! we'll sing you so many of them, that you will end by stopping short.Fully an hour was passed in this contest. As the two combatants were themost learned men in the province in the matter of ballads, and as theirrepertory seemed inexhaustible, it might well have lasted all night,especially as the hemp-beater seemed to take malicious pleasure inallowing his opponent to sing certain laments in ten, twenty, or thirtystanzas, pretending by his silence to admit that he was defeated.Thereupon, there was triumph in the bridegroom's camp, they sang inchorus at the tops of their voices, and every one believed that theadverse party would make default; but when the final stanza was halffinished, the old hemp-beater's harsh, hoarse voice would bellow out thelast words; whereupon he would shout: "You don't need to tire yourselvesout by singing such long ones, my children! We have them at our fingers'ends!"Once or twice, however, the hemp-beater made a wry face, drew hiseyebrows together, and turned with a disappointed air toward theobservant matrons. The grave-digger was singing something so old thathis adversary had forgotten it, or perhaps had never known it; but thegood dames instantly sang the victorious refrain through their noses, intones as shrill as those of the sea-gull; and the grave-digger, summonedto surrender, passed to something else.It would have been too long to wait until one side or the other won thevictory. The bride's party announced that they would show mercy oncondition that the others should offer her a gift worthy of her.Thereupon, the song of the _livrees_ began, to an air as solemn as achurch chant.The men outside sang in unison:     "Ouvrez la porte, ouvrez,     Marie, ma mignonne,    _J'ons_ de beaux cadeaux a vous presenter.    Helas! ma mie, laissez-nous entrer."[3]To which the women replied from the interior, in falsetto, in dolefultones:    "Mon pere est en chagrin, ma mere en grand' tristesse,    Et moi je suis fille de trop grand' merci    Pour ouvrir ma porte a _cette heure ici_."[4]The men repeated the first stanza down to the fourth line, which theymodified thus:    "J'ons un beau mouchoir a vous presenter."[5]But the women replied, in the name of the bride, in the same words asbefore.Through twenty stanzas, at least, the men enumerated all the gifts inthe _livree_, always mentioning a new article in the last verse: abeautiful _devanteau_,--apron,--lovely ribbons, a cloth dress, lace, agold cross, even to _a hundred pins_ to complete the bride's modestoutfit. The matrons invariably refused; but at last the young mendecided to mention _a handsome husband to offer_, and they replied byaddressing the bride, and singing to her with the men:     "Ouvrez la porte, ouvrez,     Marie, ma mignonne,    C'est un beau man qui vient vous chercher.    Allons, ma mie, laissons-les entrer."[6]IIITHE WEDDINGThe hemp-beater at once drew the wooden latch by which the door wasfastened on the inside; at that time, it was still the only lock knownin most of the houses in our village. The bridegroom's party invaded thebride's dwelling, but not without a combat; for the boys stationedinside the house, and even the old hemp-beater and the old women, madeit their duty to defend the hearthstone. The bearer of the spit,supported by his adherents, was bound to succeed in bestowing his birdin the fire-place. It was a genuine battle, although they abstained fromstriking one another, and there was no anger in it. But they pushed andsqueezed one another with such violence, and there was so muchself-esteem at stake in that conflict of muscular strength, that theresults might be more serious than they seemed to be amid the laughterand the singing. The poor old hemp-beater, who fought like a lion, waspressed against the wall and squeezed until he lost his breath. Morethan one champion was floored and unintentionally trodden under foot,more than one hand that grasped at the spit was covered with blood.Those sports are dangerous, and the accidents were so serious in lateryears that the peasants determined to allow the ceremony of the_livrees_ to fall into desuetude. I believe that we saw the last of itat Francoise Meillant's wedding, and still it was only a mock-battle.The contest was animated enough at Germain's wedding. It was a point ofhonor on one side and the other to attack and to defend La Guillette'sfireside. The huge spit was twisted like a screw in the powerful handsthat struggled for possession of it. A pistol-shot set fire to a smallstore of hemp in skeins that lay on a shelf suspended from the ceiling.That incident created a diversion, and while some hastened to smotherthe germ of a conflagration, the grave-digger, who had climbed to theattic unperceived, came down the chimney and seized the spit, just asthe drover, who was defending it near the hearth, raised it above hishead to prevent its being snatched from him. Some time before theassault, the matrons had taken care to put out the fire, fearing thatsome one might fall in and be burned while they were struggling closebeside it. The facetious grave-digger, in concert with the drover,possessed himself of the trophy without difficulty, therefore, and threwit across the fire-dogs. It was done! No one was allowed to touch itafter that. He leaped into the room, and lighted a bit of straw whichsurrounded the spit, to make a pretence of cooking the goose, which wastorn to pieces and its limbs strewn over the floor.Thereupon, there was much laughter and burlesque discussion. Every oneshowed the bruises he had received, and as it was often the hand of afriend that had dealt the blow, there was no complaining or quarrelling.The hemp-beater, who was half flattened out, rubbed his sides, sayingthat he cared very little for that, but that he did protest against thestratagem of his good friend the grave-digger, and that, if he had notbeen half-dead, the hearth would not have been conquered so easily. Thematrons swept the floor, and order was restored. The table was coveredwith jugs of new wine. When they had drank together and recovered theirbreath, the bridegroom was led into the centre of the room, and, beingarmed with a staff, was obliged to submit to a new test.During the contest, the bride had been concealed with three of herfriends by her mother, her godmother, and aunts, who had seated the fourgirls on a bench in the farthest corner of the room, and covered themover with a great white sheet. They had selected three of Marie'sfriends who were of the same height as she, and wore caps of exactly thesame height, so that, as the sheet covered their heads and descended totheir feet, it was impossible to distinguish them from each other.The bridegroom was not allowed to touch them, except with the end of hiswand, and only to point out the one whom he judged to be his wife. Theygave him time to examine them, but only with his eyes, and the matrons,who stood by his side, watched closely to see that there was nocheating. If he made a mistake, he could not dance with his betrothedduring the evening, but only with her whom he had chosen by mistake.Germain, finding himself in the presence of those phantoms enveloped inthe same winding-sheet, was terribly afraid of making a mistake; and, asa matter of fact, that had happened to many others, for the precautionswere always taken with scrupulous care. His heart beat fast. LittleMarie tried to breathe hard and make the sheet move, but her mischievousrivals did the same, pushed out the cloth with their fingers, and therewere as many mysterious signs as there were girls under the veil. Thesquare caps kept the veil so perfectly level that it was impossible todistinguish the shape of a head beneath its folds.Germain, after ten minutes of hesitation, closed his eyes, commended hissoul to God, and stuck his staff out at random. He touched littleMarie's forehead, and she threw the sheet aside with a cry of triumph.He obtained leave then to kiss her, and, taking her in his strong arms,he carried her to the middle of the room, and with her opened the ball,which lasted until two o'clock in the morning.Then they separated to meet again at eight o'clock. As there was aconsiderable number of young people from the neighboring towns, and asthere were not beds enough for everybody, each invited guest among thewomen of the village shared her bed with two or three friends, while theyoung men lay pell-mell on the hay in the loft at the farm. You canimagine that there was not much sleep there, for they thought of nothingbut teasing, and playing tricks on one another and telling amusingstories. At all weddings, there are three sleepless nights, which no oneregrets.At the hour appointed for setting out, after they had eaten their soup_au lait_ seasoned with a strong dose of pepper to give them anappetite, for the wedding-banquet bade fair to be abundant, theyassembled in the farm-yard. Our parish church being suppressed, theywere obliged to go half a league away to receive the nuptialbenediction. It was a lovely, cool day; but, as the roads were very bad,every man had provided himself with a horse, and took _en croupe_ afemale companion, young or old. Germain was mounted upon Grise, who,being well groomed, newly shod, and decked out in ribbons, pranced andcapered and breathed fire through her nostrils. He went to the cabin forhis fiancee, accompanied by his brother-in-law Jacques, who was mountedon old Grise and took Mere Guillette _en croupe_, while Germain returnedtriumphantly to the farm-yard with his dear little wife.Then the merry cavalcade set forth, escorted by children on foot, whofired pistols as they ran and made the horses jump. Mere Maurice wasriding in a small cart with Germain's three children and the fiddlers.They opened the march to the sound of the instruments. Petit-Pierre wasso handsome that the old grandmother was immensely proud. But theimpulsive child did not stay long beside her. He took advantage of ahalt they were obliged to make, when they had gone half the distance, inorder to pass a difficult ford, to slip down and ask his father to takehim up on Grise in front of him."No, no!" said Germain, "that will make people say unkind things aboutus! you mustn't do it.""I care very little what the people of Saint-Chartier say," said littleMarie. "Take him, Germain, I beg you; I shall be prouder of him than ofmy wedding-dress."Germain yielded the point, and the handsome trio dashed forward atGrise's proudest gallop.And, in fact, the people of Saint-Chartier, although very satirical anda little inclined to be disagreeable in their intercourse with theneighboring parishes which had been combined with theirs, did not thinkof laughing when they saw such a handsome bridegroom and lovely bride,and a child that a king's wife would have envied. Petit-Pierre had afull coat of blue-bottle colored cloth, and a cunning little redwaistcoat so short that it hardly came below his chin. The villagetailor had made the sleeves so tight that he could not put his littlearms together. And how proud he was! He had a round hat with a black andgold buckle and a peacock's feather protruding jauntily from a tuft ofGuinea-hen's feathers. A bunch of flowers larger than his head coveredhis shoulder, and ribbons floated down to his feet. The hemp-beater, whowas also the village barber and wig-maker, had cut his hair in a circle,covering his head with a bowl and cutting off all that protruded, aninfallible method of guiding the scissors accurately. Thus accoutred, hewas less picturesque, surely, than with his long hair flying in the windand his lamb's fleece _a la_ Saint John the Baptist; but he had no suchidea, and everybody admired him, saying that he looked like a littleman. His beauty triumphed over everything, and, in sooth, over whatwould not the incomparable beauty of childhood triumph?His little sister Solange had, for the first time in her life, a realcap instead of the little child's cap of Indian muslin that little girlswear up to the age of two or three years. And such a cap! higher andbroader than the poor little creature's whole body. And how lovely sheconsidered herself! She dared not turn her head, and sat perfectlystraight and stiff, thinking that people would take her for the bride.As for little Sylvain, he was still in long dresses and lay asleep onhis grandmother's knees, with no very clear idea of what a wedding mightbe.Germain gazed affectionately at his children, and said to his fiancee,as they arrived at the mayor's office:"Do you know, Marie, I ride up to this door a little happier than I wasthe day I brought you home from the woods of Chanteloube, thinking thatyou would never love me; I took you in my arms to put you on the groundjust as I do now, but I didn't think we should ever be together again ongood Grise with this child on our knees. I love you so much, you see, Ilove those dear little ones so much, I am so happy because you love meand love them and because my people love you, and I love my mother andmy friends and everybody so much to-day, that I wish I had three or fourhearts to hold it all. Really, one is too small to hold so much love andso much happiness! I have something like a pain in my stomach."There was a crowd at the mayor's door and at the church to see thepretty bride. Why should we not describe her costume? it became her sowell. Her cap of white embroidered muslin had flaps trimmed with lace.In those days, peasant-women did not allow themselves to show a singlehair; and although their caps conceal magnificent masses of hair rolledin bands of white thread to keep the head-dress in place, even in thesedays it would be considered an immodest and shameful action to appearbefore men bareheaded. They do allow themselves now, however, to wear anarrow band across the forehead, which improves their appearance verymuch. But I regret the classic head-dress of my time: the white laceagainst the skin had a suggestion of old fashioned chastity which seemedto me more solemn, and when a face was beautiful under thosecircumstances, it was a beauty whose artless charm and majesty no wordscan describe.Little Marie still wore that head dress, and her forehead was so whiteand so pure that it defied the white of the linen to cast a shadow uponit. Although she had not closed her eyes during the night, the morningair, and above all things the inward joy of a soul as spotless as thesky, and a little hidden fire, held in check by the modesty of youth,sent to her cheeks a flush as delicate as the peach-blossom in the earlydays of April.Her white fichu, chastely crossed over her bosom, showed only thegraceful contour of a neck as full and round as a turtle-dove's; hermorning dress of fine myrtle-green cloth marked the shape of her slenderwaist, which seemed perfect, but was likely to grow and develop, for shewas only seventeen. She wore an apron of violet silk, with the pinaforewhich our village women have made a great mistake in abolishing, andwhich imparted so much modesty and refinement to the chest. To-day, theyspread out their fichus more proudly, but there is no longer that sweetflower of old-fashioned pudicity in their costume that made themresemble Holbein's virgins. They are more coquettish, more graceful. Thecorrect style in the old days was a sort of unbending stiffness whichmade their infrequent smiles more profound and more ideal.At the offertory, Germain, according to the usual custom, placed the_treizain_--that is to say, thirteen pieces of silver--in his fiancee'shand. He placed on her finger a silver ring of a shape that remainedinvariable for centuries, but has since been replaced by the _band ofgold._ As they left the church, Marie whispered: "Is it the ring Iwanted? the one I asked you for, Germain?""Yes," he replied, "the one my Catherine had on her finger when shedied. The same ring for both my marriages.""Thank you, Germain," said the young wife in a serious tone and withdeep feeling. "I shall die with it, and if I die before you, you mustkeep it for your little Solange."IVTHE CABBAGEThey remounted their horses, and rode rapidly back to Belair. Thebanquet was a sumptuous affair, and lasted, intermingled with dancingand singing, until midnight. The old people did not leave the table forfourteen hours. The grave-digger did the cooking, and did it very well.He was renowned for that, and he left his ovens to come and dance andsing between every two courses. And yet he was epileptic, was poor PereBontemps. Who would have suspected it? He was as fresh and vigorous andgay as a young man. One day we found him lying like a dead man in aditch, all distorted by his malady, just at nightfall. We carried him toour house in a wheelbarrow, and passed the night taking care of him.Three days later, he was at a wedding, singing like a thrush, leapinglike a kid, and frisking about in the old-fashioned way. On leaving amarriage-feast, he would go and dig a grave and nail up a coffin. Heperformed those duties devoutly, and although they seemed to have noeffect on his merry humor, he retained a melancholy impression whichhastened the return of his attacks. His wife, a paralytic, had not lefther chair for twenty years. His mother is a hundred and forty years oldand is still alive. But he, poor man, so jovial and kind-hearted andamusing, was killed last year by falling from his loft to the pavement.Doubtless he was suddenly attacked by his malady, and had hidden himselfin the hay, as he was accustomed to do, in order not to frighten anddistress his family. Thus ended, in a tragic way, a life as strange ashimself, a mixture of gloom and folly, of horror and hilarity, amidwhich his heart remained always kind and his character lovable.But we are coming to the third day of the wedding-feast, which is themost interesting of all, and has been retained in full vigor down to ourown day. We will say nothing of the slice of toast that is carried tothe nuptial bed; that is an absurd custom which offends the modesty ofthe bride, and tends to destroy that of the young girls who are present.Moreover, I think that it is a custom which obtains in all the provincesand has no peculiar features as practised among us.[Illustration: Chapter IV (Appendix)_He fell on his knees in the furrow through which he was about to runhis plough once more, and repeated the morning prayer with such emotionthat the tears rolled down his cheeks, still moist with perspiration_]Just as the ceremony of the _livrees_ is the symbol of the takingpossession of the bride's heart and home, that of the _cabbage_ is thesymbol of the fruitfulness of the union. After breakfast on the dayfollowing the marriage-ceremony, comes this strange performance, whichis of Gallic origin, but, as it passed through the hands of theprimitive Christians, gradually became a sort of _mystery_, or burlesquemorality-play of the Middle Ages.Two youths--the merriest and most energetic of the party--disappearduring the breakfast, don their costumes, and return, escorted by themusicians, dogs, children, and pistol-shots. They represent a couple ofbeggars, husband and wife, covered with the vilest rags. The husband isthe dirtier of the two: it is vice that has degraded him; the woman isunhappy simply and debased by her husband's evil ways.They are called the _gardener_ and the _gardener's wife_, and claim tobe fitted to watch and cultivate the sacred cabbage. But the husband isknown by several appellations, all of which have a meaning. He iscalled, indifferently, the _pailloux_,[7] because he wears a wig made ofstraw or hemp, and, to hide his nakedness, which is ill protected by hisrags, he surrounds his legs and a part of his body with straw. He alsoprovides himself with a huge belly or a hump by stuffing straw or hayunder his blouse. The _peilloux_ because he is covered with _peille_(rags). And, lastly, the _paien_ (heathen), which is the mostsignificant of all, because he is supposed, by his cynicism and hisdebauched life, to represent in himself the antipodes of all theChristian virtues.He arrives with his face daubed with grease and wine lees, sometimesswallowed up in a grotesque mask. A wretched, cracked earthen cup, or anold wooden shoe, hanging by a string to his belt, he uses to ask alms inthe shape of wine. No one refuses him, and he pretends to drink, thenpours the wine on the ground by way of libation. At every step, he fallsand rolls in the mud; he pretends to be most disgustingly drunk. Hispoor wife runs after him, picks him up, calls for help, tears out thehempen hair that protrudes in stringy locks from beneath her soiled cap,weeps over her husband's degradation, and reproaches him pathetically."You wretch!" she says, "see what your bad conduct has reduced us to!It's no use for me to spin, to work for you, to mend your clothes! younever stop tearing and soiling them. You have run through my littleproperty, our six children are in the gutter, we live in a stable withthe beasts; here we are reduced to asking alms, and you're so ugly, sorevolting, so despised, that soon they will toss bread to us as they doto the dogs. Alas! my poor _mondes_ [people], take pity on us! take pityon me! I don't deserve my fate, and no woman ever had a filthier, moredetestable husband. Help me to pick him up, or else the wagons willcrush him like an old broken bottle, and I shall be a widow, which wouldkill me with grief, although everybody says it would be great goodfortune for me."Such is the role of the gardener's wife and her constant lamentationthroughout the play. For it is a genuine, spontaneous, improvisedcomedy, played in the open air, on the highways, among the fields,seasoned by all the incidents that happen to occur; and in it everybodytakes a part, wedding-guests and outsiders, occupants of the houses andpassers-by, for three or four hours in the day, as we shall see. Thetheme is always the same, but it is treated in an infinite variety ofways, and therein we see the instinct of mimicry, the abundance ofgrotesque ideas, the fluency, the quickness at repartee, and even thenatural eloquence of our peasants.The part of the gardener's wife is ordinarily entrusted to a slender,beardless man with a fresh complexion, who is able to give greatverisimilitude to the character he assumes and to represent burlesquedespair so naturally that the spectators may be amused and saddened atthe same time as by the genuine article. Such thin, beardless men arenot rare in our country districts, and, strangely enough, they aresometimes the most remarkable for muscular strength.After the wife's wretched plight is made evident, the youngerwedding-guests urge her to leave her sot of a husband and divert herselfwith them. They offer her their arms and lead her away. Gradually sheyields, becomes animated, and runs about, now with one, now withanother, behaving in a scandalous way: a new moral lesson--the husband'smisconduct incites and causes misconduct on the part of his wife.The _paien_ thereupon awakes from his drunken stupor; he looks about forhis companion, provides himself with a rope and a stick, and runs afterher. They lead him a long chase, they hide from him, they pass the womanfrom one to another, they try to keep her amused, and to deceive herjealous mate. His _friends_ try hard to intoxicate him. At last, heovertakes his faithless spouse and attempts to beat her. The mostrealistic, shrewdest touch in this parody of the miseries of conjugallife, is that the jealous husband never attacks those who take his wifeaway from him. He is very polite and prudent with them, he does notchoose to vent his wrath on any one but the guilty wife, because she issupposed to be unable to resist him.But just as he raises his stick and prepares his rope to bind theculprit, all the men in the wedding-party interpose and throw themselvesbetween the two. _Don't strike her! never strike your wife_! is theformula that is repeated to satiety in these scenes. They disarm thehusband, they force him to pardon his wife and embrace her, and soon hepretends to love her more dearly than ever. He walks about arm-in-armwith her, singing and dancing, until a fresh attack of intoxicationsends him headlong to the ground once more: and with that his wife'slamentations recommence, her discouragement, her pretended misconduct,the husband's jealousy, the intervention of the bystanders, and thereconciliation. There is in all this an ingenuous, even commonplace,lesson, which savors strongly of its origin in the Middle Ages, butwhich always makes an impression, if not upon the bride and groom,--whoare too much in love and too sensible to-day to need it,--at allevents, upon the children and young girls and boys. The _paien_ soterrifies and disgusts the girls, by running after them and pretendingto want to kiss them, that they fly from him with an emotion in whichthere is nothing artificial. His besmeared face and his greatstick--perfectly harmless, by the way--makes the youngsters shriek withfear. It is the comedy of manners in its most elementary but mostimpressive state.When this farce is well under way, they prepare to go in search of thecabbage. They bring a hand-barrow, on which the _paien_ is placed, armedwith a spade, a rope, and a great basket. Four strong men carry him ontheir shoulders. His wife follows him on foot, the _ancients_ come in agroup behind, with grave and pensive mien; then the wedding-party fallsin two by two, keeping time to the music. The pistol-shots begin again,the dogs howl louder than ever at sight of the unclean _paien_, thusborne in triumph. The children salute him derisively with wooden clogstied at the ends of strings.But why this ovation to such a revolting personage? They are marching tothe conquest of the sacred cabbage, the emblem of matrimonial fecundity,and this besotted drunkard is the only man who can put his hand uponthe symbolical plant. Therein, doubtless, is a mystery anterior toChristianity, a mystery that reminds one of the festival of theSaturnalia or some ancient Bacchanalian revel. Perhaps this _paien_, whois at the same time the gardener _par excellence_, is nothing less thanPriapus in person, the god of gardens and debauchery,--a divinityprobably chaste and serious in his origin, however, like the mystery ofreproduction, but insensibly degraded by licentiousness of manners anddisordered ideas.However that may be, the triumphal procession arrives at the bride'shouse and marches into her garden. There they select the finest cabbage,which is not quickly done, for the ancients hold a council and discussthe matter at interminable length, each pleading for the cabbage whichseems to him the best adapted for the occasion. The question is put to avote, and when the choice is made, the _gardener_ fastens his ropearound the stalk and goes as far away as the size of the garden permits.The gardener's wife looks out to see that the sacred vegetable is notinjured in its fall. The _Jesters_ of the wedding-party, thehemp-beater, the grave-digger, the carpenter, or the cobbler,--in aword, all those who do not work on the land, and who, as they passtheir lives in other people's houses, are reputed to have and do reallyhave more wit and a readier tongue than the simple agriculturallaborers,--take their places around the cabbage. One digs a trench withthe spade, so deep that you would say he was preparing to dig up anoak-tree. Another puts on his nose a _drogue_, made of wood orpasteboard, in imitation of a pair of spectacles: he performs the dutiesof _engineer_, comes forward, walks away, prepares a plan, overlooks theworkmen, draws lines, plays the pedant, cries out that they are spoilingthe whole thing, orders the work to be abandoned and resumed accordingto his fancy, and makes the performance as long and as absurd as he can.Is this an addition to the former programme of the ceremony, in mockeryof theorists in general, for whom the ordinary peasant has the mostsovereign contempt, or in detestation of land-surveyors, who control theregister of lands and assess the taxes, or of the employees of theDepartment of Roads and Bridges, who convert common lands into highwaysand cause the suppression of time-worn abuses dear to the peasant heart?Certain it is that this character in the comedy is called the_geometrician_, and that he does his utmost to make himself unbearableto those who handle the pick and shovel.At last, after quarter of an hour of mummery and remonstrances, so thatthe roots of the cabbage may not be cut and it can be transplantedwithout injury, while spadefuls of earth are thrown into the faces ofthe bystanders,--woe to him who does not step aside quickly enough;though he were a bishop or a prince, he must receive the baptism ofearth,--the _paien_ pulls the rope, the _paienne_ holds her apron, andthe cabbage falls majestically amid the cheers of the spectators. Thenthe basket is brought, and the pagan couple proceed to plant the cabbagetherein with all imaginable care and precautions. They pack it in freshsoil, they prop it up with sticks and strings as city florists do theirsuperb potted camellias; they plant red apples stuck on twigs, branchesof thyme, sage, and laurel all about it; they deck the whole withribbons and streamers; they place the trophy on the hand-barrow with the_paten_, who is expected to maintain its equilibrium and keep it fromaccident, and at last they leave the garden in good order to the musicof a march.But when they come to pass through the gate, and again when they try toenter the bridegroom's yard, an imaginary obstacle bars the passage.The bearers of the barrow stumble, utter loud exclamations, step back,go forward again, and, as if they were driven back by an invisibleforce, seem to succumb under the burden. Meanwhile, the rest of theparty laugh heartily and urge on and soothe the human team. "Softly!softly, boy! Come, courage! Look out! Patience! Stoop! The gate is toolow! Close up, it's too narrow! a little to the left; now to the right!Come, take heart, there you are!"So it sometimes happens that, in years of abundant crops, the ox-cart,laden beyond measure with fodder or grain, is too broad or too high toenter the barndoor. And such exclamations are shouted at the powerfulcattle to restrain or excite them; and with skilful handling andvigorous efforts the mountain of wealth is made to pass, without mishap,beneath the rustic triumphal arch. Especially with the last load, calledthe _gerbaude_, are these precautions required; for that is made theoccasion of a rustic festival, and the last sheaf gathered from the lastfurrow is placed on top of the load, decorated with ribbons and flowers,as are the heads of the oxen and the driver's goad. Thus the triumphal,laborious entry of the cabbage into the house is an emblem of theprosperity and fruitfulness it represents.Arrived in the bridegroom's yard, the cabbage is taken to the highestpoint of the house or the barn. If there is a chimney, a gable end, adove-cote higher than the other elevated portions, the burden must, atany risk, be taken to that culminating point. The _paien_ accompanies itthither, fixes it in place, and waters it from a huge jug of wine, whilea salvo of pistol-shots and the joyful contortions of the _paienne_announce its inauguration.The same ceremony is immediately repeated. Another cabbage is dug up inthe bridegroom's garden and borne with the same formalities to the roofthat his wife has abandoned to go with him. The trophies remain in placeuntil the rain and wind destroy the baskets and carry off the cabbages.But they live long enough to offer some chance of fulfilment of theprophecy that the old men and matrons utter as they salute them."Beautiful cabbage," they say, "live and flourish, so that our youngbride may have a fine little baby before the end of the year; for if youdie too quickly, it will be a sign of sterility, and you will be stuckup there on top of the house like an evil omen."The day is far advanced before all these performances are at an end. Itonly remains to escort the husband and wife to the godfathers andgodmothers. When these putative parents live at a distance, they areescorted by the musicians and all the wedding-party to the limits of theparish. There, there is more dancing by the roadside, and they kiss thebride and groom when they take leave of them. The _paien_ and his wifeare then washed and dressed in clean clothes, when they are not sofatigued by their roles that they have had to take a nap.They were still dancing and singing and eating at the farm-house atBelair at midnight on the third day of the festivities attendingGermain's wedding. The old men were seated at the table, unable to leaveit, and for good reason. They did not recover their legs and their witsuntil the next day at dawn. At that time, while they sought their homes,in silence and with uncertain steps, Germain, proud and well-content,went out to yoke his cattle, leaving his young wife to sleep untilsunrise. The lark, singing as he flew upward to the sky, seemed to himto be the voice of his heart, giving thanks to Providence. Thehoar-frost, glistening on the bare bushes, seemed to him the white Aprilblossoms that precede the appearance of the leaves. All nature wasserene and smiling in his eyes. Little Pierre had laughed and jumpedabout so much the day before, that he did not come to help him to drivehis oxen; but Germain was content to be alone. He fell on his knees inthe furrow through which he was about to run his plough once more, andrepeated the morning prayer with such emotion that the tears rolled downhis cheeks, still moist with perspiration.In the distance could be heard the songs of the youths from theadjoining parishes, just starting for home, and repeating, in voicessomewhat the worse for wear, the merry refrains of the preceding night.NOTES[Footnote 1:    By the sweat of thy brow    Thou wilt earn thy poor livelihood;    After long travail and service,    Lo! _Death_ comes and calls thee.][Footnote 2: The name applied to the road which turns aside from themain street at the entrance to a village and runs along its outskirts.It is supposed that people who fear that they may receive some merited_affront_ will take that road to avoid being seen.--_Author's Note_.][Footnote 3:     Open the door, yes, open,     Marie, my darling,    I have beautiful gifts to offer you.    Alas! my dear, pray let us in.][Footnote 4:    My father grieves, my mother's deathly sad,    And I am too pitiful a daughter    To open my door at such an hour.][Footnote 5:    I have a fine handkerchief to offer you.][Footnote 6:     Open the door, yes, open,     Marie, my darling,    'Tis a handsome husband who comes to seek you.    Come, my dear, and let us let them in.][Footnote 7: Man of straw--from _paille_ (straw).]List of IllustrationsTHE DEVIL'S POOLLITTLE MARIE TENDING HER SHEEPPIERRE'S STRATAGEMPIERRE'S EVENING PRAYERTHE FARMER BROUGHT TO ACCOUNTGERMAIN REPEATS HIS MATIN PRAYEREnd of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Devil's Pool, by George Sand*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE DEVIL'S POOL ******** This file should be named 12816.txt or 12816.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/2/8/1/12816/Produced by Audrey Longhurst, Wilelmina Malliere and the OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team.Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.Project Gutenberg's Mrs. Warren's Profession, by George Bernard ShawThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.orgTitle: Mrs. Warren's ProfessionAuthor: George Bernard ShawRelease Date: February 11, 2006 [EBook #1097][Last updated: July 6, 2011]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: ASCII*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MRS. WARREN'S PROFESSION ***Produced by An Anonymous Volunteer and David WidgerMRS WARREN'S PROFESSIONby George Bernard Shaw1894With The Author's Apology (1902)THE AUTHOR'S APOLOGYMrs Warren's Profession has been performed at last, after a delay ofonly eight years; and I have once more shared with Ibsen the triumphantamusement of startling all but the strongest-headed of the Londontheatre critics clean out of the practice of their profession. Noauthor who has ever known the exultation of sending the Press into anhysterical tumult of protest, of moral panic, of involuntary and franticconfession of sin, of a horror of conscience in which the power ofdistinguishing between the work of art on the stage and the real lifeof the spectator is confused and overwhelmed, will ever care for thestereotyped compliments which every successful farce or melodramaelicits from the newspapers. Give me that critic who rushed from my playto declare furiously that Sir George Crofts ought to be kicked. What atriumph for the actor, thus to reduce a jaded London journalist tothe condition of the simple sailor in the Wapping gallery, who shoutsexecrations at Iago and warnings to Othello not to believe him! Butdearer still than such simplicity is that sense of the sudden earthquakeshock to the foundations of morality which sends a pallid crowd ofcritics into the street shrieking that the pillars of society arecracking and the ruin of the State is at hand. Even the Ibsen championsof ten years ago remonstrate with me just as the veterans of those bravedays remonstrated with them. Mr Grein, the hardy iconoclast who firstlaunched my plays on the stage alongside Ghosts and The Wild Duck,exclaimed that I have shattered his ideals. Actually his ideals! Whatwould Dr Relling say? And Mr William Archer himself disowns me because I"cannot touch pitch without wallowing in it". Truly my play must be moreneeded than I knew; and yet I thought I knew how little the others know.Do not suppose, however, that the consternation of the Press reflectsany consternation among the general public. Anybody can upset thetheatre critics, in a turn of the wrist, by substituting for theromantic commonplaces of the stage the moral commonplaces of the pulpit,platform, or the library. Play Mrs Warren's Profession to an audienceof clerical members of the Christian Social Union and of women wellexperienced in Rescue, Temperance, and Girls' Club work, and no moralpanic will arise; every man and woman present will know that as longas poverty makes virtue hideous and the spare pocket-money of richbachelordom makes vice dazzling, their daily hand-to-hand fight againstprostitution with prayer and persuasion, shelters and scanty alms,will be a losing one. There was a time when they were able to urge thatthough "the white-lead factory where Anne Jane was poisoned" may be afar more terrible place than Mrs Warren's house, yet hell is still moredreadful. Nowadays they no longer believe in hell; and the girls amongwhom they are working know that they do not believe in it, and wouldlaugh at them if they did. So well have the rescuers learnt that MrsWarren's defence of herself and indictment of society is the thing thatmost needs saying, that those who know me personally reproach me, notfor writing this play, but for wasting my energies on "pleasantplays" for the amusement of frivolous people, when I can build up suchexcellent stage sermons on their own work. Mrs Warren's Profession isthe one play of mine which I could submit to a censorship without doubtof the result; only, it must not be the censorship of the minor theatrecritic, nor of an innocent court official like the Lord Chamberlain'sExaminer, much less of people who consciously profit by Mrs Warren'sprofession, or who personally make use of it, or who hold the widelywhispered view that it is an indispensable safety-valve for theprotection of domestic virtue, or, above all, who are smitten with asentimental affection for our fallen sister, and would "take her uptenderly, lift her with care, fashioned so slenderly, young, and SOfair." Nor am I prepared to accept the verdict of the medical gentlemenwho would compulsorily sanitate and register Mrs Warren, whilst leavingMrs Warren's patrons, especially her military patrons, free to destroyher health and anybody else's without fear of reprisals. But I should bequite content to have my play judged by, say, a joint committee ofthe Central Vigilance Society and the Salvation Army. And the sternermoralists the members of the committee were, the better.Some of the journalists I have shocked reason so unripely that they willgather nothing from this but a confused notion that I am accusing theNational Vigilance Association and the Salvation Army of complicity inmy own scandalous immorality. It will seem to them that people who wouldstand this play would stand anything. They are quite mistaken. Suchan audience as I have described would be revolted by many of ourfashionable plays. They would leave the theatre convinced that thePlymouth Brother who still regards the playhouse as one of the gates ofhell is perhaps the safest adviser on the subject of which he knows solittle. If I do not draw the same conclusion, it is not because I am oneof those who claim that art is exempt from moral obligations, and denythat the writing or performance of a play is a moral act, to be treatedon exactly the same footing as theft or murder if it produces equallymischievous consequences. I am convinced that fine art is the subtlest,the most seductive, the most effective instrument of moral propaganda inthe world, excepting only the example of personal conduct; and I waiveeven this exception in favor of the art of the stage, because it worksby exhibiting examples of personal conduct made intelligible and movingto crowds of unobservant, unreflecting people to whom real life meansnothing. I have pointed out again and again that the influence of thetheatre in England is growing so great that whilst private conduct,religion, law, science, politics, and morals are becoming more andmore theatrical, the theatre itself remains impervious to commonsense, religion, science, politics, and morals. That is why I fight thetheatre, not with pamphlets and sermons and treatises, but with plays;and so effective do I find the dramatic method that I have no doubt Ishall at last persuade even London to take its conscience and its brainswith it when it goes to the theatre, instead of leaving them at homewith its prayer-book as it does at present. Consequently, I am thelast man in the world to deny that if the net effect of performing MrsWarren's Profession were an increase in the number of persons enteringthat profession, its performance should be dealt with accordingly.Now let us consider how such recruiting can be encouraged by thetheatre. Nothing is easier. Let the King's Reader of Plays, backed bythe Press, make an unwritten but perfectly well understood regulationthat members of Mrs Warren's profession shall be tolerated on the stageonly when they are beautiful, exquisitely dressed, and sumptuouslylodged and fed; also that they shall, at the end of the play, die ofconsumption to the sympathetic tears of the whole audience, or stepinto the next room to commit suicide, or at least be turned out by theirprotectors and passed on to be "redeemed" by old and faithful lovers whohave adored them in spite of their levities. Naturally, the poorer girlsin the gallery will believe in the beauty, in the exquisite dresses, andthe luxurious living, and will see that there is no real necessity forthe consumption, the suicide, or the ejectment: mere pious forms, allof them, to save the Censor's face. Even if these purely officialcatastrophes carried any conviction, the majority of English girlsremain so poor, so dependent, so well aware that the drudgeries of suchhonest work as is within their reach are likely enough to lead themeventually to lung disease, premature death, and domestic desertion orbrutality, that they would still see reason to prefer the primrose pathto the strait path of virtue, since both, vice at worst and virtue atbest, lead to the same end in poverty and overwork. It is true that theBoard School mistress will tell you that only girls of a certain kindwill reason in this way. But alas! that certain kind turns out oninquiry to be simply the pretty, dainty kind: that is, the only kindthat gets the chance of acting on such reasoning. Read the first reportof the Commission on the Housing of the Working Classes [Bluebook C4402, 8d., 1889]; read the Report on Home Industries (sacred word,Home!) issued by the Women's Industrial Council [Home Industries ofWomen in London, 1897, 1s., 12 Buckingham Street, W. C.]; and askyourself whether, if the lot in life therein described were your lotin life, you would not prefer the lot of Cleopatra, of Theodora, of theLady of the Camellias, of Mrs Tanqueray, of Zaza, of Iris. If you cango deep enough into things to be able to say no, how many ignoranthalf-starved girls will believe you are speaking sincerely? To them thelot of Iris is heavenly in comparison with their own. Yet our King, likehis predecessors, says to the dramatist, "Thus, and thus only, shallyou present Mrs Warren's profession on the stage, or you shall starve.Witness Shaw, who told the untempting truth about it, and whom We, bythe Grace of God, accordingly disallow and suppress, and do what in Uslies to silence." Fortunately, Shaw cannot be silenced. "The harlot'scry from street to street" is louder than the voices of all the kings.I am not dependent on the theatre, and cannot be starved into makingmy play a standing advertisement of the attractive side of Mrs Warren'sbusiness.Here I must guard myself against a misunderstanding. It is not the faultof their authors that the long string of wanton's tragedies, from Antonyand Cleopatra to Iris, are snares to poor girls, and are objected toon that account by many earnest men and women who consider Mrs Warren'sProfession an excellent sermon. Mr Pinero is in no way bound to suppressthe fact that his Iris is a person to be envied by millions of betterwomen. If he made his play false to life by inventing fictitiousdisadvantages for her, he would be acting as unscrupulously as any tractwriter. If society chooses to provide for its Irises better than forits working women, it must not expect honest playwrights to manufacturespurious evidence to save its credit. The mischief lies in thedeliberate suppression of the other side of the case: the refusal toallow Mrs Warren to expose the drudgery and repulsiveness of plying forhire among coarse, tedious drunkards; the determination not to let theParisian girl in Brieux's Les Avaries come on the stage and drive intopeople's minds what her diseases mean for her and for themselves. Allthat, says the King's Reader in effect, is horrifying, loathsome.Precisely: what does he expect it to be? would he have us represent itas beautiful and gratifying? The answer to this question, I fear, mustbe a blunt Yes; for it seems impossible to root out of an Englishman'smind the notion that vice is delightful, and that abstention from itis privation. At all events, as long as the tempting side of it is kepttowards the public, and softened by plenty of sentiment and sympathy, itis welcomed by our Censor, whereas the slightest attempt to place it inthe light of the policeman's lantern or the Salvation Army shelteris checkmated at once as not merely disgusting, but, if you please,unnecessary.Everybody will, I hope, admit that this state of things is intolerable;that the subject of Mrs Warren's profession must be either tapualtogether, or else exhibited with the warning side as freely displayedas the tempting side. But many persons will vote for a complete tapu,and an impartial sweep from the boards of Mrs Warren and Gretchen andthe rest; in short, for banishing the sexual instincts from the stagealtogether. Those who think this impossible can hardly have consideredthe number and importance of the subjects which are actually banishedfrom the stage. Many plays, among them Lear, Hamlet, Macbeth,Coriolanus, Julius Caesar, have no sex complications: the thread oftheir action can be followed by children who could not understand asingle scene of Mrs Warren's Profession or Iris. None of our plays rousethe sympathy of the audience by an exhibition of the pains of maternity,as Chinese plays constantly do. Each nation has its own particular setof tapus in addition to the common human stock; and though each ofthese tapus limits the scope of the dramatist, it does not make dramaimpossible. If the Examiner were to refuse to license plays with femalecharacters in them, he would only be doing to the stage what our tribalcustoms already do to the pulpit and the bar. I have myself written arather entertaining play with only one woman in it, and she is quiteheartwhole; and I could just as easily write a play without a woman init at all. I will even go so far as to promise the Mr Redford my supportif he will introduce this limitation for part of the year, say duringLent, so as to make a close season for that dullest of stock dramaticsubjects, adultery, and force our managers and authors to find out whatall great dramatists find out spontaneously: to wit, that people whosacrifice every other consideration to love are as hopelessly unheroicon the stage as lunatics or dipsomaniacs. Hector is the world's hero;not Paris nor Antony.But though I do not question the possibility of a drama in which loveshould be as effectively ignored as cholera is at present, there is notthe slightest chance of that way out of the difficulty being taken bythe Mr Redford. If he attempted it there would be a revolt in which hewould be swept away in spite of my singlehanded efforts to defend him.A complete tapu is politically impossible. A complete toleration isequally impossible to Mr Redford, because his occupation would be goneif there were no tapu to enforce. He is therefore compelled to maintainthe present compromise of a partial tapu, applied, to the best of hisjudgement, with a careful respect to persons and to public opinion. Anda very sensible English solution of the difficulty, too, most readerswill say. I should not dispute it if dramatic poets really were whatEnglish public opinion generally assumes them to be during theirlifetime: that is, a licentiously irregular group to be kept in orderin a rough and ready way by a magistrate who will stand no nonsensefrom them. But I cannot admit that the class represented by Eschylus,Sophocles, Aristophanes, Euripides, Shakespear, Goethe, Ibsen, andTolstoy, not to mention our own contemporary playwrights, is as much inplace in Mr Redford's office as a pickpocket is in Bow Street. Further,it is not true that the Censorship, though it certainly suppresses Ibsenand Tolstoy, and would suppress Shakespear but for the absurd rule thata play once licensed is always licensed (so that Wycherly is permittedand Shelley prohibited), also suppresses unscrupulous playwrights. Ichallenge Mr Redford to mention any extremity of sexual misconduct whichany manager in his senses would risk presenting on the London stage thathas not been presented under his license and that of his predecessor.The compromise, in fact, works out in practice in favor of loose playsas against earnest ones.To carry conviction on this point, I will take the extreme course ofnarrating the plots of two plays witnessed within the last ten yearsby myself at London West End theatres, one licensed by the late QueenVictoria's Reader of Plays, the other by the present Reader to the King.Both plots conform to the strictest rules of the period when La Dame auxCamellias was still a forbidden play, and when The Second Mrs Tanqueraywould have been tolerated only on condition that she carefully explainedto the audience that when she met Captain Ardale she sinned "but inintention."Play number one. A prince is compelled by his parents to marry thedaughter of a neighboring king, but loves another maiden. The scenerepresents a hall in the king's palace at night. The wedding has takenplace that day; and the closed door of the nuptial chamber is in view ofthe audience. Inside, the princess awaits her bridegroom. A duenna is inattendance. The bridegroom enters. His sole desire is to escape from amarriage which is hateful to him. An idea strikes him. He will assaultthe duenna, and get ignominiously expelled from the palace by hisindignant father-in-law. To his horror, when he proceeds to carry outthis stratagem, the duenna, far from raising an alarm, is flattered,delighted, and compliant. The assaulter becomes the assaulted. He flingsher angrily to the ground, where she remains placidly. He flies. Thefather enters; dismisses the duenna; and listens at the keyhole ofhis daughter's nuptial chamber, uttering various pleasantries, anddeclaring, with a shiver, that a sound of kissing, which he supposes toproceed from within, makes him feel young again.In deprecation of the scandalized astonishment with which such a storyas this will be read, I can only say that it was not presented on thestage until its propriety had been certified by the chief officer of theQueen of England's household.Story number two. A German officer finds himself in an inn with a Frenchlady who has wounded his national vanity. He resolves to humble her bycommitting a rape upon her. He announces his purpose. She remonstrates,implores, flies to the doors and finds them locked, calls for helpand finds none at hand, runs screaming from side to side, and, aftera harrowing scene, is overpowered and faints. Nothing further beingpossible on the stage without actual felony, the officer then relentsand leaves her. When she recovers, she believes that he has carried outhis threat; and during the rest of the play she is represented as vainlyvowing vengeance upon him, whilst she is really falling in love withhim under the influence of his imaginary crime against her. Finally sheconsents to marry him; and the curtain falls on their happiness.This story was certified by the present King's Reader, acting for theLord Chamberlain, as void in its general tendency of "anything immoralor otherwise improper for the stage." But let nobody conclude thereforethat Mr Redford is a monster, whose policy it is to deprave the theatre.As a matter of fact, both the above stories are strictly in order fromthe official point of view. The incidents of sex which they contain,though carried in both to the extreme point at which another step wouldbe dealt with, not by the King's Reader, but by the police, do notinvolve adultery, nor any allusion to Mrs Warren's profession, nor tothe fact that the children of any polyandrous group will, when they growup, inevitably be confronted, as those of Mrs Warren's group are in myplay, with the insoluble problem of their own possible consanguinity.In short, by depending wholly on the coarse humors and the physicalfascination of sex, they comply with all the formulable requirements ofthe Censorship, whereas plays in which these humors and fascinations arediscarded, and the social problems created by sex seriously faced anddealt with, inevitably ignore the official formula and are suppressed.If the old rule against the exhibition of illicit sex relations on stagewere revived, and the subject absolutely barred, the only result wouldbe that Antony and Cleopatra, Othello (because of the Bianca episode),Troilus and Cressida, Henry IV, Measure for Measure, Timon of Athens,La Dame aux Camellias, The Profligate, The Second Mrs Tanqueray, TheNotorious Mrs Ebbsmith, The Gay Lord Quex, Mrs Dane's Defence, andIris would be swept from the stage, and placed under the same ban asTolstoy's Dominion of Darkness and Mrs Warren's Profession, whilst suchplays as the two described above would have a monopoly of the theatre asfar as sexual interest is concerned.What is more, the repulsiveness of the worst of the certified playswould protect the Censorship against effective exposure and criticism.Not long ago an American Review of high standing asked me for an articleon the Censorship of the English stage. I replied that such an articlewould involve passages too disagreeable for publication in a magazinefor general family reading. The editor persisted nevertheless; butnot until he had declared his readiness to face this, and had pledgedhimself to insert the article unaltered (the particularity of the pledgeextending even to a specification of the exact number of words in thearticle) did I consent to the proposal. What was the result?The editor, confronted with the two stories given above, threw hispledge to the winds, and, instead of returning the article, printedit with the illustrative examples omitted, and nothing left but theargument from political principles against the Censorship. In doing thishe fired my broadside after withdrawing the cannon balls; for neitherthe Censor nor any other Englishman, except perhaps Mr Leslie Stephenand a few other veterans of the dwindling old guard of Benthamism, caresa dump about political principle. The ordinary Briton thinks that ifevery other Briton is not kept under some form of tutelage, the morechildish the better, he will abuse his freedom viciously. As far as itsprinciple is concerned, the Censorship is the most popular institutionin England; and the playwright who criticizes it is slighted as ablackguard agitating for impunity. Consequently nothing can really shakethe confidence of the public in the Lord Chamberlain's department excepta remorseless and unbowdlerized narration of the licentious fictionswhich slip through its net, and are hallmarked by it with the approvalof the Throne. But since these narrations cannot be made public withoutgreat difficulty, owing to the obligation an editor is under not todeal unexpectedly with matters that are not _virginibus puerisque_, thechances are heavily in favor of the Censor escaping all remonstrance.With the exception of such comments as I was able to make in my owncritical articles in The World and The Saturday Review when the piecesI have described were first produced, and a few ignorant protests bychurchmen against much better plays which they confessed they had notseen nor read, nothing has been said in the press that could seriouslydisturb the easygoing notion that the stage would be much worse than itadmittedly is but for the vigilance of the King's Reader. The truth is,that no manager would dare produce on his own responsibility the pieceshe can now get royal certificates for at two guineas per piece.I hasten to add that I believe these evils to be inherent in thenature of all censorship, and not merely a consequence of the form theinstitution takes in London. No doubt there is a staggering absurdityin appointing an ordinary clerk to see that the leaders of Europeanliterature do not corrupt the morals of the nation, and to restrain SirHenry Irving, as a rogue and a vagabond, from presuming to impersonateSamson or David on the stage, though any other sort of artist may daubthese scriptural figures on a signboard or carve them on a tombstonewithout hindrance. If the General Medical Council, the Royal College ofPhysicians, the Royal Academy of Arts, the Incorporated Law Society, andConvocation were abolished, and their functions handed over to the MrRedford, the Concert of Europe would presumably declare England mad, andtreat her accordingly. Yet, though neither medicine nor painting norlaw nor the Church moulds the character of the nation as potently as thetheatre does, nothing can come on the stage unless its dimensions admitof its passing through Mr Redford's mind! Pray do not think that Iquestion Mr Redford's honesty. I am quite sure that he sincerely thinksme a blackguard, and my play a grossly improper one, because, likeTolstoy's Dominion of Darkness, it produces, as they are both meant toproduce, a very strong and very painful impression of evil. I do notdoubt for a moment that the rapine play which I have described, andwhich he licensed, was quite incapable in manuscript of producingany particular effect on his mind at all, and that when he was oncesatisfied that the ill-conducted hero was a German and not an Englishofficer, he passed the play without studying its moral tendencies. Evenif he had undertaken that study, there is no more reason to supposethat he is a competent moralist than there is to suppose that I am acompetent mathematician. But truly it does not matter whether he is amoralist or not. Let nobody dream for a moment that what is wrong withthe Censorship is the shortcoming of the gentleman who happens at anymoment to be acting as Censor. Replace him to-morrow by an Academy ofLetters and an Academy of Dramatic Poetry, and the new and enlargedfilter will still exclude original and epoch-making work, whilst passingconventional, old-fashioned, and vulgar work without question. Theconclave which compiles the index of the Roman Catholic Church is themost august, ancient, learned, famous, and authoritative censorship inEurope. Is it more enlightened, more liberal, more tolerant that thecomparatively infinitesimal office of the Lord Chamberlain? On thecontrary, it has reduced itself to a degree of absurdity which makes aCatholic university a contradiction in terms. All censorships existto prevent anyone from challenging current conceptions and existinginstitutions. All progress is initiated by challenging current concepts,and executed by supplanting existing institutions. Consequently thefirst condition of progress is the removal of censorships. There is thewhole case against censorships in a nutshell.It will be asked whether theatrical managers are to be allowed toproduce what they like, without regard to the public interest. But thatis not the alternative. The managers of our London music-halls are notsubject to any censorship. They produce their entertainments on theirown responsibility, and have no two-guinea certificates to plead iftheir houses are conducted viciously. They know that if they lose theircharacter, the County Council will simply refuse to renew their licenseat the end of the year; and nothing in the history of popular artis more amazing than the improvement in music-halls that this simplearrangement has produced within a few years. Place the theatres on thesame footing, and we shall promptly have a similar revolution: a wholeclass of frankly blackguardly plays, in which unscrupulous low comediansattract crowds to gaze at bevies of girls who have nothing to exhibitbut their prettiness, will vanish like the obscene songs which weresupposed to enliven the squalid dulness, incredible to the youngergeneration, of the music-halls fifteen years ago. On the other hand,plays which treat sex questions as problems for thought instead of asaphrodisiacs will be freely performed. Gentlemen of Mr Redford's way ofthinking will have plenty of opportunity of protesting against themin Council; but the result will be that the Mr Redford will find hisnatural level; Ibsen and Tolstoy theirs; so no harm will be done.This question of the Censorship reminds me that I have to apologizeto those who went to the recent performance of Mrs Warren's Professionexpecting to find it what I have just called an aphrodisiac. That wasnot my fault; it was Mr Redford's. After the specimens I have given ofthe tolerance of his department, it was natural enough for thoughtlesspeople to infer that a play which overstepped his indulgence must be avery exciting play indeed. Accordingly, I find one critic so explicit asto the nature of his disappointment as to say candidly that "such airytalk as there is upon the matter is utterly unworthy of acceptance asbeing a representation of what people with blood in them think or do onsuch occasions." Thus am I crushed between the upper millstone of the MrRedford, who thinks me a libertine, and the nether popular critic, whothinks me a prude. Critics of all grades and ages, middle-aged fathersof families no less than ardent young enthusiasts, are equally indignantwith me. They revile me as lacking in passion, in feeling, in manhood.Some of them even sum the matter up by denying me any dramatic power: amelancholy betrayal of what dramatic power has come to mean on our stageunder the Censorship! Can I be expected to refrain from laughing atthe spectacle of a number of respectable gentlemen lamenting because aplaywright lures them to the theatre by a promise to excite their sensesin a very special and sensational manner, and then, having successfullytrapped them in exceptional numbers, proceeds to ignore their senses andruthlessly improve their minds? But I protest again that the lure wasnot mine. The play had been in print for four years; and I have sparedno pains to make known that my plays are built to induce, not voluptuousreverie but intellectual interest, not romantic rhapsody but humaneconcern. Accordingly, I do not find those critics who are gifted withintellectual appetite and political conscience complaining of want ofdramatic power. Rather do they protest, not altogether unjustly, againsta few relapses into staginess and caricature which betray the youngplaywright and the old playgoer in this early work of mine.As to the voluptuaries, I can assure them that the playwright, whetherhe be myself or another, will always disappoint them. The drama can dolittle to delight the senses: all the apparent instances to the contraryare instances of the personal fascination of the performers. The dramaof pure feeling is no longer in the hands of the playwright: it has beenconquered by the musician, after whose enchantments all the verbal artsseem cold and tame. Romeo and Juliet with the loveliest Juliet is dry,tedious, and rhetorical in comparison with Wagner's Tristan, even thoughIsolde be both fourteen stone and forty, as she often is in Germany.Indeed, it needed no Wagner to convince the public of this. Thevoluptuous sentimentality of Gounod's Faust and Bizet's Carmen hascaptured the common playgoer; and there is, flatly, no future now forany drama without music except the drama of thought. The attempt toproduce a genus of opera without music (and this absurdity is whatour fashionable theatres have been driving at for a long time withoutknowing it) is far less hopeful than my own determination to acceptproblem as the normal materiel of the drama.That this determination will throw me into a long conflict with ourtheatre critics, and with the few playgoers who go to the theatre asoften as the critics, I well know; but I am too well equipped for thestrife to be deterred by it, or to bear malice towards the losing side.In trying to produce the sensuous effects of opera, the fashionabledrama has become so flaccid in its sentimentality, and the intellectof its frequenters so atrophied by disuse, that the reintroductionof problem, with its remorseless logic and iron framework of fact,inevitably produces at first an overwhelming impression of coldness andinhuman rationalism. But this will soon pass away. When the intellectualmuscle and moral nerve of the critics has been developed in the strugglewith modern problem plays, the pettish luxuriousness of the clever ones,and the sulky sense of disadvantaged weakness in the sentimental ones,will clear away; and it will be seen that only in the problem play isthere any real drama, because drama is no mere setting up of the camerato nature: it is the presentation in parable of the conflict betweenMan's will and his environment: in a word, of problem. The vapidness ofsuch drama as the pseudo-operatic plays contain lies in the fact thatin them animal passion, sentimentally diluted, is shewn in conflict, notwith real circumstances, but with a set of conventions and assumptionshalf of which do not exist off the stage, whilst the other half caneither be evaded by a pretence of compliance or defied with completeimpunity by any reasonably strong-minded person. Nobody can feel thatsuch conventions are really compulsory; and consequently nobody canbelieve in the stage pathos that accepts them as an inexorable fate, orin the genuineness of the people who indulge in such pathos. Sittingat such plays, we do not believe: we make-believe. And the habit ofmake-believe becomes at last so rooted that criticism of the theatreinsensibly ceases to be criticism at all, and becomes more and more achronicle of the fashionable enterprises of the only realities left onthe stage: that is, the performers in their own persons. In thisphase the playwright who attempts to revive genuine drama produces thedisagreeable impression of the pedant who attempts to start a seriousdiscussion at a fashionable at-home. Later on, when he has driven thetea services out and made the people who had come to use the theatre asa drawing-room understand that it is they and not the dramatist who arethe intruders, he has to face the accusation that his plays ignore humanfeeling, an illusion produced by that very resistance of fact and law tohuman feeling which creates drama. It is the _deus ex machina_ who, bysuspending that resistance, makes the fall of the curtain an immediatenecessity, since drama ends exactly where resistance ends. Yet theintroduction of this resistance produces so strong an impression ofheartlessness nowadays that a distinguished critic has summed up theimpression made on him by Mrs Warren's Profession, by declaring that"the difference between the spirit of Tolstoy and the spirit of MrShaw is the difference between the spirit of Christ and the spirit ofEuclid." But the epigram would be as good if Tolstoy's name were put inplace of mine and D'Annunzio's in place of Tolstoy. At the same timeI accept the enormous compliment to my reasoning powers with sincerecomplacency; and I promise my flatterer that when he is sufficientlyaccustomed to and therefore undazzled by problem on the stage to be ableto attend to the familiar factor of humanity in it as well as to theunfamiliar one of a real environment, he will both see and feel thatMrs Warren's Profession is no mere theorem, but a play of instinctsand temperaments in conflict with each other and with a flinty socialproblem that never yields an inch to mere sentiment.I go further than this. I declare that the real secret of thecynicism and inhumanity of which shallower critics accuse me is theunexpectedness with which my characters behave like human beings,instead of conforming to the romantic logic of the stage. The axioms andpostulates of that dreary mimanthropometry are so well known that it isalmost impossible for its slaves to write tolerable last acts totheir plays, so conventionally do their conclusions follow from theirpremises. Because I have thrown this logic ruthlessly overboard, I amaccused of ignoring, not stage logic, but, of all things, human feeling.People with completely theatrified imaginations tell me that no girlwould treat her mother as Vivie Warren does, meaning that no stageheroine would in a popular sentimental play. They say this just as theymight say that no two straight lines would enclose a space. They do notsee how completely inverted their vision has become even when I throwits preposterousness in their faces, as I repeatedly do in this veryplay. Praed, the sentimental artist (fool that I was not to make him atheatre critic instead of an architect!) burlesques them by expectingall through the piece that the feelings of others will be logicallydeducible from their family relationships and from his "conventionallyunconventional" social code. The sarcasm is lost on the critics: they,saturated with the same logic, only think him the sole sensible personon the stage. Thus it comes about that the more completely the dramatistis emancipated from the illusion that men and women are primarilyreasonable beings, and the more powerfully he insists on the ruthlessindifference of their great dramatic antagonist, the external world, totheir whims and emotions, the surer he is to be denounced as blind tothe very distinction on which his whole work is built. Far from ignoringidiosyncrasy, will, passion, impulse, whim, as factors in human action,I have placed them so nakedly on the stage that the elderly citizen,accustomed to see them clothed with the veil of manufactured logic aboutduty, and to disguise even his own impulses from himself in this way,finds the picture as unnatural as Carlyle's suggested painting ofparliament sitting without its clothes.I now come to those critics who, intellectually baffled by the problemin Mrs Warren's Profession, have made a virtue of running away from it.I will illustrate their method by quotation from Dickens, taken from thefifth chapter of Our Mutual Friend:"Hem!" began Wegg. "This, Mr Boffin and Lady, is the first chapter ofthe first wollume of the Decline and Fall off----" here he looked hardat the book, and stopped."What's the matter, Wegg?""Why, it comes into my mind, do you know, sir," said Wegg with an air ofinsinuating frankness (having first again looked hard at the book), "thatyou made a little mistake this morning, which I had meant to set youright in; only something put it out of my head. I think you said RooshanEmpire, sir?""It is Rooshan; ain't it, Wegg?""No, sir. Roman. Roman.""What's the difference, Wegg?""The difference, sir?" Mr Wegg was faltering and in danger of breakingdown, when a bright thought flashed upon him. "The difference, sir?There you place me in a difficulty, Mr Boffin. Suffice it to observe,that the difference is best postponed to some other occasion when MrsBoffin does not honor us with her company. In Mrs Boffin's presence,sir, we had better drop it."Mr Wegg thus came out of his disadvantage with quite a chivalrous air,and not only that, but by dint of repeating with a manly delicacy,"In Mrs Boffin's presence, sir, we had better drop it!" turned thedisadvantage on Boffin, who felt that he had committed himself in a verypainful manner.I am willing to let Mr Wegg drop it on these terms, provided I amallowed to mention here that Mrs Warren's Profession is a play forwomen; that it was written for women; that it has been performed andproduced mainly through the determination of women that it should beperformed and produced; that the enthusiasm of women made its firstperformance excitingly successful; and that not one of these women hadany inducement to support it except their belief in the timeliness andthe power of the lesson the play teaches. Those who were "surprised tosee ladies present" were men; and when they proceeded to explain thatthe journals they represented could not possibly demoralize the publicby describing such a play, their editors cruelly devoted the space savedby their delicacy to an elaborate and respectful account of the progressof a young lord's attempt to break the bank at Monte Carlo. A few dayssooner Mrs Warren would have been crowded out of their papers by anexceptionally abominable police case. I do not suggest that the policecase should have been suppressed; but neither do I believe that regardfor public morality had anything to do with their failure to grapplewith the performance by the Stage Society. And, after all, there was noneed to fall back on Silas Wegg's subterfuge. Several critics saved thefaces of their papers easily enough by the simple expedient of sayingall they had to say in the tone of a shocked governess lecturing anaughty child. To them I might plead, in Mrs Warren's words, "Well,it's only good manners to be ashamed, dearie;" but it surprises me,recollecting as I do the effect produced by Miss Fanny Brough's deliveryof that line, that gentlemen who shivered like violets in a zephyr asit swept through them, should so completely miss the full width of itsapplication as to go home and straightway make a public exhibition ofmock modesty.My old Independent Theatre manager, Mr Grein, besides that reproach tome for shattering his ideals, complains that Mrs Warren is not wickedenough, and names several romancers who would have clothed her blacksoul with all the terrors of tragedy. I have no doubt they would; butif you please, my dear Grein, that is just what I did not want to do.Nothing would please our sanctimonious British public more than to throwthe whole guilt of Mrs Warren's profession on Mrs Warren herself. Nowthe whole aim of my play is to throw that guilt on the British publicitself. You may remember that when you produced my first play, Widowers'Houses, exactly the same misunderstanding arose. When the virtuous younggentleman rose up in wrath against the slum landlord, the slumlandlord very effectively shewed him that slums are the product, notof individual Harpagons, but of the indifference of virtuous younggentlemen to the condition of the city they live in, provided theylive at the west end of it on money earned by someone else's labor. Thenotion that prostitution is created by the wickedness of Mrs Warrenis as silly as the notion--prevalent, nevertheless, to some extent inTemperance circles--that drunkenness is created by the wickedness ofthe publican. Mrs Warren is not a whit a worse woman than the reputabledaughter who cannot endure her. Her indifference to the ultimate socialconsequences of her means of making money, and her discovery of thatmeans by the ordinary method of taking the line of least resistance togetting it, are too common in English society to call for any specialremark. Her vitality, her thrift, her energy, her outspokenness, herwise care of her daughter, and the managing capacity which has enabledher and her sister to climb from the fried fish shop down by the Mintto the establishments of which she boasts, are all high English socialvirtues. Her defence of herself is so overwhelming that it provokes theSt James Gazette to declare that "the tendency of the play is whollyevil" because "it contains one of the boldest and most specious defencesof an immoral life for poor women that has ever been penned." Happilythe St James Gazette here speaks in its haste. Mrs Warren's defence ofherself is not only bold and specious, but valid and unanswerable.But it is no defence at all of the vice which she organizes. It isno defence of an immoral life to say that the alternative offeredby society collectively to poor women is a miserable life, starved,overworked, fetid, ailing, ugly. Though it is quite natural and RIGHTfor Mrs Warren to choose what is, according to her lights, the leastimmoral alternative, it is none the less infamous of society to offersuch alternatives. For the alternatives offered are not morality andimmorality, but two sorts of immorality. The man who cannot seethat starvation, overwork, dirt, and disease are as anti-social asprostitution--that they are the vices and crimes of a nation, andnot merely its misfortunes--is (to put it as politely as possible) ahopelessly Private Person.The notion that Mrs Warren must be a fiend is only an example of theviolence and passion which the slightest reference to sex arouses inundisciplined minds, and which makes it seem natural for our lawgiversto punish silly and negligible indecencies with a ferocity unknown indealing with, for example, ruinous financial swindling. Had my play beentitled Mr Warren's Profession, and Mr Warren been a bookmaker, nobodywould have expected me to make him a villain as well. Yet gambling isa vice, and bookmaking an institution, for which there is absolutelynothing to be said. The moral and economic evil done by trying to getother people's money without working for it (and this is the essence ofgambling) is not only enormous but uncompensated. There are no two sidesto the question of gambling, no circumstances which force us to tolerateit lest its suppression lead to worse things, no consensus of opinionamong responsible classes, such as magistrates and military commanders,that it is a necessity, no Athenian records of gambling made splendid bythe talents of its professors, no contention that instead of violatingmorals it only violates a legal institution which is in many respectsoppressive and unnatural, no possible plea that the instinct on which itis founded is a vital one. Prostitution can confuse the issue with allthese excuses: gambling has none of them. Consequently, if Mrs Warrenmust needs be a demon, a bookmaker must be a cacodemon. Well, doesanybody who knows the sporting world really believe that bookmakers areworse than their neighbors? On the contrary, they have to be a good dealbetter; for in that world nearly everybody whose social rank does notexclude such an occupation would be a bookmaker if he could; but thestrength of character for handling large sums of money and for strictsettlements and unflinching payment of losses is so rare that successfulbookmakers are rare too. It may seem that at least public spiritcannot be one of a bookmaker's virtues; but I can testify from personalexperience that excellent public work is done with money subscribedby bookmakers. It is true that there are abysses in bookmaking: forexample, welshing. Mr Grein hints that there are abysses in Mrs Warren'sprofession also. So there are in every profession: the error lies insupposing that every member of them sounds these depths. I sit on apublic body which prosecutes Mrs Warren zealously; and I can assure MrGrein that she is often leniently dealt with because she has conductedher business "respectably" and held herself above its vilest branches.The degrees in infamy are as numerous and as scrupulously observed asthe degrees in the peerage: the moralist's notion that there are depthsat which the moral atmosphere ceases is as delusive as the rich man'snotion that there are no social jealousies or snobberies among the verypoor. No: had I drawn Mrs Warren as a fiend in human form, the verypeople who now rebuke me for flattering her would probably be thefirst to deride me for deducing her character logically from occupationinstead of observing it accurately in society.One critic is so enslaved by this sort of logic that he calls myportraiture of the Reverend Samuel Gardner an attack on religion.According to this view Subaltern Iago is an attack on the army, SirJohn Falstaff an attack on knighthood, and King Claudius an attack onroyalty. Here again the clamor for naturalness and human feeling, raisedby so many critics when they are confronted by the real thing on thestage, is really a clamor for the most mechanical and superficial sortof logic. The dramatic reason for making the clergyman what Mrs Warrencalls "an old stick-in-the-mud," whose son, in spite of much capacityand charm, is a cynically worthless member of society, is to set up amordant contrast between him and the woman of infamous profession, withher well brought-up, straightforward, hardworking daughter. The criticswho have missed the contrast have doubtless observed often enough thatmany clergymen are in the Church through no genuine calling, but simplybecause, in circles which can command preferment, it is the refugeof "the fool of the family"; and that clergymen's sons are oftenconspicuous reactionists against the restraints imposed on them inchildhood by their father's profession. These critics must know, too,from history if not from experience, that women as unscrupulous as MrsWarren have distinguished themselves as administrators and rulers, bothcommercially and politically. But both observation and knowledge areleft behind when journalists go to the theatre. Once in their stalls,they assume that it is "natural" for clergymen to be saintly, forsoldiers to be heroic, for lawyers to be hard-hearted, for sailors tobe simple and generous, for doctors to perform miracles with littlebottles, and for Mrs Warren to be a beast and a demon. All this is notonly not natural, but not dramatic. A man's profession only enters intothe drama of his life when it comes into conflict with his nature. Theresult of this conflict is tragic in Mrs Warren's case, and comic in theclergyman's case (at least we are savage enough to laugh at it); butin both cases it is illogical, and in both cases natural. I repeat,the critics who accuse me of sacrificing nature to logic are sosophisticated by their profession that to them logic is nature, andnature absurdity.Many friendly critics are too little skilled in social questions andmoral discussions to be able to conceive that respectable gentlemen likethemselves, who would instantly call the police to remove Mrs Warren ifshe ventured to canvass them personally, could possibly be in any wayresponsible for her proceedings. They remonstrate sincerely, asking mewhat good such painful exposures can possibly do. They might as well askwhat good Lord Shaftesbury did by devoting his life to the exposureof evils (by no means yet remedied) compared to which the worst thingsbrought into view or even into surmise by this play are trifles.The good of mentioning them is that you make people so extremelyuncomfortable about them that they finally stop blaming "human nature"for them, and begin to support measures for their reform.Can anything be more absurd than the copy of The Echo which contains anotice of the performance of my play? It is edited by a gentleman who,having devoted his life to work of the Shaftesbury type, exposes socialevils and clamors for their reform in every column except one; and thatone is occupied by the declaration of the paper's kindly theatre critic,that the performance left him "wondering what useful purpose the playwas intended to serve." The balance has to be redressed by the morefashionable papers, which usually combine capable art criticism withWest-End solecism on politics and sociology. It is very noteworthy,however, on comparing the press explosion produced by Mrs Warren'sProfession in 1902 with that produced by Widowers' Houses about tenyears earlier, that whereas in 1892 the facts were frantically deniedand the persons of the drama flouted as monsters of wickedness, in1902 the facts are admitted and the characters recognized, though it issuggested that this is exactly why no gentleman should mention them inpublic. Only one writer has ventured to imply this time that the povertymentioned by Mrs Warren has since been quietly relieved, and neednot have been dragged back to the footlights. I compliment him on hissplendid mendacity, in which he is unsupported, save by a little plea ina theatrical paper which is innocent enough to think that ten guineas ayear with board and lodging is an impossibly low wage for a barmaid. Itgoes on to cite Mr Charles Booth as having testified that there aremany laborers' wives who are happy and contented on eighteen shillingsa week. But I can go further than that myself. I have seen an Oxfordagricultural laborer's wife looking cheerful on eight shillings a week;but that does not console me for the fact that agriculture in Englandis a ruined industry. If poverty does not matter as long as it iscontented, then crime does not matter as long as it is unscrupulous. Thetruth is that it is only then that it does matter most desperately.Many persons are more comfortable when they are dirty than when they areclean; but that does not recommend dirt as a national policy.Here I must for the present break off my arduous work of educating thePress. We shall resume our studies later on; but just now I am tired ofplaying the preceptor; and the eager thirst of my pupils for improvementdoes not console me for the slowness of their progress. Besides, I mustreserve space to gratify my own vanity and do justice to the six artistswho acted my play, by placing on record the hitherto unchronicledsuccess of the first representation. It is not often that an author,after a couple of hours of those rare alternations of excitement andintensely attentive silence which only occur in the theatre when actorsand audience are reacting on one another to the utmost, is able to stepon the stage and apply the strong word genius to the representation withthe certainty of eliciting an instant and overwhelming assent from theaudience. That was my good fortune on the afternoon of Sunday, the fifthof January last. I was certainly extremely fortunate in my interpretersin the enterprise, and that not alone in respect of their artistictalent; for had it not been for their superhuman patience, theirimperturbable good humor and good fellowship, there could have been noperformance. The terror of the Censor's power gave us trouble enough tobreak up any ordinary commercial enterprise. Managers promised and evenengaged their theatres to us after the most explicit warnings that theplay was unlicensed, and at the last moment suddenly realized that MrRedford had their livelihoods in the hollow of his hand, and backedout. Over and over again the date and place were fixed and the ticketsprinted, only to be canceled, until at last the desperate and overworkedmanager of the Stage Society could only laugh, as criminals broken onthe wheel used to laugh at the second stroke. We rehearsed under greatdifficulties. Christmas pieces and plays for the new year were beingproduced in all directions; and my six actor colleagues were busypeople, with engagements in these pieces in addition to their currentprofessional work every night. On several raw winter days stages forrehearsal were unattainable even by the most distinguished applicants;and we shared corridors and saloons with them whilst the stage wasgiven over to children in training for Boxing night. At last we had torehearse at an hour at which no actor or actress has been out of bedwithin the memory of man; and we sardonically congratulated one anotherevery morning on our rosy matutinal looks and the improvement wroughtby our early rising in our health and characters. And all this, pleaseobserve, for a society without treasury or commercial prestige, fora play which was being denounced in advance as unmentionable, for anauthor without influence at the fashionable theatres! I victoriouslychallenge the West End managers to get as much done for interestedmotives, if they can.Three causes made the production the most notable that has fallen to mylot. First, the veto of the Censor, which put the supporters of the playon their mettle. Second, the chivalry of the Stage Society, which, inspite of my urgent advice to the contrary, and my demonstration of thedifficulties, dangers, and expenses the enterprise would cost, put mydiscouragements to shame and resolved to give battle at all costs tothe attempt of the Censorship to suppress the play. Third, the artisticspirit of the actors, who made the play their own and carried it throughtriumphantly in spite of a series of disappointments and annoyances muchmore trying to the dramatic temperament than mere difficulties.The acting, too, required courage and character as well as skill andintelligence. The veto of the Censor introduced quite a novel element ofmoral responsibility into the undertaking. And the characters were veryunusual on the English stage. The younger heroine is, like her mother,an Englishwoman to the backbone, and not, like the heroines of ourfashionable drama, a prima donna of Italian origin. Consequently shewas sure to be denounced as unnatural and undramatic by the critics.The most vicious man in the play is not in the least a stage villain;indeed, he regards his own moral character with the sincere complacencyof a hero of melodrama. The amiable devotee of romance and beauty isshewn at an age which brings out the futilization which these worshipsare apt to produce if they are made the staple of life instead ofthe sauce. The attitude of the clever young people to their elders isfaithfully represented as one of pitiless ridicule and unsympatheticcriticism, and forms a spectacle incredible to those who, when young,were not cleverer than their nearest elders, and painful to thosesentimental parents who shrink from the cruelty of youth, which pardonsnothing because it knows nothing. In short, the characters and theirrelations are of a kind that the routineer critic has not yet learnedto place; so that their misunderstanding was a foregone conclusion.Nevertheless, there was no hesitation behind the curtain. When it wentup at last, a stage much too small for the company was revealed to anauditorium much too small for the audience. But the players, though itwas impossible for them to forget their own discomfort, at once made thespectators forget theirs. It certainly was a model audience, responsivefrom the first line to the last; and it got no less than it deserved inreturn.I grieve to add that the second performance, given for the edificationof the London Press and of those members of the Stage Society who cannotattend the Sunday performances, was a less inspiriting one than thefirst. A solid phalanx of theatre-weary journalists in an afternoonhumor, most of them committed to irreconcilable disparagement of problemplays, and all of them bound by etiquette to be as undemonstrativeas possible, is not exactly the sort of audience that rises at theperformers and cures them of the inevitable reaction after an excitinglysuccessful first night. The artist nature is a sensitive and thereforea vindictive one; and masterful players have a way with recalcitrantaudiences of rubbing a play into them instead of delighting them withit. I should describe the second performance of Mrs Warren's Profession,especially as to its earlier stages, as decidedly a rubbed-in one. Therubbing was no doubt salutary; but it must have hurt some of the thinnerskins. The charm of the lighter passages fled; and the strong scenes,though they again carried everything before them, yet discharged thatduty in a grim fashion, doing execution on the enemy rather than movingthem to repentance and confession. Still, to those who had not seen thefirst performance, the effect was sufficiently impressive; and theyhad the advantage of witnessing a fresh development in Mrs Warren, who,artistically jealous, as I took it, of the overwhelming effect of theend of the second act on the previous day, threw herself into the fourthact in quite a new way, and achieved the apparently impossible feat ofsurpassing herself. The compliments paid to Miss Fanny Brough bythe critics, eulogistic as they are, are the compliments of menthree-fourths duped as Partridge was duped by Garrick. By much of heracting they were so completely taken in that they did not recognize itas acting at all. Indeed, none of the six players quite escaped thisconsequence of their own thoroughness. There was a distinct tendencyamong the less experienced critics to complain of their sentiments andbehavior. Naturally, the author does not share that grievance.PICCARD'S COTTAGE, JANUARY 1902.MRS WARREN'S PROFESSION[Mrs Warren's Profession was performed for the first time in the theatreof the New Lyric Club, London, on the 5th and 6th January 1902, withMadge McIntosh as Vivie, Julius Knight as Praed, Fanny Brough as MrsWarren, Charles Goodhart as Crofts, Harley Granville-Barker as Frank,and Cosmo Stuart as the Reverend Samuel Gardner.]ACT I[Summer afternoon in a cottage garden on the eastern slope of a hill alittle south of Haslemere in Surrey. Looking up the hill, the cottage isseen in the left hand corner of the garden, with its thatched roof andporch, and a large latticed window to the left of the porch. A palingcompletely shuts in the garden, except for a gate on the right. Thecommon rises uphill beyond the paling to the sky line. Some foldedcanvas garden chairs are leaning against the side bench in the porch. Alady's bicycle is propped against the wall, under the window. A littleto the right of the porch a hammock is slung from two posts. A bigcanvas umbrella, stuck in the ground, keeps the sun off the hammock,in which a young lady is reading and making notes, her head towardsthe cottage and her feet towards the gate. In front of the hammock,and within reach of her hand, is a common kitchen chair, with a pile ofserious-looking books and a supply of writing paper on it.][A gentleman walking on the common comes into sight from behind thecottage. He is hardly past middle age, with something of the artistabout him, unconventionally but carefully dressed, and clean-shavenexcept for a moustache, with an eager susceptible face and very amiableand considerate manners. He has silky black hair, with waves of grey andwhite in it. His eyebrows are white, his moustache black. He seems notcertain of his way. He looks over the palings; takes stock of the place;and sees the young lady.]THE GENTLEMAN [taking off his hat] I beg your pardon. Can you direct meto Hindhead View--Mrs Alison's?THE YOUNG LADY [glancing up from her book] This is Mrs Alison's. [Sheresumes her work].THE GENTLEMAN. Indeed! Perhaps--may I ask are you Miss Vivie Warren?THE YOUNG LADY [sharply, as she turns on her elbow to get a good look athim] Yes.THE GENTLEMAN [daunted and conciliatory] I'm afraid I appear intrusive.My name is Praed. [Vivie at once throws her books upon the chair, andgets out of the hammock]. Oh, pray don't let me disturb you.VIVIE [striding to the gate and opening it for him] Come in, Mr Praed.[He comes in]. Glad to see you. [She proffers her hand and takes hiswith a resolute and hearty grip. She is an attractive specimen of thesensible, able, highly-educated young middle-class Englishwoman. Age 22.Prompt, strong, confident, self-possessed. Plain business-like dress,but not dowdy. She wears a chatelaine at her belt, with a fountain penand a paper knife among its pendants].PRAED. Very kind of you indeed, Miss Warren. [She shuts the gate with avigorous slam. He passes in to the middle of the garden, exercising hisfingers, which are slightly numbed by her greeting]. Has your motherarrived?VIVIE [quickly, evidently scenting aggression] Is she coming?PRAED [surprised] Didn't you expect us?VIVIE. No.PRAED. Now, goodness me, I hope I've not mistaken the day. That would bejust like me, you know. Your mother arranged that she was to come downfrom London and that I was to come over from Horsham to be introduced toyou.VIVIE [not at all pleased] Did she? Hm! My mother has rather a trick oftaking me by surprise--to see how I behave myself while she's away, Isuppose. I fancy I shall take my mother very much by surprise one ofthese days, if she makes arrangements that concern me without consultingme beforehand. She hasnt come.PRAED [embarrassed] I'm really very sorry.VIVIE [throwing off her displeasure] It's not your fault, Mr Praed, isit? And I'm very glad you've come. You are the only one of my mother'sfriends I have ever asked her to bring to see me.PRAED [relieved and delighted] Oh, now this is really very good of you,Miss Warren!VIVIE. Will you come indoors; or would you rather sit out here and talk?PRAED. It will be nicer out here, don't you think?VIVIE. Then I'll go and get you a chair. [She goes to the porch for agarden chair].PRAED [following her] Oh, pray, pray! Allow me. [He lays hands on thechair].VIVIE [letting him take it] Take care of your fingers; theyre ratherdodgy things, those chairs. [She goes across to the chair with the bookson it; pitches them into the hammock; and brings the chair forward withone swing].PRAED [who has just unfolded his chair] Oh, now do let me take thathard chair. I like hard chairs.VIVIE. So do I. Sit down, Mr Praed. [This invitation she gives with agenial peremptoriness, his anxiety to please her clearly striking her asa sign of weakness of character on his part. But he does not immediatelyobey].PRAED. By the way, though, hadnt we better go to the station to meetyour mother?VIVIE [coolly] Why? She knows the way.PRAED [disconcerted] Er--I suppose she does [he sits down].VIVIE. Do you know, you are just like what I expected. I hope you aredisposed to be friends with me.PRAED [again beaming] Thank you, my _dear_ Miss Warren; thank you. Dearme! I'm so glad your mother hasnt spoilt you!VIVIE. How?PRAED. Well, in making you too conventional. You know, my dear MissWarren, I am a born anarchist. I hate authority. It spoils the relationsbetween parent and child; even between mother and daughter. Now I wasalways afraid that your mother would strain her authority to make youvery conventional. It's such a relief to find that she hasnt.VIVIE. Oh! have I been behaving unconventionally?PRAED. Oh no: oh dear no. At least, not conventionally unconventionally,you understand. [She nods and sits down. He goes on, with a cordialoutburst] But it was so charming of you to say that you were disposedto be friends with me! You modern young ladies are splendid: perfectlysplendid!VIVIE [dubiously] Eh? [watching him with dawning disappointment as tothe quality of his brains and character].PRAED. When I was your age, young men and women were afraid of eachother: there was no good fellowship. Nothing real. Only gallantry copiedout of novels, and as vulgar and affected as it could be. Maidenlyreserve! gentlemanly chivalry! always saying no when you meant yes!simple purgatory for shy and sincere souls.VIVIE. Yes, I imagine there must have been a frightful waste of time.Especially women's time.PRAED. Oh, waste of life, waste of everything. But things are improving.Do you know, I have been in a positive state of excitement about meetingyou ever since your magnificent achievements at Cambridge: a thingunheard of in my day. It was perfectly splendid, your tieing with thethird wrangler. Just the right place, you know. The first wrangleris always a dreamy, morbid fellow, in whom the thing is pushed to thelength of a disease.VIVIE. It doesn't pay. I wouldn't do it again for the same money.PRAED [aghast] The same money!VIVIE. Yes. Fifty pounds. Perhaps you don't know how it was. Mrs Latham,my tutor at Newnham, told my mother that I could distinguish myself inthe mathematical tripos if I went in for it in earnest. The papers werefull just then of Phillipa Summers beating the senior wrangler. Youremember about it, of course.PRAED [shakes his head energetically] !!!VIVIE. Well, anyhow, she did; and nothing would please my mother butthat I should do the same thing. I said flatly that it was not worthmy while to face the grind since I was not going in for teaching; but Ioffered to try for fourth wrangler or thereabouts for fifty pounds. Sheclosed with me at that, after a little grumbling; and I was better thanmy bargain. But I wouldn't do it again for that. Two hundred pounds wouldhave been nearer the mark.PRAED [much damped] Lord bless me! Thats a very practical way of lookingat it.VIVIE. Did you expect to find me an unpractical person?PRAED. But surely it's practical to consider not only the work thesehonors cost, but also the culture they bring.VIVIE. Culture! My dear Mr Praed: do you know what the mathematicaltripos means? It means grind, grind, grind for six to eight hours a dayat mathematics, and nothing but mathematics.I'm supposed to know something about science; but I know nothing exceptthe mathematics it involves. I can make calculations for engineers,electricians, insurance companies, and so on; but I know next tonothing about engineering or electricity or insurance. I don't even knowarithmetic well. Outside mathematics, lawn-tennis, eating, sleeping,cycling, and walking, I'm a more ignorant barbarian than any woman couldpossibly be who hadn't gone in for the tripos.PRAED [revolted] What a monstrous, wicked, rascally system! I knew it!I felt at once that it meant destroying all that makes womanhoodbeautiful!VIVIE. I don't object to it on that score in the least. I shall turn itto very good account, I assure you.PRAED. Pooh! In what way?VIVIE. I shall set up chambers in the City, and work at actuarialcalculations and conveyancing. Under cover of that I shall do some law,with one eye on the Stock Exchange all the time. I've come down here bymyself to read law: not for a holiday, as my mother imagines. I hateholidays.PRAED. You make my blood run cold. Are you to have no romance, no beautyin your life?VIVIE. I don't care for either, I assure you.PRAED. You can't mean that.VIVIE. Oh yes I do. I like working and getting paid for it. When I'mtired of working, I like a comfortable chair, a cigar, a little whisky,and a novel with a good detective story in it.PRAED [rising in a frenzy of repudiation] I don't believe it. I am anartist; and I can't believe it: I refuse to believe it. It's only thatyou havn't discovered yet what a wonderful world art can open up to you.VIVIE. Yes I have. Last May I spent six weeks in London with HonoriaFraser. Mamma thought we were doing a round of sightseeing together; butI was really at Honoria's chambers in Chancery Lane every day, workingaway at actuarial calculations for her, and helping her as well as agreenhorn could. In the evenings we smoked and talked, and never dreamtof going out except for exercise. And I never enjoyed myself more in mylife.I cleared all my expenses and got initiated into the business without afee in the bargain.PRAED. But bless my heart and soul, Miss Warren, do you call thatdiscovering art?VIVIE. Wait a bit. That wasn't the beginning. I went up to town on aninvitation from some artistic people in Fitzjohn's Avenue: one of thegirls was a Newnham chum. They took me to the National Gallery--PRAED [approving] Ah!! [He sits down, much relieved].VIVIE [continuing]--to the Opera--PRAED [still more pleased] Good!VIVIE.--and to a concert where the band played all the evening:Beethoven and Wagner and so on. I wouldn't go through that experienceagain for anything you could offer me. I held out for civility's sakeuntil the third day; and then I said, plump out, that I couldn't standany more of it, and went off to Chancery Lane. N o w you know the sortof perfectly splendid modern young lady I am. How do you think I shallget on with my mother?PRAED [startled] Well, I hope--er--VIVIE. It's not so much what you hope as what you believe, that I wantto know.PRAED. Well, frankly, I am afraid your mother will be a littledisappointed. Not from any shortcoming on your part, you know: I don'tmean that. But you are so different from her ideal.VIVIE. Her what?!PRAED. Her ideal.VIVIE. Do you mean her ideal of ME?PRAED. Yes.VIVIE. What on earth is it like?PRAED. Well, you must have observed, Miss Warren, that people who aredissatisfied with their own bringing-up generally think that the worldwould be all right if everybody were to be brought up quite differently.Now your mother's life has been--er--I suppose you know--VIVIE. Don't suppose anything, Mr Praed. I hardly know my mother. SinceI was a child I have lived in England, at school or at college, or withpeople paid to take charge of me. I have been boarded out all my life.My mother has lived in Brussels or Vienna and never let me go to her.I only see her when she visits England for a few days. I don't complain:it's been very pleasant; for people have been very good to me; and therehas always been plenty of money to make things smooth. But don't imagineI know anything about my mother. I know far less than you do.PRAED [very ill at ease] In that case--[He stops, quite at a loss. Then,with a forced attempt at gaiety] But what nonsense we are talking! Ofcourse you and your mother will get on capitally. [He rises, and looksabroad at the view]. What a charming little place you have here!VIVIE [unmoved] Rather a violent change of subject, Mr Praed. Why won'tmy mother's life bear being talked about?PRAED. Oh, you mustn't say that. Isn't it natural that I should have acertain delicacy in talking to my old friend's daughter about her behindher back? You and she will have plenty of opportunity of talking aboutit when she comes.VIVIE. No: she won't talk about it either. [Rising] However, I daresayyou have good reasons for telling me nothing. Only, mind this, MrPraed, I expect there will be a battle royal when my mother hears of myChancery Lane project.PRAED [ruefully] I'm afraid there will.VIVIE. Well, I shall win because I want nothing but my fare to Londonto start there to-morrow earning my own living by devilling for Honoria.Besides, I have no mysteries to keep up; and it seems she has. I shalluse that advantage over her if necessary.PRAED [greatly shocked] Oh no! No, pray. Youd not do such a thing.VIVIE. Then tell me why not.PRAED. I really cannot. I appeal to your good feeling. [She smiles athis sentimentality]. Besides, you may be too bold. Your mother is not tobe trifled with when she's angry.VIVIE. You can't frighten me, Mr Praed. In that month at Chancery Lane Ihad opportunities of taking the measure of one or two women v e r y likemy mother. You may back me to win. But if I hit harder in my ignorancethan I need, remember it is you who refuse to enlighten me. Now, let usdrop the subject. [She takes her chair and replaces it near the hammockwith the same vigorous swing as before].PRAED [taking a desperate resolution] One word, Miss Warren. I hadbetter tell you. It's very difficult; but--[Mrs Warren and Sir George Crofts arrive at the gate. Mrs Warren isbetween 40 and 50, formerly pretty, showily dressed in a brillianthat and a gay blouse fitting tightly over her bust and flanked byfashionable sleeves. Rather spoilt and domineering, and decidedlyvulgar, but, on the whole, a genial and fairly presentable oldblackguard of a woman.][Crofts is a tall powerfully-built man of about 50, fashionably dressedin the style of a young man. Nasal voice, reedier than might be expectedfrom his strong frame. Clean-shaven bulldog jaws, large flat ears, andthick neck: gentlemanly combination of the most brutal types of cityman, sporting man, and man about town.]VIVIE. Here they are. [Coming to them as they enter the garden] How do,mater? Mr Praed's been here this half hour, waiting for you.MRS WARREN. Well, if you've been waiting, Praddy, it's your own fault:I thought youd have had the gumption to know I was coming by the 3.10train. Vivie: put your hat on, dear: youll get sunburnt. Oh, I forgot tointroduce you. Sir George Crofts: my little Vivie.[Crofts advances to Vivie with his most courtly manner. She nods, butmakes no motion to shake hands.]CROFTS. May I shake hands with a young lady whom I have known byreputation very long as the daughter of one of my oldest friends?VIVIE [who has been looking him up and down sharply] If you like.[She takes his tenderly proferred hand and gives it a squeeze that makeshim open his eyes; then turns away, and says to her mother] Will youcome in, or shall I get a couple more chairs? [She goes into the porchfor the chairs].MRS WARREN. Well, George, what do you think of her?CROFTS [ruefully] She has a powerful fist. Did you shake hands with her,Praed?PRAED. Yes: it will pass off presently.CROFTS. I hope so. [Vivie reappears with two more chairs. He hurries toher assistance]. Allow me.MRS WARREN [patronizingly] Let Sir George help you with the chairs,dear.VIVIE [pitching them into his arms] Here you are. [She dusts her handsand turns to Mrs Warren]. Youd like some tea, wouldn't you?MRS WARREN [sitting in Praed's chair and fanning herself] I'm dying fora drop to drink.VIVIE. I'll see about it. [She goes into the cottage].[Sir George has by this time managed to unfold a chair and plant it byMrs Warren, on her left. He throws the other on the grass and sits down,looking dejected and rather foolish, with the handle of his stick inhis mouth. Praed, still very uneasy, fidgets around the garden on theirright.]MRS WARREN [to Praed, looking at Crofts] Just look at him, Praddy: helooks cheerful, don't he? He's been worrying my life out these threeyears to have that little girl of mine shewn to him; and now that Ivedone it, he's quite out of countenance. [Briskly] Come! sit up, George;and take your stick out of your mouth. [Crofts sulkily obeys].PRAED. I think, you know--if you don't mind my saying so--that we hadbetter get out of the habit of thinking of her as a little girl. You seeshe has really distinguished herself; and I'm not sure, from what I haveseen of her, that she is not older than any of us.MRS WARREN [greatly amused] Only listen to him, George! Older than anyof us! Well she _has_ been stuffing you nicely with her importance.PRAED. But young people are particularly sensitive about being treatedin that way.MRS WARREN. Yes; and young people have to get all that nonsense takenout of them, and good deal more besides. Don't you interfere, Praddy: Iknow how to treat my own child as well as you do. [Praed, with a graveshake of his head, walks up the garden with his hands behind his back.Mrs Warren pretends to laugh, but looks after him with perceptibleconcern. Then, she whispers to Crofts] Whats the matter with him? Whatdoes he take it like that for?CROFTS [morosely] Youre afraid of Praed.MRS WARREN. What! Me! Afraid of dear old Praddy! Why, a fly wouldn't beafraid of him.CROFTS. _You're_ afraid of him.MRS WARREN [angry] I'll trouble you to mind your own business, and nottry any of your sulks on me. I'm not afraid of y o u, anyhow. If youcan't make yourself agreeable, youd better go home. [She gets up, and,turning her back on him, finds herself face to face with Praed]. Come,Praddy, I know it was only your tender-heartedness. Youre afraid I'llbully her.PRAED. My dear Kitty: you think I'm offended. Don't imagine that: praydon't. But you know I often notice things that escape you; and though younever take my advice, you sometimes admit afterwards that you ought tohave taken it.MRS WARREN. Well, what do you notice now?PRAED. Only that Vivie is a grown woman. Pray, Kitty, treat her withevery respect.MRS WARREN [with genuine amazement] Respect! Treat my own daughter withrespect! What next, pray!VIVIE [appearing at the cottage door and calling to Mrs Warren] Mother:will you come to my room before tea?MRS WARREN. Yes, dearie. [She laughs indulgently at Praed's gravity, andpats him on the cheek as she passes him on her way to the porch]. Don'tbe cross, Praddy. [She follows Vivie into the cottage].CROFTS [furtively] I say, Praed.PRAED. Yes.CROFTS. I want to ask you a rather particular question.PRAED. Certainly. [He takes Mrs Warren's chair and sits close toCrofts].CROFTS. Thats right: they might hear us from the window. Look here: didKitty every tell you who that girl's father is?PRAED. Never.CROFTS. Have you any suspicion of who it might be?PRAED. None.CROFTS [not believing him] I know, of course, that you perhaps mightfeel bound not to tell if she had said anything to you. But it's veryawkward to be uncertain about it now that we shall be meeting the girlevery day. We don't exactly know how we ought to feel towards her.PRAED. What difference can that make? We take her on her own merits.What does it matter who her father was?CROFTS [suspiciously] Then you know who he was?PRAED [with a touch of temper] I said no just now. Did you not hear me?CROFTS. Look here, Praed. I ask you as a particular favor. If you _do_know [movement of protest from Praed]--I only say, if you know,you might at least set my mind at rest about her. The fact is, I fellattracted.PRAED [sternly] What do you mean?CROFTS. Oh, don't be alarmed: it's quite an innocent feeling. Thats whatpuzzles me about it. Why, for all I know, _I_ might be her father.PRAED. You! Impossible!CROFTS [catching him up cunningly] You know for certain that I'm not?PRAED. I know nothing about it, I tell you, any more than you. Butreally, Crofts--oh no, it's out of the question. Theres not the leastresemblance.CROFTS. As to that, theres no resemblance between her and her motherthat I can see. I suppose she's not y o u r daughter, is she?PRAED [rising indignantly] Really, Crofts--!CROFTS. No offence, Praed. Quite allowable as between two men of theworld.PRAED [recovering himself with an effort and speaking gently andgravely] Now listen to me, my dear Crofts. [He sits down again].I have nothing to do with that side of Mrs Warren's life, and never had.She has never spoken to me about it; and of course I have never spokento her about it. Your delicacy will tell you that a handsome woman needssome friends who are not--well, not on that footing with her. The effectof her own beauty would become a torment to her if she could not escapefrom it occasionally. You are probably on much more confidential termswith Kitty than I am. Surely you can ask her the question yourself.CROFTS. I h a v e asked her, often enough. But she's so determined tokeep the child all to herself that she would deny that it ever had afather if she could. [Rising] I'm thoroughly uncomfortable about it,Praed.PRAED [rising also] Well, as you are, at all events, old enough to beher father, I don't mind agreeing that we both regard Miss Vivie in aparental way, as a young girl who we are bound to protect and help. Whatdo you say?CROFTS [aggressively] I'm no older than you, if you come to that.PRAED. Yes you are, my dear fellow: you were born old. I was born a boy:Ive never been able to feel the assurance of a grown-up man in my life.[He folds his chair and carries it to the porch].MRS WARREN [calling from within the cottage] Prad-dee! George!Tea-ea-ea-ea!CROFTS [hastily] She's calling us. [He hurries in].[Praed shakes his head bodingly, and is following Crofts when he ishailed by a young gentleman who has just appeared on the common, and ismaking for the gate. He is pleasant, pretty, smartly dressed, cleverlygood-for-nothing, not long turned 20, with a charming voice andagreeably disrespectful manners. He carries a light sporting magazinerifle.]THE YOUNG GENTLEMAN. Hallo! Praed!PRAED. Why, Frank Gardner! [Frank comes in and shakes hands cordially].What on earth are you doing here?FRANK. Staying with my father.PRAED. The Roman father?FRANK. He's rector here. I'm living with my people this autumn for thesake of economy. Things came to a crisis in July: the Roman father hadto pay my debts. He's stony broke in consequence; and so am I. What areyou up to in these parts? do you know the people here?PRAED. Yes: I'm spending the day with a Miss Warren.FRANK [enthusiastically] What! Do you know Vivie? Isn't she a jolly girl?I'm teaching her to shoot with this [putting down the rifle]. I'm soglad she knows you: youre just the sort of fellow she ought to know.[He smiles, and raises the charming voice almost to a singing tone as heexclaims] It's e v e r so jolly to find you here, Praed.PRAED. I'm an old friend of her mother. Mrs Warren brought me over tomake her daughter's acquaintance.FRANK. The mother! Is _she_ here?PRAED. Yes: inside, at tea.MRS WARREN [calling from within] Prad-dee-ee-ee-eee! The tea-cake'll becold.PRAED [calling] Yes, Mrs Warren. In a moment. I've just met a friendhere.MRS WARREN. A what?PRAED [louder] A friend.MRS WARREN. Bring him in.PRAED. All right. [To Frank] Will you accept the invitation?FRANK [incredulous, but immensely amused] Is that Vivie's mother?PRAED. Yes.FRANK. By Jove! What a lark! Do you think she'll like me?PRAED. I've no doubt youll make yourself popular, as usual. Come in andtry [moving towards the house].FRANK. Stop a bit. [Seriously] I want to take you into my confidence.PRAED. Pray don't. It's only some fresh folly, like the barmaid atRedhill.FRANK. It's ever so much more serious than that. You say you've only justmet Vivie for the first time?PRAED. Yes.FRANK [rhapsodically] Then you can have no idea what a girl she is. Suchcharacter! Such sense! And her cleverness! Oh, my eye, Praed, but I cantell you she is clever! And--need I add?--she loves me.CROFTS [putting his head out of the window] I say, Praed: what are youabout? Do come along. [He disappears].FRANK. Hallo! Sort of chap that would take a prize at a dog show, ain'the? Who's he?PRAED. Sir George Crofts, an old friend of Mrs Warren's. I think we hadbetter come in.[On their way to the porch they are interrupted by a call from the gate.Turning, they see an elderly clergyman looking over it.]THE CLERGYMAN [calling] Frank!FRANK. Hallo! [To Praed] The Roman father. [To the clergyman] Yes,gov'nor: all right: presently. [To Praed] Look here, Praed: youd bettergo in to tea. I'll join you directly.PRAED. Very good. [He goes into the cottage].[The clergyman remains outside the gate, with his hands on the top ofit. The Rev. Samuel Gardner, a beneficed clergyman of the EstablishedChurch, is over 50. Externally he is pretentious, booming, noisy,important. Really he is that obsolescent phenomenon the fool of thefamily dumped on the Church by his father the patron, clamorouslyasserting himself as father and clergyman without being able to commandrespect in either capacity.]REV. S. Well, sir. Who are your friends here, if I may ask?FRANK. Oh, it's all right, gov'nor! Come in.REV. S. No, sir; not until I know whose garden I am entering.FRANK. It's all right. It's Miss Warren's.REV. S. I have not seen her at church since she came.FRANK. Of course not: she's a third wrangler. Ever so intellectual. Tooka higher degree than you did; so why should she go to hear you preach?REV. S. Don't be disrespectful, sir.FRANK. Oh, it don't matter: nobody hears us. Come in. [He opens the gate,unceremoniously pulling his father with it into the garden]. I want tointroduce you to her. Do you remember the advice you gave me last July,gov'nor?REV. S. [severely] Yes. I advised you to conquer your idleness andflippancy, and to work your way into an honorable profession and live onit and not upon me.FRANK. No: thats what you thought of afterwards. What you actually saidwas that since I had neither brains nor money, I'd better turn my goodlooks to account by marrying someone with both. Well, look here. MissWarren has brains: you can't deny that.REV. S. Brains are not everything.FRANK. No, of course not: theres the money--REV. S. [interrupting him austerely] I was not thinking of money, sir. Iwas speaking of higher things. Social position, for instance.FRANK. I don't care a rap about that.REV. S. But I do, sir.FRANK. Well, nobody wants y o u to marry her. Anyhow, she has whatamounts to a high Cambridge degree; and she seems to have as much moneyas she wants.REV. S. [sinking into a feeble vein of humor] I greatly doubt whethershe has as much money as y o u will want.FRANK. Oh, come: I havn't been so very extravagant. I live ever soquietly; I don't drink; I don't bet much; and I never go regularly to therazzle-dazzle as you did when you were my age.REV. S. [booming hollowly] Silence, sir.FRANK. Well, you told me yourself, when I was making every such an assof myself about the barmaid at Redhill, that you once offered a womanfifty pounds for the letters you wrote to her when--REV. S. [terrified] Sh-sh-sh, Frank, for Heaven's sake! [He looks roundapprehensively Seeing no one within earshot he plucks up courage to boomagain, but more subduedly]. You are taking an ungentlemanly advantage ofwhat I confided to you for your own good, to save you from an error youwould have repented all your life long. Take warning by your father'sfollies, sir; and don't make them an excuse for your own.FRANK. Did you ever hear the story of the Duke of Wellington and hisletters?REV. S. No, sir; and I don't want to hear it.FRANK. The old Iron Duke didn't throw away fifty pounds: not he. Hejust wrote: "Dear Jenny: publish and be damned! Yours affectionately,Wellington." Thats what you should have done.REV. S. [piteously] Frank, my boy: when I wrote those letters I putmyself into that woman's power. When I told you about them I put myself,to some extent, I am sorry to say, in your power. She refused my moneywith these words, which I shall never forget. "Knowledge is power" shesaid; "and I never sell power."Thats more than twenty years ago; and she has never made use of herpower or caused me a moment's uneasiness. You are behaving worse to methan she did, Frank.FRANK. Oh yes I dare say! Did you ever preach at her the way you preachat me every day?REV. S. [wounded almost to tears] I leave you, sir. You areincorrigible. [He turns towards the gate].FRANK [utterly unmoved] Tell them I shan't be home to tea, will you,gov'nor, like a good fellow? [He moves towards the cottage door and ismet by Praed and Vivie coming out].VIVIE [to Frank] Is that your father, Frank? I do so want to meet him.FRANK. Certainly. [Calling after his father] Gov'nor. Youre wanted. [Theparson turns at the gate, fumbling nervously at his hat. Praed crossesthe garden to the opposite side, beaming in anticipation of civilities].My father: Miss Warren.VIVIE [going to the clergyman and shaking his hand] Very glad to seeyou here, Mr Gardner. [Calling to the cottage] Mother: come along: yourewanted.[Mrs Warren appears on the threshold, and is immediately transfixed,recognizing the clergyman.]VIVIE [continuing] Let me introduce--MRS WARREN [swooping on the Reverend Samuel] Why it's Sam Gardner, goneinto the Church! Well, I never! Don't you know us, Sam? This is GeorgeCrofts, as large as life and twice as natural. Don't you remember me?REV. S. [very red] I really--er--MRS WARREN. Of course you do. Why, I have a whole album of your lettersstill: I came across them only the other day.REV. S. [miserably confused] Miss Vavasour, I believe.MRS WARREN [correcting him quickly in a loud whisper] Tch! Nonsense! MrsWarren: don't you see my daughter there?ACT II[Inside the cottage after nightfall. Looking eastward from withininstead of westward from without, the latticed window, with its curtainsdrawn, is now seen in the middle of the front wall of the cottage, withthe porch door to the left of it. In the left-hand side wall is the doorleading to the kitchen. Farther back against the same wall is a dresserwith a candle and matches on it, and Frank's rifle standing beside them,with the barrel resting in the plate-rack. In the centre a table standswith a lighted lamp on it. Vivie's books and writing materials are on atable to the right of the window, against the wall. The fireplace is onthe right, with a settle: there is no fire. Two of the chairs are setright and left of the table.][The cottage door opens, shewing a fine starlit night without; and MrsWarren, her shoulders wrapped in a shawl borrowed from Vivie, enters,followed by Frank, who throws his cap on the window seat. She has hadenough of walking, and gives a gasp of relief as she unpins her hat;takes it off; sticks the pin through the crown; and puts it on thetable.]MRS WARREN. O Lord! I don't know which is the worst of the country, thewalking or the sitting at home with nothing to do. I could do with awhisky and soda now very well, if only they had such a things in thisplace.FRANK. Perhaps Vivie's got some.MRS WARREN. Nonsense! What would a young girl like her be doing withsuch things! Never mind: it don't matter. I wonder how she passes hertime here! I'd a good deal rather be in Vienna.FRANK. Let me take you there. [He helps her to take off her shawl,gallantly giving her shoulders a very perceptible squeeze as he doesso].MRS WARREN. Ah! would you? I'm beginning to think youre a chip of theold block.FRANK. Like the gov'nor, eh? [He hangs the shawl on the nearest chair,and sits down].MRS WARREN. Never you mind. What do you know about such things?Youre only a boy. [She goes to the hearth to be farther fromtemptation].FRANK. Do come to Vienna with me? It'd be ever such larks.MRS WARREN. No, thank you. Vienna is no place for you--at least notuntil youre a little older. [She nods at him to emphasize this piece ofadvice. He makes a mock-piteous face, belied by his laughing eyes.She looks at him; then comes back to him]. Now, look here, little boy[taking his face in her hands and turning it up to her]: I know youthrough and through by your likeness to your father, better than youknow yourself. Don't you go taking any silly ideas into your head aboutme. Do you hear?FRANK [gallantly wooing her with his voice] Can't help it, my dear MrsWarren: it runs in the family.[She pretends to box his ears; then looks at the pretty laughingupturned face of a moment, tempted. At last she kisses him, andimmediately turns away, out of patience with herself.]MRS WARREN. There! I shouldn't have done that. I _am_ wicked. Never youmind, my dear: it's only a motherly kiss. Go and make love to Vivie.FRANK. So I have.MRS WARREN [turning on him with a sharp note of alarm in her voice]What!FRANK. Vivie and I are ever such chums.MRS WARREN. What do you mean? Now see here: I won't have any young scamptampering with my little girl. Do you hear? I won't have it.FRANK [quite unabashed] My dear Mrs Warren: don't you be alarmed. Myintentions are honorable: ever so honorable; and your little girl isjolly well able to take care of herself. She don't need looking afterhalf so much as her mother. She ain't so handsome, you know.MRS WARREN [taken aback by his assurance] Well, you have got a nicehealthy two inches of cheek all over you. I don't know where you got it.Not from your father, anyhow.CROFTS [in the garden] The gipsies, I suppose?REV. S. [replying] The broomsquires are far worse.MRS WARREN [to Frank] S-sh! Remember! you've had your warning.[Crofts and the Reverend Samuel Gardner come in from the garden, theclergyman continuing his conversation as he enters.]REV. S. The perjury at the Winchester assizes is deplorable.MRS WARREN. Well? what became of you two? And wheres Praddy and Vivie?CROFTS [putting his hat on the settle and his stick in the chimneycorner] They went up the hill. We went to the village. I wanted a drink.[He sits down on the settle, putting his legs up along the seat].MRS WARREN. Well, she oughtn't to go off like that without telling me.[To Frank] Get your father a chair, Frank: where are your manners?[Frank springs up and gracefully offers his father his chair; then takesanother from the wall and sits down at the table, in the middle, withhis father on his right and Mrs Warren on his left]. George: where areyou going to stay to-night? You can't stay here. And whats Praddy goingto do?CROFTS. Gardner'll put me up.MRS WARREN. Oh, no doubt you've taken care of yourself! But what aboutPraddy?CROFTS. Don't know. I suppose he can sleep at the inn.MRS WARREN. Havn't you room for him, Sam?REV. S. Well--er--you see, as rector here, I am not free to do as Ilike. Er--what is Mr Praed's social position?MRS WARREN. Oh, he's all right: he's an architect. What an oldstick-in-the-mud you are, Sam!FRANK. Yes, it's all right, gov'nor. He built that place down in Walesfor the Duke. Caernarvon Castle they call it. You must have heard of it.[He winks with lightning smartness at Mrs Warren, and regards his fatherblandly].REV. S. Oh, in that case, of course we shall only be too happy. Isuppose he knows the Duke personally.FRANK. Oh, ever so intimately! We can stick him in Georgina's old room.MRS WARREN. Well, thats settled. Now if those two would only come in andlet us have supper. Theyve no right to stay out after dark like this.CROFTS [aggressively] What harm are they doing you?MRS WARREN. Well, harm or not, I don't like it.FRANK. Better not wait for them, Mrs Warren. Praed will stay out aslong as possible. He has never known before what it is to stray over theheath on a summer night with my Vivie.CROFTS [sitting up in some consternation] I say, you know! Come!REV. S. [rising, startled out of his professional manner into real forceand sincerity] Frank, once and for all, it's out of the question. MrsWarren will tell you that it's not to be thought of.CROFTS. Of course not.FRANK [with enchanting placidity] Is that so, Mrs Warren?MRS WARREN [reflectively] Well, Sam, I don't know. If the girl wants toget married, no good can come of keeping her unmarried.REV. S. [astounded] But married to _him!_--your daughter to my son! Onlythink: it's impossible.CROFTS. Of course it's impossible. Don't be a fool, Kitty.MRS WARREN [nettled] Why not? Isn't my daughter good enough for your son?REV. S. But surely, my dear Mrs Warren, you know the reasons--MRS WARREN [defiantly] I know no reasons. If you know any, you can tellthem to the lad, or to the girl, or to your congregation, if you like.REV. S. [collapsing helplessly into his chair] You know very well that Icouldn't tell anyone the reasons. But my boy will believe me when I tellhim there a r e reasons.FRANK. Quite right, Dad: he will. But has your boy's conduct ever beeninfluenced by your reasons?CROFTS. You can't marry her; and thats all about it. [He gets upand stands on the hearth, with his back to the fireplace, frowningdeterminedly].MRS WARREN [turning on him sharply] What have you got to do with it,pray?FRANK [with his prettiest lyrical cadence] Precisely what I was going toask, myself, in my own graceful fashion.CROFTS [to Mrs Warren] I suppose you don't want to marry the girl to aman younger than herself and without either a profession or twopence tokeep her on. Ask Sam, if you don't believe me. [To the parson] How muchmore money are you going to give him?REV. S. Not another penny. He has had his patrimony; and he spent thelast of it in July. [Mrs Warren's face falls].CROFTS [watching her] There! I told you. [He resumes his place onthe settle and puts his legs on the seat again, as if the matter werefinally disposed of].FRANK [plaintively] This is ever so mercenary. Do you suppose MissWarren's going to marry for money? If we love one another--MRS WARREN. Thank you. Your love's a pretty cheap commodity, my lad.If you have no means of keeping a wife, that settles it; you can't haveVivie.FRANK [much amused] What do y o u say, gov'nor, eh?REV. S. I agree with Mrs Warren.FRANK. And good old Crofts has already expressed his opinion.CROFTS [turning angrily on his elbow] Look here: I want none of yourcheek.FRANK [pointedly] I'm e v e r so sorry to surprise you, Crofts; but youallowed yourself the liberty of speaking to me like a father a momentago. One father is enough, thank you.CROFTS [contemptuously] Yah! [He turns away again].FRANK [rising] Mrs Warren: I cannot give my Vivie up, even for yoursake.MRS WARREN [muttering] Young scamp!FRANK [continuing] And as you no doubt intend to hold out otherprospects to her, I shall lose no time in placing my case before her.[They stare at him; and he begins to declaim gracefully] He either fearshis fate too much, Or his deserts are small, That dares not put it tothe touch, To gain or lose it all.[The cottage doors open whilst he is reciting; and Vivie and Praedcome in. He breaks off. Praed puts his hat on the dresser. There is animmediate improvement in the company's behavior. Crofts takes down hislegs from the settle and pulls himself together as Praed joins him atthe fireplace. Mrs Warren loses her ease of manner and takes refuge inquerulousness.]MRS WARREN. Wherever have you been, Vivie?VIVIE [taking off her hat and throwing it carelessly on the table] Onthe hill.MRS WARREN. Well, you shouldn't go off like that without letting me know.How could I tell what had become of you? And night coming on too!VIVIE [going to the door of the kitchen and opening it, ignoring hermother] Now, about supper? [All rise except Mrs Warren] We shall berather crowded in here, I'm afraid.MRS WARREN. Did you hear what I said, Vivie?VIVIE [quietly] Yes, mother. [Reverting to the supper difficulty] Howmany are we? [Counting] One, two, three, four, five, six. Well, two willhave to wait until the rest are done: Mrs Alison has only plates andknives for four.PRAED. Oh, it doesn't matter about me. I--VIVIE. You have had a long walk and are hungry, Mr Praed: you shall haveyour supper at once. I can wait myself. I want one person to wait withme. Frank: are you hungry?FRANK. Not the least in the world. Completely off my peck, in fact.MRS WARREN [to Crofts] Neither are you, George. You can wait.CROFTS. Oh, hang it, I've eaten nothing since tea-time. Can't Sam do it?FRANK. Would you starve my poor father?REV. S. [testily] Allow me to speak for myself, sir. I am perfectlywilling to wait.VIVIE [decisively] There's no need. Only two are wanted. [She opensthe door of the kitchen]. Will you take my mother in, Mr Gardner. [Theparson takes Mrs Warren; and they pass into the kitchen. Praed andCrofts follow. All except Praed clearly disapprove of the arrangement,but do not know how to resist it. Vivie stands at the door looking inat them]. Can you squeeze past to that corner, Mr Praed: it's rather atight fit. Take care of your coat against the white-wash: that right.Now, are you all comfortable?PRAED [within] Quite, thank you.MRS WARREN [within] Leave the door open, dearie. [Vivie frowns; butFrank checks her with a gesture, and steals to the cottage door, whichhe softly sets wide open]. Oh Lor, what a draught! Youd better shut it,dear.[Vivie shuts it with a slam, and then, noting with disgust that hermother's hat and shawl are lying about, takes them tidily to the windowseat, whilst Frank noiselessly shuts the cottage door.]FRANK [exulting] Aha! Got rid of em. Well, Vivvums: what do you think ofmy governor?VIVIE [preoccupied and serious] I've hardly spoken to him. He doesn'tstrike me as a particularly able person.FRANK. Well, you know, the old man is not altogether such a fool as helooks. You see, he was shoved into the Church, rather; and in trying tolive up to it he makes a much bigger ass of himself than he really is. Idon't dislike him as much as you might expect. He means well. How do youthink youll get on with him?VIVIE [rather grimly] I don't think my future life will be much concernedwith him, or with any of that old circle of my mother's, except perhapsPraed. [She sits down on the settle] What do you think of my mother?FRANK. Really and truly?VIVIE. Yes, really and truly.FRANK. Well, she's ever so jolly. But she's rather a caution, isn't she?And Crofts! Oh, my eye, Crofts! [He sits beside her].VIVIE. What a lot, Frank!FRANK. What a crew!VIVIE [with intense contempt for them] If I thought that _I_ was likethat--that I was going to be a waster, shifting along from one meal toanother with no purpose, and no character, and no grit in me, I'd openan artery and bleed to death without one moment's hesitation.FRANK. Oh no, you wouldn't. Why should they take any grind when they canafford not to? I wish I had their luck. No: what I object to is theirform. It isn't the thing: it's slovenly, ever so slovenly.VIVIE. Do you think your form will be any better when youre as old asCrofts, if you don't work?FRANK. Of course I do. Ever so much better. Vivvums mustn't lecture: herlittle boy's incorrigible. [He attempts to take her face caressingly inhis hands].VIVIE [striking his hands down sharply] Off with you: Vivvums is not ina humor for petting her little boy this evening. [She rises and comesforward to the other side of the room].FRANK [following her] How unkind!VIVIE [stamping at him] Be serious. I'm serious.FRANK. Good. Let us talk learnedly, Miss Warren: do you know that allthe most advanced thinkers are agreed that half the diseases of moderncivilization are due to starvation of the affections of the young. Now,_I_--VIVIE [cutting him short] You are very tiresome. [She opens the innerdoor] Have you room for Frank there? He's complaining of starvation.MRS WARREN [within] Of course there is [clatter of knives and glassesas she moves the things on the table]. Here! theres room now beside me.Come along, Mr Frank.FRANK. Her little boy will be ever so even with his Vivvums for this.[He passes into the kitchen].MRS WARREN [within] Here, Vivie: come on you too, child. You must befamished. [She enters, followed by Crofts, who holds the door open withmarked deference. She goes out without looking at him; and he shuts thedoor after her]. Why George, you can't be done: you've eaten nothing. Isthere anything wrong with you?CROFTS. Oh, all I wanted was a drink. [He thrusts his hands in hispockets, and begins prowling about the room, restless and sulky].MRS WARREN. Well, I like enough to eat. But a little of that coldbeef and cheese and lettuce goes a long way. [With a sigh of only halfrepletion she sits down lazily on the settle].CROFTS. What do you go encouraging that young pup for?MRS WARREN [on the alert at once] Now see here, George: what are youup to about that girl? I've been watching your way of looking at her.Remember: I know you and what your looks mean.CROFTS. Theres no harm in looking at her, is there?MRS WARREN. I'd put you out and pack you back to London pretty soon ifI saw any of your nonsense. My girl's little finger is more to me thanyour whole body and soul. [Crofts receives this with a sneering grin.Mrs Warren, flushing a little at her failure to impose on him in thecharacter of a theatrically devoted mother, adds in a lower key] Makeyour mind easy: the young pup has no more chance than you have.CROFTS. Mayn't a man take an interest in a girl?MRS WARREN. Not a man like you.CROFTS. How old is she?MRS WARREN. Never you mind how old she is.CROFTS. Why do you make such a secret of it?MRS WARREN. Because I choose.CROFTS. Well, I'm not fifty yet; and my property is as good as it everwas--MRS [interrupting him] Yes; because youre as stingy as youre vicious.CROFTS [continuing] And a baronet isn't to be picked up every day.No other man in my position would put up with you for a mother-in-law.Why shouldn't she marry me?MRS WARREN. You!CROFTS. We three could live together quite comfortably. I'd die beforeher and leave her a bouncing widow with plenty of money. Why not? It'sbeen growing in my mind all the time I've been walking with that foolinside there.MRS WARREN [revolted] Yes; it's the sort of thing that _would_ grow inyour mind.[He halts in his prowling; and the two look at one another, shesteadfastly, with a sort of awe behind her contemptuous disgust: hestealthily, with a carnal gleam in his eye and a loose grin.]CROFTS [suddenly becoming anxious and urgent as he sees no sign ofsympathy in her] Look here, Kitty: youre a sensible woman: you needn'tput on any moral airs. I'll ask no more questions; and you need answernone. I'll settle the whole property on her; and if you want a checquefor yourself on the wedding day, you can name any figure you like--inreason.MRS WARREN. So it's come to that with you, George, like all the otherworn-out old creatures!CROFTS [savagely] Damn you![Before she can retort the door of the kitchen is opened; and thevoices of the others are heard returning. Crofts, unable to recover hispresence of mind, hurries out of the cottage. The clergyman appears atthe kitchen door.]REV. S. [looking round] Where is Sir George?MRS WARREN. Gone out to have a pipe. [The clergyman takes his hat fromthe table, and joins Mrs Warren at the fireside. Meanwhile, Vivie comesin, followed by Frank, who collapses into the nearest chair with an airof extreme exhaustion. Mrs Warren looks round at Vivie and says, withher affectation of maternal patronage even more forced than usual] Well,dearie: have you had a good supper?VIVIE. You know what Mrs Alison's suppers are. [She turns to Frank andpets him] Poor Frank! was all the beef gone? did it get nothing butbread and cheese and ginger beer? [Seriously, as if she had done quiteenough trifling for one evening] Her butter is really awful. I must getsome down from the stores.FRANK. Do, in Heaven's name![Vivie goes to the writing-table and makes a memorandum to order thebutter. Praed comes in from the kitchen, putting up his handkerchief,which he has been using as a napkin.]REV. S. Frank, my boy: it is time for us to be thinking of home.Your mother does not know yet that we have visitors.PRAED. I'm afraid we're giving trouble.FRANK [rising] Not the least in the world: my mother will be delightedto see you. She's a genuinely intellectual artistic woman; and she seesnobody here from one year's end to another except the gov'nor; so youcan imagine how jolly dull it pans out for her. [To his father] Y o ur e not intellectual or artistic: are you pater? So take Praed home atonce; and I'll stay here and entertain Mrs Warren. Youll pick up Croftsin the garden. He'll be excellent company for the bull-pup.PRAED [taking his hat from the dresser, and coming close to Frank] Comewith us, Frank. Mrs Warren has not seen Miss Vivie for a long time; andwe have prevented them from having a moment together yet.FRANK [quite softened, and looking at Praed with romantic admiration]Of course. I forgot. Ever so thanks for reminding me. Perfect gentleman,Praddy. Always were. My ideal through life. [He rises to go, butpauses a moment between the two older men, and puts his hand on Praed'sshoulder]. Ah, if you had only been my father instead of this unworthyold man! [He puts his other hand on his father's shoulder].REV. S. [blustering] Silence, sir, silence: you are profane.MRS WARREN [laughing heartily] You should keep him in better order, Sam.Good-night. Here: take George his hat and stick with my compliments.REV. S. [taking them] Good-night. [They shake hands. As he passes Viviehe shakes hands with her also and bids her good-night. Then, in boomingcommand, to Frank] Come along, sir, at once. [He goes out].MRS WARREN. Byebye, Praddy.PRAED. Byebye, Kitty.[They shake hands affectionately and go out together, she accompanyinghim to the garden gate.]FRANK [to Vivie] Kissums?VIVIE [fiercely] No. I hate you. [She takes a couple of books and somepaper from the writing-table, and sits down with them at the middletable, at the end next the fireplace].FRANK [grimacing] Sorry. [He goes for his cap and rifle. Mrs Warrenreturns. He takes her hand] Good-night, dear Mrs Warren. [He kisses herhand. She snatches it away, her lips tightening, and looks more thanhalf disposed to box his ears. He laughs mischievously and runs off,clapping-to the door behind him].MRS WARREN [resigning herself to an evening of boredom now that the menare gone] Did you ever in your life hear anyone rattle on so? Isn't he atease? [She sits at the table]. Now that I think of it, dearie, don't yougo encouraging him. I'm sure he's a regular good-for-nothing.VIVIE [rising to fetch more books] I'm afraid so. Poor Frank! I shallhave to get rid of him; but I shall feel sorry for him, though he'snot worth it. That man Crofts does not seem to me to be good for mucheither: is he? [She throws the books on the table rather roughly].MRS WARREN [galled by Vivie's indifference] What do you know of men,child, to talk that way of them? Youll have to make up your mind to seea good deal of Sir George Crofts, as he's a friend of mine.VIVIE [quite unmoved] Why? [She sits down and opens a book]. Do youexpect that we shall be much together? You and I, I mean?MRS WARREN [staring at her] Of course: until youre married. Youre notgoing back to college again.VIVIE. Do you think my way of life would suit you? I doubt it.MRS WARREN. Y o u r way of life! What do you mean?VIVIE [cutting a page of her book with the paper knife on herchatelaine] Has it really never occurred to you, mother, that I have away of life like other people?MRS WARREN. What nonsense is this youre trying to talk? Do you want toshew your independence, now that youre a great little person at school?Don't be a fool, child.VIVIE [indulgently] Thats all you have to say on the subject, is it,mother?MRS WARREN [puzzled, then angry] Don't you keep on asking me questionslike that. [Violently] Hold your tongue. [Vivie works on, losing notime, and saying nothing]. You and your way of life, indeed! What next?[She looks at Vivie again. No reply].Your way of life will be what I please, so it will. [Another pause].Ive been noticing these airs in you ever since you got that tripos orwhatever you call it. If you think I'm going to put up with them, youremistaken; and the sooner you find it out, the better. [Muttering] All Ihave to say on the subject, indeed! [Again raising her voice angrily] Doyou know who youre speaking to, Miss?VIVIE [looking across at her without raising her head from her book] No.Who are you? What are you?MRS WARREN [rising breathless] You young imp!VIVIE. Everybody knows my reputation, my social standing, and theprofession I intend to pursue. I know nothing about you. What is thatway of life which you invite me to share with you and Sir George Crofts,pray?MRS WARREN. Take care. I shall do something I'll be sorry for after, andyou too.VIVIE [putting aside her books with cool decision] Well, let us drop thesubject until you are better able to face it. [Looking critically at hermother] You want some good walks and a little lawn tennis to set you up.You are shockingly out of condition: you were not able to manage twentyyards uphill today without stopping to pant; and your wrists are mererolls of fat. Look at mine. [She holds out her wrists].MRS WARREN [after looking at her helplessly, begins to whimper] Vivie--VIVIE [springing up sharply] Now pray don't begin to cry. Anything butthat. I really cannot stand whimpering. I will go out of the room if youdo.MRS WARREN [piteously] Oh, my darling, how can you be so hard on me?Have I no rights over you as your mother?VIVIE. A r e you my mother?MRS WARREN. _Am_ I your mother? Oh, Vivie!VIVIE. Then where are our relatives? my father? our family friends? Youclaim the rights of a mother: the right to call me fool and child; tospeak to me as no woman in authority over me at college dare speak tome; to dictate my way of life; and to force on me the acquaintance ofa brute whom anyone can see to be the most vicious sort of London manabout town. Before I give myself the trouble to resist such claims, Imay as well find out whether they have any real existence.MRS WARREN [distracted, throwing herself on her knees] Oh no, no.Stop, stop. I _am_ your mother: I swear it. Oh, you can't mean to turn onme--my own child! it's not natural. You believe me, don't you? Say youbelieve me.VIVIE. Who was my father?MRS WARREN. You don't know what youre asking. I can't tell you.VIVIE [determinedly] Oh yes you can, if you like. I have a right toknow; and you know very well that I have that right. You can refuseto tell me if you please; but if you do, you will see the last of metomorrow morning.MRS WARREN. Oh, it's too horrible to hear you talk like that. Youwouldn't--you _couldn't_ leave me.VIVIE [ruthlessly] Yes, without a moment's hesitation, if you triflewith me about this. [Shivering with disgust] How can I feel sure that Imay not have the contaminated blood of that brutal waster in my veins?MRS WARREN. No, no. On my oath it's not he, nor any of the rest that youhave ever met. I'm certain of that, at least.[Vivie's eyes fasten sternly on her mother as the significance of thisflashes on her.]VIVIE [slowly] You are certain of that, at _least_. Ah! You mean thatthat is all you are certain of. [Thoughtfully] I see. [Mrs Warren buriesher face in her hands]. Don't do that, mother: you know you don't feelit a bit. [Mrs Warren takes down her hands and looks up deplorablyat Vivie, who takes out her watch and says] Well, that is enough fortonight. At what hour would you like breakfast? Is half-past eight tooearly for you?MRS WARREN [wildly] My God, what sort of woman are you?VIVIE [coolly] The sort the world is mostly made of, I should hope.Otherwise I don't understand how it gets its business done.Come [taking her mother by the wrist and pulling her up prettyresolutely]: pull yourself together. Thats right.MRS WARREN [querulously] Youre very rough with me, Vivie.VIVIE. Nonsense. What about bed? It's past ten.MRS WARREN [passionately] Whats the use of my going to bed? Do you thinkI could sleep?VIVIE. Why not? I shall.MRS WARREN. You! you've no heart. [She suddenly breaks out vehemently inher natural tongue--the dialect of a woman of the people--with all heraffectations of maternal authority and conventional manners gone, and anoverwhelming inspiration of true conviction and scorn in her] Oh, I wontbear it: I won't put up with the injustice of it. What right have you toset yourself up above me like this? You boast of what you are to me--to_me_, who gave you a chance of being what you are. What chance had I?Shame on you for a bad daughter and a stuck-up prude!VIVIE [sitting down with a shrug, no longer confident; for her replies,which have sounded sensible and strong to her so far, now begin to ringrather woodenly and even priggishly against the new tone of her mother]Don't think for a moment I set myself above you in any way. You attackedme with the conventional authority of a mother: I defended myself withthe conventional superiority of a respectable woman. Frankly, I am notgoing to stand any of your nonsense; and when you drop it I shall notexpect you to stand any of mine. I shall always respect your right toyour own opinions and your own way of life.MRS WARREN. My own opinions and my own way of life! Listen to hertalking! Do you think I was brought up like you? able to pick and choosemy own way of life? Do you think I did what I did because I liked it, orthought it right, or wouldn't rather have gone to college and been a ladyif I'd had the chance?VIVIE. Everybody has some choice, mother. The poorest girl alive maynot be able to choose between being Queen of England or Principalof Newnham; but she can choose between ragpicking and flowerselling,according to her taste. People are always blaming circumstances for whatthey are. I don't believe in circumstances. The people who get on inthis world are the people who get up and look for the circumstances theywant, and, if they can't find them, make them.MRS WARREN. Oh, it's easy to talk, isn't it? Here! would you like to knowwhat _my_ circumstances were?VIVIE. Yes: you had better tell me. Won't you sit down?MRS WARREN. Oh, I'll sit down: don't you be afraid. [She plants her chairfarther forward with brazen energy, and sits down. Vivie is impressed inspite of herself]. D'you know what your gran'mother was?VIVIE. No.MRS WARREN. No, you don't. I do. She called herself a widow and had afried-fish shop down by the Mint, and kept herself and four daughtersout of it. Two of us were sisters: that was me and Liz; and we were bothgood-looking and well made. I suppose our father was a well-fed man:mother pretended he was a gentleman; but I don't know. The other twowere only half sisters: undersized, ugly, starved looking, hard working,honest poor creatures: Liz and I would have half-murdered them ifmother hadn't half-murdered us to keep our hands off them. They were therespectable ones. Well, what did they get by their respectability? I'lltell you. One of them worked in a whitelead factory twelve hours a dayfor nine shillings a week until she died of lead poisoning. She onlyexpected to get her hands a little paralyzed; but she died. The otherwas always held up to us as a model because she married a Governmentlaborer in the Deptford victualling yard, and kept his room and thethree children neat and tidy on eighteen shillings a week--until he tookto drink. That was worth being respectable for, wasn't it?VIVIE [now thoughtfully attentive] Did you and your sister think so?MRS WARREN. Liz didn't, I can tell you: she had more spirit. We both wentto a church school--that was part of the ladylike airs we gave ourselvesto be superior to the children that knew nothing and went nowhere--andwe stayed there until Liz went out one night and never came back. Iknow the schoolmistress thought I'd soon follow her example; forthe clergyman was always warning me that Lizzie'd end by jumping offWaterloo Bridge. Poor fool: that was all he knew about it! But I wasmore afraid of the whitelead factory than I was of the river; and sowould you have been in my place. That clergyman got me a situation asa scullery maid in a temperance restaurant where they sent out foranything you liked. Then I was a waitress; and then I went to the barat Waterloo station: fourteen hours a day serving drinks and washingglasses for four shillings a week and my board. That was considered agreat promotion for me. Well, one cold, wretched night, when I was sotired I could hardly keep myself awake, who should come up for a half ofScotch but Lizzie, in a long fur cloak, elegant and comfortable, with alot of sovereigns in her purse.VIVIE [grimly] My aunt Lizzie!MRS WARREN. Yes; and a very good aunt to have, too. She's living downat Winchester now, close to the cathedral, one of the most respectableladies there. Chaperones girls at the country ball, if you please.No river for Liz, thank you! You remind me of Liz a little: she was afirst-rate business woman--saved money from the beginning--never letherself look too like what she was--never lost her head or threw away achance. When she saw I'd grown up good-looking she said to me across thebar "What are you doing there, you little fool? wearing out your healthand your appearance for other people's profit!" Liz was saving moneythen to take a house for herself in Brussels; and she thought we twocould save faster than one. So she lent me some money and gave me astart; and I saved steadily and first paid her back, and then went intobusiness with her as a partner. Why shouldn't I have done it? The housein Brussels was real high class: a much better place for a woman to bein than the factory where Anne Jane got poisoned. None of the girls wereever treated as I was treated in the scullery of that temperance place,or at the Waterloo bar, or at home. Would you have had me stay in themand become a worn out old drudge before I was forty?VIVIE [intensely interested by this time] No; but why did you choosethat business? Saving money and good management will succeed in anybusiness.MRS WARREN. Yes, saving money. But where can a woman get the money tosave in any other business? Could y o u save out of four shillings aweek and keep yourself dressed as well? Not you. Of course, if yourea plain woman and can't earn anything more; or if you have a turn formusic, or the stage, or newspaper-writing: thats different. But neitherLiz nor I had any turn for such things at all: all we had was ourappearance and our turn for pleasing men. Do you think we were suchfools as to let other people trade in our good looks by employing usas shopgirls, or barmaids, or waitresses, when we could trade in themourselves and get all the profits instead of starvation wages? Notlikely.VIVIE. You were certainly quite justified--from the business point ofview.MRS WARREN. Yes; or any other point of view. What is any respectablegirl brought up to do but to catch some rich man's fancy and get thebenefit of his money by marrying him?--as if a marriage ceremonycould make any difference in the right or wrong of the thing! Oh, thehypocrisy of the world makes me sick! Liz and I had to work and save andcalculate just like other people; elseways we should be as poor as anygood-for-nothing drunken waster of a woman that thinks her luck willlast for ever. [With great energy] I despise such people: theyveno character; and if theres a thing I hate in a woman, it's want ofcharacter.VIVIE. Come now, mother: frankly! Isn't it part of what you callcharacter in a woman that she should greatly dislike such a way ofmaking money?MRS WARREN. Why, of course. Everybody dislikes having to work and makemoney; but they have to do it all the same. I'm sure I've often pitieda poor girl, tired out and in low spirits, having to try to please someman that she doesn't care two straws for--some half-drunken fool thatthinks he's making himself agreeable when he's teasing and worrying anddisgusting a woman so that hardly any money could pay her for putting upwith it. But she has to bear with disagreeables and take the rough withthe smooth, just like a nurse in a hospital or anyone else. It's notwork that any woman would do for pleasure, goodness knows; though tohear the pious people talk you would suppose it was a bed of roses.VIVIE. Still, you consider it worth while. It pays.MRS WARREN. Of course it's worth while to a poor girl, if she can resisttemptation and is good-looking and well conducted and sensible. It's farbetter than any other employment open to her.I always thought that it oughtn't to be. It _can't_ be right, Vivie, thatthere shouldn't be better opportunities for women. I stick to that: it'swrong. But it's so, right or wrong; and a girl must make the best of it.But of course it's not worth while for a lady. If you took to it youd bea fool; but I should have been a fool if I'd taken to anything else.VIVIE [more and more deeply moved] Mother: suppose we were both as pooras you were in those wretched old days, are you quite sure that youwouldn't advise me to try the Waterloo bar, or marry a laborer, or evengo into the factory?MRS WARREN [indignantly] Of course not. What sort of mother do you takeme for! How could you keep your self-respect in such starvationand slavery? And whats a woman worth? whats life worth? withoutself-respect! Why am I independent and able to give my daughtera first-rate education, when other women that had just as goodopportunities are in the gutter? Because I always knew how to respectmyself and control myself. Why is Liz looked up to in a cathedral town?The same reason. Where would we be now if we'd minded the clergyman'sfoolishness? Scrubbing floors for one and sixpence a day and nothing tolook forward to but the workhouse infirmary. Don't you be led astray bypeople who don't know the world, my girl. The only way for a woman toprovide for herself decently is for her to be good to some man that canafford to be good to her. If she's in his own station of life, let hermake him marry her; but if she's far beneath him she can't expect it: whyshould she? it wouldn't be for her own happiness. Ask any lady in Londonsociety that has daughters; and she'll tell you the same, except that Itell you straight and she'll tell you crooked. Thats all the difference.VIVIE [fascinated, gazing at her] My dear mother: you are a wonderfulwoman: you are stronger than all England. And are you really and trulynot one wee bit doubtful--or--or--ashamed?MRS WARREN. Well, of course, dearie, it's only good manners to beashamed of it: it's expected from a woman. Women have to pretend tofeel a great deal that they don't feel. Liz used to be angry with me forplumping out the truth about it. She used to say that when every womancould learn enough from what was going on in the world before her eyes,there was no need to talk about it to her. But then Liz was such aperfect lady! She had the true instinct of it; while I was always a bitof a vulgarian. I used to be so pleased when you sent me your photosto see that you were growing up like Liz: you've just her ladylike,determined way. But I can't stand saying one thing when everyone knowsI mean another. Whats the use in such hypocrisy? If people arrange theworld that way for women, theres no good pretending it's arranged theother way. No: I never was a bit ashamed really. I consider I had aright to be proud of how we managed everything so respectably, and neverhad a word against us, and how the girls were so well taken care of.Some of them did very well: one of them married an ambassador. But ofcourse now I daren't talk about such things: whatever would they thinkof us! [She yawns]. Oh dear! I do believe I'm getting sleepy after all.[She stretches herself lazily, thoroughly relieved by her explosion, andplacidly ready for her night's rest].VIVIE. I believe it is I who will not be able to sleep now. [She goesto the dresser and lights the candle. Then she extinguishes the lamp,darkening the room a good deal]. Better let in some fresh air beforelocking up. [She opens the cottage door, and finds that it is broadmoonlight]. What a beautiful night! Look! [She draws the curtains of thewindow. The landscape is seen bathed in the radiance of the harvest moonrising over Blackdown].MRS WARREN [with a perfunctory glance at the scene] Yes, dear; but takecare you don't catch your death of cold from the night air.VIVIE [contemptuously] Nonsense.MRS WARREN [querulously] Oh yes: everything I say is nonsense, accordingto you.VIVIE [turning to her quickly] No: really that is not so, mother.You have got completely the better of me tonight, though I intended itto be the other way. Let us be good friends now.MRS WARREN [shaking her head a little ruefully] So it _has_ been theother way. But I suppose I must give in to it. I always got the worst ofit from Liz; and now I suppose it'll be the same with you.VIVIE. Well, never mind. Come: good-night, dear old mother. [She takesher mother in her arms].MRS WARREN [fondly] I brought you up well, didn't I, dearie?VIVIE. You did.MRS WARREN. And youll be good to your poor old mother for it, won't you?VIVIE. I will, dear. [Kissing her] Good-night.MRS WARREN [with unction] Blessings on my own dearie darling! a mother'sblessing![She embraces her daughter protectingly, instinctively looking upwardfor divine sanction.]ACT III[In the Rectory garden next morning, with the sun shining from acloudless sky. The garden wall has a five-barred wooden gate, wideenough to admit a carriage, in the middle. Beside the gate hangs a bellon a coiled spring, communicating with a pull outside. The carriagedrive comes down the middle of the garden and then swerves to its left,where it ends in a little gravelled circus opposite the Rectory porch.Beyond the gate is seen the dusty high road, parallel with the wall,bounded on the farther side by a strip of turf and an unfenced pinewood. On the lawn, between the house and the drive, is a clipped yewtree, with a garden bench in its shade. On the opposite side the gardenis shut in by a box hedge; and there is a little sundial on the turf,with an iron chair near it. A little path leads through the box hedge,behind the sundial.][Frank, seated on the chair near the sundial, on which he has placed themorning paper, is reading The Standard. His father comes from the house,red-eyed and shivery, and meets Frank's eye with misgiving.]FRANK [looking at his watch] Half-past eleven. Nice hour for a rector tocome down to breakfast!REV. S. Don't mock, Frank: don't mock. I am a little--er--[Shivering]--FRANK. Off color?REV. S. [repudiating the expression] No, sir: _unwell_ this morning.Where's your mother?FRANK. Don't be alarmed: she's not here. Gone to town by the 11.13with Bessie. She left several messages for you. Do you feel equal toreceiving them now, or shall I wait til you've breakfasted?REV. S. I h a v e breakfasted, sir. I am surprised at your mothergoing to town when we have people staying with us. They'll think it verystrange.FRANK. Possibly she has considered that. At all events, if Crofts isgoing to stay here, and you are going to sit up every night with himuntil four, recalling the incidents of your fiery youth, it is clearlymy mother's duty, as a prudent housekeeper, to go up to the stores andorder a barrel of whisky and a few hundred siphons.REV. S. I did not observe that Sir George drank excessively.FRANK. You were not in a condition to, gov'nor.REV. S. Do you mean to say that _I_--?FRANK [calmly] I never saw a beneficed clergyman less sober. Theanecdotes you told about your past career were so awful that I reallydon't think Praed would have passed the night under your roof if it hadntbeen for the way my mother and he took to one another.REV. S. Nonsense, sir. I am Sir George Crofts' host. I must talk to himabout something; and he has only one subject. Where is Mr Praed now?FRANK. He is driving my mother and Bessie to the station.REV. S. Is Crofts up yet?FRANK. Oh, long ago. He hasn't turned a hair: he's in much betterpractice than you. Has kept it up ever since, probably. He's takenhimself off somewhere to smoke.[Frank resumes his paper. The parson turns disconsolately towards thegate; then comes back irresolutely.]REV. S. Er--Frank.FRANK. Yes.REV. S. Do you think the Warrens will expect to be asked here afteryesterday afternoon?FRANK. Theyve been asked already.REV. S. [appalled] What!!!FRANK. Crofts informed us at breakfast that you told him to bring MrsWarren and Vivie over here to-day, and to invite them to make this housetheir home. My mother then found she must go to town by the 11.13 train.REV. S. [with despairing vehemence] I never gave any such invitation. Inever thought of such a thing.FRANK [compassionately] How do you know, gov'nor, what you said andthought last night?PRAED [coming in through the hedge] Good morning.REV. S. Good morning. I must apologize for not having met you atbreakfast. I have a touch of--of--FRANK. Clergyman's sore throat, Praed. Fortunately not chronic.PRAED [changing the subject] Well I must say your house is in a charmingspot here. Really most charming.REV. S. Yes: it is indeed. Frank will take you for a walk, Mr Praed,if you like. I'll ask you to excuse me: I must take the opportunityto write my sermon while Mrs Gardner is away and you are all amusingyourselves. You won't mind, will you?PRAED. Certainly not. Don't stand on the slightest ceremony with me.REV. S. Thank you. I'll--er--er--[He stammers his way to the porch andvanishes into the house].PRAED. Curious thing it must be writing a sermon every week.FRANK. Ever so curious, if he did it. He buys em. He's gone for somesoda water.PRAED. My dear boy: I wish you would be more respectful to your father.You know you can be so nice when you like.FRANK. My dear Praddy: you forget that I have to live with the governor.When two people live together--it don't matter whether theyre father andson or husband and wife or brother and sister--they can't keep up thepolite humbug thats so easy for ten minutes on an afternoon call.Now the governor, who unites to many admirable domestic qualities theirresoluteness of a sheep and the pompousness and aggressiveness of ajackass--PRAED. No, pray, pray, my dear Frank, remember! He is your father.FRANK. I give him due credit for that. [Rising and flinging down hispaper] But just imagine his telling Crofts to bring the Warrens overhere! He must have been ever so drunk. You know, my dear Praddy, mymother wouldn't stand Mrs Warren for a moment. Vivie mustn't come hereuntil she's gone back to town.PRAED. But your mother doesn't know anything about Mrs Warren, does she?[He picks up the paper and sits down to read it].FRANK. I don't know. Her journey to town looks as if she did. Not thatmy mother would mind in the ordinary way: she has stuck like a brick tolots of women who had got into trouble. But they were all nice women.Thats what makes the real difference. Mrs Warren, no doubt, has hermerits; but she's ever so rowdy; and my mother simply wouldn't put upwith her. So--hallo! [This exclamation is provoked by the reappearanceof the clergyman, who comes out of the house in haste and dismay].REV. S. Frank: Mrs Warren and her daughter are coming across the heathwith Crofts: I saw them from the study windows. What _am_ I to say aboutyour mother?FRANK. Stick on your hat and go out and say how delighted you are to seethem; and that Frank's in the garden; and that mother and Bessie havebeen called to the bedside of a sick relative, and were ever sosorry they couldn't stop; and that you hope Mrs Warren slept well;and--and--say any blessed thing except the truth, and leave the rest toProvidence.REV. S. But how are we to get rid of them afterwards?FRANK. Theres no time to think of that now. Here! [He bounds into thehouse].REV. S. He's so impetuous. I don't know what to do with him, Mr Praed.FRANK [returning with a clerical felt hat, which he claps on hisfather's head]. Now: off with you. [Rushing him through the gate].Praed and I'll wait here, to give the thing an unpremeditated air. [Theclergyman, dazed but obedient, hurries off].FRANK. We must get the old girl back to town somehow, Praed. Come!Honestly, dear Praddy, do you like seeing them together?PRAED. Oh, why not?FRANK [his teeth on edge] Don't it make your flesh creep ever so little?that wicked old devil, up to every villainy under the sun, I'll swear,and Vivie--ugh!PRAED. Hush, pray. Theyre coming.[The clergyman and Crofts are seen coming along the road, followed byMrs Warren and Vivie walking affectionately together.]FRANK. Look: she actually has her arm round the old woman's waist. It'sher right arm: she began it. She's gone sentimental, by God! Ugh! ugh!Now do you feel the creeps? [The clergyman opens the gate: and MrsWarren and Vivie pass him and stand in the middle of the garden lookingat the house. Frank, in an ecstasy of dissimulation, turns gaily to MrsWarren, exclaiming] Ever so delighted to see you, Mrs Warren. This quietold rectory garden becomes you perfectly.MRS WARREN. Well, I never! Did you hear that, George? He says I lookwell in a quiet old rectory garden.REV. S. [still holding the gate for Crofts, who loafs through it,heavily bored] You look well everywhere, Mrs Warren.FRANK. Bravo, gov'nor! Now look here: lets have a treat before lunch.First lets see the church. Everyone has to do that. It's a regular oldthirteenth century church, you know: the gov'nor's ever so fond of it,because he got up a restoration fund and had it completely rebuilt sixyears ago. Praed will be able to shew its points.PRAED [rising] Certainly, if the restoration has left any to shew.REV. S. [mooning hospitably at them] I shall be pleased, I'm sure, ifSir George and Mrs Warren really care about it.MRS WARREN. Oh, come along and get it over.CROFTS [turning back toward the gate] I've no objection.REV. S. Not that way. We go through the fields, if you don't mind. Roundhere. [He leads the way by the little path through the box hedge].CROFTS. Oh, all right. [He goes with the parson].[Praed follows with Mrs Warren. Vivie does not stir: she watches themuntil they have gone, with all the lines of purpose in her face markingit strongly.]FRANK. Ain't you coming?VIVIE. No. I want to give you a warning, Frank. You were making fun ofmy mother just now when you said that about the rectory garden. That isbarred in the future. Please treat my mother with as much respect as youtreat your own.FRANK. My dear Viv: she wouldn't appreciate it: the two cases requiredifferent treatment. But what on earth has happened to you? Last nightwe were perfectly agreed as to your mother and her set. This morning Ifind you attitudinizing sentimentally with your arm around your parent'swaist.VIVIE [flushing] Attitudinizing!FRANK. That was how it struck me. First time I ever saw you do asecond-rate thing.VIVIE [controlling herself] Yes, Frank: there has been a change: but Idon't think it a change for the worse. Yesterday I was a little prig.FRANK. And today?VIVIE [wincing; then looking at him steadily] Today I know my motherbetter than you do.FRANK. Heaven forbid!VIVIE. What do you mean?FRANK. Viv: theres a freemasonry among thoroughly immoral people thatyou know nothing of. You've too much character. _That's_ the bondbetween your mother and me: that's why I know her better than youll everknow her.VIVIE. You are wrong: you know nothing about her. If you knew thecircumstances against which my mother had to struggle--FRANK [adroitly finishing the sentence for her] I should know why she iswhat she is, shouldn't I? What difference would that make?Circumstances or no circumstances, Viv, you won't be able to stand yourmother.VIVIE [very angry] Why not?FRANK. Because she's an old wretch, Viv. If you ever put your arm aroundher waist in my presence again, I'll shoot myself there and then as aprotest against an exhibition which revolts me.VIVIE. Must I choose between dropping your acquaintance and dropping mymother's?FRANK [gracefully] That would put the old lady at ever such adisadvantage. No, Viv: your infatuated little boy will have to stick toyou in any case. But he's all the more anxious that you shouldn't makemistakes. It's no use, Viv: your mother's impossible. She may be a goodsort; but she's a bad lot, a very bad lot.VIVIE [hotly] Frank--! [He stands his ground. She turns away andsits down on the bench under the yew tree, struggling to recover herself-command. Then she says] Is she to be deserted by the world becauseshe's what you call a bad lot? Has she no right to live?FRANK. No fear of that, Viv: _she_ won't ever be deserted. [He sits onthe bench beside her].VIVIE. But I am to desert her, I suppose.FRANK [babyishly, lulling her and making love to her with his voice]Mustn't go live with her. Little family group of mother and daughterwouldn't be a success. Spoil o u r little group.VIVIE [falling under the spell] What little group?FRANK. The babes in the wood: Vivie and little Frank. [He nestlesagainst her like a weary child]. Lets go and get covered up with leaves.VIVIE [rhythmically, rocking him like a nurse] Fast asleep, hand inhand, under the trees.FRANK. The wise little girl with her silly little boy.VIVIE. The dear little boy with his dowdy little girl.FRANK. Ever so peaceful, and relieved from the imbecility of the littleboy's father and the questionableness of the little girl's--VIVIE [smothering the word against her breast] Sh-sh-sh-sh! little girlwants to forget all about her mother. [They are silent for some moments,rocking one another. Then Vivie wakes up with a shock, exclaiming] Whata pair of fools we are! Come: sit up. Gracious! your hair. [She smoothsit]. I wonder do all grown up people play in that childish way whennobody is looking.I never did it when I was a child.FRANK. Neither did I. You are my first playmate. [He catches her hand tokiss it, but checks himself to look around first. Very unexpectedly, hesees Crofts emerging from the box hedge]. Oh damn!VIVIE. Why damn, dear?FRANK [whispering] Sh! Here's this brute Crofts. [He sits farther awayfrom her with an unconcerned air].CROFTS. Could I have a few words with you, Miss Vivie?VIVIE. Certainly.CROFTS [to Frank] Youll excuse me, Gardner. Theyre waiting for you inthe church, if you don't mind.FRANK [rising] Anything to oblige you, Crofts--except church. If youshould happen to want me, Vivvums, ring the gate bell. [He goes into thehouse with unruffled suavity].CROFTS [watching him with a crafty air as he disappears, and speaking toVivie with an assumption of being on privileged terms with her] Pleasantyoung fellow that, Miss Vivie. Pity he has no money, isn't it?VIVIE. Do you think so?CROFTS. Well, whats he to do? No profession. No property. Whats he goodfor?VIVIE. I realize his disadvantages, Sir George.CROFTS [a little taken aback at being so precisely interpreted] Oh, it'snot that. But while we're in this world we're in it; and money's money.[Vivie does not answer]. Nice day, isn't it?VIVIE [with scarcely veiled contempt for this effort at conversation]Very.CROFTS [with brutal good humor, as if he liked her pluck] Well thats notwhat I came to say. [Sitting down beside her] Now listen, Miss Vivie.I'm quite aware that I'm not a young lady's man.VIVIE. Indeed, Sir George?CROFTS. No; and to tell you the honest truth I don't want to be either.But when I say a thing I mean it; and when I feel a sentiment I feel itin earnest; and what I value I pay hard money for. Thats the sort of manI am.VIVIE. It does you great credit, I'm sure.CROFTS. Oh, I don't mean to praise myself. I have my faults, Heavenknows: no man is more sensible of that than I am. I know I'm notperfect: thats one of the advantages of being a middle-aged man; forI'm not a young man, and I know it. But my code is a simple one, and, Ithink, a good one. Honor between man and man; fidelity between man andwoman; and no can't about this religion or that religion, but an honestbelief that things are making for good on the whole.VIVIE [with biting irony] "A power, not ourselves, that makes forrighteousness," eh?CROFTS [taking her seriously] Oh certainly. Not ourselves, of course. Yo u understand what I mean. Well, now as to practical matters. You mayhave an idea that I've flung my money about; but I havn't: I'm richertoday than when I first came into the property. I've used my knowledge ofthe world to invest my money in ways that other men have overlooked; andwhatever else I may be, I'm a safe man from the money point of view.VIVIE. It's very kind of you to tell me all this.CROFTS. Oh well, come, Miss Vivie: you needn't pretend you don't see whatI'm driving at. I want to settle down with a Lady Crofts. I suppose youthink me very blunt, eh?VIVIE. Not at all: I am very much obliged to you for being so definiteand business-like. I quite appreciate the offer: the money, theposition, _Lady Crofts_, and so on. But I think I will say no, if youdon't mind, I'd rather not. [She rises, and strolls across to thesundial to get out of his immediate neighborhood].CROFTS [not at all discouraged, and taking advantage of the additionalroom left him on the seat to spread himself comfortably, as if a fewpreliminary refusals were part of the inevitable routine of courtship]I'm in no hurry. It was only just to let you know in case young Gardnershould try to trap you. Leave the question open.VIVIE [sharply] My no is final. I won't go back from it.[Crofts is not impressed. He grins; leans forward with his elbows on hisknees to prod with his stick at some unfortunate insect in the grass;and looks cunningly at her. She turns away impatiently.]CROFTS. I'm a good deal older than you. Twenty-five years: quarter ofa century. I shan't live for ever; and I'll take care that you shall bewell off when I'm gone.VIVIE. I am proof against even that inducement, Sir George. Don't youthink youd better take your answer? There is not the slightest chance ofmy altering it.CROFTS [rising, after a final slash at a daisy, and coming nearer toher] Well, no matter. I could tell you some things that would changeyour mind fast enough; but I wont, because I'd rather win you by honestaffection. I was a good friend to your mother: ask her whether I wasn't.She'd never have make the money that paid for your education if it hadntbeen for my advice and help, not to mention the money I advanced her.There are not many men who would have stood by her as I have. I put notless than forty thousand pounds into it, from first to last.VIVIE [staring at him] Do you mean to say that you were my mother'sbusiness partner?CROFTS. Yes. Now just think of all the trouble and the explanationsit would save if we were to keep the whole thing in the family, so tospeak. Ask your mother whether she'd like to have to explain all heraffairs to a perfect stranger.VIVIE. I see no difficulty, since I understand that the business iswound up, and the money invested.CROFTS [stopping short, amazed] Wound up! Wind up a business thatspaying 35 per cent in the worst years! Not likely. Who told you that?VIVIE [her color quite gone] Do you mean that it is still--? [She stopsabruptly, and puts her hand on the sundial to support herself. Then shegets quickly to the iron chair and sits down].What business are you talking about?CROFTS. Well, the fact is it's not what would considered exactly ahigh-class business in my set--the country set, you know--o u r set itwill be if you think better of my offer. Not that theres any mysteryabout it: don't think that. Of course you know by your mother's beingin it that it's perfectly straight and honest. I've known her for manyyears; and I can say of her that she'd cut off her hands sooner thantouch anything that was not what it ought to be. I'll tell you all aboutit if you like. I don't know whether you've found in travelling how hardit is to find a really comfortable private hotel.VIVIE [sickened, averting her face] Yes: go on.CROFTS. Well, thats all it is. Your mother has got a genius for managingsuch things. We've got two in Brussels, one in Ostend, one in Vienna,and two in Budapest. Of course there are others besides ourselves init; but we hold most of the capital; and your mother's indispensableas managing director. You've noticed, I daresay, that she travels a gooddeal. But you see you can't mention such things in society. Once let outthe word hotel and everybody thinks you keep a public-house. You wouldn'tlike people to say that of your mother, would you? Thats why we're soreserved about it. By the way, youll keep it to yourself, won't you?Since it's been a secret so long, it had better remain so.VIVIE. And this is the business you invite me to join you in?CROFTS. Oh no. My wife shan't be troubled with business. Youll not be init more than you've always been.VIVIE. _I_ always been! What do you mean?CROFTS. Only that you've always lived on it. It paid for your educationand the dress you have on your back. Don't turn up your nose at business,Miss Vivie: where would your Newnhams and Girtons be without it?VIVIE [rising, almost beside herself] Take care. I know what thisbusiness is.CROFTS [starting, with a suppressed oath] Who told you?VIVIE. Your partner. My mother.CROFTS [black with rage] The old--VIVIE. Just so.[He swallows the epithet and stands for a moment swearing and ragingfoully to himself. But he knows that his cue is to be sympathetic. Hetakes refuge in generous indignation.]CROFTS. She ought to have had more consideration for you. _I'd_ neverhave told you.VIVIE. I think you would probably have told me when we were married: itwould have been a convenient weapon to break me in with.CROFTS [quite sincerely] I never intended that. On my word as agentleman I didn't.[Vivie wonders at him. Her sense of the irony of his protest cools andbraces her. She replies with contemptuous self-possession.]VIVIE. It does not matter. I suppose you understand that when we leavehere today our acquaintance ceases.CROFTS. Why? Is it for helping your mother?VIVIE. My mother was a very poor woman who had no reasonable choice butto do as she did. You were a rich gentleman; and you did the same forthe sake of 35 per cent. You are a pretty common sort of scoundrel, Ithink. That is my opinion of you.CROFTS [after a stare: not at all displeased, and much more at his easeon these frank terms than on their former ceremonious ones] Ha! ha! ha!ha! Go it, little missie, go it: it doesn't hurt me and it amuses you.Why the devil shouldn't I invest my money that way? I take the intereston my capital like other people: I hope you don't think I dirty my ownhands with the work.Come! you wouldn't refuse the acquaintance of my mother's cousin the Dukeof Belgravia because some of the rents he gets are earned in queer ways.You wouldn't cut the Archbishop of Canterbury, I suppose, because theEcclesiastical Commissioners have a few publicans and sinners amongtheir tenants. Do you remember your Crofts scholarship at Newnham? Well,that was founded by my brother the M.P. He gets his 22 per cent out ofa factory with 600 girls in it, and not one of them getting wages enoughto live on. How d'ye suppose they manage when they have no family tofall back on? Ask your mother. And do you expect me to turn my back on35 per cent when all the rest are pocketing what they can, like sensiblemen? No such fool! If youre going to pick and choose your acquaintanceson moral principles, youd better clear out of this country, unless youwant to cut yourself out of all decent society.VIVIE [conscience stricken] You might go on to point out that I myselfnever asked where the money I spent came from. I believe I am just asbad as you.CROFTS [greatly reassured] Of course you are; and a very good thing too!What harm does it do after all? [Rallying her jocularly] So you don'tthink me such a scoundrel now you come to think it over. Eh?VIVIE. I have shared profits with you: and I admitted you just now tothe familiarity of knowing what I think of you.CROFTS [with serious friendliness] To be sure you did. You won't findme a bad sort: I don't go in for being superfine intellectually; but Iveplenty of honest human feeling; and the old Crofts breed comes out ina sort of instinctive hatred of anything low, in which I'm sure youllsympathize with me. Believe me, Miss Vivie, the world isn't such a badplace as the croakers make out. As long as you don't fly openly in theface of society, society doesn't ask any inconvenient questions; andit makes precious short work of the cads who do. There are no secretsbetter kept than the secrets everybody guesses. In the class of peopleI can introduce you to, no lady or gentleman would so far forgetthemselves as to discuss my business affairs or your mothers. No man canoffer you a safer position.VIVIE [studying him curiously] I suppose you really think youre gettingon famously with me.CROFTS. Well, I hope I may flatter myself that you think better of methan you did at first.VIVIE [quietly] I hardly find you worth thinking about at all now. WhenI think of the society that tolerates you, and the laws that protectyou! when I think of how helpless nine out of ten young girls wouldbe in the hands of you and my mother! the unmentionable woman and hercapitalist bully--CROFTS [livid] Damn you!VIVIE. You need not. I feel among the damned already.[She raises the latch of the gate to open it and go out. He follows herand puts his hand heavily on the top bar to prevent its opening.]CROFTS [panting with fury] Do you think I'll put up with this from you,you young devil?VIVIE [unmoved] Be quiet. Some one will answer the bell. [Withoutflinching a step she strikes the bell with the back of her hand. Itclangs harshly; and he starts back involuntarily. Almost immediatelyFrank appears at the porch with his rifle].FRANK [with cheerful politeness] Will you have the rifle, Viv; or shallI operate?VIVIE. Frank: have you been listening?FRANK [coming down into the garden] Only for the bell, I assure you; sothat you shouldn't have to wait. I think I shewed great insight into yourcharacter, Crofts.CROFTS. For two pins I'd take that gun from you and break it across yourhead.FRANK [stalking him cautiously] Pray don't. I'm ever so careless inhandling firearms. Sure to be a fatal accident, with a reprimand fromthe coroner's jury for my negligence.VIVIE. Put the rifle away, Frank: it's quite unnecessary.FRANK. Quite right, Viv. Much more sportsmanlike to catch him in atrap. [Crofts, understanding the insult, makes a threatening movement].Crofts: there are fifteen cartridges in the magazine here; and I am adead shot at the present distance and at an object of your size.CROFTS. Oh, you needn't be afraid. I'm not going to touch you.FRANK. Ever so magnanimous of you under the circumstances! Thank you.CROFTS. I'll just tell you this before I go. It may interest you, sinceyoure so fond of one another. Allow me, Mister Frank, to introduce youto your half-sister, the eldest daughter of the Reverend Samuel Gardner.Miss Vivie: you half-brother. Good morning! [He goes out through thegate and along the road].FRANK [after a pause of stupefaction, raising the rifle] Youll testifybefore the coroner that it's an accident, Viv. [He takes aim at theretreating figure of Crofts. Vivie seizes the muzzle and pulls it roundagainst her breast].VIVIE. Fire now. You may.FRANK [dropping his end of the rifle hastily] Stop! take care. [She letsit go. It falls on the turf]. Oh, you've given your little boy sucha turn. Suppose it had gone off! ugh! [He sinks on the garden seat,overcome].VIVIE. Suppose it had: do you think it would not have been a relief tohave some sharp physical pain tearing through me?FRANK [coaxingly] Take it ever so easy, dear Viv. Remember: even if therifle scared that fellow into telling the truth for the first time inhis life, that only makes us the babes in the woods in earnest. [Heholds out his arms to her]. Come and be covered up with leaves again.VIVIE [with a cry of disgust] Ah, not that, not that. You make all myflesh creep.FRANK. Why, whats the matter?VIVIE. Goodbye. [She makes for the gate].FRANK [jumping up] Hallo! Stop! Viv! Viv! [She turns in the gateway]Where are you going to? Where shall we find you?VIVIE. At Honoria Fraser's chambers, 67 Chancery Lane, for the rest ofmy life. [She goes off quickly in the opposite direction to that takenby Crofts].FRANK. But I say--wait--dash it! [He runs after her].ACT IV[Honoria Fraser's chambers in Chancery Lane. An office at the top of NewStone Buildings, with a plate-glass window, distempered walls, electriclight, and a patent stove. Saturday afternoon. The chimneys of Lincoln'sInn and the western sky beyond are seen through the window. There is adouble writing table in the middle of the room, with a cigar box, ashpans, and a portable electric reading lamp almost snowed up in heaps ofpapers and books. This table has knee holes and chairs right and leftand is very untidy. The clerk's desk, closed and tidy, with its highstool, is against the wall, near a door communicating with the innerrooms. In the opposite wall is the door leading to the public corridor.Its upper panel is of opaque glass, lettered in black on the outside,FRASER AND WARREN. A baize screen hides the corner between this door andthe window.][Frank, in a fashionable light-colored coaching suit, with his stick,gloves, and white hat in his hands, is pacing up and down in the office.Somebody tries the door with a key.]FRANK [calling] Come in. It's not locked.[Vivie comes in, in her hat and jacket. She stops and stares at him.]VIVIE [sternly] What are you doing here?FRANK. Waiting to see you. I've been here for hours. Is this the way youattend to your business? [He puts his hat and stick on the table, andperches himself with a vault on the clerk's stool, looking at her withevery appearance of being in a specially restless, teasing, flippantmood].VIVIE. I've been away exactly twenty minutes for a cup of tea. [She takesoff her hat and jacket and hangs them behind the screen]. How did youget in?FRANK. The staff had not left when I arrived. He's gone to play cricketon Primrose Hill. Why don't you employ a woman, and give your sex achance?VIVIE. What have you come for?FRANK [springing off the stool and coming close to her] Viv: lets go andenjoy the Saturday half-holiday somewhere, like the staff.What do you say to Richmond, and then a music hall, and a jolly supper?VIVIE. Can't afford it. I shall put in another six hours work before I goto bed.FRANK. Can't afford it, can't we? Aha! Look here. [He takes out a handfulof sovereigns and makes them chink]. Gold, Viv: gold!VIVIE. Where did you get it?FRANK. Gambling, Viv: gambling. Poker.VIVIE. Pah! It's meaner than stealing it. No: I'm not coming. [She sitsdown to work at the table, with her back to the glass door, and beginsturning over the papers].FRANK [remonstrating piteously] But, my dear Viv, I want to talk to youever so seriously.VIVIE. Very well: sit down in Honoria's chair and talk here. I like tenminutes chat after tea. [He murmurs]. No use groaning: I'm inexorable.[He takes the opposite seat disconsolately]. Pass that cigar box, willyou?FRANK [pushing the cigar box across] Nasty womanly habit. Nice men don'tdo it any longer.VIVIE. Yes: they object to the smell in the office; and we've had to taketo cigarets. See! [She opens the box and takes out a cigaret, which shelights. She offers him one; but he shakes his head with a wry face. Shesettles herself comfortably in her chair, smoking]. Go ahead.FRANK. Well, I want to know what you've done--what arrangements you'vemade.VIVIE. Everything was settled twenty minutes after I arrived here.Honoria has found the business too much for her this year; and she wason the point of sending for me and proposing a partnership when I walkedin and told her I hadn't a farthing in the world. So I installed myselfand packed her off for a fortnight's holiday. What happened at Haslemerewhen I left?FRANK. Nothing at all. I said youd gone to town on particular business.VIVIE. Well?FRANK. Well, either they were too flabbergasted to say anything, or elseCrofts had prepared your mother. Anyhow, she didn't say anything; andCrofts didn't say anything; and Praddy only stared. After tea they got upand went; and I've not seen them since.VIVIE [nodding placidly with one eye on a wreath of smoke] Thats allright.FRANK [looking round disparagingly] Do you intend to stick in thisconfounded place?VIVIE [blowing the wreath decisively away, and sitting straight up] Yes.These two days have given me back all my strength and self-possession. Iwill never take a holiday again as long as I live.FRANK [with a very wry face] Mps! You look quite happy. And as hard asnails.VIVIE [grimly] Well for me that I am!FRANK [rising] Look here, Viv: we must have an explanation. We partedthe other day under a complete misunderstanding. [He sits on the table,close to her].VIVIE [putting away the cigaret] Well: clear it up.FRANK. You remember what Crofts said.VIVIE. Yes.FRANK. That revelation was supposed to bring about a complete change inthe nature of our feeling for one another. It placed us on the footingof brother and sister.VIVIE. Yes.FRANK. Have you ever had a brother?VIVIE. No.FRANK. Then you don't know what being brother and sister feels like? NowI have lots of sisters; and the fraternal feeling is quite familiar tome. I assure you my feeling for you is not the least in the world likeit. The girls will go _their_ way; I will go mine; and we shan't careif we never see one another again. Thats brother and sister. But as toyou, I can't be easy if I have to pass a week without seeing you. Thatsnot brother and sister. Its exactly what I felt an hour before Croftsmade his revelation. In short, dear Viv, it's love's young dream.VIVIE [bitingly] The same feeling, Frank, that brought your father to mymother's feet. Is that it?FRANK [so revolted that he slips off the table for a moment] I verystrongly object, Viv, to have my feelings compared to any which theReverend Samuel is capable of harboring; and I object still more to acomparison of you to your mother. [Resuming his perch] Besides, I don'tbelieve the story. I have taxed my father with it, and obtained from himwhat I consider tantamount to a denial.VIVIE. What did he say?FRANK. He said he was sure there must be some mistake.VIVIE. Do you believe him?FRANK. I am prepared to take his word against Crofts'.VIVIE. Does it make any difference? I mean in your imagination orconscience; for of course it makes no real difference.FRANK [shaking his head] None whatever to _me_.VIVIE. Nor to me.FRANK [staring] But this is ever so surprising! [He goes back to hischair]. I thought our whole relations were altered in your imaginationand conscience, as you put it, the moment those words were out of thatbrute's muzzle.VIVIE. No: it was not that. I didn't believe him. I only wish I could.FRANK. Eh?VIVIE. I think brother and sister would be a very suitable relation forus.FRANK. You really mean that?VIVIE. Yes. It's the only relation I care for, even if we could affordany other. I mean that.FRANK [raising his eyebrows like one on whom a new light has dawned, andrising with quite an effusion of chivalrous sentiment] My dear Viv:why didn't you say so before? I am ever so sorry for persecuting you. Iunderstand, of course.VIVIE [puzzled] Understand what?FRANK. Oh, I'm not a fool in the ordinary sense: only in the Scripturalsense of doing all the things the wise man declared to be folly, aftertrying them himself on the most extensive scale. I see I am no longerVivvums's little boy. Don't be alarmed: I shall never call you Vivvumsagain--at least unless you get tired of your new little boy, whoever hemay be.VIVIE. My new little boy!FRANK [with conviction] Must be a new little boy. Always happens thatway. No other way, in fact.VIVIE. None that you know of, fortunately for you.[Someone knocks at the door.]FRANK. My curse upon yon caller, whoe'er he be!VIVIE. It's Praed. He's going to Italy and wants to say goodbye. I askedhim to call this afternoon. Go and let him in.FRANK. We can continue our conversation after his departure for Italy.I'll stay him out. [He goes to the door and opens it]. How are you,Praddy? Delighted to see you. Come in.[Praed, dressed for travelling, comes in, in high spirits.]PRAED. How do you do, Miss Warren? [She presses his hand cordially,though a certain sentimentality in his high spirits jars upon her]. Istart in an hour from Holborn Viaduct. I wish I could persuade you totry Italy.VIVIE. What for?PRAED. Why, to saturate yourself with beauty and romance, of course.[Vivie, with a shudder, turns her chair to the table, as if the workwaiting for her there were a support to her. Praed sits opposite to her.Frank places a chair near Vivie, and drops lazily and carelessly intoit, talking at her over his shoulder.]FRANK. No use, Praddy. Viv is a little Philistine. She is indifferent to_my_ romance, and insensible to _my_ beauty.VIVIE. Mr Praed: once for all, there is no beauty and no romance in lifefor me. Life is what it is; and I am prepared to take it as it is.PRAED [enthusiastically] You will not say that if you come with me toVerona and on to Venice. You will cry with delight at living in such abeautiful world.FRANK. This is most eloquent, Praddy. Keep it up.PRAED. Oh, I assure you _I_ have cried--I shall cry again, I hope--atfifty! At your age, Miss Warren, you would not need to go so far asVerona. Your spirits would absolutely fly up at the mere sight ofOstend. You would be charmed with the gaiety, the vivacity, the happyair of Brussels.VIVIE [springing up with an exclamation of loathing] Agh!PRAED [rising] Whats the matter?FRANK [rising] Hallo, Viv!VIVIE [to Praed, with deep reproach] Can you find no better example ofyour beauty and romance than Brussels to talk to me about?PRAED [puzzled] Of course it's very different from Verona. I don'tsuggest for a moment that--VIVIE [bitterly] Probably the beauty and romance come to much the samein both places.PRAED [completely sobered and much concerned] My dear Miss Warren:I--[looking enquiringly at Frank] Is anything the matter?FRANK. She thinks your enthusiasm frivolous, Praddy. She's had ever sucha serious call.VIVIE [sharply] Hold your tongue, Frank. Don't be silly.FRANK [sitting down] Do you call this good manners, Praed?PRAED [anxious and considerate] Shall I take him away, Miss Warren? Ifeel sure we have disturbed you at your work.VIVIE. Sit down: I'm not ready to go back to work yet. [Praed sits]. Youboth think I have an attack of nerves. Not a bit of it. But there aretwo subjects I want dropped, if you don't mind.One of them [to Frank] is love's young dream in any shape or form: theother [to Praed] is the romance and beauty of life, especially Ostendand the gaiety of Brussels. You are welcome to any illusions you mayhave left on these subjects: I have none. If we three are to remainfriends, I must be treated as a woman of business, permanently single[to Frank] and permanently unromantic [to Praed].FRANK. I also shall remain permanently single until you change yourmind. Praddy: change the subject. Be eloquent about something else.PRAED [diffidently] I'm afraid theres nothing else in the world that I_can_ talk about. The Gospel of Art is the only one I can preach. I knowMiss Warren is a great devotee of the Gospel of Getting On; but wecan't discuss that without hurting your feelings, Frank, since you aredetermined not to get on.FRANK. Oh, don't mind my feelings. Give me some improving advice byall means: it does me ever so much good. Have another try to make asuccessful man of me, Viv. Come: lets have it all: energy, thrift,foresight, self-respect, character. Don't you hate people who have nocharacter, Viv?VIVIE [wincing] Oh, stop, stop. Let us have no more of that horriblecant. Mr Praed: if there are really only those two gospels in the world,we had better all kill ourselves; for the same taint is in both, throughand through.FRANK [looking critically at her] There is a touch of poetry about youtoday, Viv, which has hitherto been lacking.PRAED [remonstrating] My dear Frank: aren't you a little unsympathetic?VIVIE [merciless to herself] No: it's good for me. It keeps me frombeing sentimental.FRANK [bantering her] Checks your strong natural propensity that way,don't it?VIVIE [almost hysterically] Oh yes: go on: don't spare me. I wassentimental for one moment in my life--beautifully sentimental--bymoonlight; and now--FRANK [quickly] I say, Viv: take care. Don't give yourself away.VIVIE. Oh, do you think Mr Praed does not know all about my mother?[Turning on Praed] You had better have told me that morning, Mr Praed.You are very old fashioned in your delicacies, after all.PRAED. Surely it is you who are a little old fashioned in yourprejudices, Miss Warren. I feel bound to tell you, speaking as anartist, and believing that the most intimate human relationships arefar beyond and above the scope of the law, that though I know that yourmother is an unmarried woman, I do not respect her the less on thataccount. I respect her more.FRANK [airily] Hear! hear!VIVIE [staring at him] Is that _all_ you know?PRAED. Certainly that is all.VIVIE. Then you neither of you know anything. Your guesses are innocenceitself compared with the truth.PRAED [rising, startled and indignant, and preserving his politenesswith an effort] I hope not. [More emphatically] I hope not, Miss Warren.FRANK [whistles] Whew!VIVIE. You are not making it easy for me to tell you, Mr Praed.PRAED [his chivalry drooping before their conviction] If there isanything worse--that is, anything else--are you sure you are right totell us, Miss Warren?VIVIE. I am sure that if I had the courage I should spend the rest of mylife in telling everybody--stamping and branding it into them until theyall felt their part in its abomination as I feel mine. There is nothingI despise more than the wicked convention that protects these thingsby forbidding a woman to mention them. And yet I can't tell you. The twoinfamous words that describe what my mother is are ringing in my earsand struggling on my tongue; but I can't utter them: the shame of themis too horrible for me. [She buries her face in her hands. The two men,astonished, stare at one another and then at her. She raises her headagain desperately and snatches a sheet of paper and a pen]. Here: let medraft you a prospectus.FRANK. Oh, she's mad. Do you hear, Viv? mad. Come! pull yourselftogether.VIVIE. You shall see. [She writes]. "Paid up capital: not less thanforty thousand pounds standing in the name of Sir George Crofts,Baronet, the chief shareholder. Premises at Brussels, Ostend, Vienna,and Budapest. Managing director: Mrs Warren"; and now don't let us forgeth e r qualifications: the two words. [She writes the words and pushesthe paper to them]. There! Oh no: don't read it: don't! [She snatches itback and tears it to pieces; then seizes her head in her hands and hidesher face on the table].[Frank, who has watched the writing over her shoulder, and opened hiseyes very widely at it, takes a card from his pocket; scribbles thetwo words on it; and silently hands it to Praed, who reads it withamazement, and hides it hastily in his pocket.]FRANK [whispering tenderly] Viv, dear: thats all right. I read what youwrote: so did Praddy. We understand. And we remain, as this leaves us atpresent, yours ever so devotedly.PRAED. We do indeed, Miss Warren. I declare you are the most splendidlycourageous woman I ever met.[This sentimental compliment braces Vivie. She throws it away from herwith an impatient shake, and forces herself to stand up, though notwithout some support from the table.]FRANK. Don't stir, Viv, if you don't want to. Take it easy.VIVIE. Thank you. You an always depend on me for two things: not to cryand not to faint. [She moves a few steps towards the door of the innerroom, and stops close to Praed to say] I shall need much more couragethan that when I tell my mother that we have come to a parting of theways. Now I must go into the next room for a moment to make myself neatagain, if you don't mind.PRAED. Shall we go away?VIVIE. No: I'll be back presently. Only for a moment. [She goes into theother room, Praed opening the door for her].PRAED. What an amazing revelation! I'm extremely disappointed in Crofts:I am indeed.FRANK. I'm not in the least. I feel he's perfectly accounted for atlast. But what a facer for me, Praddy! I can't marry her now.PRAED [sternly] Frank! [The two look at one another, Frank unruffled,Praed deeply indignant]. Let me tell you, Gardner, that if you deserther now you will behave very despicably.FRANK. Good old Praddy! Ever chivalrous! But you mistake: it's not themoral aspect of the case: it's the money aspect. I really can't bringmyself to touch the old woman's money now.PRAED. And was that what you were going to marry on?FRANK. What else? _I_ havn't any money, nor the smallest turn for makingit. If I married Viv now she would have to support me; and I should costher more than I am worth.PRAED. But surely a clever bright fellow like you can make something byyour own brains.FRANK. Oh yes, a little. [He takes out his money again]. I made all thatyesterday in an hour and a half. But I made it in a highly speculativebusiness. No, dear Praddy: even if Bessie and Georgina marrymillionaires and the governor dies after cutting them off with ashilling, I shall have only four hundred a year. And he won't die untilhe's three score and ten: he hasn't originality enough. I shall be onshort allowance for the next twenty years. No short allowance for Viv,if I can help it. I withdraw gracefully and leave the field to thegilded youth of England. So that settled. I shan't worry her about it:I'll just send her a little note after we're gone. She'll understand.PRAED [grasping his hand] Good fellow, Frank! I heartily beg yourpardon. But must you never see her again?FRANK. Never see her again! Hang it all, be reasonable. I shall comealong as often as possible, and be her brother. I can _not_ understandthe absurd consequences you romantic people expect from the mostordinary transactions. [A knock at the door]. I wonder who this is.Would you mind opening the door? If it's a client it will look morerespectable than if I appeared.PRAED. Certainly. [He goes to the door and opens it. Frank sits down inVivie's chair to scribble a note]. My dear Kitty: come in: come in.[Mrs Warren comes in, looking apprehensively around for Vivie. She hasdone her best to make herself matronly and dignified. The brilliant hatis replaced by a sober bonnet, and the gay blouse covered by a costlyblack silk mantle. She is pitiably anxious and ill at ease: evidentlypanic-stricken.]MRS WARREN [to Frank] What! Y o u r e here, are you?FRANK [turning in his chair from his writing, but not rising] Here, andcharmed to see you. You come like a breath of spring.MRS WARREN. Oh, get out with your nonsense. [In a low voice] Where'sVivie?[Frank points expressively to the door of the inner room, but saysnothing.]MRS WARREN [sitting down suddenly and almost beginning to cry] Praddy:won't she see me, don't you think?PRAED. My dear Kitty: don't distress yourself. Why should she not?MRS WARREN. Oh, you never can see why not: youre too innocent. Mr Frank:did she say anything to you?FRANK [folding his note] She _must_ see you, if [very expressively] youwait til she comes in.MRS WARREN [frightened] Why shouldn't I wait?[Frank looks quizzically at her; puts his note carefully on theink-bottle, so that Vivie cannot fail to find it when next she dips herpen; then rises and devotes his attention entirely to her.]FRANK. My dear Mrs Warren: suppose you were a sparrow--ever so tinyand pretty a sparrow hopping in the roadway--and you saw a steam rollercoming in your direction, would you wait for it?MRS WARREN. Oh, don't bother me with your sparrows. What did she run awayfrom Haslemere like that for?FRANK. I'm afraid she'll tell you if you rashly await her return.MRS WARREN. Do you want me to go away?FRANK. No: I always want you to stay. But I _advise_ you to go away.MRS WARREN. What! And never see her again!FRANK. Precisely.MRS WARREN [crying again] Praddy: don't let him be cruel to me. [Shehastily checks her tears and wipes her eyes]. She'll be so angry if shesees I've been crying.FRANK [with a touch of real compassion in his airy tenderness] You knowthat Praddy is the soul of kindness, Mrs Warren. Praddy: what do yousay? Go or stay?PRAED [to Mrs Warren] I really should be very sorry to cause youunnecessary pain; but I think perhaps you had better not wait. The factis--[Vivie is heard at the inner door].FRANK. Sh! Too late. She's coming.MRS WARREN. Don't tell her I was crying. [Vivie comes in. Shestops gravely on seeing Mrs Warren, who greets her with hystericalcheerfulness]. Well, dearie. So here you are at last.VIVIE. I am glad you have come: I want to speak to you. You said youwere going, Frank, I think.FRANK. Yes. Will you come with me, Mrs Warren? What do you say to atrip to Richmond, and the theatre in the evening? There is safety inRichmond. No steam roller there.VIVIE. Nonsense, Frank. My mother will stay here.MRS WARREN [scared] I don't know: perhaps I'd better go. We're disturbingyou at your work.VIVIE [with quiet decision] Mr Praed: please take Frank away. Sit down,mother. [Mrs Warren obeys helplessly].PRAED. Come, Frank. Goodbye, Miss Vivie.VIVIE [shaking hands] Goodbye. A pleasant trip.PRAED. Thank you: thank you. I hope so.FRANK [to Mrs Warren] Goodbye: youd ever so much better have taken myadvice. [He shakes hands with her. Then airily to Vivie] Byebye, Viv.VIVIE. Goodbye. [He goes out gaily without shaking hands with her].PRAED [sadly] Goodbye, Kitty.MRS WARREN [snivelling]--oobye![Praed goes. Vivie, composed and extremely grave, sits down in Honoria'schair, and waits for her mother to speak. Mrs Warren, dreading a pause,loses no time in beginning.]MRS WARREN. Well, Vivie, what did you go away like that for withoutsaying a word to me! How could you do such a thing! And what have youdone to poor George? I wanted him to come with me; but he shuffledout of it. I could see that he was quite afraid of you. Only fancy:he wanted me not to come. As if [trembling] I should be afraid of you,dearie. [Vivie's gravity deepens]. But of course I told him it was allsettled and comfortable between us, and that we were on the bestof terms. [She breaks down]. Vivie: whats the meaning of this? [Sheproduces a commercial envelope, and fumbles at the enclosure withtrembling fingers]. I got it from the bank this morning.VIVIE. It is my month's allowance. They sent it to me as usual the otherday. I simply sent it back to be placed to your credit, and asked themto send you the lodgment receipt. In future I shall support myself.MRS WARREN [not daring to understand] Wasn't it enough? Why didn'tyou tell me? [With a cunning gleam in her eye] I'll double it: I wasintending to double it. Only let me know how much you want.VIVIE. You know very well that that has nothing to do with it. From thistime I go my own way in my own business and among my own friends. Andyou will go yours. [She rises]. Goodbye.MRS WARREN [rising, appalled] Goodbye?VIVIE. Yes: goodbye. Come: don't let us make a useless scene: youunderstand perfectly well. Sir George Crofts has told me the wholebusiness.MRS WARREN [angrily] Silly old--[She swallows an epithet, and then turnswhite at the narrowness of her escape from uttering it].VIVIE. Just so.MRS WARREN. He ought to have his tongue cut out. But I thought it wasended: you said you didn't mind.VIVIE [steadfastly] Excuse me: I _do_ mind.MRS WARREN. But I explained--VIVIE. You explained how it came about. You did not tell me that it isstill going on [She sits].[Mrs Warren, silenced for a moment, looks forlornly at Vivie, who waits,secretly hoping that the combat is over. But the cunning expressioncomes back into Mrs Warren's face; and she bends across the table, slyand urgent, half whispering.]MRS WARREN. Vivie: do you know how rich I am?VIVIE. I have no doubt you are very rich.MRS WARREN. But you don't know all that that means; youre too young. Itmeans a new dress every day; it means theatres and balls every night;it means having the pick of all the gentlemen in Europe at your feet;it means a lovely house and plenty of servants; it means the choicest ofeating and drinking; it means everything you like, everything you want,everything you can think of. And what are you here? A mere drudge,toiling and moiling early and late for your bare living and two cheapdresses a year. Think over it. [Soothingly] Youre shocked, I know. I canenter into your feelings; and I think they do you credit; but trust me,nobody will blame you: you may take my word for that. I know what younggirls are; and I know youll think better of it when you've turned it overin your mind.VIVIE. So that's how it is done, is it? You must have said all that tomany a woman, to have it so pat.MRS WARREN [passionately] What harm am I asking you to do? [Vivie turnsaway contemptuously. Mrs Warren continues desperately] Vivie: listen tome: you don't understand: you were taught wrong on purpose: you don't knowwhat the world is really like.VIVIE [arrested] Taught wrong on purpose! What do you mean?MRS WARREN. I mean that youre throwing away all your chances fornothing. You think that people are what they pretend to be: that the wayyou were taught at school and college to think right and proper is theway things really are. But it's not: it's all only a pretence, to keepthe cowardly slavish common run of people quiet. Do you want to findthat out, like other women, at forty, when you've thrown yourself awayand lost your chances; or won't you take it in good time now from yourown mother, that loves you and swears to you that it's truth: gospeltruth? [Urgently] Vivie: the big people, the clever people, the managingpeople, all know it. They do as I do, and think what I think. I knowplenty of them. I know them to speak to, to introduce you to, to makefriends of for you. I don't mean anything wrong: thats what you don'tunderstand: your head is full of ignorant ideas about me. What do thepeople that taught you know about life or about people like me? When didthey ever meet me, or speak to me, or let anyone tell them about me? thefools! Would they ever have done anything for you if I hadn't paid them?Havn't I told you that I want you to be respectable? Havn't I brought youup to be respectable? And how can you keep it up without my money and myinfluence and Lizzie's friends? Can't you see that youre cutting your ownthroat as well as breaking my heart in turning your back on me?VIVIE. I recognize the Crofts philosophy of life, mother. I heard it allfrom him that day at the Gardners'.MRS WARREN. You think I want to force that played-out old sot on you! Idon't, Vivie: on my oath I don't.VIVIE. It would not matter if you did: you would not succeed. [MrsWarren winces, deeply hurt by the implied indifference towards heraffectionate intention. Vivie, neither understanding this nor concerningherself about it, goes on calmly] Mother: you don't at all know the sortof person I am. I don't object to Crofts more than to any other coarselybuilt man of his class. To tell you the truth, I rather admire himfor being strongminded enough to enjoy himself in his own way andmake plenty of money instead of living the usual shooting, hunting,dining-out, tailoring, loafing life of his set merely because allthe rest do it. And I'm perfectly aware that if I'd been in the samecircumstances as my aunt Liz, I'd have done exactly what she did.I don't think I'm more prejudiced or straitlaced than you: I thinkI'm less. I'm certain I'm less sentimental. I know very well thatfashionable morality is all a pretence, and that if I took your moneyand devoted the rest of my life to spending it fashionably, I might beas worthless and vicious as the silliest woman could possibly be withouthaving a word said to me about it. But I don't want to be worthless. Ishouldn't enjoy trotting about the park to advertize my dressmakerand carriage builder, or being bored at the opera to shew off ashopwindowful of diamonds.MRS WARREN [bewildered] But--VIVIE. Wait a moment: I've not done. Tell me why you continue yourbusiness now that you are independent of it. Your sister, you told me,has left all that behind her. Why don't you do the same?MRS WARREN. Oh, it's all very easy for Liz: she likes good society, andhas the air of being a lady. Imagine _me_ in a cathedral town! Why, thevery rooks in the trees would find me out even if I could standthe dulness of it. I must have work and excitement, or I should gomelancholy mad. And what else is there for me to do? The life suits me:I'm fit for it and not for anything else. If I didn't do it somebody elsewould; so I don't do any real harm by it. And then it brings in money;and I like making money. No: it's no use: I can't give it up--not foranybody. But what need you know about it? I'll never mention it. I'llkeep Crofts away. I'll not trouble you much: you see I have to beconstantly running about from one place to another. Youll be quit of mealtogether when I die.VIVIE. No: I am my mother's daughter. I am like you: I must have work,and must make more money than I spend. But my work is not your work, andmy way is not your way. We must part. It will not make much differenceto us: instead of meeting one another for perhaps a few months in twentyyears, we shall never meet: thats all.MRS WARREN [her voice stifled in tears] Vivie: I meant to have been morewith you: I did indeed.VIVIE. It's no use, mother: I am not to be changed by a few cheap tearsand entreaties any more than you are, I daresay.MRS WARREN [wildly] Oh, you call a mother's tears cheap.VIVIE. They cost you nothing; and you ask me to give you the peaceand quietness of my whole life in exchange for them. What use would mycompany be to you if you could get it? What have we two in common thatcould make either of us happy together?MRS WARREN [lapsing recklessly into her dialect] We're mother anddaughter. I want my daughter. I've a right to you. Who is to care for mewhen I'm old? Plenty of girls have taken to me like daughters and criedat leaving me; but I let them all go because I had you to look forwardto. I kept myself lonely for you. You've no right to turn on me now andrefuse to do your duty as a daughter.VIVIE [jarred and antagonized by the echo of the slums in her mother'svoice] My duty as a daughter! I thought we should come to thatpresently. Now once for all, mother, you want a daughter and Frank wantsa wife. I don't want a mother; and I don't want a husband. I have sparedneither Frank nor myself in sending him about his business. Do you thinkI will spare you?MRS WARREN [violently] Oh, I know the sort you are: no mercy foryourself or anyone else. _I_ know. My experience has done that for meanyhow: I can tell the pious, canting, hard, selfish woman when I meether. Well, keep yourself to yourself: _I_ don't want you. But listen tothis. Do you know what I would do with you if you were a baby again?aye, as sure as there's a Heaven above us.VIVIE. Strangle me, perhaps.MRS WARREN. No: I'd bring you up to be a real daughter to me, and notwhat you are now, with your pride and your prejudices and the collegeeducation you stole from me: yes, stole: deny it if you can: what was itbut stealing? I'd bring you up in my own house, I would.VIVIE [quietly] In one of your own houses.MRS WARREN [screaming] Listen to her! listen to how she spits on hermother's grey hairs! Oh, may you live to have your own daughter tear andtrample on you as you have trampled on me. And you will: you will. Nowoman ever had luck with a mother's curse on her.VIVIE. I wish you wouldn't rant, mother. It only hardens me. Come: Isuppose I am the only young woman you ever had in your power that youdid good to. Don't spoil it all now.MRS WARREN. Yes, Heaven forgive me, it's true; and you are the onlyone that ever turned on me. Oh, the injustice of it! the injustice! theinjustice! I always wanted to be a good woman. I tried honest work; andI was slave-driven until I cursed the day I ever heard of honest work. Iwas a good mother; and because I made my daughter a good woman she turnsme out as if I were a leper. Oh, if I only had my life to live overagain! I'd talk to that lying clergyman in the school. From this timeforth, so help me Heaven in my last hour, I'll do wrong and nothing butwrong. And I'll prosper on it.VIVIE. Yes: it's better to choose your line and go through with it. IfI had been you, mother, I might have done as you did; but I should nothave lived one life and believed in another. You are a conventionalwoman at heart. That is why I am bidding you goodbye now. I am right, amI not?MRS WARREN [taken aback] Right to throw away all my money!VIVIE. No: right to get rid of you? I should be a fool not to. Isn't thatso?MRS WARREN [sulkily] Oh well, yes, if you come to that, I suppose youare. But Lord help the world if everybody took to doing the right thing!And now I'd better go than stay where I'm not wanted. [She turns to thedoor].VIVIE [kindly] Won't you shake hands?MRS WARREN [after looking at her fiercely for a moment with a savageimpulse to strike her] No, thank you. Goodbye.VIVIE [matter-of-factly] Goodbye. [Mrs Warren goes out, slammingthe door behind her. The strain on Vivie's face relaxes; her graveexpression breaks up into one of joyous content; her breath goes outin a half sob, half laugh of intense relief. She goes buoyantly to herplace at the writing table; pushes the electric lamp out of the way;pulls over a great sheaf of papers; and is in the act of dipping her penin the ink when she finds Frank's note. She opens it unconcernedlyand reads it quickly, giving a little laugh at some quaint turn ofexpression in it]. And goodbye, Frank. [She tears the note up and tossesthe pieces into the wastepaper basket without a second thought. Thenshe goes at her work with a plunge, and soon becomes absorbed in itsfigures].End of Project Gutenberg's Mrs. Warren's Profession, by George Bernard Shaw*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MRS. WARREN'S PROFESSION ******** This file should be named 1097.txt or 1097.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/0/9/1097/Produced by An Anonymous Volunteer and David WidgerUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  ProjectGutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution issubject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.org/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only beused on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement bykeeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are ina constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derivedfrom the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and theProject Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additionalterms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute thiselectronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tmLicense as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact theFoundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerableeffort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Rightof Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THETRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover adefect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copyis also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forthin paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain impliedwarranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, thetrademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contactinformation can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations(1 to 5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.orgThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.Project Gutenberg's The Journal of Sir Walter Scott, by Walter ScottThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Journal of Sir Walter Scott       From the Original Manuscript at AbbotsfordAuthor: Walter ScottRelease Date: February 1, 2005 [EBook #14860]Language: EnglishCharacter set encoding: UTF-8*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE JOURNAL OF SIR WALTER SCOTT ***Produced by Riikka Talonpoika, Susan Skinner and the PG OnlineDistributed Proofreading Team.THE JOURNAL OFSIR WALTER SCOTTFROM THE ORIGINAL MANUSCRIPTAT ABBOTSFORD[Illustration]VOLUME IBURT FRANKLINNEW YORKPublished by BURT FRANKLIN235 East 44th St., New York, N.Y. 10017Originally Published: 1890Reprinted: 1970Printed in the U.S.A.S.B.N. 32110Library of Congress Card Catalog No.: 73-123604Burt Franklin: Research and Source Works Series 535Essays in Literature and Criticism 82[Illustration:   "_I must home to work while it is called day; for the night cometh whenno man can work. I put that text, many a year ago, on my dial-stone; butit often preached in vain_."--SCOTT'S _Life_, x. 88.]     "_I shall have a peep at Bothwell Castle if it is only for     half-an-hour. It is a place of many recollections to me, for I     cannot but think how changed I am from the same Walter Scott who     was so passionately ambitious of fame when I wrote the song of     Young Lochinvar at Bothwell; and if I could recall the same     feelings, where was I to find an audience so kind and patient, and     whose applause was at the same time so well worth having, as Lady     Dalkeith and Lady Douglas? When one thinks of these things, there     is no silencing one's regret but by Corporal Nym's philosophy_:     Things must be as they may. _One generation goeth and another     cometh_."--To LORD MONTAGU, _June 28th,_ 1825.PREFACE.On the death of Sir Walter Scott in 1832, his entire literary remainswere placed at the disposal of his son-in-law, Mr. John Gibson Lockhart.Among these remains were two volumes of a Journal which had been kept bySir Walter from 1825 to 1832. Mr. Lockhart made large use of thisJournal in his admirable life of his father-in-law. Writing, however, soshort a time after Scott's death, he could not use it so freely as hemight have wished, and, according to his own statement, it was "byregard for the feelings of living persons" that he both omitted andaltered; and indeed he printed no chapter of the Diary in full.There is no longer any reason why the Journal should not be published inits entirety, and by the permission of the Hon. Mrs. Maxwell-Scott itnow appears exactly as Scott left it--but for the correction of obviousslips of the pen and the omission of some details chiefly of family anddomestic interest.The original Journal consists of two small 4to volumes, 9 inches by 8,bound in vellum and furnished with strong locks. The manuscript isclosely written on both sides, and towards the end shows painfulevidence of the physical prostration of the writer. The Journal abruptlycloses towards the middle of the second volume with the followingentry--probably the last words ever penned by Scott--[Illustration: by one of the old Pontiffs, but which, I forget, and soparaded the streets by moonlight to discover, if possible, some appearanceof the learned Sir William Gell or the pretty Mrs. Ashley. At length wefound our old servant who guided us to the lodgings taken by SirWilliam Gell, where all was comfortable, a good fire included, whichour fatigue and the chilliness of the night required. We dispersed assoon as we had taken some food, wine, and water.We slept reasonably, but on the next morning]In the annotations, it seemed most satisfactory to follow as closely aspossible the method adopted by Mr. Lockhart. In the case of those partsof the Journal that have been already published, almost all Mr.Lockhart's notes have been reproduced, and these are distinguished byhis initials. Extracts from the Life, from James Skene of Rubislaw'sunpublished Reminiscences, and from unpublished letters of Scott himselfand his contemporaries, have been freely used wherever they seemed toillustrate particular passages in the Journal.With regard to Scott's quotations a certain difficulty presented itself.In his Journal he evidently quoted from memory, and he not unfrequentlymakes considerable variations from the originals. Occasionally, indeed,it would seem that he deliberately made free with the exact words of hisauthor, to adapt them more pertinently to his own mood or the impulse ofthe moment. In any case it seemed best to let Scott's quotations appearas he wrote them. His reading lay in such curious and unfrequentedquarters that to verify all the sources is a nearly impossible task. Itis to be remembered, also, that he himself held very free notions on thesubject of quotation.I have to thank the Hon. Mrs. Maxwell-Scott for permitting me to retainfor the last three years the precious volumes in which the Journal iscontained, and for granting me access to the correspondence of SirWalter preserved at Abbotsford, and I have likewise to acknowledge thecourtesy of His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch for allowing me the use ofthe Scott letters at Dalkeith. To Mr. W.F. Skene, Historiographer Royalfor Scotland, my thanks are warmly rendered for intrusting me with hisprecious heirloom, the volume which contains Sir Walter's letters to hisfather, and the Reminiscences that accompany them--one of many kindoffices towards me during the last thirty years in our relations asauthor and publisher. I am also obliged to Mr. Archibald Constable forpermitting me to use the interesting Memorandum by James Ballantyne.Finally, I have to express my obligation to many other friends, whonever failed cordially to respond to any call I made upon them.D.D.     EDINBURGH, 22 DRUMMOND PLACE, _October_ 1, 1890.ILLUSTRATIONS.VOL. I.PORTRAIT, painted by JOHN GRAHAM GILBERT, R.S.A., for the Royal Society,Edinburgh. Copied by permission of the Council of the Society,_Frontispiece_VIGNETTE on Title-page"The Dial-Stone" in the Garden, from drawing made at Abbotsford byGEORGE REID, R.S.A."WORK WHILE IT IS DAY."       *       *       *       *       *       "_I must home to 'work while it is called day; for the night cometh     when no man can work.' I put that text, many a year ago, on my     dial-stone; but it often preached in vain_."--SCOTT'S _Life_, x.     88.MAP OF ABBOTSFORD, from the Ordnance Survey, 1858, _to face_ p. 414.       *       *       *       *       *SIR WALTER SCOTT'S JOURNAL.       *       *       *       *       *NOVEMBER.[_Edinburgh_,] _November_ 20, 1825.--I have all my life regretted that Idid not keep a regular Journal. I have myself lost recollection of muchthat was interesting, and I have deprived my family and the public ofsome curious information, by not carrying this resolution into effect. Ihave bethought me, on seeing lately some volumes of Byron's notes, thathe probably had hit upon the right way of keeping such amemorandum-book, by throwing aside all pretence to regularity and order,and marking down events just as they occurred to recollection. I willtry this plan; and behold I have a handsome locked volume, such as mightserve for a lady's album. _Nota bene_, John Lockhart, and Anne, and Iare to raise a Society for the suppression of Albums. It is a mosttroublesome shape of mendicity. Sir, your autograph--a line ofpoetry--or a prose sentence!--Among all the sprawling sonnets, andblotted trumpery that dishonours these miscellanies, a man must have agood stomach that can swallow this botheration as a compliment.I was in Ireland last summer, and had a most delightful tour. It cost meupwards of 500, including 100 left with Walter and Jane, for wetravelled a large party and in style. There is much less exaggeratedabout the Irish than is to be expected. Their poverty is notexaggerated; it is on the extreme verge of human misery; their cottageswould scarce serve for pig-styes, even in Scotland, and their rags seemthe very refuse of a rag-shop, and are disposed on their bodies withsuch ingenious variety of wretchedness that you would think nothing butsome sort of perverted taste could have assembled so many shredstogether. You are constantly fearful that some knot or loop will give,and place the individual before you in all the primitive simplicity ofParadise. Then for their food, they have only potatoes, and too few ofthem. Yet the men look stout and healthy, the women buxom andwell-coloured.Dined with us, being Sunday, Will. Clerk and Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe.W.C. is the second son of the celebrated author of _Naval Tactics_.[1] Ihave known him intimately since our college days; and, to my thinking,never met a man of greater powers, or more complete information on alldesirable subjects. In youth he had strongly the Edinburgh _pruritusdisputandi_; but habits of society have greatly mellowed it, and thoughstill anxious to gain your suffrage to his views, he endeavours ratherto conciliate your opinion than conquer it by force. Still there isenough of tenacity of sentiment to prevent, in London society, where allmust go slack and easy, W.C. from rising to the very top of the tree asa conversation man, who must not only wind the thread of his argumentgracefully, but also know when to let go. But I like the Scotch tastebetter; there is more matter, more information, above all, more spiritin it. Clerk will, I am afraid, leave the world little more than thereport of his fame. He is too indolent to finish any considerablework.[2] Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe is another very remarkable man. Hewas bred a clergyman, but did not take orders, owing I believe to apeculiar effeminacy of voice which must have been unpleasant in readingprayers. Some family quarrels occasioned his being indifferentlyprovided for by a small annuity from his elder brother, extorted by anarbitral decree. He has infinite wit and a great turn for antiquarianlore, as the publications of _Kirkton_,[3] etc., bear witness. Hisdrawings are the most fanciful and droll imaginable--a mixture betweenHogarth and some of those foreign masters who painted temptations of St.Anthony, and such grotesque subjects. As a poet he has not a very strongtouch. Strange that his finger-ends can describe so well what he cannotbring out clearly and firmly in words. If he were to make drawing aresource, it might raise him a large income. But though a lover ofantiquities, and therefore of expensive trifles, C.K.S. is tooaristocratic to use his art to assist his revenue. He is a very completegenealogist, and has made many detections in _Douglas_ and other bookson pedigree, which our nobles would do well to suppress if they had anopportunity. Strange that a man should be curious after scandal ofcenturies old! Not but Charles loves it fresh and fresh also, for, beingvery much a fashionable man, he is always master of the reigning report,and he tells the anecdote with such gusto that there is no helpingsympathising with him--the peculiarity of voice adding not a little tothe general effect. My idea is that C.K.S., with his oddities, tastes,satire, and high aristocratic feelings, resembles HoraceWalpole--perhaps in his person also, in a general way.--See MissHawkins' _Anecdotes_[4] for a description of the author of _The Castleof Otranto_.No other company at dinner except my cheerful and good-humoured friend_Missie_ Macdonald,[5] so called in fondness. One bottle of champagnewith the ladies' assistance, two of claret. I observe that both thesegreat connoisseurs were very nearly, if not quite, agreed, that thereare _no_ absolutely undoubted originals of Queen Mary. But how thenshould we be so very distinctly informed as to her features? What hasbecome of all the originals which suggested these innumerable copies?Surely Mary must have been as unfortunate in this as in otherparticulars of her life.[6]_November_ 21.--I am enamoured of my journal. I wish the zeal may butlast. Once more of Ireland. I said their poverty was not exaggerated;neither is their wit--nor their good-humour--nor their whimsicalabsurdity--nor their courage._Wit_.--I gave a fellow a shilling on some occasion when sixpence wasthe fee. "Remember you owe me sixpence, Pat." "May your honour live tillI pay you!" There was courtesy as well as wit in this, and all theclothes on Pat's back would have been dearly bought by the sum inquestion._Good-humour_.--There is perpetual kindness in the Irish cabin;butter-milk, potatoes, a stool is offered, or a stone is rolled thatyour honour may sit down and be out of the smoke, and those who begeverywhere else seem desirous to exercise free hospitality in their ownhouses. Their natural disposition is turned to gaiety and happiness;while a Scotchman is thinking about the term-day, or, if easy on thatsubject, about hell in the next world--while an Englishman is making alittle hell of his own in the present, because his muffin is not wellroasted--Pat's mind is always turned to fun and ridicule. They areterribly excitable, to be sure, and will murther you on slightsuspicion, and find out next day that it was all a mistake, and that itwas not yourself they meant to kill at all at all._Absurdity_.--They were widening the road near Lord Claremont's seat aswe passed. A number of cars were drawn up together at a particularpoint, where we also halted, as we understood they were blowing a rock,and the _shot_ was expected presently to go off. After waiting twominutes or so, a fellow called out something, and our carriage as aplanet, and the cars for satellites, started all forward at once, theIrishmen whooping and crying, and the horses galloping. Unable to learnthe meaning of this, I was only left to suppose that they had delayedfiring the intended _shot_ till we should pass, and that we were passingquickly to make the delay as short as possible. No such thing. By dintof making great haste, we got within ten yards of the rock when theblast took place, throwing dust and gravel on our carriage, and had ourpostillion brought us a little nearer (it was not for want of hallooingand flogging that he did not), we should have had a still more seriousshare of the explosion. The explanation I received from the drivers was,that they had been told by the overseer that as the _mine_ had been solong in _going off_, he dared say we would have time to pass it--so wejust waited long enough to make the danger imminent. I have only to addthat two or three people got behind the carriage, just for nothing butto see how our honours got past.Went to the Oil Gas Committee[7] this morning, of which concern I ampresident, or chairman. It has amused me much by bringing me intocompany with a body of active, business-loving, money-making citizens ofEdinburgh, chiefly Whigs by the way, whose sentiments and proceedingsamuse me. The stock is rather low in the market, 35s. premium insteadof 5. It must rise, however, for the advantages of the light areundeniable, and folks will soon become accustomed to idle apprehensionsor misapprehensions. From 20 to 25 should light a house capitally,supposing you leave town in the vacation. The three last quarters costme 10, 10s., and the first, 8, was greatly overcharged. We will seewhat this, the worst and darkest quarter, costs.Dined with Sir Robert Dundas,[8] where we met Lord and Lady Melville. Mylittle _nieces_ (_ex officio_) gave us some pretty music. I do not knowand cannot utter a note of music; and complicated harmonies seem to me ababble of confused though pleasing sounds. Yet songs and simplemelodies, especially if connected with words and ideas, have as mucheffect on me as on most people. But then I hate to hear a young personsing without feeling and expression suited to the song. I cannot bear avoice that has no more life in it than a pianoforte or a bugle-horn.There is something about all the fine arts, of soul and spirit, which,like the vital principle in man, defies the research of the mostcritical anatomist. You feel where it is not, yet you cannot describewhat it is you want. Sir Joshua, or some other great painter, waslooking at a picture on which much pains had been bestowed--"Why, yes,"he said, in a hesitating manner, "it is very clever--very welldone--can't find fault; but it wants something; it wants--it wants, damnme--it wants THAT"--throwing his hand over his head and snapping hisfingers. Tom Moore's is the most exquisite warbling I ever heard. Nextto him, David Macculloch[9] for Scots songs. The last, when a boy atDumfries, was much admired by Burns, who used to get him to try over thewords which he composed to new melodies. He is brother of Macculloch ofArdwell._November_ 22.--MOORE. I saw Moore (for the first time, I may say) thisseason. We had indeed met in public twenty years ago. There is a manlyfrankness, and perfect ease and good breeding about him which isdelightful. Not the least touch of the poet or the pedant. Alittle--very little man. Less, I think, than Lewis, and somewhat likehim in person; God knows, not in conversation, for Matt, though a cleverfellow, was a bore of the first description. Moreover, he looked alwayslike a schoolboy. I remember a picture of him being handed about atDalkeith House. It was a miniature I think by Sanders,[10] who hadcontrived to muffle Lewis's person in a cloak, and placed some poignardor dark lanthorn appurtenance (I think) in his hand, so as to give thepicture the cast of a bravo. "That like Mat Lewis?" said Duke Henry, towhom it had passed in turn; "why, that is like a MAN!" Imagine theeffect! Lewis was at his elbow.[11] Now Moore has none of thisinsignificance; to be sure his person is much stouter than that ofM.G.L., his countenance is decidedly plain, but the expression is sovery animated, especially in speaking or singing, that it is far moreinteresting than the finest features could have rendered it.I was aware that Byron had often spoken, both in private society and inhis Journal, of Moore and myself in the same breath, and with the samesort of regard; so I was curious to see what there could be in commonbetwixt us, Moore having lived so much in the gay world, I in thecountry, and with people of business, and sometimes with politicians;Moore a scholar, I none; he a musician and artist, I without knowledgeof a note; he a democrat, I an aristocrat--with many other points ofdifference; besides his being an Irishman, I a Scotchman, and bothtolerably national. Yet there is a point of resemblance, and a strongone. We are both good-humoured fellows, who rather seek to enjoy what isgoing forward than to maintain our dignity as lions; and we have bothseen the world too widely and too well not to contemn in our souls theimaginary consequence of literary people, who walk with their noses inthe air, and remind me always of the fellow whom Johnson met in analehouse, and who called himself "the _great_ Twalmley--inventor of thefloodgate iron for smoothing linen." He also enjoys the _mot pour rire_,and so do I.Moore has, I think, been ill-treated about Byron's Memoirs; hesurrendered them to the family (Lord Byron's executors) and thus lost2000 which he had raised upon them at a most distressing moment of hislife. It is true they offered and pressed the money on him afterwards,but they ought to have settled it with the booksellers and not put poorTom's spirit in arms against his interest.[12] I think at least itmight have been so managed. At any rate there must be an authentic lifeof Byron by somebody. Why should they not give the benefit of theirmaterials to Tom Moore, whom Byron had made the depositary of his ownMemoirs?--but T.M. thinks that Cam Hobhouse has the purpose of writingByron's life himself. He and Moore were at sharp words during thenegotiation, and there was some explanation necessary before the affairended. It was a pity that nothing save the total destruction of Byron'sMemoirs would satisfy his executors.[13] But there was a reason--_Prematnox alta_.It would be a delightful addition to life, if T.M. had a cottage withintwo miles of one. We went to the theatre together, and the house, beingluckily a good one, received T.M. with rapture. I could have huggedthem, for it paid back the debt of the kind reception I met with inIreland.[14]Here is a matter for a May morning, but much fitter for a November one.The general distress in the city has affected H. and R.,[15] Constable'sgreat agents. Should they _go_, it is not likely that Constable canstand, and such an event would lead to great distress and perplexity onthe part of J.B. and myself. Thank God, I have enough at least to payforty shillings in the pound, taking matters at the very worst. But muchdistress and inconvenience must be the consequence. I had a lesson in1814 which should have done good upon me, but success and abundanceerased it from my mind. But this is no time for journalising ormoralising either. Necessity is like a sour-faced cook-maid, and I aturn-spit whom she has flogged ere now, till he mounted his wheel. IfW-st-k[16] can be out by 25th January it will do much, and it ispossible.------'s son has saved his comrade on shipboard by throwing himselfoverboard and keeping the other afloat--a very gallant thing. But the_Gran giag' Asso_[17] asks me to write a poem on the _civic crown_, ofwhich he sends me a description quoted from Adam's _Antiquities_, whichmellifluous performance is to persuade the Admiralty to give the youngconservator promotion. Oh! he is a rare head-piece, an admirable Merron.I do not believe there is in nature such a full-acorned Boar.[18]Could not write to purpose for thick-coming fancies; the wheel would notturn easily, and cannot be forced.    "My spinning-wheel is auld and stiff,      The rock o't winna stand, sir;    To keep the temper-pin in tiff      Employs aft my hand, sir."[19]Went to dine at the L[ord] J[ustice]-C[lerk's][20] as I thought byinvitation, but it was for Tuesday se'nnight. Returned very wellpleased, not being exactly in the humour for company, and had abeef-steak. My appetite is surely, excepting in quantity, that of afarmer; for, eating moderately of anything, my Epicurean pleasure is inthe most simple diet. Wine I seldom taste when alone, and use instead alittle spirits and water. I have of late diminished the quantity, forfear of a weakness inductive to a diabetes--a disease which broke up myfather's health, though one of the most temperate men who ever lived. Ismoke a couple of cigars instead, which operates equally as asedative--    "Just to drive the cold winter away,    And drown the fatigues of the day."I smoked a good deal about twenty years ago when at Ashestiel; but,coming down one morning to the parlour, I found, as the room was smalland confined, that the smell was unpleasant, and laid aside the use ofthe _Nicotian weed_ for many years; but was again led to use it by theexample of my son, a hussar officer, and my son-in-law, an Oxfordstudent. I could lay it aside to-morrow; I laugh at the dominion ofcustom in this and many things.    "We make the giants first, and then--_do not_ kill them."_November_ 23.--On comparing notes with Moore, I was confirmed in one ortwo points which I had always laid down in considering poor Byron. Onewas, that like Rousseau he was apt to be very suspicious, and a plaindownright steadiness of manner was the true mode to maintain his goodopinion. Will Rose told me that once, while sitting with Byron, he fixedinsensibly his eyes on his feet, one of which, it must be remembered,was deformed. Looking up suddenly, he saw Byron regarding him with alook of concentrated and deep displeasure, which wore off when heobserved no consciousness or embarrassment in the countenance of Rose.Murray afterwards explained this, by telling Rose that Lord Byron wasvery jealous of having this personal imperfection noticed or attendedto. In another point, Moore confirmed my previous opinion, namely, thatByron loved mischief-making. Moore had written to him cautioning himagainst the project of establishing the paper called the _Liberal_, incommunion with such men as P.B. Shelley and Hunt,[21] on whom he saidthe world had set its mark. Byron showed this to the parties. Shelleywrote a modest and rather affecting expostulation to Moore.[22] Thesetwo peculiarities of extreme suspicion and love of mischief are bothshades of the malady which certainly tinctured some part of thecharacter of this mighty genius; and, without some tendency towardswhich, genius--I mean that kind which depends on the imaginativepower--perhaps cannot exist to great extent. The wheels of a machine, toplay rapidly, must not fit with the utmost exactness, else the attritiondiminishes the impetus.Another of Byron's peculiarities was the love of mystifying; whichindeed may be referred to that of mischief. There was no knowing howmuch or how little to believe of his narratives. Instance:--Mr.Bankes[23] expostulating with him upon a dedication which he had writtenin extravagant terms of praise to Cam Hobhouse, Byron told him that Camhad teased him into the dedication till he had said, "Well; it shall beso,--providing you will write the dedication yourself"; and affirmedthat Cam Hobhouse did write the high-coloured dedication accordingly. Imentioned this to Murray, having the report from Will Rose, to whomBankes had mentioned it. Murray, in reply, assured me that thededication was written by Lord Byron himself, and showed it me in hisown hand. I wrote to Rose to mention the thing to Bankes, as it mighthave made mischief had the story got into the circle. Byron was disposedto think all men of imagination were addicted to mix fiction (or poetry)with their prose. He used to say he dared believe the celebratedcourtezan of Venice, about whom Rousseau makes so piquante a story, was,if one could see her, a draggle-tailed wench enough. I believe that heembellished his own amours considerably, and that he was, in manyrespects, _le fanfaron de vices qu'il n'avoit pas_. He loved to bethought awful, mysterious, and gloomy, and sometimes hinted at strangecauses. I believe the whole to have been the creation and sport of awild and powerful fancy. In the same manner he _crammed_ people, as itis termed, about duels, etc., which never existed, or were muchexaggerated.Constable has been here as lame as a duck upon his legs, but his heartand courage as firm as a cock. He has convinced me we will do well tosupport the London House. He has sent them about 5000, and proposes weshould borrow on our joint security 5000 for their accommodation. J.B.and R. Cadell present. I must be guided by them, and hope for the best.Certainly to part company would be to incur an awful risk.What I liked about Byron, besides his boundless genius, was hisgenerosity of spirit as well as purse, and his utter contempt of all theaffectations of literature, from the school-magisterial style to thelackadaisical. Byron's example has formed a sort of upper house ofpoetry. There is Lord Leveson Gower, a very clever young man.[24] LordPorchester too,[25] nephew to Mrs. Scott of Harden, a young man who lieson the carpet and looks poetical and dandyish--fine lad too, but--    "There will be many peers    Ere such another Byron."Talking of Abbotsford, it begins to be haunted by too much company ofevery kind, but especially foreigners. I do not like them. I hate finewaistcoats and breast-pins upon dirty shirts. I detest the impudencethat pays a stranger compliments, and harangues about his works in theauthor's house, which is usually ill-breeding. Moreover, they are seldomlong of making it evident that they know nothing about what they aretalking of, except having seen the Lady of the Lake at the Opera.Dined at St. Catherine's[26] with Lord Advocate, Lord and Lady Melville,Lord Justice-Clerk,[27] Sir Archibald Campbell of Succoth, all classcompanions and acquainted well for more than forty years. All exceptLord J.C. were at Fraser's class, High School.[28] Boyle joined us atcollege. There are, besides, Sir Adam Ferguson, Colin Mackenzie, JamesHope, Dr. James Buchan, Claud Russell, and perhaps two or three more ofand about the same period--but     "Apparent rari nantes in gurgite vasto."[29]_November 24._--Talking of strangers, London held, some four or fiveyears since, one of those animals who are lions at first, but bytransmutation of two seasons become in regular course Boars!--UgoFoscolo by name, a haunter of Murray's shop and of literary parties.Ugly as a baboon, and intolerably conceited, he spluttered, blustered,and disputed, without even knowing the principles upon which men ofsense render a reason, and screamed all the while like a pig when theycut its throat. Another such Animaluccio is a brute of a SicilianMarquis de ---- who wrote something about Byron. He inflicted two dayson us at Abbotsford. They never know what to make of themselves in theforenoon, but sit tormenting the women to play at proverbs and suchtrash._Foreigner of a different cast_,--Count Olonym (Olonyne--that's it), sonof the President of the Royal Society and a captain in the ImperialGuards. He is mean-looking and sickly, but has much sense, candour, andgeneral information. There was at Abbotsford, and is here, for educationjust now, a young Count Davidoff, with a tutor Mr. Collyer. He is anephew of the famous Orloffs. It is quite surprising how much sense andsound thinking this youth has at the early age of sixteen, without theleast self-conceit or forwardness. On the contrary, he seems kind,modest, and ingenuous.[30] To questions which I asked about the state ofRussia he answered with the precision and accuracy of twice his years. Ishould be sorry the saying were verified in him--    "So wise so young, they say, do ne'er live long."[31]Saw also at Abbotsford two Frenchmen whom I liked, friends of MissDumergue. One, called Le Noir, is the author of a tragedy which he hadthe grace never to quote, and which I, though poked by some maliciouspersons, had _not_ the grace even to hint at. They were disposed atfirst to be complimentary, but I convinced them it was not the customhere, and they took it well, and were agreeable.A little bilious this morning, for the first time these six months. Itcannot be the London matters which stick on my stomach, for that ismending, and may have good effects on myself and others.Dined with Robert Cockburn. Company, Lord Melville and family; Sir Johnand Lady Hope; Lord and Lady R. Kerr, and so forth. Combination ofcolliers general, and coals up to double price; the men will not work,_although_, or rather _because_, they can make from thirty to fortyshillings per week. Lord R.K. told us that he had a letter from LordForbes (son of Earl Granard, Ireland), that he was asleep in his houseat Castle Forbes, when awakened by a sense of suffocation which deprivedhim of the power of stirring a limb, yet left him the consciousness thatthe house was on fire. At this moment, and while his apartment was inflames, his large dog jumped on the bed, seized his shirt, and draggedhim to the staircase, where the fresh air restored his powers ofexertion and of escape. This is very different from most cases ofpreservation of life by the canine race, when the animal generally jumpsinto the water, in which [element] he has force and skill. That of fireis as hostile to him as to mankind._November_ 25.--Read Jeffrey's neat and well-intended address[32] to themechanics upon their combinations. Will it do good? Umph. It takes onlythe hand of a Lilliputian to light a fire, but would require thediuretic powers of Gulliver to extinguish it. The Whigs will live anddie in the heresy that the world is ruled by little pamphlets andspeeches, and that if you can sufficiently demonstrate that a line ofconduct is most consistent with men's interest, you have therefore andthereby demonstrated that they will at length, after a few speeches onthe subject, adopt it of course. In this case we would have [no] need oflaws or churches, for I am sure there is no difficulty in proving thatmoral, regular, and steady habits conduce to men's best interest, andthat vice is not sin merely, but folly. But of these men each haspassions and prejudices, the gratification of which he prefers, not onlyto the general weal, but to that of himself as an individual. Under theaction of these wayward impulses a man drinks to-day though he is sureof starving to-morrow. He murders to-morrow though he is sure to behanged on Wednesday; and people are so slow to believe that which makesagainst their own predominant passions, that mechanics will combine toraise the price for one week, though they destroy the manufacture forever. The best remedy seems to be the probable supply of labourers fromother trades. Jeffrey proposes each mechanic shall learn some othertrade than his own, and so have two strings to his bow. He does notconsider the length of a double apprenticeship. To make a man a goodweaver and a good tailor would require as much time as the patriarchserved for his two wives, and after all, he would be but a poor workmanat either craft. Each mechanic has, indeed, a second trade, for he candig and do rustic work. Perhaps the best reason for breaking up theassociation will prove to be the expenditure of the money which theyhave been simple enough to levy from the industrious for the support ofthe idle. How much provision for the sick and the aged, the widow andthe orphan, has been expended in the attempt to get wages which themanufacturer cannot afford them, with any profitable chance of sellinghis commodity?I had a bad fall last night coming home. There were unfinished houses atthe east end of Atholl Place,[33] and as I was on foot, I crossed thestreet to avoid the material which lay about; but, deceived by themoonlight, I stepped ankle-deep in a sea of mud (honest earth and water,thank God), and fell on my hands. Never was there such a representativeof _Wall_ in Pyramus and Thisbe--I was absolutely rough-cast. LuckilyLady S. had retired when I came home; so I enjoyed my tub of waterwithout either remonstrance or condolences. Cockburn's hospitality willget the benefit and renown of my downfall, and yet has no claim to it.In future though, I must take a coach at night--a control on one'sfreedom, but it must be submitted to. I found a letter from [R.]C[adell], giving a cheering account of things in London. Theircorrespondent is getting into his strength. Three days ago I would havebeen contented to buy this _consola_, as Judy says,[34] dearer than by adozen falls in the mud. For had the great Constable fallen, O mycountrymen, what a fall were there![Sidenote: _N.B._ Within eight weeks after recording this graceful actof submission, I found I was unable to keep a carriage at all.]Mrs. Coutts, with the Duke of St. Albans and Lady Charlotte Beauclerk,called to take leave of us. When at Abbotsford his suit throve butcoldly. She made me, I believe, her confidant in sincerity.[35] She hadrefused him twice, and decidedly. He was merely on the footing offriendship. I urged it was akin to love. She allowed she might marry theDuke, only she had at present not the least intention that way. Is thisfrank admission more favourable for the Duke than an absoluteprotestation against the possibility of such a marriage? I think not. Itis the fashion to attend Mrs. Coutts' parties and to abuse her. I havealways found her a kind, friendly woman, without either affectation orinsolence in the display of her wealth, and most willing to do good ifthe means be shown to her. She can be very entertaining too, as shespeaks without scruple of her stage life. So much wealth can hardly beenjoyed without some ostentation. But what then? If the Duke marriesher, he ensures an immense fortune; if she marries him, she has thefirst rank. If he marries a woman older than himself by twenty years,she marries a man younger in wit by twenty degrees. I do not think hewill dilapidate her fortune--he seems quiet and gentle. I do not thinkthat she will abuse his softness--of disposition, shall I say, or ofheart? The disparity of ages concerns no one but themselves; so theyhave my consent to marry, if they can get each other's. Just as this iswritten, enter my Lord of St. Albans and Lady Charlotte, to beg I wouldrecommend a book of sermons to Mrs. Coutts. Much obliged for her goodopinion: recommended Logan's[36]--one poet should always speak foranother. The mission, I suppose, was a little display on the part ofgood Mrs. Coutts of authority over her high aristocratic suitor. I donot suspect her of turning _dvote_, and retract my consent given asabove, unless she remains "lively, brisk, and jolly."[37]Dined quiet with wife and daughter. R[obert] Cadell looked in in theevening on business.I here register my purpose to practise economics. I have littletemptation to do otherwise. Abbotsford is all that I can make it, andtoo large for the property; so I resolve--No more building;No purchases of land till times are quite safe;No buying books or expensive trifles--I mean to any extent; andClearing off encumbrances, with the returns of this year's labour;--Which resolutions, with health and my habits of industry, will make me"sleep in spite of thunder."After all, it is hard that the vagabond stock-jobbing Jews should, fortheir own purposes, make such a shake of credit as now exists in London,and menace the credit of men trading on sure funds like H[urst] andR[obinson]. It is just like a set of pickpockets, who raise a mob, inwhich honest folks are knocked down and plundered, that they may pillagesafely in the midst of the confusion they have excited.[Sidenote: I was obliged to give this up in consequence of my ownmisfortunes.]_November_ 26.--The court met late, and sat till _one_; detained fromthat hour till four o'clock, being engaged in the perplexed affairs ofMr. James Stewart of Brugh. This young gentleman is heir to a propertyof better than 1000 a year in Orkney. His mother married very young,and was wife, mother, and widow in the course of the first year. Beingunfortunately under the direction of a careless agent, she was unluckyenough to embarrass her own affairs by many transactions with thisperson. I was asked to accept the situation of one of the son'scurators; and trust to clear out his affairs and hers--at least I willnot fail for want of application. I have lent her 300 on a second (andtherefore doubtful) security over her house in Newington, bought for1000, and on which 600 is already secured. I have no connection withthe family except that of compassion, and may not be rewarded even bythanks when the young man comes of age. I have known my father often sotreated by those whom he had laboured to serve. But if we do not runsome hazard in our attempts to do good, where is the merit of them? So Iwill bring through my Orkney laird if I can. Dined at home quiet withLady S. and Anne._November_ 27.--Some time since John Murray entered into a contract withmy son-in-law, John G. Lockhart, giving him on certain ample conditionsthe management and editorship of the _Quarterly Review_, for which theycould certainly scarcely find a fitter person, both from talents andcharacter. It seems that Barrow[38] and one or two stagers have takenalarm at Lockhart's character as a satirist, and his supposed accessionto some of the freaks in _Blackwood's Magazine_, and down comes youngD'Israeli[39] to Scotland imploring Lockhart to make interest with myfriends in London to remove objections, and so forth. I have no idea oftelling all and sundry that my son-in-law is not a slanderer, or a sillythoughtless lad, although he was six or seven years ago engaged in somelight satires. I only wrote to Heber and to Southey--the first upon thesubject of the reports which had startled Murray, (the most timorous, asByron called him, of all God's booksellers), and such a letter as he mayshow Barrow if he judges proper. To Southey I wrote more generally,acquainting him of my son's appointment to the Editorship, andmentioning his qualifications, touching, at the same time, on his veryslight connection with _Blackwood's Magazine_, and his innocence as tothose gambades which may have given offence, and which, I fear, they mayascribe too truly to an eccentric neighbour of their own. I alsomentioned that I had heard nothing of the affair until the month ofOctober. I am concerned that Southey should know this; for, having beenat the Lakes in September, I would not have him suppose that I had beenusing interest with Canning or Ellis to supersede young Mr.Coleridge,[40] their editor, and place my son-in-law in the situation;indeed I was never more surprised than when this proposal came upon us.I suppose it had come from Canning originally, as he was sounding Annewhen at Colonel Bolton's[41] about Lockhart's views, etc. To me he neverhinted anything on the subject. Other views are held out to Lockhartwhich may turn to great advantage. Only one person (John Cay[42] ofCharlton) knows their object, and truly I wish it had not been confidedto any one. Yesterday I had a letter from Murray in answer to one I hadwritten in something a determined style, for I had no idea of permittinghim to start from the course after my son giving up his situation andprofession, merely because a contributor or two chose to supposegratuitously that Lockhart was too imprudent for the situation. Myphysic has wrought well, for it brought a letter from Murray saying allwas right, that D'Israeli was sent to me, not to Lockhart, and that Iwas only invited to write two confidential letters, and otherincoherencies--which intimate his fright has got into another quarter.It is interlined and franked by Barrow, which shows that all is well,and that John's induction into his office will be easy and pleasant. Ihave not the least fear of his success; his talents want only a worthysphere of exertion. He must learn, however, to despise pettyadversaries. No good sportsman ought to shoot at crows unless for somespecial purpose. To take notice of such men as Hazlitt and Hunt in the_Quarterly_ would be to introduce them into a world which is scarceconscious of their existence. It is odd enough that many years since Ihad the principal share in erecting this _Review_ which has been sinceso prosperous, and now it is placed under the management of myson-in-law upon the most honourable principle of _detur digniori_. Yetthere are sad drawbacks so far as family comfort is concerned. To-day isSunday, when they always dined with us, and generally met a familyfriend or two, but we are no longer to expect them. In the country,where their little cottage was within a mile or two of Abbotsford, weshall miss their society still more, for Chiefswood was the perpetualobject of our walks, rides, and drives. Lockhart is such an excellentfamily man, so fond of his wife and child, that I hope all will gowell. A letter from Lockhart in the evening. All safe as to hisunanimous reception in London; his predecessor, young [Coleridge],handsomely, and like a gentleman, offers his assistance as acontributor, etc._November_ 28.--I have the less dread, or rather the less anxiety, aboutthe consequences of this migration, that I repose much confidence inSophia's tact and good sense. Her manners are good, and have theappearance of being perfectly natural. She is quite conscious of thelimited range of her musical talents, and never makes them common orproduces them out of place,--a rare virtue; moreover she is proudenough, and will not be easily netted and patronised by any of thatclass of ladies who may be called Lion-providers for town and country.She is domestic besides, and will not be disposed to gad about. Then sheseems an economist, and on 3000,[43] living quietly, there should besomething to save. Lockhart must be liked where his good qualities areknown, and where his fund of information has room to be displayed. But,notwithstanding a handsome exterior and face, I am not sure he willsucceed in London Society; he sometimes reverses the proverb, and givesthe _volte strette e pensiere sciolti_, withdraws his attention from thecompany, or attaches himself to some individual, gets into a corner, andseems to be quizzing the rest. This is the want of early habits of beingin society, and a life led much at college. Nothing is, however, sopopular, and so deservedly so, as to take an interest in whatever isgoing forward in society. A wise man always finds his account in it, andwill receive information and fresh views of life even in the society offools. Abstain from society altogether when you are not able to playsome part in it. This reserve, and a sort of Hidalgo air joined to hischaracter as a satirist, have done the best-humoured fellow in the worldsome injury in the opinion of Edinburgh folks. In London it is of lessconsequence whether he please in general society or not, since if he canestablish himself as a genius it will only be called "Pretty Fanny'sWay."People make me the oddest requests. It is not unusual for an Oxonian orCantab, who has outrun his allowance, and of whom I know nothing, toapply to me for the loan of 20, 50, or 100. A captain of the Danishnaval service writes to me, that being in distress for a sum of money bywhich he might transport himself to Columbia, to offer his services inassisting to free that province, he had dreamed I generously made him apresent of it. I can tell him his dream by contraries. I begin to find,like Joseph Surface, that too good a character is inconvenient. I don'tknow what I have done to gain so much credit for generosity, but Isuspect I owe it to being supposed, as Puff[44] says, one of those "whomHeaven has blessed with affluence." Not too much of that neither, mydear petitioners, though I may thank myself that your ideas are notcorrect.Dined at Melville Castle, whither I went through a snow-storm. I wasglad to find myself once more in a place connected with many happy days.Met Sir R. Dundas and my old friend George, now Lord Abercromby,[45]with his lady, and a beautiful girl, his daughter. He is what he alwayswas--the best-humoured man living; and our meetings, now more rare thanusual, are seasoned with a recollection of old frolics and old friends.I am entertained to see him just the same he has always been, neveryielding up his own opinion in fact, and yet in words acquiescing in allthat could be said against it. George was always like a willow--he neveroffered resistance to the breath of argument, but never moved from hisrooted opinion, blow as it listed. Exaggeration might make thesepeculiarities highly dramatic: Conceive a man who always seems to beacquiescing in your sentiments, yet never changes his own, and this witha sort of _bonhomie_ which shows there is not a particle of deceitintended. He is only desirous to spare you the trouble of contradiction._November_ 29.--A letter from Southey, malcontent about Murray havingaccomplished the change in the _Quarterly_ without speaking to him, andquoting the twaddle of some old woman, male or female, about Lockhart'searlier _jeux d'esprit_, but concluding most kindly that in regard to mydaughter and me he did not mean to withdraw. That he has done yeoman'sservice to the _Review_ is certain, with his genius, his universalreading, his powers of regular industry, and at the outset a name which,though less generally popular than it deserves, is still too respectableto be withdrawn without injury. I could not in reply point out to himwhat is the truth, that his rigid Toryism and High Church prejudicesrendered him an unsafe counsellor in a matter where the spirit of theage must be consulted; but I pointed out to him what I am sure is true,that Murray, apprehensive of his displeasure, had not ventured to writeto him out of mere timidity and not from any [intention to offend]. Itreated [lightly] his old woman's apprehensions and cautions, and allthat gossip about friends and enemies, to which a splendid number or twowill be a sufficient answer, and I accepted with due acknowledgment hisproposal of continued support. I cannot say I was afraid of hiswithdrawing. Lockhart will have hard words with him, for, great asSouthey's powers are, he has not the art to make them work popularly; heis often diffuse, and frequently sets much value on minute andunimportant facts, and useless pieces of abstruse knowledge. Living tooexclusively in a circle where he is idolised both for his genius and theexcellence of his disposition, he has acquired strong prejudices,though all of an upright and honourable cast. He rides his High Churchhobby too hard, and it will not do to run a tilt upon it against all theworld. Gifford used to crop his articles considerably, and they bearmark of it, being sometimes _dcousues._ Southey said that Gifford cutout his _middle joints_. When John comes to use the carving-knife I fearDr. Southey will not be so tractable. _Nous verrons_. I will not showSouthey's letter to Lockhart, for there is to him personally no friendlytone, and it would startle the Hidalgo's pride. It is to be wished theymay draw kindly together. Southey says most truly that even those whomost undervalue his reputation would, were he to withdraw from the_Review_, exaggerate the loss it would thereby sustain. The bottom ofall these feuds, though not named, is _Blackwood's Magazine_; all thesquibs of which, which have sometimes exploded among the Lakers,Lockhart is rendered accountable for. He must now exert himself at oncewith spirit and prudence.[46] He has good backing--Canning, BishopBlomfield, Gifford, Wright, Croker, Will Rose,--and is there not besidesthe Douglas?[47] An excellent plot, excellent friends, and full ofpreparations? It was no plot of my making, I am sure, yet men will sayand believe that [it was], though I never heard a word of the mattertill first a hint from Wright, and then the formal proposal of Murray toLockhart announced. I believe Canning and Charles Ellis were the primemovers. I'll puzzle my brains no more about it.Dined at Justice-Clerk's--the President--Captain Smollett, etc.,--ournew Commander-in-chief, Hon. Sir Robert O'Callaghan, brother to Earl ofLismore, a fine soldierly-looking man, with orders and badges;--hisbrother, an agreeable man, whom I met at Lowther Castle this season. Hecomposes his own music and sings his own poetry--has much humour,enhanced by a strong touch of national dialect, which is always a richsauce to an Irishman's good things. Dandyish, but not offensively, andseems to have a warm feeling for the credit of his country--ratherinconsistent with the trifling and selfish quietude of a mere man ofsociety._November_ 30.--I am come to the time when those who look out of thewindows shall be darkened. I must now wear spectacles constantly inreading and writing, though till this winter I have made a shift byusing only their occasional assistance. Although my health cannot bebetter, I feel my lameness becomes sometimes painful, and ofteninconvenient. Walking on the pavement or causeway gives me trouble, andI am glad when I have accomplished my return on foot from the ParliamentHouse to Castle Street, though I can (taking a competent time, as oldBraxie[48] said on another occasion) walk five or six miles in thecountry with pleasure. Well--such things must come, and be received withcheerful submission. My early lameness considered, it was impossible fora man labouring under a bodily impediment to have been stronger or moreactive than I have been, and that for twenty or thirty years. Seamswill slit, and elbows will out, quoth the tailor; and as I wasfifty-four on 15th August last, my mortal vestments are none of thenewest. Then Walter, Charles, and Lockhart are as active and handsomeyoung fellows as you can see; and while they enjoy strength and activityI can hardly be said to want it. I have perhaps all my life set an unduevalue on these gifts. Yet it does appear to me that high and independentfeelings are naturally, though not uniformly or inseparably, connectedwith bodily advantages. Strong men are usually good-humoured, and activemen often display the same elasticity of mind as of body. These aresuperiorities, however, that are often misused. But even for thesethings God shall call us to judgment.Some months since I joined with other literary folks in subscribing apetition for a pension to Mrs. G. of L.,[49] which we thought was atribute merited by her works as an authoress, and, in my opinion, muchmore by the firmness and elasticity of mind with which she had borne asuccession of great domestic calamities. Unhappily there was only about100 open on the pension list, and this the minister assigned in equalportions to Mrs. G---- and a distressed lady, grand-daughter of aforfeited Scottish nobleman. Mrs. G----, proud as a Highland-woman, vainas a poetess, and absurd as a bluestocking, has taken this partition _inmalam partem_, and written to Lord Melville about her merits, and thather friends do not consider her claims as being fairly canvassed, withsomething like a demand that her petition be submitted to the King. Thisis not the way to make her _plack_ a _bawbee_, and Lord M., a little_miffed_ in turn, sends the whole correspondence to me to know whetherMrs. G----will accept the 50 or not. Now, hating to deal with ladieswhen they are in an unreasonable humour, I have got the good-humoured"Man of Feeling" to find out the lady's mind, and I take on myself thetask of making her peace with Lord M. There is no great doubt how itwill end, for your scornful dog will always eat your dirty pudding.[50]After all, the poor lady is greatly to be pitied;--her sole remainingdaughter, deep and far gone in a decline, has been seized withalienation of mind.Dined with my cousin, R[obert] R[utherford], being the first invitationsince my uncle's death, and our cousin Lieutenant-Colonel Russell[51] ofAshestiel, with his sister Anne--the former newly returned from India--afine gallant fellow, and distinguished as a cavalry officer. He cameoverland from India and has observed a good deal. General L---- ofL----, in Logan's orthography a _fowl_, Sir William Hamilton, MissPeggie Swinton, William Keith, and others. Knight Marischal not well, sounable to attend the convocation of kith and kin.FOOTNOTES:[1] _An Essay on Naval Tactics, Systematical and Historical, withexplanatory plates_. In four parts. By John Clerk. 4to. Lond. 1790.[2] William Clerk of Eldin, the prototype of Darsie Latimer in_Redgauntlet_, "admired through life for talents and learning of whichhe has left no monument," died at Edinburgh in January 1847.[3] _Secret and True History of the Church of Scotland from theRestoration to the year_ 1678. 4to. Edin. 1817.[4] _Anecdotes, Biographical Sketches, and Memoirs_, collected byLtitia Matilda Hawkins. 8vo. Lond. 1822.[5] Miss Macdonald Buchanan of Drummakill.--J.G.L.[6] Mr. Sharpe, whose _Letters_ and _Memoir_ were published in twovolumes 8vo, Edin. 1888, survived Sir Walter till the year 1851. In theSir Mungo Malagrowther of _The Fortunes of Nigel_ some of Sharpe'speculiarities are not unfaithfully mirrored.[7] One of the numerous joint-stock adventures which were so common inEdinburgh at this time. There had already been formed a Gas-lightCompany in 1818, for the manufacture of gas from coal, but theprojectors of this new venture believed they could produce a purer andmore powerful light by the use of oil. It was not successfulcommercially, and, as is told in the Journal, the rival company acquiredthe stock and plant a few years after the formation of this "Oil GasCo.," of which Sir Walter had been Chairman from 1823.See _Life_, vol. vii. pp. 141, 144, 197, 251, 374; and viii. p. 113;Cockburn's _Memorials_ (for 1825).[8] Sir Robert Dundas of Beechwood, one of Scott's colleagues at the"Clerks' Table,"--son of the parish minister of Humbie, and kinsman ofLord and Lady Melville; he died in 1835. Some of the other gentlemenwith whom the duties of his office brought Scott into close dailyconnection were David Hume, Hector Macdonald Buchanan, and ColinMackenzie of Portmore. With these families, says Mr. Lockhart, "he andhis lived in such constant familiarity of kindness, that the childrenall called their father's colleagues _uncles_, and the mothers of theirlittle friends _aunts_; and in truth the establishment was abrotherhood."[9] Mrs. Thomas Scott's brother.[10] George L. Sanders, born at Kinghorn, 1774; died in London, 1846.[11] Sir Walter told Moore that Lewis was the person who first set himupon trying his talent at poetry, adding that "he had passed the earlypart of his life with a set of clever, rattling, drinking fellows, whosethoughts and talents lay wholly out of the region of poetry." Thirtyyears after having met Lewis in Edinburgh for the first time in 1798, hesaid to Allan Cunningham, "that he thought he had never felt suchelation as when 'the monk' invited him to dine with him at his hotel."Lewis died in 1818, and Scott says of him, "He did much good by stealth,and was a most generous creature--fonder of great people than he oughtto have been, either as a man of talent or as a man of fashion. He hadalways ladies and duchesses in his mouth, and was pathetically fond ofany one that had a title. Mat had queerish eyes--they projected likethose of some insects, and were flattish on the orbit."[12] Moore's friends seem to have recognised his thorough manliness andindependence of character. Lord John Russell testifies: "Never did hemake wife or family a pretext for political shabbiness--never did heimagine that to leave a disgraced name as an inheritance to his childrenwas a duty as a father" (_Memoirs_, vol. i. pp. xiii and xiv), and whenRogers urged this plea of family as a reason why he should accept themoney, Moore said, "More mean things have been done in this world underthe shelter of 'wife and children' than under any pretextworldly-mindedness can resort to." To which S.R. only said, "Well, yourlife may be a good poem, but it is a ---- bad matter of fact."--Clayden,_Rogers and his Contemporaries_, vol. i. p. 378.[13] Moore's _Life of Byron_ was published in two vols. 4to in 1830, anddedicated to Sir Walter Scott by "his affectionate friend, T.M." Seethis Journal under March 4 1828.[14] "I parted from Scott," says Moore, "with the feeling that all theworld might admire him in his works, but that those only could learn tolove him as he deserved who had seen him at Abbotsford." Moore diedFebruary 26, 1852; see Moore's _Life_, vol. iv. pp. 329-42, and vol. v.pp. 13-14.[15] Hurst and Robinson, Booksellers, London.[16] _Woodstock_ was at this time nearly completed.[17] Probably Sir Walter's dog-Italian for "great donkey."[18] _Cymbeline_, Act II. Sc. 5.[19] "My Jo Janet," _Tea-Table Miscellany_.[20] The Right Hon. David Boyle, who was at the time residing at 28Charlotte Square.[21] A quarterly journal edited by Leigh Hunt, "_The Liberal--Verse andProse from the South_," of which four numbers only were published.1822-1823.[22] See Dowden's _Life of Shelley_, vol. ii. pp. 448-9, 507-8; alsoMoore's _Byron_, vol. v. pp. 313-321, and Russell's _Moore_, vol. iii.p. 353.[23] William Bankes, of whom Rogers said, "Witty as Sydney Smith was, Ihave seen him at my own house absolutely overpowered by the superiorfacetiousness of W.B." Mr. Bankes died in Venice in 1855.[24] Lord Leveson Gower, afterwards first Earl of Ellesmere, had alreadypublished his translation of _Faust_ in 1823, and a volume of "originalpoems," and "translations," in the following year.[25] Henry J.G. Herbert, Lord Porchester, afterwards third Earl ofCarnarvon, had published _The Moor_ in 1825, and _Don Pedro_ in 1826.[26] St. Catherine's, the seat of Sir William Rae, Bart., then LordAdvocate, is about three miles from Edinburgh.--J.G.L. Sir William Rae'srefusal of a legal appointment to Mr. Lockhart (on the ground that as ajust patron he could not give it to the son-in-law of his old friend!!)was understood to be the cause of Mr. Lockhart's quitting the Bar anddevoting himself entirely to literature. Sir William Rae died at St.Catherine's on the 19th October 1842.[27] David Boyle of Shewalton, L.J.C. from 1811, and Lord President from1841 till 1852. He died in 1853.[28] See _Autobiography_, 1787, in _Life_, vol. i. pp. 39, 40.[29] Virg. _n._ i. 122.[30] M. Davidoff has, in his mature life, amply justified Sir Walter'sprognostications. He has, I understand, published in the Russianlanguage a tribute to the memory of Scott. But his travels in Greece andAsia Minor are well known, and considered as in a high degree honourableto his taste and learning.--[1839.]--J.G.L.[31] _King Richard III_., Act III. Sc. 1. Count Orloff Davidoff lived tofalsify this "saying." He revisited England in 1872, and had thepleasure of meeting with Scott's great-granddaughter, and talking to herof these old happy Abbotsford days.[32] _Combinations of Workmen_. Substance of a speech by FrancisJeffrey. 8vo. Edin. 1825.[33 33] Mr. Robert Cockburn, Lord Cockburn's brother, was then living atNo. 7 Atholl Crescent.[34] This alludes to a strange old woman, keeper of a public-house amongthe Wicklow mountains, who, among a world of oddities, cut short everyword ending in _tion_, by the omission of the termination. _Consola_ forconsolation--_bothera_ for botheration, etc. etc. Lord Plunkett hadtaken care to parade Judy and all her peculiarities.--J.C.L.[35] See the Duchess's Letter, p. 414.[36] The Rev. John Logan, minister of South Leith, 1748-1788. The"Sermons" were not published until 1790-91.[37] For an account of her visit to Abbotsford, see _Life_, vol. viii.pp. 72-76. The marriage took place on June 16, 1827, the lady havingpreviously asked the consent of George IV.!! A droll account of thereception of her _Mercure galant_ at Windsor is given in the _NorthBritish Review_, vol. xxxix. p. 349.[38] Sir John Barrow, the well-known Secretary to the Admiralty, whodied in 1848 in his eighty-fifth year.[39] Benjamin Disraeli, afterwards Lord Beaconsfield.[40] In after years Sir John Taylor Coleridge (1790-1876), one of theJudges of the Court of Queen's Bench.[41] Storrs, Windermere.[42] John Cay, member of the Scotch Bar, Sheriff of Linlithgow. He wasone of Mr. Lockhart's oldest friends; he died in 1865.[43] Moore records that Scott told him "Lockhart was about to undertakethe _Quarterly_, has agreed for five years; salary 1200 a year; and ifhe writes a certain number of articles it will be 1500 a year to him,"Moore's _Diary_, under Oct. 29, vol. iv. p. 334. Jeffrey had 700 a yearas Editor of the _Edinburgh_, and 2800 for contributors: June 1823, seeMoore's _Diary_, vol. iv. p. 89.[44] Sheridan's _Critic_, Act I. Sc. 2.[45] George Abercromby, eldest son of Sir Ralph, the hero of the battleof Alexandria.[46] The following extract from a letter to Professor Wilson, urgentlyclaiming his aid, shows that the new editor had lost no time in lookingafter his "first Number":--"Mr. Coleridge has yesterday transferred to me the treasures of the_Quarterly Review_; and I must say, my dear Wilson, that his whole stockis not worth five shillings. Thank God, other and better hands are atwork for my first Number or I should be in a pretty hobble. My belief isthat he has been living on the stock bequeathed by Gifford, and thecontributions of a set of H----es and other d----d idiots of Oriel. Butmind now, Wilson, I am sure to have a most hard struggle to get up avery good first Number, and if I do not, it will be the Devil." Thisletter was quoted in an abridged form in the Life of Professor Wilson byMrs. Gordon.[47] This probably refers to Archibald, Lord Douglas, who had marriedthe Lady Frances Scott, sister of Henry, Duke of Buccleuch. Lord Douglasdied on the 26th December 1827. For notices of these valued friends see_Life_, vol. ii. pp. 27-8; iv. pp. 22, 70; and v. p. 230.[48] Robert Macqueen--Lord Braxfield--Justice Clerk from 1788; he diedin 1799.[49] Mrs. Grant of Laggan, author of _Letters from the Mountains_,_Superstitions of the Highlanders_, etc. Died at Edin. in 1838, aged 83.[50] Scott had not the smallest hesitation in applying this unsavouryproverb to himself a few months later, when he unwillingly "impeticosedthe gratillity" for the critique on Galt's _Omen_. See this Journal,June 24, 1826.[51] Afterwards Major-General Sir James Russell, G.C.B. He died atAshestiel in 1859 in his 78th year.DECEMBER._December 1st._--Colonel R[ussell] told me that the European Governmenthad discovered an ingenious mode of diminishing the number of burningsof widows. It seems the Shaster positively enjoins that the pile shallbe so constructed that, if the victim should repent even at the momentwhen it is set on fire, she may still have the means of saving herself.The Brahmins soon found it was necessary to assist the resolution of thesufferers, by means of a little pit into which they contrive to let thepoor widow sink, so as to prevent her reaping any benefit from a laterepentance. But the Government has brought them back to the regard oftheir law, and only permit the burning to go on when the pile isconstructed with full opportunity of a _locus penitenti_. Yet the widowis so degraded if she dare to survive, that the number of burnings isstill great. The quantity of female children destroyed by the Rajputtribes Colonel R. describes as very great indeed. They are strangled bythe mother. The principle is the aristocratic pride of these highcastes, who breed up no more daughters than they can reasonably hope tofind matches for in their own tribe. Singular how artificial systems offeeling can be made to overcome that love of offspring which seemsinstinctive in the females, not of the human race only, but of the loweranimals. This is the reverse of our system of increasing game byshooting the old cock-birds. It is a system would aid Malthus rarely._Nota bene_, the day before yesterday I signed the bond for 5000, withConstable, for relief of Robinson's house.[52] I am to be secured bygood bills.I think this journal will suit me well. If I can coax myself into anidea that it is purely voluntary, it may go on--_Nulla dies sine line_.But never a being, from my infancy upwards, hated task-work as I hateit; and yet I have done a great deal in my day. It is not that I am idlein my nature neither. But propose to me to do one thing, and it isinconceivable the desire I have to do something else--not that it ismore easy or more pleasant, but just because it is escaping from animposed task. I cannot trace this love of contradiction to any distinctsource, but it has haunted me all my life. I could almost suppose it wasmechanical, and that the imposition of a piece of duty-labour operatedon me like the mace of a bad billiard-player, which gives an impulse tothe ball indeed, but sends it off at a tangent different from the coursedesigned by the player. Now, if I expend such eccentric movements onthis journal, it will be turning this wretched propensity to sometolerable account. If I had thus employed the hours and half-hours whichI have whiled away in putting off something that must needs be done atlast, "My Conscience!" I should have had a journal with a witness.Sophia and Lockhart came to Edinburgh to-day and dined with us, meetingHector Macdonald Buchanan, his lady, and Missie, James Skene and hislady, Lockhart's friend Cay, etc. They are lucky to be able to assembleso many real friends, whose good wishes, I am sure, will follow them intheir new undertaking._December_ 2.--Rather a blank day for the _Gurnal_. Correcting proofs inthe morning. Court from half-past ten till two; poor dear ColinMackenzie, one of the wisest, kindest, and best men of his time, in thecountry,--I fear with very indifferent health. From two till threetransacting business with J.B.; all seems to go smoothly. Sophia dinedwith us alone, Lockhart being gone to the west to bid farewell to hisfather and brothers. Evening spent in talking with Sophia on theirfuture prospects. God bless her, poor girl! she never gave me a moment'sreason to complain of her. But, O my God! that poor delicate child, soclever, so animated, yet holding by this earth with so fearfully slighta tenure. Never out of his mother's thoughts, almost never out of hisfather's arms when he has but a single moment to give to anything. _Deusprovidebit.__December_ 3.--R.P.G.[53] came to call last night to excuse himself fromdining with Lockhart's friends to-day. I really fear he is near anactual standstill. He has been extremely improvident. When I first knewhim he had an excellent estate, and now he is deprived, I fear, of thewhole reversion of the price, and this from no vice or extreme, except awasteful mode of buying pictures and other costly trifles at highprices, and selling them again for nothing, besides an extravaganthousekeeping and profuse hospitality. An excellent disposition, with aconsiderable fund of acquired knowledge, would have rendered him anagreeable companion, had he not affected singularity, and renderedhimself accordingly singularly affected. He was very near being apoet--but a miss is as good as a mile, and he always fell short of themark. I knew him first, many years ago, when he was desirous of myacquaintance; but he was too poetical for me, or I was not poeticalenough for him, so that we continued only ordinary acquaintance, withgoodwill on either side, which R.P.G. really deserves, as a morefriendly, generous creature never lived. Lockhart hopes to get somethingdone for him, being sincerely attached to him, but says he has no hopestill he is utterly ruined. That point, I fear, is not far distant; butwhat Lockhart can do for him _then_ I cannot guess. His last effortfailed, owing to a curious reason. He had made some translations fromthe German, which he does extremely [well]--for give him ideas and henever wants choice of good words--and Lockhart had got Constable tooffer some sort of terms for them. R.P.G. has always, though possessinga beautiful power of handwriting, had some whim or other about imitatingthat of some other person, and has written for months in the imitationof one or other of his friends. At present he has renounced thisamusement, and chooses to write with a brush upon large cartridge paper,somewhat in the Chinese fashion,--so when his work, which was only toextend to one or two volumes, arrived on the shoulders of two porters,in immense bales, our jolly bibliopolist backed out of the treaty, andwould have nothing more to do with R.P.[54] He is a creature that is, orwould be thought, of imagination all compact, and is influenced bystrange whims. But he is a kind, harmless, friendly soul, and I fear hasbeen cruelly plundered of money, which he now wants sadly.Dined with Lockhart's friends, about fifty in number, who gave him aparting entertainment. John Hope, Solicitor-General, in the chair, andRobert Dundas [of Arniston], croupier. The company most highlyrespectable, and any man might be proud of such an indication of theinterest they take in his progress in life. Tory principles rather tooviolently upheld by some speakers. I came home about ten; the party satlate._December_ 4.--Lockhart and Sophia, with his brother William, dined withus, and talked over our separation, and the mode of their settling inLondon, and other family topics._December 5._--This morning Lockhart and Sophia left us early, andwithout leave-taking; when I rose at eight o'clock they were _gone_.This was very right. I hate red eyes and blowing of noses. _Agere etpati Romanum est_. Of all schools commend me to the Stoics. We cannotindeed overcome our affections, nor ought we if we could, but we mayrepress them within due bounds, and avoid coaxing them to make fools ofthose who should be their masters. I have lost some of the comforts towhich I chiefly looked for enjoyment. Well, I must make the more of suchas remain--God bless them. And so "I will unto my holy work again,"[55]which at present is the description of that _heilige Kleeblatt_, thatworshipful triumvirate, Danton, Robespierre, and Marat.I cannot conceive what possesses me, over every person besides, tomislay papers. I received a letter Saturday at _e'en,_ enclosing a billfor 750; _no deaf nuts_. Well, I read it, and note the contents; andthis day, as if it had been a wind-bill in the literal sense of thewords, I search everywhere, and lose three hours of my morning--turnover all my confusion in the writing-desk--break open one or twoletters, lest I should have enclosed the sweet and quickly convertibledocument in them,--send for a joiner, and disorganise my scrutoire, lestit should have fallen aside by mistake. I find it at last--the placewhere is of little consequence; but this trick must be amended.Dined at the Royal Society Club, where, as usual, was a pleasant meetingof from twenty to twenty-five. It is a very good institution; we pay twoguineas only for six dinners in the year, present or absent. Dine atfive, or rather half-past five, at the Royal Hotel, where we have anexcellent dinner, with soups, fish, etc., and all in good order; portand sherry till half-past seven, then coffee, and we go to the Society.This has great influence in keeping up the attendance, it being foundthat this preface of a good dinner, to be paid for whether you partakeor not, brings out many a philosopher who might not otherwise haveattended the Society. Harry Mackenzie, now in his eighty-second or thirdyear, read part of an Essay on Dreams. Supped at Dr. Russell's usualparty,[56] which shall serve for one while._December_ 6.--A rare thing this literature, or love of fame ornotoriety which accompanies it. Here is Mr. H[enry] M[ackenzie] on thevery brink of human dissolution, as actively anxious about it as if thecurtain must not soon be closed on that and everything else.[57] Hecalls me his literary confessor; and I am sure I am glad to return thekindnesses which he showed me long since in George Square. No man isless known from his writings. We would suppose a retired, modest,somewhat affected man, with a white handkerchief, and a sigh ready forevery sentiment. No such thing: H.M. is alert as a contracting tailor'sneedle in every sort of business--a politician and a sportsman--shootsand fishes in a sort even to this day--and is the life of the companywith anecdote and fun. Sometimes, his daughter tells me, he is in lowspirits at home, but really I never see anything of it in society.There is a maxim almost universal in Scotland, which I should like muchto see controlled. Every youth, of every temper and almost everydescription of character, is sent either to study for the bar, or to awriter's office as an apprentice. The Scottish seem to conceive Themisthe most powerful of goddesses. Is a lad stupid, the law will sharpenhim;--is he too mercurial, the law will make him sedate;--has he anestate, he may get a sheriffdom;--is he poor, the richest lawyers haveemerged from poverty;--is he a Tory, he may become adepute-advocate;--is he a Whig, he may with far better hope expect tobecome, in reputation at least, that rising counsel Mr.----, when infact he only rises at tavern dinners. Upon some such wild views lawyersand writers multiply till there is no life for them, and men give up thechase, hopeless and exhausted, and go into the army at five-and-twenty,instead of eighteen, with a turn for expense perhaps--almost certainlyfor profligacy, and with a heart embittered against the loving parentsor friends who compelled them to lose six or seven years in dusting therails of the stair with their black gowns, or scribbling nonsense fortwopence a page all day, and laying out twice their earnings at night inwhisky-punch. Here is R.L. now. Four or five years ago, from certainindications, I assured his friends he would never be a writer.Good-natured lad, too, when Bacchus is out of the question; but at othertimes so pugnacious, that it was wished he could only be properly placedwhere fighting was to be a part of his duty, regulated by time andplace, and paid for accordingly. Well, time, money, and instruction havebeen thrown away, and now, after fighting two regular boxing matches anda duel with pistols in the course of one week, he tells them roundly hewill be no writer, which common-sense might have told them before. Hehas now perhaps acquired habits of insubordination, unfitting him forthe army, where he might have been tamed at an earlier period. He is tooold for the navy, and so he must go to India, a guinea-pig on board aChinaman, with what hope or view it is melancholy to guess. His elderbrother did all man could to get his friends to consent to his goinginto the army in time. The lad has good-humour, courage, and mostgentlemanlike feelings, but he is incurably dissipated, I hear; so goesto die in youth in a foreign land. Thank God, I let Walter take his ownway; and I trust he will be a useful, honoured soldier, being, for histime, high in the service; whereas at home he would probably have been awine-bibbing, moorfowl-shooting, fox-hunting Fife squire--living atLochore without either aim or end--and well if he were no worse. Dinedat home with Lady S. and Anne. Wrote in the evening._December_ 7.--Teind day;[58]--at home of course. Wrote answers to oneor two letters which have been lying on my desk like snakes, hissing atme for my dilatoriness. Bespoke a tun of palm-oil for Sir John Forbes.Received a letter from Sir W. Knighton, mentioning that the Kingacquiesced in my proposal that Constable's Miscellany should bededicated to him. Enjoined, however, not to make this public, till thedraft of dedication shall be approved. This letter tarried so long, Ithought some one had insinuated the proposal was _infra dig_. I don'tthink so. The purpose is to bring all the standard works, both insciences and the liberal arts, within the reach of the lower classes,and enable them thus to use with advantage the education which is giventhem at every hand. To make boys learn to read, and then place no goodbooks within their reach, is to give men an appetite, and leave nothingin the pantry save unwholesome and poisonous food, which, depend uponit, they will eat rather than starve. Sir William, it seems, has been inGermany.Mighty dark this morning; it is past ten, and I am using my lamp. Thevast number of houses built beneath us to the north certainly render ourstreet darker during the days when frost or haze prevents the smoke fromrising. After all, it may be my older eyes. I remember two years ago,when Lord H. began to fail somewhat in his limbs, he observed that LordS.[59] came to Court at a more early hour than usual, whereas it was hehimself who took longer time to walk the usual distance betwixt hishouse and the Parliament Square. I suspect old gentlemen often make suchmistakes. A letter from Southey in a very pleasant strain as to Lockhartand myself. Of Murray he has perhaps ground to complain as well forconsulting him late in the business, as for the manner in which heintimated to young Coleridge, who had no reason to think himselfhandsomely treated, though he has acquiesced in the arrangement in avery gentlemanlike tone. With these matters we, of course, have nothingto do; having no doubt that the situation was vacant when M. offered itas such. Southey says, in alteration of Byron's phrase, that M. is themost timorous, not of God's, but of the devil's, booksellers. The truthI take to be that Murray was pushed in the change of Editor (which wasreally become necessary) probably by Gifford, Canning, Ellis, etc.; andwhen he had fixed with Lockhart by their advice his constitutionalnervousness made him delay entering upon a full explanation withColeridge. But it is all settled now--I hope Lockhart will be able tomitigate their High Church bigotry. It is not for the present day,savouring too much of _jure divino_.Dined quiet with Lady S. and Anne. Anne is practising Scots songs, whichI take as a kind compliment to my own taste, as hers leads her chieflyto foreign music. I think the good girl sees that I want and must missher sister's peculiar talent in singing the airs of our native country,which, imperfect as my musical ear is, make, and always have made, themost pleasing impression on me. And so if she puts a constraint onherself for my sake, I can only say, in requital, God bless her.I have much to comfort me in the present aspect of my family. My eldestson, independent in fortune, united to an affectionate wife--and of goodhopes in his profession; my second, with a good deal of talent, and inthe way, I trust, of cultivating it to good purpose; Anne, an honest,downright, good Scots lass, in whom I would only wish to correct aspirit of satire; and Lockhart is Lockhart, to whom I can most willinglyconfide the happiness of the daughter who chose him, and whom he haschosen. My dear wife, the partner of early cares and successes, is, Ifear, frail in health--though I trust and pray she may see me out.Indeed, if this troublesome complaint goes on--it bodes no longexistence. My brother was affected with the same weakness, which, beforehe was fifty, brought on mortal symptoms. The poor Major had been rathera free liver. But my father, the most abstemious of men, save when theduties of hospitality required him to be very moderately free with hisbottle, and that was very seldom, had the same weakness which now annoysme, and he, I think, was not above seventy when cut off. Square theodds, and good-night Sir Walter about sixty. I care not, if I leave myname unstained, and my family properly settled. _Sat est vixisse_._December 8._--Talking of the _vixisse_, it may not be impertinent tonotice that Knox, a young poet of considerable talent, died here a weekor two since. His father was a respectable yeoman, and he himself,succeeding to good farms under the Duke of Buccleuch, became too soonhis own master, and plunged into dissipation and ruin. His poeticaltalent, a very fine one, then showed itself in a fine strain of pensivepoetry, called, I think, _The Lonely Hearth_, far superior to those ofMichael Bruce, whose consumption, by the way, has been the _life_ of hisverses. But poetry, nay, good poetry, is a drug in the present day. I ama wretched patron. I cannot go with a subscription-paper, like apocket-pistol about me, and draw unawares on some honestcountry-gentleman, who has as much alarm as if I had used the phrase"stand and deliver," and parts with his money with a grimace, indicatingsome suspicion that the crown-piece thus levied goes ultimately into thecollector's own pocket. This I see daily done; and I have seen suchcollectors, when they have exhausted Papa and Mamma, continue theirtrade among the misses, and conjure out of their pockets those littlefunds which should carry them to a play or an assembly. It is wellpeople will go through this--it does some good, I suppose, and they havegreat merit who can sacrifice their pride so far as to attempt it inthis way. For my part I am a bad promoter of subscriptions; but I wishedto do what I could for this lad, whose talent I really admired; and I amnot addicted to admire heaven-born poets, or poetry that is reckonedvery good _considering_. I had him, Knox,[60] at Abbotsford, about tenyears ago, but found him unfit for that sort of society. I tried to helphim, but there were temptations he could never resist. He scrambled on,writing for the booksellers and magazines, and living like the Otways,and Savages, and Chattertons of former days, though I do not know thathe was in actual want. His connection with me terminated in begging asubscription or a guinea now and then. His last works were spiritualhymns, and which he wrote very well. In his own line of society he wassaid to exhibit infinite humour; but all his works are grave andpensive, a style perhaps, like Master Stephen's melancholy,[61]affected for the nonce.Mrs. G[rant] of L. intimates that she will take her pudding--herpension, I mean (see 30th November), and is contrite, as H[enry]M[ackenzie] vouches. I am glad the stout old girl is not foreclosed;faith, cabbing a pension in these times is like hunting a pig with asoap'd tail, monstrous apt to slip through your fingers.[62] Dined athome with Lady S. and Anne._December_ 9.--Yesterday I read and wrote the whole day and evening.To-day I shall not be so happy. Having Gas-Light Company to attend attwo, I must be brief in journalising.The gay world has been kept in hot water lately by the impudentpublication of the celebrated Harriet Wilson, ---- from earliestpossibility, I suppose, who lived with half the gay world at hack andmanger, and now obliges such as will not pay hush-money with a historyof whatever she knows or can invent about them. She must have beenassisted in the style, spelling, and diction, though the attempt at witis very poor, that at pathos sickening. But there is some good retailingof conversations, in which the style of the speakers, so far as known tome, is exactly imitated, and some things told, as said by individuals ofeach other, which will sound unpleasantly in each other's ears. I admirethe address of Lord A----y, himself very severely handled from time totime. Some one asked him if H.W. had been pretty correct on the whole."Why, faith," he replied, "I believe so"--when, raising his eyes, he sawQuentin Dick, whom the little jilt had treated atrociously--"whatconcerns the present company always excepted, you know," added LordA----y, with infinite presence of mind. As he was _in pari casu_ withQ.D. no more could be said. After all, H.W. beats Con Philips, AnneBellamy, and all former demireps out and out. I think I supped once inher company, more than twenty years since, at Mat Lewis's in ArgyleStreet, where the company, as the Duke says to Lucio, chanced to be"fairer than honest."[63] She was far from beautiful, if it be the same_chiffonne_, but a smart saucy girl, with good eyes and dark hair, andthe manners of a wild schoolboy. I am glad this accidental meeting hasescaped her memory--or, perhaps, is not accurately recorded inmine--for, being a sort of French falconer, who hawk at all they see, Imight have had a distinction which I am far from desiring.Dined at Sir John Hay's--a large party; Skenes there, the Newenhams andothers, strangers. In the morning a meeting of Oil Gas Committee. Theconcern lingers a little;    "It may do weel, for ought it's done yet,    But only--it's no just begun yet."[64]_December 10._--A stormy and rainy day. Walked from the Court throughthe rain. I don't dislike this. Egad, I rather like it; for no man thatever stepped on heather has less dread than I of catch-cold; and I seemto regain, in buffeting with the wind, a little of the high spirit withwhich, in younger days, I used to enjoy a Tam-o'-Shanter ride throughdarkness, wind, and rain,--the boughs groaning and cracking over myhead, the good horse free to the road and impatient for home, andfeeling the weather as little as I did.    "The storm around might roar and rustle,    We didna mind the storm a whistle."Answered two letters--one, answer to a schoolboy, who writes himselfCaptain of Giggleswick School (a most imposing title), entreating theyoungster not to commence editor of a magazine to be entitled the"Yorkshire Muffin," I think, at seventeen years old; second, to asoldier of the 79th, showing why I cannot oblige him by getting hisdischarge, and exhorting him rather to bear with the wickedness andprofanity of the service, than take the very precarious step ofdesertion. This is the old receipt of Durandarte--_Patience, cousin, andshuffle the cards_;[65] and I suppose the correspondents will think Ihave been too busy in offering my counsel where I was asked forassistance.A third rogue writes to tell me--rather of the latest, if the matter wasof consequence--that he approves of the first three volumes of the_H[eart] of Midlothian_, but totally condemns the fourth. Doubtless hethinks his opinion worth the sevenpence sterling which his letter costs.However, authors should be reasonably well pleased when three-fourths oftheir work are acceptable to the reader. The knave demands of me in apostscript, to get back the sword of Sir W[illiam] Wallace from England,where it was carried from Dumbarton Castle. I am not Master-General ofthe Ordnance, that I know. It was wrong, however, to take away that andMons Meg. If I go to town this spring, I will renew my negotiation withthe Great Duke for recovery of Mons Meg.There is no theme more awful than to attempt to cast a glance among theclouds and mists which hide the broken extremity of the celebratedbridge of Mirza.[66] Yet, when every day brings us nearer thattermination, one would almost think that our views should becomeclearer, as the regions we are approaching are brought nigher. Alas! itis not so: there is a curtain to be withdrawn, a veil to be rent, beforewe shall see things as they really are. There are few, I trust, whodisbelieve the existence of a God; nay, I doubt if at all times, and inall moods, any single individual ever adopted that hideous creed, thoughsome have professed it. With the belief of a Deity, that of theimmortality of the soul and of the state of future rewards andpunishments is indissolubly linked. More we are not to know; but neitherare we prohibited from our attempts, however vain, to pierce the solemnsacred gloom. The expressions used in Scripture are doubtlessmetaphorical, for penal fires and heavenly melody are only applicable tobodies endowed with senses; and, at least till the period of theresurrection of the body, the spirits of men, whether entering into theperfection of the just, or committed to the regions of punishment, areincorporeal. Neither is it to be supposed that the glorified bodieswhich shall arise in the last day will be capable of the same grossindulgences with which they are now solaced. That the idea of Mahomet'sparadise is inconsistent with the purity of our heavenly religion willbe readily granted; and see Mark xii. 25. Harmony is obviously chosen asthe least corporeal of all gratifications of the sense, and as the typeof love, unity, and a state of peace and perfect happiness. But theyhave a poor idea of the Deity, and the rewards which are destined forthe just made perfect, who can only adopt the literal sense of aneternal concert--a never-ending Birthday Ode. I rather suppose thereshould be understood some commission from the Highest, some duty todischarge with the applause of a satisfied conscience. That the Deity,who himself must be supposed to feel love and affection for the beingshe has called into existence, should delegate a portion of those powers,I for one cannot conceive altogether so wrong a conjecture. We wouldthen find reality in Milton's sublime machinery of the guardian saintsor genii of kingdoms. Nay, we would approach to the Catholic idea of theemployment of saints, though without approaching the absurdity ofsaint-worship, which degrades their religion. There would be, we mustsuppose, in these employments difficulties to be overcome, and exertionsto be made, for all which the celestial beings employed would havecertain appropriate powers. I cannot help thinking that a life of activebenevolence is more consistent with my ideas than an eternity of music.But it is all speculation, and it is impossible even to guess what weshall [do], unless we could ascertain the equally difficult previousquestion, what we are to be. But there is a God, and a just God--ajudgment and a future life--and all who own so much let them actaccording to the faith that is in them. I would [not], of course, limitthe range of my genii to this confined earth. There is the universe,with all its endless extent of worlds.Company at home--Sir Adam Ferguson and his Lady; Colonel and MissRussell; Count Davidoff, and Mr. Collyer. By the by, I observe that allmen whose names are obviously derived from some mechanical trade,endeavour to disguise and antiquate, as it were, their names, byspelling them after some quaint manner or other. Thus we have Collyer,Smythe, Tailleure; as much as to say, My ancestor was indeed a mechanic,but it was a world of time ago, when the word was spelled very[differently]. Then we had young Whytbank and Will Allan the artist[67],a very agreeable, simple-mannered, and pleasant man._December_ 11.--A touch of the _morbus eruditorum_, to which I am aslittle subject as most folks, and have it less now than when young. Itis a tremor of the heart, the pulsation of which becomes painfullysensible--a disposition to causeless alarm--much lassitude--and decay ofvigour of mind and activity of intellect. The reins feel weary andpainful, and the mind is apt to receive and encourage gloomyapprehensions and causeless fears. Fighting with this fiend is notalways the best way to conquer him. I have always found exercise and theopen air better than reasoning. But such weather as is now without doorsdoes not encourage _la petite guerre_, so we must give him battle inform, by letting both mind and body know that, supposing one the Houseof Commons and the other the House of Peers, my will is sovereign overboth. There is a good description of this species of mental weakness inthe fine play of Beaumont and Fletcher called _The Lover's Progress_,where the man, warned that his death is approaching, works himself intoan agony of fear, and calls for assistance, though there is no apparentdanger. The apparition of the innkeeper's ghost, in the same play,hovers between the ludicrous and [the terrible]. To me the touches ofthe former quality which it contains seem to augment the effect of thelatter--- they seem to give reality to the supernatural, as beingcircumstances with which an inventor would hardly have garnished hisstory.[68]Will Clerk says he has a theory on the vitrified forts. I wonder if heand I agree. I think accidental conflagration is the cause._December_ 12.--Hogg came to breakfast this morning, having taken andbrought for his companion the Galashiels bard, David Thomson,[69] as toa meeting of "huzz Tividale poets." The honest grunter opines with adelightful _navet_ that Moore's verses are far owre sweet--answered byThomson that Moore's ear or notes, I forget which, were finely strung."They are far owre finely strung," replied he of the Forest, "for mineare just reeght." It reminded me of Queen Bess, when questioningMelville sharply and closely whether Queen [Mary] was taller than her,and, extracting an answer in the affirmative, she replied, "Then yourQueen is too tall, for I am just the proper height."Was engaged the whole day with Sheriff Court processes. There issomething sickening in seeing poor devils drawn into great expenseabout trifles by interested attorneys. But too cheap access tolitigation has its evils on the other hand, for the proneness of thelower class to gratify spite and revenge in this way would be a dreadfulevil were they able to endure the expense. Very few cases come beforethe Sheriff-court of Selkirkshire that ought to come anywhere. Wretchedwranglings about a few pounds, begun in spleen, and carried on fromobstinacy, and at length from fear of the conclusion to the banquet ofill-humour, "D--n--n of expenses."[70] I try to check it as well as Ican; "but so 'twill be when I am gone."_December_ 12.--Dined at home, and spent the evening in writing--Anneand Lady Scott at the theatre to see Mathews; a very clever man myfriend Mathews; but it is tiresome to be funny for a whole evening, so Iwas content and stupid at home.An odd optical delusion has amused me these two last nights. I have beenof late, for the first time, condemned to the constant use ofspectacles. Now, when I have laid them aside to step into a room dimlylighted, out of the strong light which I use for writing, I have seen,or seemed to see, through the rims of the same spectacles which I haveleft behind me. At first the impression was so lively that I put my handto my eyes believing I had the actual spectacles on at the moment. Butwhat I saw was only the eidolon or image of said useful servants. Thisfortifies some of Dr. Hibbert's positions about spectral appearances._December_ 13.--Letter from Lady Stafford--kind and friendly after thewont of Banzu-Mohr-ar-chat.[71] This is wrong spelled, I know. Hercountenance is something for Sophia, whose company should be--as ladiesare said to choose their liquor--little and good. To be acquainted withpersons of mere _ton_ is a nuisance and a scrape--to be known to personsof real fashion and fortune is in London a very great advantage. She isbesides sure of the hereditary and constant friendship of the Buccleuchladies, as well as those of Montagu and of the Harden family, of theMarchioness of Northampton, Lady Melville, and others, also the MissArdens, upon whose kind offices I have some claim, and would count uponthem whether such claim existed or no. So she is well enough establishedamong the Right-hand file, which is very necessary in London wheresecond-rate fashion is like false jewels.Went to the yearly court of the Edinburgh Assurance Company, to which Iam one of those graceful and useless appendages, called DirectorsExtraordinary--an extraordinary director I should prove had they electedme an ordinary one. There were there moneyers and great oneyers[72], menof metal--discounters and counters--sharp, grave, prudential faces--eyesweak with ciphering by lamplight--men who say to gold, Be thou paper,and to paper, Be thou turned into fine gold. Many a bustling,sharp-faced, keen-eyed writer too--some perhaps speculating with theirclients' property. My reverend seigniors had expected a motion forprinting their contract, which I, as a piece of light artillery, wasbrought down and got into battery to oppose. I should certainly havedone this on the general ground, that while each partner could at anytime obtain sight of the contract at a call on the directors ormanagers, it would be absurd to print it for the use of the Company--andthat exposing it to the world at large was in all respects unnecessary,and might teach novel companies to avail themselves of our rules andcalculations--if false, for the purpose of exposing our errors--ifcorrect, for the purpose of improving their own schemes on our model.But my eloquence was not required, no one renewing the motion underquestion; so off I came, my ears still ringing with the sounds ofthousands and tens of thousands, and my eyes dazzled with the goldengleam offered by so many capitalists.Walked home with the Solicitor[73]--decidedly the most hopeful young manof his time; high connection, great talent, spirited ambition, a readyand prompt elocution, with a good voice and dignified manner, prompt andsteady courage, vigilant and constant assiduity, popularity with theyoung men, and the good opinion of the old, will, if I mistake not,carry him as [high as] any man who has been since the days of old HalDundas.[74] He is hot though, and rather hasty: this should be amended.They who would play at single-stick must bear with patience a rap overthe knuckles. Dined quietly with Lady Scott and Anne._December_ 14.--Affairs very bad in the money-market in London. It mustcome here, and I have far too many engagements not to feel it. To endthe matter at once, I intend to borrow 10,000, with which my son'smarriage-contract allows me to charge my estate. At Whitsunday andMartinmas I will have enough to pay up the incumbrance of 3000 due toold Moss's daughter, and 5000 to Misses Ferguson, in whole or part.This will enable us to dispense in a great measure with bank assistance,and sleep in spite of thunder. I do not know whether it is this businesswhich makes me a little bilious, or rather the want of exercise duringthe season of late, and change of the weather to too much heat. ThankGod, my circumstances are good,--upon a fair balance which I have made,certainly not less than 40,000 or nearly 50,000 above the world. Butthe sun and moon shall dance on the green ere carelessness, or hope ofgain, or facility of getting cash, shall make me go too deep again, wereit but for the disquiet of the thing. Dined: Lady Scott and Annequietly._December_ 15.--R.P. G[illies] came _sicut mos est_ at five o'clock tomake me confidant of the extremities of his distress. It is clear all hehas to do is to make the best agreement he can with his creditors. Iremember many years since the poor fellow told me he thought there wassomething interesting in having difficulties. Poor lad, he will haveenough of them now. He talks about writing translations for thebooksellers from the German to the amount of five or six hundred pounds,but this is like a man proposing to run a whole day at top speed. Yet,if he had good subjects, R.P.G. is one of the best translators I know,and something must be done for him certainly, though, I fear, it will benecessary to go to the bottom of the ulcer; palliatives won't do. He isterribly imprudent, yet a worthy and benevolent creature--a great borewithal. Dined alone with family. I am determined not to stand mine hostto all Scotland and England as I have done. This shall be a saving,since it must be a borrowing, year. We heard from Sophia; they are gotsafe to town; but as Johnnie had a little bag of meal with him, to makehis porridge on the road, the whole inn-yard assembled to see theoperation. Junor, his maid, was of opinion that England was an "awfu'country to make parritch in." God bless the poor baby, and restore hisperfect health!_December_ 16.--R.P.G. and his friend Robert Wilson[75] came--the formerat five, as usual--the latter at three, as appointed. R[obert] W[ilson]frankly said that R.P.G.'s case was quite desperate, that he wasinsolvent, and that any attempt to save him at present would be just somuch cash thrown away. God knows, at this moment I have none to throwaway uselessly. For poor Gillies there was a melancholy mixture ofpathos and affectation in his statement, which really affected me; whileit told me that it would be useless to help him to money on such veryempty plans. I endeavoured to persuade him to make a virtue ofnecessity, resign all to his creditors, and begin the world on a newleaf. I offered him Chiefswood for a temporary retirement. Lady Scottthinks I was wrong, and nobody could less desire such a neighbour, allhis affectations being caviare to me. But then the wife and children!Went again to the Solicitor on a wrong night, being asked for to-morrow.Lady Scott undertakes to keep my engagements recorded in future. _Sedquis custodiet ipsam custodem_?_December_ 17.--Dined with the Solicitor--Lord Chief-Baron[76]--SirWilliam Boothby, nephew of old Sir Brooke, the dandy poet, etc. Annoyedwith anxious presentiments, which the night's post must dispel orconfirm--all in London as bad as possible._December_ 18.--Ballantyne called on me this morning. _Venit illasuprema dies_. My extremity is come. Cadell has received letters fromLondon which all but positively announce the failure of Hurst andRobinson, so that Constable & Co. must follow, and I must go with poorJames Ballantyne for company. I suppose it will involve my all. But ifthey leave me 500, I can still make it 1000 or 1200 a year. And ifthey take my salaries of 1300 and 300, they cannot but give mesomething out of them. I have been rash in anticipating funds to buyland, but then I made from 5000 to 10,000 a year, and land was mytemptation. I think nobody can lose a penny--that is one comfort. Menwill think pride has had a fall. Let them indulge their own pride inthinking that my fall makes them higher, or seems so at least. I havethe satisfaction to recollect that my prosperity has been of advantageto many, and that some at least will forgive my transient wealth onaccount of the innocence of my intentions, and my real wish to do goodto the poor. This news will make sad hearts at Darnick, and in thecottages of Abbotsford, which I do not nourish the least hope ofpreserving. It has been my Delilah, and so I have often termed it; andnow the recollection of the extensive woods I planted, and the walks Ihave formed, from which strangers must derive both the pleasure andprofit, will excite feelings likely to sober my gayest moments. I havehalf resolved never to see the place again. How could I tread my hallwith such a diminished crest? How live a poor indebted man where I wasonce the wealthy, the honoured? My children are provided; thank God forthat. I was to have gone there on Saturday in joy and prosperity toreceive my friends. My dogs will wait for me in vain. It is foolish--butthe thoughts of parting from these dumb creatures have moved me morethan any of the painful reflections I have put down. Poor things, I mustget them kind masters; there may be yet those who loving me may love mydog because it has been mine. I must end this, or I shall lose the toneof mind with which men should meet distress.       *       *       *       *       *I find my dogs' feet on my knees. I hear them whining and seeking meeverywhere--this is nonsense, but it is what they would do could theyknow how things are. Poor Will Laidlaw! poor Tom Purdie! this will benews to wring your heart, and many a poor fellow's besides to whom myprosperity was daily bread.Ballantyne behaves like himself, and sinks his own ruin in contemplatingmine. I tried to enrich him indeed, and now all--all is gone. He willhave the "Journal" still, that is a comfort, for sure they cannot find abetter Editor. _They_--alas! who will _they_ be--the _unbekannten Obern_who are to dispose of my all as they will? Some hard-eyed banker; someof those men of millions whom I described. Cadell showed more kind andpersonal feeling to me than I thought he had possessed. He says thereare some properties of works that will revert to me, the copy-money notbeing paid, but it cannot be any very great matter, I should think.Another person did not afford me all the sympathy I expected, perhapsbecause I seemed to need little support, yet that is not her nature,which is generous and kind. She thinks I have been imprudent, trustingmen so far. Perhaps so--but what could I do? I must sell my books tosome one, and these folks gave me the largest price; if they had kepttheir ground I could have brought myself round fast enough by the planof 14th December. I now view matters at the very worst, and suppose thatmy all must go to supply the deficiencies of Constable. I fear it mustbe so. His connections with Hurst and Robinson have been so intimatethat they must be largely involved. This is the worst of the concern;our own is comparatively plain sailing.Poor Gillies called yesterday to tell me he was in extremity. God knowsI had every cause to have returned him the same answer. I must think hissituation worse than mine, as through his incoherent, miserable tale, Icould see that he had exhausted each access to credit, and yet fondlyimagines that, bereft of all his accustomed indulgences, he can workwith a literary zeal unknown to his happier days. I hope he may labourenough to gain the mere support of his family. For myself, the magicwand of the Unknown is shivered in his grasp. He must henceforth betermed the Too-well-known. The feast of fancy is over with the feelingof independence. I can no longer have the delight of waking in themorning with bright ideas in my mind, haste to commit them to paper, andcount them monthly, as the means of planting such groves, and purchasingsuch wastes; replacing my dreams of fiction by other prospective visionsof walks by    "Fountain heads, and pathless groves    Places which pale passion loves."[77][Sidenote: Footnote to page 44 in the original MS.:--"Turn back to page41 and 42. I turned the page accidentally, and the partner of a bankruptconcern ought not to waste two leaves of paper."]This cannot be; but I may work substantial husbandry, work history, andsuch concerns. They will not be received with the same enthusiasm; atleast I much doubt the general knowledge that an author must write forhis bread, at least for improving his pittance, degrades him and hisproductions in the public eye. He falls into the second-rate rank ofestimation:    "While the harness sore galls, and the spurs his sides goad,    The high-mettled racer's a hack on the road."[78]It is a bitter thought; but if tears start at it, let them flow. I am somuch of this mind, that if any one would now offer to relieve all myembarrassments on condition I would continue the exertions which broughtit there, dear as the place is to me, I hardly think I could undertakethe labour on which I entered with my usual alacrity only this morning,though not without a boding feeling of my exertions proving useless. Yetto save Abbotsford I would attempt all that was possible. My heartclings to the place I have created. There is scarce a tree on it thatdoes not owe its being to me, and the pain of leaving it is greater thanI can tell. I have about 10,000 of Constable's, for which I am bound togive literary value, but if I am obliged to pay other debts for him, Iwill take leave to retain this sum at his credit. We shall have madesome _kittle_ questions of literary property amongst us. Once more,"Patience, cousin, and shuffle the cards."I have endeavoured at times to give vent to thoughts naturally sopainful, by writing these notices, partly to keep them at bay by busyingmyself with the history of the French Convention. I thank God I can doboth with reasonable composure. I wonder how Anne will bear thisaffliction? She is passionate, but stout-hearted and courageous inimportant matters, though irritable in trifles. I am glad Lockhart andhis wife are gone. Why? I cannot tell; but I _am_ pleased to be left tomy own regrets without being melted by condolences, though of the mostsincere and affectionate kind.       *       *       *       *       *Anne bears her misfortune gallantly and well, with a natural feeling, nodoubt, of the rank and consideration she is about to lose. Lady Scott isincredulous, and persists in cherishing hope where there is no groundfor hope. I wish it may not bring on the gloom of spirits which hasgiven me such distress. If she were the active person she once was thatwould not be. Now I fear it more than what Constable or Cadell will tellme this evening, so that my mind is made up.Oddly enough, it happened. Mine honest friend Hector came in beforedinner to ask a copy of my seal of Arms, with a sly kindliness ofintimation that it was for some agreeable purpose._Half-past Eight_.--I closed this book under the consciousness ofimpending ruin, I open it an hour after, thanks be to God, with thestrong hope that matters may be got over safely and honourably, in amercantile sense. Cadell came at eight to communicate a letter fromHurst and Robinson, intimating they had stood the storm, and thoughclamorous for assistance from Scotland, saying they had prepared theirstrongholds without need of the banks.[Sidenote: This was a mistake.]This is all so far well, but I will not borrow any money on my estatetill I see things reasonably safe. Stocks have risen from ---- to ----,a strong proof that confidence is restored. But I will yield to nodelusive hopes, and fall back fall edge, my resolutions hold.I shall always think the better of Cadell for this, not merely becausehis feet are beautiful on the mountains who brings good tidings, butbecause he showed feeling--deep feeling, poor fellow--he who I thoughthad no more than his numeration table, and who, if he had had his wholecounting-house full of sensibility, had yet his wife and children tobestow it upon--I will not forget this if I get through. I love thevirtues of rough and round men; the others are apt to escape in saltrheum, sal-volatile, and a white pocket-handkerchief. An odd thoughtstrikes me: when I die will the Journal of these days be taken out ofthe ebony cabinet at Abbotsford, and read as the transient pout of a manworth 60,000, with wonder that the well-seeming Baronet should everhave experienced such a hitch? Or will it be found in some obscurelodging-house, where the decayed son of chivalry has hung up hisscutcheon for some 20s. a week, and where one or two old friends willlook grave and whisper to each other, "Poor gentleman," "A well-meaningman," "Nobody's enemy but his own," "Thought his parts could never wearout," "Family poorly left," "Pity he took that foolish title"? Who cananswer this question?       *       *       *       *       *What a life mine has been!--half educated, almost wholly neglected orleft to myself, stuffing my head with most nonsensical trash, andundervalued in society for a time by most of my companions, gettingforward and held a bold and clever fellow, contrary to the opinion ofall who thought me a mere dreamer, broken-hearted for two years, myheart handsomely pieced again, but the crack will remain to my dyingday. Rich and poor four or five times, once on the verge of ruin, yetopened new sources of wealth almost overflowing. Now taken in my pitchof pride, and nearly winged (unless the good news hold), because Londonchooses to be in an uproar, and in the tumult of bulls and bears, a poorinoffensive lion like myself is pushed to the wall. And what is to bethe end of it? God knows. And so ends the catechism._December_ 19.--Ballantyne here before breakfast. He looks on Cadell'slast night's news with more confidence than I do; but I must go to workbe my thoughts sober or lively. Constable came in and sat an hour. Theold gentleman is firm as a rock, and scorns the idea of Hurst andRobinson's stopping. He talks of going up to London next week and makingsales of our interest in W[oodstock] and _Boney_, which would put ahedge round his finances. He is a very clever fellow, and will, I think,bear us through.Dined at Lord Chief-Baron's.[79] Lord Justice-Clerk; Lord President;[80]Captain Scarlett,[81] a gentlemanlike young man, the son of the greatCounsel,[82] and a friend of my son Walter; Lady Charlotte Hope, andother woman-kind; R. Dundas of Arniston, and his pleasant andgood-humoured little wife, whose quick intelligent look pleases me more,though her face be plain, than a hundred mechanical beauties._December_ 20.--I like Ch. Ba. Shepherd very much--- as much, I think,as any man I have learned to know of late years. There is a neatness andprecision, a closeness and truth, in the tone of his conversation, whichshows what a lawyer he must have been. Perfect good-humour and suavityof manner, with a little warmth of temper on suitable occasions. Hisgreat deafness alone prevented him from being Lord Chief-Justice. Inever saw a man so patient under such a malady. He loves society, andconverses excellently; yet is often obliged, in a mixed companyparticularly, to lay aside his trumpet, retire into himself, andwithdraw from the talk. He does this with an expression of patience onhis countenance which touches one much. He has occasion for patienceotherwise, I should think, for Lady S. is fine and fidgety, and tooanxious to have everything _pointe devise_.Constable's licence for the Dedication is come, which will make himhappy.[83]Dined with James Ballantyne, and met my old friend Mathews, thecomedian, with his son, now grown up a clever, rather forward lad, whomakes songs in the style of James Smith or Colman, and sings them withspirit; rather lengthy though._December 21._--There have been odd associations attending my two lastmeetings with Mathews. The last time I saw him, before yesterdayevening, he dined with me in company with poor Sir Alexander Boswell,who was killed within two or three months.[84] I never saw Sir Alexandermore.[85] The time before was in 1815, when John Scott of Gala and Iwere returning from France, and passed through London, when we broughtMathews down as far as Leamington. Poor Byron lunched, or rather made anearly dinner, with us at Long's, and a most brilliant day we had of it.I never saw Byron so full of fun, frolic, wit, and whim: he was asplayful as a kitten. Well, I never saw him again.[86] So this man ofmirth, with his merry meetings, has brought me no luck. I like betterthat he should throw in his talent of mimicry and humour into thepresent current tone of the company, than that he should be required togive this, that, and t'other _bit_ selected from his public recitations.They are good certainly--excellent; but then you _must_ laugh, and thatis always severe to me. When I do laugh in sincerity, the joke must beor seem unpremeditated. I could not help thinking, in the midst of theglee, what gloom had lately been over the minds of three of the company,Cadell, J.B., and the Journalist. What a strange scene if the surge ofconversation could suddenly ebb like the tide, and [show] us the stateof people's real minds! Savary[87] might have been gay in such a partywith all his forgeries in his heart.    "No eyes the rooks discover    Which lurk beneath the deep."[88]Life could not be endured were it seen in reality.Things are mending in town, and H[urst] and R[obinson] write withconfidence, and are, it would seem, strongly supported by wealthyfriends. Cadell and Constable are confident of their making their waythrough the storm, and the impression of their stability is general inLondon. I hear the same from Lockhart. Indeed, I now believe that theywrote gloomy letters to Constable, chiefly to get as much money out ofthem as they possibly could. But they had well-nigh overdone it. Thisbeing Teind Wednesday must be a day of leisure and labour. Sophia hasgot a house, 25 Pall Mall. Dined at home with Lady Scott and Anne._December_ 22.--I wrote six of my close pages yesterday, which is abouttwenty-four pages in print. What is more, I think it comes offtwangingly. The story is so very interesting in itself, that there is nofear of the book answering.[89] Superficial it must be, but I do notdisown the charge. Better a superficial book, which brings well andstrikingly together the known and acknowledged facts, than a dull boringnarrative, pausing to see further into a mill-stone at every moment thanthe nature of the mill-stone admits. Nothing is so tiresome as walkingthrough some beautiful scene with a _minute philosopher_, a botanist, orpebble-gatherer, who is eternally calling your attention from the grandfeatures of the natural scenery to look at grasses and chucky-stones.Yet, in their way, they give useful information; and so does the minutehistorian. Gad, I think that will look well in the preface. My bile isquite gone. I really believe it arose from mere anxiety. What awonderful connection between the mind and body!The air of "Bonnie Dundee" running in my head to-day, I [wrote] a fewverses to it before dinner, taking the key-note from the story ofClavers leaving the Scottish Convention of Estates in 1688-9.[90] Iwonder if they are good. Ah! poor Will Erskine![91] thou couldst andwouldst have told me. I must consult J.B., who is as honest as was W.E.But then, though he has good taste too, there is a little of Big Bow-wowabout it. Can't say what made me take a frisk so uncommon of late years,as to write verses of freewill. I suppose the same impulse which makesbirds sing when the storm seems blown over.Dined at Lord Minto's. There were Lord and Lady Ruthven, Will Clerk, andThomas Thomson,--a right choice party. There was also my very old friendMrs. Brydone, the relict of the traveller,[92] and daughter of PrincipalRobertson, and really worthy of such a connection--Lady Minto, who isalso peculiarly agreeable--and her sister, Mrs. Admiral Adam, in theevening._December_ 23.--The present Lord Minto is a very agreeable,well-informed, and sensible man, but he possesses neither the highbreeding, ease of manner, nor eloquence of his father, the first Earl.That Sir Gilbert was indeed a man among a thousand. I knew him veryintimately in the beginning of the century, and, which was veryagreeable, was much at his house on very easy terms. He loved the Muses,and worshipped them in secret, and used to read some of his poetry,which was but middling.Tom Campbell lived at Minto, but it was in a state of dependence whichhe brooked very ill. He was kindly treated, but would not see it in theright view, and suspected slights, and so on, where no such thing wasmeant. There was a turn of Savage about Tom though without hisblackguardism--a kind of waywardness of mind and irritability that musthave made a man of his genius truly unhappy. Lord Minto, with themildest manners, was very tenacious of his opinions, although he changedthem twice in the crisis of politics. He was the early friend of Fox,and made a figure towards the end of the American war, or during thestruggles betwixt Fox and Pitt. Then came the Revolution, and he joinedthe Anti-Gallican party so keenly, that he declared against Addington'speace with France, and was for a time, I believe, a Wyndhamite. He wasreconciled to the Whigs on the Fox and Grenville coalition; but I haveheard that Fox, contrary to his wont, retained such personal feelings asmade him object to Sir Gilbert Elliot's having a seat in the Cabinet; sohe was sent as Governor-General to India--a better thing, I take it, forhis fortune. He died shortly after his return,[93] at Hatfield orBarnet, on his way down to his native country. He was a most pleasingand amiable man. I was very sorry for his death, though I do not knowhow we should have met, for the contested election in 1805 [inRoxburghshire] had placed some coldness betwixt the present Lord and me.I was certainly anxious for Sir Alexander Don, both as friend of my mostkind friend Charles, Duke of Buccleuch, and on political accounts; andthose thwartings are what men in public life do not like to endure.After a cessation of friendship for some years, we have come aboutagain. We never had the slightest personal dispute or disagreement. Butpolitics are the blowpipe beneath whose influence the best cementedfriendships too often dissever; and ours, after all, was only a veryfamiliar acquaintance.It is very odd that the common people at Minto and the neighbourhoodwill not believe to this hour that the first Earl is dead. They think hehad done something in India which he could not answer for--that thehouse was rebuilt on a scale unusually large to give him a suite ofsecret apartments, and that he often walks about the woods and crags ofMinto at night, with a white nightcap, and long white beard. Thecircumstance of his having died on the road down to Scotland is the solefoundation of this absurd legend, which shows how willing the vulgar areto gull themselves when they can find no one else to take the trouble. Ihave seen people who could read, write, and cipher, shrug theirshoulders and look mysterious when this subject was mentioned. One veryabsurd addition was made on occasion of a great ball at Minto House,which it was said was given to draw all people away from the grounds,that the concealed Earl might have leisure for his exercise. This was onthe principle in the German play,[94] where, to hide their conspiracy,the associates join in a chorus song.We dined at home; Mr. Davidoff and his tutor kept an engagement with usto dinner notwithstanding the death of the Emperor Alexander. They wentto the play with the womankind; I stayed at home to write._December_ 24.--Wrote Walter and Jane, and gave the former an account ofhow things had been in the money market, and the loan of 10,000.Constable has a scheme of publishing the works of the Author ofW[averley] in a superior style, at 1, 1s. volume. He says he willanswer for making 20,000 of this, and liberally offered me any share ofthe profit. I have no great claim to any, as I have only to contributethe notes, which are light work; yet a few thousands coming in will be agood thing--besides the P[rinting] Office. Constable, thoughvaletudinary, and cross with his partner, is certainly as good a pilotin these rough seas as ever man put faith in. His rally has put me inmind of the old song:--    "The tailor raise and shook his duds,    He gar'd the BILLS flee aff in cluds,    And they that stayed gat fearfu' thuds--    The tailor proved a man, O."[95]We are for Abbotsford to-day, with a light heart._Abbotsford, December_ 25.--Arrived here last night at seven. Our hallsare silent compared to last year, but let us be thankful--when we thinkhow near the chance appeared but a week since that these halls wouldhave been ours no longer. _Barbarus has segetes? Nullum numen abest, sisit prudentia_. There shall be no lack of wisdom. But come--_il fautcultiver notre jardin_.[96] Let us see: I will write out the "Bonnets ofBonnie Dundee"; I will sketch a preface to _La Rochejacquelin_ for_Constable's Miscellany,_ and try about a specimen of notes for theW[averley Novels]. Together with letters and by-business, it will be agood day's work.    "I make a vow,    And keep it true."I will accept no invitation for dinner, save one to Newton-Don, andMertoun to-morrow, instead of Christmas Day. On this day of generaldevotion I have a particular call for gratitude!!       *       *       *       *       *My God! what poor creatures we are! After all my fair proposalsyesterday, I was seized with a most violent pain in the right kidney andparts adjacent, which, joined to deadly sickness which it brought on,forced me instantly to go to bed and send for Clarkson.[97] He came andinquired, pronouncing the complaint to be gravel augmented by bile. Iwas in great agony till about two o'clock, but awoke with the pain gone.I got up, had a fire in my dressing-closet, and had Dalgleish to shaveme--two trifles, which I only mention, because they are contrary to myhardy and independent personal habits. But although a man cannot be ahero to his valet, his valet in sickness becomes of great use to him. Icannot expect that this first will be the last visit of this cruelcomplaint; but shall we receive good at the hand of God, and not receiveevil?_December 27th_.--Slept twelve hours at a stretch, being much exhausted.Totally without pain to-day, but uncomfortable from the effects ofcalomel, which, with me at least, is like the assistance of an auxiliaryarmy, just one degree more tolerable than the enemy it chases away.Calomel contemplations are not worth recording. I wrote an introductionand a few notes to the _Memoirs of Madame La Rochejacquelin_,[98] beingall that I was equal to.Sir Adam Ferguson came over and tried to marry my verses to the tune of"Bonnie Dundee." They seem well adapted to each other. Dined with LadyScott and Anne.Worked at Pepys in the evening, with the purpose of review forLockhart.[99] Notwithstanding the depressing effects of the calomel, Ifeel the pleasure of being alone and uninterrupted. Few men, leading aquiet life, and without any strong or highly varied change ofcircumstances, have seen more variety of society than I--few haveenjoyed it more, or been _bored_, as it is called, less by the companyof tiresome people. I have rarely, if ever, found any one, out of whom Icould not extract amusement or edification; and were I obliged toaccount for hints afforded on such occasions, I should make an amplededuction from my inventive powers. Still, however, from the earliesttime I can remember, I preferred the pleasure of being alone to waitingfor visitors, and have often taken a bannock and a bit of cheese to thewood or hill, to avoid dining with company. As I grew from boyhood tomanhood I saw this would not do; and that to gain a place in men'sesteem I must mix and bustle with them. Pride and an excitation ofspirits supplied the real pleasure which others seem to feel in society,and certainly upon many occasions it was real. Still, if the questionwas, eternal company, without the power of retiring within yourself, orsolitary confinement for life, I should say, "Turnkey, lock the cell!"My life, though not without its fits of waking and strong exertion, hasbeen a sort of dream, spent in    "Chewing the cud of sweet and bitter fancy."[100]I have worn a wishing-cap, the power of which has been to divert presentgriefs by a touch of the wand of imagination, and gild over the futureprospect by prospects more fair than can ever be realised. Somewhere itis said that this castle-building--this wielding of the arialtrowel--is fatal to exertions in actual life. I cannot tell, I have notfound it so. I cannot, indeed, say like Madame Genlis, that in theimaginary scenes in which I have acted a part I ever prepared myself foranything which actually befell me; but I have certainly fashioned outmuch that made the present hour pass pleasantly away, and much that hasenabled me to contribute to the amusement of the public. Since I wasfive years old I cannot remember the time when I had not some ideal partto play for my own solitary amusement._December_ 28.--Somehow I think the attack on Christmas Day has been ofa critical kind, and, having gone off so well, may be productive ratherof health than continued indisposition. If one is to get a renewal ofhealth in his fifty-fourth year, he must look to pay fine for it. Lastnight George Thomson[101] came to see how I was, poor fellow. He hastalent, is well informed, and has an excellent heart; but there is aneccentricity about him that defies description. I wish to God I saw himprovided in a country kirk. That, with a rational wife--that is, ifthere is such a thing to be gotten for him,--would, I think, bring himto a steady temper. At present he is between the tyning and the winning.If I could get him to set to any hard study, he would do somethingclever._How to make a critic_.--A sly rogue, sheltering himself under thegeneric name of Mr. Campbell, requested of me, through the penny-post,the loan of 50 for two years, having an impulse, as he said, to makethis demand. As I felt no corresponding impulse, I begged to decline ademand which might have been as reasonably made by any Campbell onearth; and another impulse has determined the man of fifty pounds tosend me anonymous abuse of my works and temper and selfish disposition.The severity of the joke lies in 14d. for postage, to avoid which hisnext epistle shall go back to the clerks of the Post Office, as not forS.W.S. How the severe rogue would be disappointed, if he knew I neverlooked at more than the first and last lines of his satirical effusion!When I first saw that a literary profession was to be my fate, Iendeavoured by all efforts of stoicism to divest myself of thatirritable degree of sensibility--or, to speak plainly, of vanity--whichmakes the poetical race miserable and ridiculous. The anxiety of a poetfor praise and for compliments I have always endeavoured [to keep down]._December_ 29.--Base feelings this same calomel gives one--mean, poor,and abject--a wretch, as Will Rose says:--    "Fie, fie, on silly coward man,    That he should be the slave o't."[102]Then it makes one "wofully dogged and snappish," as Dr. Rutty, theQuaker, says in his _Gurnal._[103]Sent Lockhart four pages on Sheridan's plays; not very good, I think,but the demand came sudden. Must go to W----k![104] yet am vexed by thathumour of contradiction which makes me incline to do anything else inpreference. Commenced preface for new edition of my Novels. The city ofCork send my freedom in a silver box. I thought I was out of their gracefor going to see Blarney rather than the Cove, for which I was attackedand defended in the papers when in Ireland. I am sure they are so civilthat I would have gone wherever they wished me to go if I had had anyone to have told me what I ought to be most inquisitive about.    "For if I should as lion come in strife    Into such place, 't were pity of my life."[105]_December_ 30.--Spent at home and in labour--with the weight ofunpleasant news from Edinburgh. J.B. is like to be pinched next weekunless the loan can be brought forward. I must and have endeavoured tosupply him. At present the result of my attempts is uncertain. I am evenmore anxious about C[onstable] & Co., unless they can get assistancefrom their London friends to whom they gave much. All is in God's hands.The worst can only be what I have before anticipated. But I must, Ithink, renounce the cigars. They brought back (using two this evening)the irritation of which I had no feelings while abstaining from them.Dined alone with Gordon,[106] Lady S., and Anne. James Curle, Melrose,has handsomely lent me 600; he has done kindly. I have served himbefore and will again if in my power._December 31_.--Took a good sharp walk the first time since my illness,and found myself the better in health and spirits. Being Hogmanay, theredined with us Colonel Russell and his sisters, Sir Adam Ferguson andLady, Colonel Ferguson, with Mary and Margaret; an auld-warld party, whomade themselves happy in the auld fashion. I felt so tired about eleventhat I was forced to steal to bed.FOOTNOTES:[52] See _ante_, p. 12. Mr. James Ballantyne and Mr. Cadell concurredwith Mr. Constable and Sir Walter in the propriety of assistingRobinson.[53] Robert Pierce Gillies, once proprietor of a good estate inKincardineshire, and member of the Scotch Bar. It is pleasant to findMr. Gillies expressing his gratitude for what Sir Walter had done forhim more than twenty-five years after this paragraph was written. "Hewas," says R.P.G., "not only among the earliest but most persevering ofmy friends--persevering in spite of my waywardness."--_Memoirs of aLiterary Veteran_, including Sketches and Anecdotes of the mostdistinguished Literary Characters from 1794 to 1849 (3 vols., London,1851), vol. i. p. 321. Mr. Gillies died in 1861.[54] Mr. Gillies was, however, warmly welcomed by another publisher inEdinburgh, who paid him 100 for his bulky MSS., and issued the book in1825 under the title of _The Magic Ring_, 3 vols. Its failure with thepublic prevented a repetition of the experiment![55] _King Richard III._, Act III. Sc. 7.--J.G.L.[56] Of the many Edinburgh suppers of this period, commemorated by LordCockburn, not the least pleasant were the friendly gatherings in 30Abercromby Place, the town house of Dr. James Russell, Professor ofClinical Surgery. They were given fortnightly after the meetings of theRoyal Society during the Session, and are occasionally mentioned in theJournal. Dr. Russell died in 1836.[57] Mr. Mackenzie had been consulting Sir Walter about collecting hisown juvenile poetry.--J.G.L. Though the venerable author of _The Man ofFeeling_ did not die till 1831, he does not appear to have carried outhis intention.[58] Every alternate Wednesday during the Winter and Summer sessions,the Lords Commissioners of Teinds (Tithes), consisting of a certainnumber of the judges, held a "Teind Court"--for hearing cases relatingto the secular affairs of the Church of Scotland. As the Teind Court hasa separate establishment of clerks and officers, Sir Walter was freedfrom duty at the Parliament House on these days. The Court now sits onalternate Mondays only.[59] Mr. Lockhart suggests Lords Hermand and Succoth, the former livingat 124 George Street, and the latter at 1 Park Place.[60] William Knox died 12th November. He had published _Songs ofIsrael_, 1824, _A Visit to Dublin_, 1824, _The Harp of Zion_, 1825,etc., besides _The Lonely Hearth_. His publisher (Mr. Anderson, junior,of Edinburgh) remembers that Sir Walter occasionally wrote to Knox andsent him money--10 at a time.--J.G.L.[61] In Ben Jonson's _Every Man in his Humour_.[62] Providence was kinder to the venerable lady than the Government, asat this juncture a handsome legacy came to her from an unexpectedquarter. _Memoir and Correspondence_, Lond. 1845, vol. iii. p. 71.[63] _Measure for Measure_, Act iv. Sc. 3.--J.G.L.[64] Burns's _Dedication to Gavin Hamilton_.--J.G.L.[65] _Don Quixote_, Pt. II. ch. 23.[66] _Spectator_, No. 159.--J.G.L.[67] Sir William Allan, President of the Royal Scottish Academy from1838: he died at Edinburgh in 1850.[68] _Beaumont and Fletcher_, 8vo, Lond. 1788, vol. v. pp.410-413,419-426.[69] For notices of David Thomson, see _Life_, October 1822, and T.Craig Brown's _History of Selkirkshire_, 2 vols. 4to, Edin. 1886, vol.i. pp. 505, 507, and 519.[70] Burns's _Address to the Unco Guid_.--J.G.L.[71] Banamhorar-Chat, _i.e._ the Great Lady of the Cat, is the Gaelictitle of the Countess-Duchess of Sutherland. The county of Sutherlanditself is in that dialect _Cattey_, and in the English name of theneighbouring one, _Caithness_, we have another trace of the earlysettlement of the _Clan Chattan_, whose chiefs bear the cognisance of aWild Cat. The Duchess-Countess died in 1838.--J.G.L.[72] See 1 _King Henry IV_., Act II. Sc. 1.[73] John Hope, Esq., was at this time Solicitor-General for Scotland,afterwards Lord Justice-Clerk from 1841 until his death in 1858.[74] Henry Dundas, the first Viscount Melville, first appeared inParliament as Lord Advocate of Scotland.--J.G.L.[75] Robert Sym Wilson, Esq., W.S., Secretary to the Royal Bank ofScotland.--J.G.L.[76] The Right Hon. Sir Samuel Shepherd, who had been at the head of theCourt of Exchequer since 1819, was then living at 16 Coates Crescent; heretired in 1830, and resided afterwards in England, where he died, aged80, on the 30th November 1840. Before coming to Scotland, Sir Samuel hadbeen Solicitor-General in 1814, and Attorney-General in 1817.[77] See _Nice Valour_, by John Fletcher; Beaumont and Fletcher's_Works_.[78] From Charles Dibdin's song, _The Racehorse_.[79] Sir Samuel Shepherd.[80] The Right Hon. Charles Hope, who held the office of Lord Presidentof the Court of Session for thirty years; he died in 1851 agedeighty-nine.[81] Afterwards Sir James Yorke Scarlett, G.C.B.[82] Sir James Scarlett, first Lord Abinger.[83] The Dedication of _Constable's Miscellany_ was penned by SirWalter--"To His Majesty King George IV., the most generous Patron evenof the most humble attempts towards the advantage of his subjects, this_Miscellany_, designed to extend useful knowledge and elegantliterature, by placing works of standard merit within the attainment ofevery class of readers, is most humbly inscribed by His Majesty'sdutiful and devoted subject--Archibald Constable."--J.G.L.[84] Probably a slip of the pen for "weeks," as Mathews was in London inMarch (1822), and we know that he dined with Scott in Castle Street onthe 10th of February. _Memoirs_, vol. iii. p. 262. Mr. Lockhart says,"within a week," and at p. 33 vol. vii. gives an account of a dinnerparty. Writing so many years after the event he may have mistaken thedate. James Boswell died in London 24th February 1822; his brother, SirAlexander, was at the funeral, and did not return to Edinburgh tillSaturday 23d March. James Stuart of Dunearn challenged him on Monday;they fought on Tuesday, and Boswell died on the following day, March 27.Mr. Lockhart says that "several circumstances of Sir Alexander's deathare exactly reproduced in the duel scene in _St. Ronan's Well_."[85] In a letter to Skene written late in 1821, Scott, in expressing hisregret at not being able to meet Boswell, adds, "I hope J. Boz comes tomake some stay, but I shall scarce forgive him for not coming at thefine season." The brothers Boswell had been Mr. Skene's schoolfellowsand intimate friends; and he had lived much with them both in Englandand Scotland.Mr. Skene says, in a note to Letter 28, that "they were men ofremarkable talents, and James of great learning, both evincing a dash oftheir father's eccentricity, but joined to greater talent. Sir Waltertook great pleasure in their society, but James being resident inLondon, the opportunity of enjoying his company had of late been rare.Upon the present occasion he had dined with me in the greatest healthand spirits the evening before his departure for London, and in a weekwe had accounts of his having been seized by a sudden illness whichcarried him off. In a few weeks more his brother, Sir Alexander, waskilled in a duel occasioned by a foolish political lampoon which he hadwritten, and in a thoughtless manner suffered to find its way to anewspaper."--_Reminiscences_.[86] See _Life_, vol. v. p. 87.[87] Henry Savary, son of a banker in Bristol, had been tried forforgery a few months before.[88] From _What d'ye call it?_ by John Gay.[89] _Life of Napoleon_.--J.G.L.[90] See Scott's _Poetical Works_, vol. xii. pp. 194-97.--J.G.L.[91] William Erskine of Kinnedder was Scott's senior by two years at thebar, having passed Advocate in 1790. He became Sheriff of Orkney in1809, and took his seat on the Bench as Lord Kinnedder, 29 January 1822;he died on the 14th of August following. Scott and he met first in 1792,and, as is well known, he afterwards "became the nearest and mostconfidential of all his Edinburgh associates." In 1796 he arranged withthe publishers for Scott's earliest literary venture, a thin 4to of some48 pages entitled _The Chase_, etc. See _Life_ throughout, moreparticularly vol. i. pp. 279-80, 333-4, 338-9; ii. pp. 103-4; iv. pp.12, 166, 369; v. p. 174; vi. p. 393; vii. pp. 1, 5, 6, 70-74. SeeAppendix for Mr. Skene's account of the destruction of the letters fromScott to Erskine.[92] Patrick Brydone, author of _A Tour through Sicily and Malta_, 2vols. 8vo, 1773.[93] Gilbert, Earl of Minto, died in June 1814.--J.G.L.[94] See Canning's _German Play_, in the _Anti-Jacobin_.--J.G.L.[95] See Johnson's _Musical Museum_, No. 490, slightly altered.[96] See _Candide_.--J.G.L.[97] James Clarkson, Esq., surgeon, Melrose, son to Scott's old friend,Dr. Clarkson of Selkirk.--J.G.L.[98] See _Constable's Miscellany_, vol. v.--J.G.L.[99] See the _Quarterly Review_ for January 1820--or Scott's_Miscellaneous Prose Works_.--J.G.L.[100] _As You Like it_, Act IV. Sc. 3.--J.G.L.[101] Formerly tutor at Abbotsford. Mr. Lockhart says: "I observe, asthe sheet is passing through the press, the death of the Rev. GeorgeThomson--the happy 'Dominie Thomson' of the happy days of Abbotsford: hedied at Edinburgh on the 8th of January 1838."[102] Burns's "O poortith cauld and restless love."[103] John Rutty, M.D., a physician of some eminence in Dublin, died in1775, and his executors published his very curious and absurd "SpiritualDiary and Soliloquies." Boswell describes Johnson as being much amusedwith the Quaker doctor's minute confessions. See the Life of Johnson_sub anno_ 1777.--J.G.L.[104] _Woodstock_--contracted for in 1823.[105] _A Midsummer Night's Dream_, Act III. Sc. 1.[106] George Huntly Gordon, amanuensis to Scott.18261826.--JANUARY._January_ 1.--A year has passed--another has commenced. These solemndivisions of time influence our feelings as they recur. Yet there isnothing in it; for every day in the year closes a twelvemonth as well asthe 31st December. The latter is only the solemn pause, as when a guide,showing a wild and mountainous road, calls on a party to pause and lookback at the scenes which they have just passed. To me this new yearopens sadly. There are these troublesome pecuniary difficulties, whichhowever, I think, this week should end. There is the absence of all mychildren, Anne excepted, from our little family festival. There is,besides, that ugly report of the 15th Hussars going to India. Walter, Isuppose, will have some step in view, and will go, and I fear Jane willnot dissuade him.A hard, frosty day--cold, but dry and pleasant under foot. Walked intothe plantations with Anne and Anne Russell. A thought strikes me,alluding to this period of the year. People say that the whole humanframe in all its parts and divisions is gradually in the act of decayingand renewing. What a curious timepiece it would be that could indicateto us the moment this gradual and insensible change had so completelytaken place, that no atom was left of the original person who hadexisted at a certain period, but there existed in his stead anotherperson having the same limbs, thews, and sinews, the same face andlineaments, the same consciousness--a new ship built on an old plank--apair of transmigrated stockings, like those of Sir John Cutler,[107]all green silk, without one thread of the original black silk left!Singular--to be at once another and the same._January_ 2.--Weather clearing up in Edinburgh once more, and all will,I believe, do well. I am pressed to get on with _Woodstock_, and musttry. I wish I could open a good vein of interest which would breathefreely. I must take my old way, and write myself into good-humour withmy task. It is only when I dally with what I am about, look back, andaside, instead of keeping my eyes straight forward, that I feel thesecold sinkings of the heart. All men I suppose do, less or more. They arelike the sensation of a sailor when the ship is cleared for action, andall are at their places--gloomy enough; but the first broadside puts allto rights. Dined at Huntly Burn with the Fergusons _en masse_._January_ 3.--Promises a fair day, and I think the progress of mylabours will afford me a little exercise, which I greatly need to helpoff the calomel feeling. Walked with Colonel Russell from eleven tilltwo--the first good day's exercise I have had since coming here. We wentthrough all the Terrace, the Roman Planting,[108] over by the Stiel andHaxellcleuch, and so by the Rhymer's Glen to Chiefswood,[109] which gavemy heart a twinge, so disconsolate it seemed. Yet all is for the best.Called at Huntly Burn, and shook hands with Sir Adam and his Lady justgoing off. When I returned, signed the bond for 10,000, which willdisencumber me of all pressing claims;[110] when I get forward W----kand Nap. there will be 12,000 and upwards, and I hope to add 3000against this time next year, or the devil must hold the dice. J.B.writes me seriously on the carelessness of my style. I do not think I ammore careless than usual; but I dare say he is right. I will be morecautious._January_ 4.--Despatched the deed yesterday executed. Mr. and Mrs.Skene, my excellent friends, came to us from Edinburgh. Skene,distinguished for his attainments as a draughtsman, and for his highlygentlemanlike feelings and character, is Laird of Rubislaw, nearAberdeen. Having had an elder brother, his education was somewhatneglected in early life, against which disadvantage he made a mostgallant [fight], exerting himself much to obtain those accomplishmentswhich he has since possessed. Admirable in all exercises, there entereda good deal of the cavalier into his early character. Of late he hasgiven himself much to the study of antiquities. His wife, a mostexcellent person, was tenderly fond of Sophia. They bring so muchold-fashioned kindness and good-humour with them, besides therecollections of other times, that they must be always welcome guests.Letter from Mr. Scrope,[111] announcing a visit._January_ 5.--Got the desired accommodation with Coutts, which will putJ.B. quite straight, but am a little anxious still about Constable. Hehas immense stock, to be sure, and most valuable, but he may havesacrifices to make to convert a large proportion of it into ready money.The accounts from London are most disastrous. Many wealthy personstotally ruined, and many, many more have been obliged to purchase theirsafety at a price they will feel all their lives. I do not hear thingsare so bad in Edinburgh; and J.B.'s business has been transacted by thebanks with liberality.Colonel Russell told us last night that the last of the Moguls, adescendant of Kubla-Khan, though having no more power than his effigiesat the back of a set of playing-cards, refused to meet Lord Hastings,because the Governor-General would not agree to remain standing in hispresence. Pretty well for the blood of Timur in these degenerate days!Much alarmed. I had walked till twelve with Skene and Col. Russell, andthen sat down to my work. To my horror and surprise I could neitherwrite nor spell, but put down one word for another, and wrote nonsense.I was much overpowered at the same time, and could not conceive thereason. I fell asleep, however, in my chair, and slept for two hours. Onwaking my head was clearer, and I began to recollect that last night Ihad taken the anodyne left for the purpose by Clarkson, and beingdisturbed in the course of the night, I had not slept it off.Obliged to give up writing to-day--read Pepys instead. The Scotts ofHarden were to have dined, but sent an apology,--storm coming on.Russells left us this morning to go to Haining._January 6_.--This seems to be a feeding storm, coming on by little andlittle. Wrought all day, and dined quiet. My disorder is wearing off,and the quiet society of the Skenes suits with my present humour. Ireally thought I was in for some very bad illness. Curious expression ofan Indian-born boy just come from Bengal, a son of my cousin GeorgeSwinton. The child saw a hare run across the fields, and exclaimed,"See, there is a little tiger!"_January_ 7, _Sunday_.--Knight, a young artist, son of the performer,came to paint my picture at the request of Terry. This is very far frombeing agreeable, as I submitted to this distressing state of constraintlast year to Newton, at request of Lockhart; to Leslie at request of myAmerican friend;[112] to Wilkie, for his picture of the King's arrivalat Holyrood House; and some one besides. I am as tired of the operationas old Maida, who had been so often sketched that he got up and wentaway with signs of loathing whenever he saw an artist unfurl his paperand handle his brushes. But this young man is civil and modest; and Ihave agreed he shall sit in the room while I work, and take the bestlikeness he can, without compelling me into fixed attitudes or theyawning fatigues of an actual sitting. I think, if he has talent, he maydo more my way than in the customary mode; at least I can't have thehang-dog look which the unfortunate Theseus has who is doomed to sit forwhat seems an eternity.[113]I wrought till two o'clock--indeed till I was almost nervous withcorrecting and scribbling. I then walked, or rather was dragged, throughthe snow by Tom Purdie, while Skene accompanied. What a blessing thereis in a man like Tom, whom no familiarity can spoil, whom you may scoldand praise and joke with, knowing the quality of the man is unalterablein his love and reverence to his master. Use an ordinary servant in thesame way and he will be your master in a month. We should thank God forthe snow as well as summer flowers. This brushing exercise has put allmy nerves into tone again, which were really jarred with fatigue untilmy very backbone seemed breaking. This comes of trying to do too much.J.B.'s news are as good as possible.--Prudence, prudence, and all willdo excellently._January_ 8.--Frost and snow still. Write to excuse myself fromattending the funeral of my aunt, Mrs. Curle, which takes placeto-morrow at Kelso. She was a woman of the old Sandy-Knowe breed, withthe strong sense, high principle, and indifferent temper which belongedto my father's family. She lived with great credit on a moderate income,and, I believe, gave away a great deal of it.[114]_January_ 9.--Mathews the comedian and his son came to spend a day atAbbotsford. The last is a clever young man, with much of his father'stalent for mimicry. Rather forward though.[115] Mr. Scrope also cameout, which fills our house._January_ 10.--Bodily health, the mainspring of the microcosm, seemsquite restored. No more flinching or nervous fits, but the sound mind inthe sound body. What poor things does a fever-fit or an overflowing ofthe bile make of the masters of creation!The snow begins to fall thick this morning--    "The landlord then aloud did say,    As how he wished they would go away."To have our friends shut up here would be rather too much of a goodthing.The day cleared up and was very pleasant. Had a good walk and looked atthe curling. Mr. Mathews made himself very amusing in the evening. Hehas the good-nature to show his accomplishments without pressing, andwithout the appearance of feeling pain. On the contrary, I dare say heenjoys the pleasure he communicates._January_ 11.--I got proof-sheets, in which it seems I have repeated awhole passage of history which had been told before. James is in anawful stew, and I cannot blame him; but then he should consider the_hyoscyamus_ which I was taking, and the anxious botheration about themoney-market. However, as Chaucer says:--    "There is na workeman    That can bothe worken wel and hastilie;    This must be done at leisure parfitly."[116]_January_ 12.--Mathews last night gave us a very perfect imitation ofold Cumberland, who carried the poetic jealousy and irritability furtherthan any man I ever saw. He was a great flatterer too, the old rogue.Will Erskine used to admire him. I think he wanted originality. A veryhigh-bred man in point of manners in society.My little artist, Knight, gets on better with his portrait--the featuresare, however, too pinched, I think.Upon the whole, the days pass pleasantly enough--work till one or two,then an hour or two's walk in the snow, then lighter work, or reading.Late dinner, and singing or chat in the evening. Mathews has really allthe will, as well as the talent, to be amusing. He confirms my idea ofventriloquism (which is an absurd word), as being merely the art ofimitating sounds at a greater or less distance, assisted by some littlepoints of trick to influence the imagination of the audience--the vulgaridea of a peculiar organisation (beyond fineness of ear and ofutterance) is nonsense._January_ 13.--Our party are about to disperse--    "Like youthful steers unyoked, east, north, and south."[117]I am not sorry, being one of those whom too much mirth always inclinesto sadness. The missing so many of my own family, together with theserious inconveniences to which I have been exposed, gave me at presenta desire to be alone. The Skenes return to Edinburgh, so does Mr.Scrope--_item_, the little artist; Mathews to Newcastle; his son toLiverpool. So _exeunt omnes._[118]Mathews assures me that Sheridan was generally very dull in society, andsate sullen and silent, swallowing glass after glass, rather a hindrancethan a help. But there was a time when he broke out with a resumption ofwhat had been going on, done with great force, and generally attackingsome person in the company, or some opinion which he had expressed. Inever saw Sheridan but in large parties. He had a Bardolph countenance,with heavy features, but his eye possessed the most distinguishedbrilliancy. Mathews says it is very simple in Tom Moore to admire howSheridan came by the means of paying the price of Drury Lane Theatre,when all the world knows he never paid it at all; and that Lacy, whosold it, was reduced to want by his breach of faith.[119] Dined quietwith Anne, Lady Scott, and Gordon._January_ 14.--An odd mysterious letter from Constable, who is gone postto London, to put something to rights which is wrong betwixt them, theirbanker, and another moneyed friend. It strikes me to be that sort ofletter which I have seen men write when they are desirous that theirdisagreeable intelligence should be rather apprehended than avowed. Ithought he had been in London a fortnight ago, disposing of property tomeet this exigence, and so I think he should. Well, I must havepatience. But these terrors and frights are truly annoying. Luckily thefunny people are gone, and I shall not have the task of grinning when Iam serious enough. Dined as yesterday.A letter from J.B. mentioning Constable's journey, but withoutexpressing much, if any, apprehension. He knows C. well, and saw himbefore his departure, and makes no doubt of his being able easily toextricate whatever may be entangled. I will not, therefore, make myselfuneasy. I can help doing so surely, if I will. At least, I have given upcigars since the year began, and have now no wish to return to thehabit, as it is called. I see no reason why one should not be able tovanquish, with God's assistance, these noxious thoughts which foretellevil but cannot remedy it._January_ 15.--Like yesterday, a hard frost. Thermometer at 10; water inmy dressing-room frozen to flint; yet I had a fine walk yesterday, thesun dancing delightfully on "grim Nature's visage hoar."[120] Were itnot the plague of being dragged along by another person, I should likesuch weather as well as summer; but having Tom Purdie to do this officereconciles me to it. _I cannot cleik with John_, as old Mrs. Mure [ofCaldwell] used to say. I mean, that an ordinary menial servant thushooked to your side reminds me of the twin bodies mentioned byPitscottie, being two trunks on the same waist and legs. One died beforethe other, and remained a dead burden on the back of its companion.[121]Such is close union with a person whom you cannot well converse with,and whose presence is yet indispensable to your getting on. An actualcompanion, whether humble or your equal, is still worse. But Tom Purdieis just the thing, kneaded up between the friend and servant, as well asUncle Toby's bowling-green between sand and clay. You are certain he isproud as well as patient under his burthen, and you are under no moreconstraint than with a pony. I must ride him to-day if the weather holdsup. Meantime I will correct that curious fellow Pepys' Diary,--I meanthe article I have made of it for the _Quarterly_._Edinburgh, January_ 16.--Came through cold roads to as cold news. Hurstand Robinson have suffered a bill of 1000 to come back upon Constable,which I suppose infers the ruin of both houses. We shall soon see.Constable, it seems, who was to have set off in the last week ofDecember, dawdled here till in all human probability his going orstaying became a matter of mighty little consequence. He could not bethere till Monday night, and his resources must have come too late.Dined with the Skenes.[122]_January_ 17.--James Ballantyne this morning--good honest fellow, with avisage as black as the crook.[123] He hopes no salvation; has indeedtaken measures to stop. It is hard, after having fought such a battle.Have apologised for not attending the Royal Society Club, who have a_gaudeamus_ on this day, and seemed to count much on my being thepreses.My old acquaintance, Miss Elizabeth Clerk, sister of Willie, diedsuddenly. I cannot choose but wish it had been S.W.S., and yet thefeeling is unmanly. I have Anne, my wife, and Charles to look after. Ifelt rather sneaking as I came home from the Parliament House--felt asif I were liable _monstrari digito_ in no very pleasant way. But thismust be borne _cum caeteris_; and, thank God, however uncomfortable, Ido not feel despondent.I have seen Cadell, Ballantyne, and Hogarth. All advise me to execute atrust of my property for payment of my obligations. So does JohnGibson,[124] and so I resolve to do. My wife and daughter are gloomy,but yet patient. I trust by my hold on the works to make it every man'sinterest to be very gentle with me. Cadell makes it plain that byprudence they will, in six months, realise 20,000, which can beattainable by no effort of their own._January_ 18.--He that sleeps too long in the morning, let him borrowthe pillow of a debtor. So says the Spaniard, and so say I. I had ofcourse an indifferent night of it. I wish these two days were over; butthe worst _is_ over. The Bank of Scotland has behaved very well;expressing a resolution to serve Constable's house and me to theuttermost; but as no one can say to what extent Hurst and Robinson'sfailure may go, borrowing would but linger it out._January_ 19.--During yesterday I received formal visits from myfriends, Skene and Colin Mackenzie (who, I am glad to see, looks well),with every offer of service. The Royal Bank also sent Sir John Hope andSir Henry Jardine[125] to offer to comply with my wishes. The Advocatecame on the same errand. But I gave all the same answer--that myintention was to put the whole into the hands of a trustee, and to becontented with the event, and that all I had to ask was time to do so,and to extricate my affairs. I was assured of every accommodation inthis way. From all quarters I have had the same kindness. Letters fromConstable and Robinson have arrived. The last persist in saying theywill pay all and everybody. They say, moreover, in a postscript, thathad Constable been in town ten days sooner, all would have been well.When I saw him on 24th December, he proposed starting in three days, butdallied, God knows why, in a kind of infatuation, I think, till thingshad got irretrievably wrong. There would have been no want of supportthen, and his stock under his own management would have made a returnimmensely greater than it can under any other. _Now_ I fear the lossmust be great, as his fall will involve many of the country dealers whotraded with him.I feel quite composed and determined to labour. There is no remedy. I_guess_ (as Mathews makes his Yankees say) that we shall not be troubledwith visitors, and I _calculate_ that I will not go out at all; so whatcan I do better than labour? Even yesterday I went about making notes on_Waverley_, according to Constable's plan. It will do good one day.To-day, when I lock this volume, I go to W[oodstock]. Heigho!Knight came to stare at me to complete his portrait. He must have read atragic page, compared to what he saw at Abbotsford.[126]We dined of course at home, and before and after dinner I finished abouttwenty printed pages of _Woodstock_, but to what effect others mustjudge. A painful scene after dinner, and another after supper,endeavouring to convince these poor dear creatures that they must notlook for miracles, but consider the misfortune as certain, and only tobe lessened by patience and labour._January_ 20.--Indifferent night--very bilious, which may be want ofexercise. A letter from Sir J. Sinclair, whose absurd vanity bids himthrust his finger into every man's pie, proposing that Hurst andRobinson should sell their prints, of which he says they have a largecollection, by way of lottery like Boydell.    "In scenes like these which break our heart    Comes Punch, like you and----"_Mais pourtant, cultivons notre jardin_. The public favour is my onlylottery. I have long enjoyed the foremost prize, and something in mybreast tells me my evil genius will not overwhelm me if I stand bymyself. Why should I not? I have no enemies--many attached friends. Thepopular ascendency which I have maintained is of the kind which israther improved by frequent appearances before the public. In fact,critics may say what they will, but "_hain_ your reputation, and _tyne_your reputation," is a true proverb.[127]Sir William Forbes called--the same kind, honest friend as ever, withall offers of assistance,[128] etc. etc. All anxious to serve me, andcareless about their own risk of loss. And these are the cold, hard,money-making men whose questions and control I apprehended.Lord Chief Commissioner Adam also came to see me, and the meeting,though pleasing, was melancholy. It is the first time we have met sincethe _break up_ of his hopes in the death of his eldest son on his returnfrom India, where he was Chief in Council and highly esteemed.[129] TheCommissioner is not a very early friend of mine, for I scarce knew himtill his settlement in Scotland with his present office.[130] But I havesince lived much with him, and taken kindly to him as one of the mostpleasant, kind-hearted, benevolent, and pleasing men I have ever known.It is high treason among the Tories to express regard for him, orrespect for the Jury Court in which he presides. I was against thatexperiment as much as any one. But it is an experiment, and theestablishment (which the fools will not perceive) is the only thingwhich I see likely to give some prospects of ambition to our bar, whichhas been otherwise so much diminished. As for the Chief Commissioner, Idare say he jobs, as all other people of consequence do, in elections,and so forth. But he is the personal friend of the King, and the decidedenemy of whatever strikes at the constitutional rights of the Monarch.Besides, I love him for the various changes which he has endured throughlife, and which have been so great as to make him entitled to beregarded in one point of view as the most fortunate--in the other, themost unfortunate--man in the world. He has gained and lost two fortunesby the same good luck, and the same rash confidence, which raised, andnow threatens, my _peculium_. And his quiet, honourable, and generoussubmission under circumstances more painful than mine,--for the loss ofworld's wealth was to him aggravated by the death of his youngest anddarling son in the West Indies,--furnished me at the time and now with anoble example. So the Tories and Whigs may go be d----d together, asnames that have disturbed old Scotland, and torn asunder the most kindlyfeelings since the first day they were invented. Yes, ----- them, theyare spells to rouse all our angry passions, and I dare say,notwithstanding the opinion of my private and calm moments, I will openon the cry again so soon as something occurs to chafe my mood; and yet,God knows, I would fight in honourable contest with word or blow for mypolitical opinions; but I cannot permit that strife to "mix its waterswith my daily meal," those waters of bitterness which poison all mutuallove and confidence betwixt the well-disposed on either side, andprevent them, if need were, from making mutual concessions and balancingthe constitution against the ultras of both parties. The good man seemssomething broken by these afflictions._January_ 21.--Susannah in _Tristram Shandy_ thinks death is best met inbed. I am sure trouble and vexation are not. The watches of the nightpass wearily when disturbed by fruitless regrets and disagreeableanticipations. But let it pass.    "Well, Goodman Time, or blunt, or keen,    Move thou quick, or take thy leisure,    Longest day will have its e'en,    Weariest life but treads a measure."I have seen Cadell, who is very much downcast for the risk of theircopyrights being thrown away by a hasty sale. I suggested that if theywent very cheap, some means might be fallen on to keep up their value orpurchase them in. I fear the split betwixt Constable and Cadell willrender impossible what might otherwise be hopeful enough. It is theItalian race-horses, I think, which, instead of riders, have spurs tiedto their sides, so as to prick them into a constant gallop. Cadell tellsme their gross profit was sometimes 10,000 a year, but much swallowedup with expenses, and his partner's draughts, which came to 4000yearly. What there is to show for this, God knows. Constable's apparentexpenses were very much within bounds.Colin Mackenzie entered, and with his usual kindness engages to use hisinfluence to recommend some moderate proceeding to Constable'screditors, such as may permit him to go on and turn that species ofproperty to account, which no man alive can manage so well as he.Followed Mr. Gibson with a most melancholy tale. Things are so muchworse with Constable than I apprehended that I shall neither saveAbbotsford nor anything else. Naked we entered the world, and naked weleave it--blessed be the name of the Lord!_January_ 22.--I feel neither dishonoured nor broken down by thebad--now really bad news I have received. I have walked my last on thedomains I have planted--sate the last time in the halls I have built.But death would have taken them from me if misfortune had spared them.My poor people whom I loved so well! There is just another die to turnup against me in this run of ill-luck; _i.e._ if I should break my magicwand in the fall from this elephant, and lose my popularity with myfortune. Then _Woodstock_ and _Bony_ may both go to the paper-maker, andI may take to smoking cigars and drinking grog, or turn devotee, andintoxicate the brain another way. In prospect of absolute ruin, I wonderif they would let me leave the Court of Session. I would like, methinks,to go abroad,    "And lay my bones far from the _Tweed_."But I find my eyes moistening, and that will not do. I will not yieldwithout a fight for it. It is odd, when I set myself to work _doggedly_,as Dr. Johnson would say, I am exactly the same man that I ever was,neither low-spirited nor _distrait_. In prosperous times I havesometimes felt my fancy and powers of language flag, but adversity is tome at least a tonic and bracer; the fountain is awakened from its inmostrecesses, as if the spirit of affliction had troubled it in his passage.Poor Mr. Pole the harper sent to offer me 500 or 600, probably hisall.[131] There is much good in the world, after all. But I willinvolve no friend, either rich or poor. My own right hand shall doit--else will I be _done_ in the slang language, and _undone_ in commonparlance.I am glad that, beyond my own family, who are, excepting L.S., young andable to bear sorrow, of which this is the first taste to some of them,most of the hearts are past aching which would have once beeninconsolable on this occasion. I do not mean that many will notseriously regret, and some perhaps lament, my misfortunes. But my dearmother, my almost sister, Christy R[utherfor]d,[132] poor WillErskine--these would have been mourners indeed.Well--exertion--exertion. O Invention, rouse thyself! May man be kind!May God be propitious! The worst is, I never quite know when I am rightor wrong; and Ballantyne, who does know in some degree, will fear totell me. Lockhart would be worth gold just now, but he too would be toodiffident to speak broad out. All my hope is in the continued indulgenceof the public. I have a funeral-letter to the burial of the ChevalierYelin, a foreigner of learning and talent, who has died at the RoyalHotel. He wished to be introduced to me, and was to have read a paperbefore the Royal Society when this introduction was to have taken place.I was not at the Society that evening, and the poor gentleman was takenill at the meeting and unable to proceed. He went to his bed and neverrose again; and now his funeral will be the first public place I shallappear at. He dead, and I ruined; this is what you call a meeting.[133]_January_ 23.--Slept ill, not having been abroad these eightdays--_splendida bilis_. Then a dead sleep in the morning, and when theawakening comes, a strong feeling how well I could dispense with it foronce and for ever. This passes away, however, as better and more dutifulthoughts arise in my mind. I know not if my imagination has flagged;probably it has; but at least my powers of labour have not diminishedduring the last melancholy week. On Monday and Tuesday my exertions weresuspended. Since Wednesday inclusive I have written thirty-eight of myclose manuscript pages, of which seventy make a volume of the usualNovel size.Wrote till twelve A.M., finishing half of what I call a good day'swork--ten pages of print, or rather twelve. Then walked in PrincesStreet pleasure-grounds with good Samaritan James Skene, the only oneamong my numerous friends who can properly be termed _amicus curarummearum,_ others being too busy or too gay, and several being estrangedby habit.[134]The walks have been conducted on the whole with much taste, though Skenehas undergone much criticism, the usual reward of public exertions, onaccount of his plans. It is singular to walk close beneath the grim oldCastle, and to think what scenes it must have seen, and how manygenerations of three score and ten have risen and passed away. It is aplace to cure one of too much sensation over earthly subjects ofmutation. My wife and girl's tongues are chatting in a lively manner inthe drawing-room. It does me good to hear them._January_ 24.--Constable came yesterday, and saw me for half an hour. Heseemed irritable, but kept his temper under command. Was a littleshocked when I intimated that I was disposed to regard the present worksin progress as my own. I think I saw two things:--(1) That he isdesirous to return into the management of his own affairs withoutCadell, if he can. (2) That he relies on my connection as the way ofhelping us out of the slough. Indeed he said he was ruined utterlywithout my countenance. I certainly will befriend him if I can, butConstable without Cadell is like getting the clock without thependulum--the one having the ingenuity, the other the caution of thebusiness. I will see my way before making any bargain, and I will helpthem, I am sure, if I can, without endangering my last cast for freedom.Worked out my task yesterday. My kind friend Mrs. Coutts has got thecadet-ship for Pringle Shortreed, in which he was peculiarly interested.I went to the Court for the first time to-day, and, like the man withthe large nose, thought everybody was thinking of me and my mishaps.Many were, undoubtedly, and all rather regrettingly; some obviouslyaffected. It is singular to see the difference of men's manner whilstthey strive to be kind or civil in their way of addressing me. Somesmile as they wish me good-day, as if to say, "Think nothing about it,my lad; it is quite out of our thoughts." Others greeted me with theaffected gravity which one sees and despises at a funeral. The bestbred--all, I believe, meaning equally well--just shook hands and wenton. A foolish puff in the papers, calling on men and gods to assist apopular author, who, having choused the public of many thousands, hadnot the sense to keep wealth when he had it. If I am hard pressed, andmeasures used against me, I must use all means of legal defence, andsubscribe myself bankrupt in a petition for sequestration. It is thecourse I would have advised a client to take, and would have the effectof saving my land, which is secured by my son's contract of marriage. Imight save my library, etc., by assistance of friends, and bid mycreditors defiance. But for this I would, in a court of honour, deserveto lose my spurs. No, if they permit me, I will be their vassal forlife, and dig in the mine of my imagination to find diamonds (or whatmay sell for such) to make good my engagements, not to enrich myself.And this from no reluctance to allow myself to be called the Insolvent,which I probably am, but because I will not put out of the [power] of mycreditors the resources, mental or literary, which yet remain to me.Went to the funeral of Chevalier Yelin, the literary foreigner mentionedon 22d. How many and how various are the ways of affliction! Here isthis poor man dying at a distance from home, his proud heart broken, hiswife and family anxiously expecting letters, and doomed only to learnthey have lost a husband and father for ever. He lies buried on theCalton Hill, near learned and scientific dust--the graves of David Humeand John Playfair being side by side._January_ 25.--Anne is ill this morning. May God help us! If it shouldprove serious, as I have known it in such cases, where am I to findcourage or comfort? A thought has struck me--Can we do nothing forcreditors with the goblin drama, called _Fortunes of Devorgoil_? Couldit not be added to _Woodstock_ as a fourth volume? Terry refused a giftof it, but he was quite and entirely wrong; it is not good, but it maybe made so. Poor Will Erskine liked it much.[135] Gave my wife her 12allowance. 24 to last till Wednesday fortnight. _January_ 26.--Spoketo J.B. last night about _Devorgoil_, who does not seem to relish theproposal, alleging the comparative failure of _Halidon Hill_. Ay, saysSelf-Conceit, but he has not read it; and when he does, it is the sortof wild fanciful work betwixt heaven and earth, which men of solid partsdo not estimate. Pepys thought Shakespeare's _Midsummer Night's Dream_the most silly play he had ever seen, and Pepys was probably judging onthe same grounds with J.B., though presumptuous enough to formconclusions against a very different work from any of mine. How if Isend it to Lockhart by and by?I called to-day at Constable's; both partners seemed secure that Hurstand Robinson were to go on and pay. Strange that they should havestopped. Constable very anxious to have husbanding of the books. I toldhim the truth that I would be glad to have his assistance, and that heshould have the benefit of the agency, but that he was not to considerpast transactions as a rule for selling them in future, since I mustneeds make the most out of the labours I could: _item_, that I, orwhoever might act for me, would of course, after what has happened, lookespecially to the security. He said if Hurst and Robinson were to go on,bank notes would be laid down. I conceive indeed that they would take_Woodstock_ and _Napoleon_ almost at loss rather than break theconnection in the public eye. Sir William Arbuthnot and Mr. Kinnear werevery kind. But _cui bono_?[136]Gibson comes with a joyful face announcing all the creditors hadunanimously agreed to a private trust. This is handsome andconfidential, and must warm my best efforts to get them out of thescrape. I will not doubt--to doubt is to lose. Sir William Forbes tookthe chair, and behaved as he has ever done, with the generosity ofancient faith and early friendship. They[137] are deeper concerned thanmost. In what scenes have Sir William and I not borne sharetogether--desperate, and almost bloody affrays, rivalries, deepdrinking-matches, and, finally, with the kindest feelings on both sides,somewhat separated by his retiring much within the bosom of his family,and I moving little beyond mine. It is fated our planets should crossthough, and that at the periods most interesting for me. Down--down--ahundred thoughts.Jane Russell drank tea with us.I hope to sleep better to-night. If I do not I shall get ill, and then Icannot keep my engagements. Is it not odd? I can command my eyes to beawake when toil and weariness sit on my eyelids, but to draw the curtainof oblivion is beyond my power. I remember some of the wild Buccaneers,in their impiety, succeeded pretty well by shutting hatches and burningbrimstone and assaftida in making a tolerable imitation of _hell_--butthe pirates' _heaven_ was a wretched affair. It is one of the worstthings about this system of ours, that it is a hundred times more easyto inflict pain than to create pleasure._January_ 27.--Slept better and less bilious, owing doubtless to thefatigue of the preceding night, and the more comfortable news. I drew mysalaries of various kinds amounting to 300 and upwards and sent, withJohn Gibson's consent, 200 to pay off things at Abbotsford which mustbe paid. Wrote Laidlaw with the money, directing him to make allpreparations for reduction.[138] Anne ill of rheumatism: I believecaught cold by vexation and exposing herself to bad weather.The Celtic Society present me with the most splendid broadsword I eversaw; a beautiful piece of art, and a most noble weapon. Honourable Mr.Stuart (second son of the Earl of Moray), General Graham Stirling, andMacDougal, attended as a committee to present it. This was very kind ofmy friends the Celts, with whom I have had so many merry meetings. Itwill be a rare legacy to Walter;--for myself, good lack! it is like LadyDowager Don's prize in a lottery of hardware; she--a venerable lady whoalways wore a haunch-hoop, silk nglig, and triple ruffles at theelbow--having the luck to gain a pair of silver spurs and a whip tocorrespond._January_ 28.--Ballantyne and Cadell wish that Mr. Alex. Cowan should beConstable's Trustee instead of J.B.'s. Gibson is determined to hold byCowan. I will not interfere, although I think Cowan's services might dous more good as Constable's Trustee than as our own, but I will notbegin with thwarting the managers of my affairs, or even exerting stronginfluence; it is not fair. These last four or five days I have wroughtlittle; to-day I set on the steam and ply my paddles._January_ 29.--The proofs of vol. i.[139] came so thick in yesterdaythat much was not done. But I began to be hard at work to-day, and mustnot _gurnalise_ much.Mr. Jollie, who is to be my trustee, in conjunction with Gibson, came tosee me:--a, pleasant and good-humoured man, and has high reputation as aman of business. I told him, and I will keep my word, that he would atleast have no trouble by my interfering and thwarting their management,which is the not unfrequent case of trusters and trustees.[140]Constable's business seems unintelligible. No man thought the houseworth less than 150,000. Constable told me when he was making his willthat he was worth 80,000. Great profits on almost all the adventures.No bad speculations--yet neither stock nor debt to show: Constable mighthave eaten up his share; but Cadell was very frugal. No doubt tradingalmost entirely on accommodation is dreadfully expensive.[141]_January_ 30.--_False delicacy_. Mr. Gibson, Mr. Cowan, Mr. J.B., werewith me last night to talk over important matters, and suggest anindividual for a certain highly confidential situation. I was led tomention a person of whom I knew nothing but that he was an honest andintelligent man. All seemed to acquiesce, and agreed to move the thingto the party concerned this morning, and so Mr. G. and Mr. C. left me,when J.B. let out that it was their unanimous opinion that we should bein great trouble were the individual appointed, from faults of temper,etc., which would make it difficult to get on with him. With a heartycurse I hurried J.B. to let them know that I had no partiality for theman whatever, and only named him because he had been proposed for asimilar situation elsewhere. This is provoking enough, that they wouldlet me embarrass my affairs with a bad man (an unfit one, I mean)rather than contradict me. I dare say great men are often used so.I laboured freely yesterday. The stream rose fast--if clearly, isanother question; but there is bulk for it, at least--about thirtyprinted pages.    "And now again, boys, to the oar."_January_ 31.--There being nothing in the roll to-day, I stay at homefrom the Court, and add another day's perfect labour to _Woodstock_,which is worth five days of snatched intervals, when the current ofthought and invention is broken in upon, and the mind shaken anddiverted from its purpose by a succession of petty interruptions. I havenow no pecuniary provisions to embarrass me, and I think, now the shockof the discovery is past and over, I am much better off on the whole; Iam as if I had shaken off from my shoulders a great mass of garments,rich, indeed, but cumbrous, and always more a burden than a comfort. Iam free of an hundred petty public duties imposed on me as a man ofconsideration--of the expense of a great hospitality--and, what isbetter, of the great waste of time connected with it. I have known, inmy day, all kinds of society, and can pretty well estimate how much orhow little one loses by retiring from all but that which is veryintimate. I sleep and eat, and work as I was wont; and if I could seethose about me as indifferent to the loss of rank as I am, I should becompletely happy. As it is, Time must salve that sore, and to Time Itrust it.Since the 14th of this month no guest has broken bread in my house saveG.H. Gordon[142] one morning at breakfast. This happened never beforesince I had a house of my own. But I have played Abou Hassan longenough; and if the Caliph came I would turn him back again.FOOTNOTES:[107] The parsimonious yet liberal London merchant, whose miserly habitsgave Arbuthnot the materials of the story. See Professor Brown's_Lectures on the Philosophy of the Human Mind_, vol i. p. 244, andMartin Scriblerns, cap. xii., Pope, vol. iv. p. 54, Edin. 1776.[108] This plantation now covers the remains of an old Roman road fromthe Great Camp on the Eildon Hills to the ford below Scott'shouse.--J.G.L.[109] The residence for several years of Mr. and Mrs. Lockhart.[110] When settling his estate on his eldest son, Sir Walter hadretained the power of burdening it with 10,000 for behoof of hisyounger children; he now raised the sum for the assistance of thestruggling firms.--J.G.L. See Dec. 14, 1825.[111] William Scrope, author of _Days of Deer Stalking_, roy. 8vo, 1839;and _Days and Nights of Salmon Fishing_, roy. 8vo, 1843; died in his81st year in 1852. Mr. Lockhart says of this enthusiastic sportsman thatat this time "he had a lease of Lord Somerville's pavilion oppositeMelrose, and lived on terms of affectionate intimacy with Sir WalterScott."[112] Mr. George Ticknor of Boston. He saw much of Scott and his familyin the spring of 1819 in Edinburgh and at Abbotsford; and was again inScotland in 1838. Both visits are well described in his journals,published in Boston in 1876.Mrs. Lockhart was of opinion that Leslie's portrait of her father wasthe best extant, "and nothing equals it except Chantrey'sbust."--Ticknor's _Life_, vol. i. p. 107.Leslie himself thought Chantrey's was the best of all the portraits."The gentle turn of the head, inclined a little forward and down, andthe lurking humour in the eye and about the mouth, are Scott'sown."--_Autobiographical Recollections of Leslie_, edited by Taylor,vol. i. p. 118.[113] ... sedet, eternumque sedebit Infelix Theseus ... VIRGIL.--J.G.L.[114] In a letter of this date to his sister-in-law, Mrs. Thomas Scott,Sir Walter says:--"Poor aunt Curle died like a Roman, or rather like oneof the Sandy-Knowe bairns, the most stoical race I ever knew. She turnedevery one out of the room, and drew her last breath alone. So did myuncle, Captain Robert Scott, and several others of that family."--J.G.L.[115] See letter addressed by C.J. Mathews to his mother, in which hesays, "I took particular notice of everything in the room (Sir Walter'ssanctum), and _if he had left me there, should certainly have read allhis notes_." _Memoirs_, edited by Dickens, 2 vols., London, 1879, vol.i. p. 284.[116] _Merchant's Tale_, lines 9706-8, slightly altered.[117] 2 _King Henry IV_., Act iv. Sc. 2.--J.G.L.[118] "I had long been in the habit of passing the Christmas with SirWalter in the country, when he had great pleasure in assembling what hecalled 'a fireside party,' where he was always disposed to indulge inthe free and unrestrained outpouring of his cheerful and convivialdisposition. Upon one of these occasions the Comedian Mathews and hisson were at Abbotsford, and most entertaining they were, giving us afull display of all their varied powers in scenic representations,narrations, songs, ventriloquism, and frolic of every description, aswell as a string of most amusing anecdote, connected with theprofessional adventures of the elder, and the travels of the son, whoseemed as much a genius as his father. He has never appeared on thestage, although abundantly fit to distinguish himself in thatdepartment, but has taken to the profession of architecture.Notwithstanding that the snow lay pretty deep on the ground, Sir Walter,old Mathews, and myself set out with the deerhounds and terriers to havea large range through the woods and high grounds; and a most amusingexcursion it was, from the difficulties which Mathews, unused to thatsort of scrambling, had to encounter, being also somewhat lame from anaccident he had met with in being thrown out of a gig,--thegood-humoured manner with which each of my two lame companions strove toget over the bad passes, their jokes upon it, alternately shouting formy assistance to help them through, and with all the liveliness of theirconversation, as every anecdote which one told was in emulation tried tobe outdone by the other by some incident equally if not moreentertaining,--and it may be well supposed that the healthful exerciseof a walk of this description disposed every one to enjoy the festivitywhich was to close the day."--_Mr. Skene's Reminiscences_.[119] See Moore's _Life of Sheridan_, vol. i. p. 191. This work waspublished late in 1825.--J.G.L.[120] Burns's _Vision_.--J.G.L.[121] Lindsay's _Chronicles of Scotland_ 2 vols. Edin. 1814, pp. 246-7.[122] Mr. Skene in his _Reminiscences_ says:--"The family had been atAbbotsford, and it had long been their practice the day they came totown to take a family dinner at my house, which had accordingly beencomplied with upon the present occasion, and I never had seen Sir Walterin better spirits or more agreeable. The fatal intimation of hisbankruptcy, however, awaited him at home, and next morning early I wassurprised by a verbal message to come to him as soon as I had got up.Fearful that he had got a fresh attack of the complaint from which hehad now for some years been free, or that he had been involved in somequarrel, I went to see him by seven o'clock, and found him already bycandle-light seated at his writing-table, surrounded by papers which hewas examining, holding out his hand to me as I entered, he said, "Skene,this is the hand of a beggar. Constable has failed, and I am ruined _defond en comble_. It's a hard blow, but I must just bear up; the onlything which wrings me is poor Charlotte and the bairns.""[123] _Crook_. The chain and hook hanging from the crook-tree over thefire in Scottish cottages.[124] [Sir Walter's private law-agent.] Mr. John Gibson, Junr., W.S.,Mr. James Jollie, W.S., and Mr. Alexander Monypenny, W.S., were thethree gentlemen who ultimately agreed to take charge, as trustees, ofSir Walter Scott's affairs; and certainly no gentlemen ever acquittedthemselves of such an office in a manner more honourable to themselves,or more satisfactory to a client and his creditors.--J.G.L. Mr. Gibsonwrote a little volume of _Reminiscences of Scott_, which was publishedin 1871. This old friend died in 1879. "In the month of January 1826,"says Mr. Gibson, "Sir Walter called upon me, and explained how mattersstood with the two houses referred to, adding that he himself was apartner in one of them--that bills were falling due and dishonoured--andthat some immediate arrangement was indispensably necessary. In suchcircumstances, only two modes of proceeding could be thought of--eitherthat he should avail himself of the Bankrupt Act, and allow his estateto be sequestrated, or that he should execute a trust conveyance forbehoof of his creditors. The latter course was preferred for variousreasons, but chiefly out of regard for his own feeling."_Reminiscences_, p. 12. See entry in Journal under Jan. 24.[125] Sir John Hope of Pinkie and Craighall, 11th Baronet; Sir HenryJardine, King's Remembrancer from 1820 to 1837; and Sir William Rae,Lord Advocate, son of Lord Eskgrove, were all Directors of the RoyalBank of Scotland.[126] John Prescott Knight, the young artist referred to, afterwardsR.A., and Secretary to the Academy, wrote (in 1871) to Sir WilliamStirling Maxwell, an interesting account of the picture and itsaccidental destruction on the very day of Sir Walter's death. _ScottExhibition Catalogue_, 4to, Edin. p. 199. Mr. Knight died in 1881.[127] To _hain_ anything is, _Anglic_, to deal very carefully,penuriously about it--_tyne_, to lose. Scott often used to say "hain apen and tyne a pen," which is nearer the proverb alluded to.--J.G.L.[128] The late Sir William Forbes, Baronet, succeeded his father (thebiographer of Beattie) as chief of the head private banking-house inEdinburgh. Scott's amiable friend died 24th Oct. 1828.--J.G.L.[129] John Adam, Esq., died on shipboard on his passage homewards fromCalcutta, 4th June 1825.--J.G.L.[130] The Right Hon. W. Adam of Blairadam, born in 1751. When trial byJury in civil cases was introduced into Scotland in 1815, he was madeChief Commissioner of the Jury Court, which office he held till 1830.Mr. Lockhart adds (_Life_, vol. v. p. 46): "This most amiable andvenerable gentleman, my dear and kind friend, died at Edinburgh, on the17th February 1839, in the 89th year of his age. He retained his strongmental faculties in their perfect vigour to the last days of this longlife, and with them all the warmth of social feelings which had endearedhim to all who were so happy as to have any opportunity of knowing him."[131] Mr. Pole had long attended Sir Walter Scott's daughters as teacherof the harp. In the end Scott always spoke of his conduct as the mostaffecting circumstance that accompanied his disasters.--J.G.L. For Mr.Pole's letter see _Life_, vol. viii. p. 205. Mr. Pole went to live inEngland and died at Kensington.[132] Scott's mother's sister. See _Life_, vols. i., iii., v., and vi.[133] Chevalier Yelin, the friend and travelling companion of BaronD'Eichthal, was a native of Bavaria. His wife had told him playfullythat he must not leave Scotland without having seen the great bard; andhe prolonged his stay in Edinburgh until Scott's return, hoping to meethim at the Royal Society on this evening.[134] On the morning of this day Sir Walter wrote the following note tohis friend:--"DEAR SKENE,--If you are disposed for a walk in your gardens any timethis morning, I would gladly accompany you for an hour, since keepingthe house so long begins rather to hurt me, and you, who supported theother day the weight of my body, are perhaps best disposed to endure thegloom of my mind.--Yours ever, W.S."CASTLE STREET, 23 _January_."I will call when you please: all hours after twelve are the same tome."On his return from this walk, Mr. Skene wrote out his recollections ofthe conversation that had taken place. Of his power to rebuild hisshattered fortunes, Scott said, "'But woe's me, I much mistrust myvigour, for the best of my energies are already expended. You have seen,my dear Skene, the Roman coursers urged to their speed by a loaded spurattached to their backs to whet the rusty metal of their ager--ay! it isa leaden spur indeed, and it goads hard.'"I added, 'But what do you think, Scott, of the bits of flaming paperthat are pasted on the flanks of the poor jades? If we could but stickcertain small documents on your back, and set fire to them, I think youmight submit for a time to the pricking of the spur.' He laughed, andsaid, 'Ay! Ay!--these weary bills, if they were but as the thing that isnot--come, cheer me up with an account of the Roman Carnival.' And,accordingly, with my endeavour to do so, he seemed as much interested asif nothing had happened to discompose the usual tenor of his mind, butstill our conversation ever and anon dropt back into the same subject,in the course of which he said to me, 'Do you know I experience a sortof determined pleasure in confronting the very worst aspect of thissudden reverse,--in standing, as it were, in the breach that hasoverthrown my fortunes, and saying, Here I stand, at least an honestman. And God knows, if I have enemies, this I may at least with truthsay, that I have never wittingly given cause of enmity in the wholecourse of my life, for even the burnings of political hate seemed tofind nothing in my nature to feed the flame. I am not conscious ofhaving borne a grudge towards any man, and at this moment of myoverthrow, so help me God, I wish well and feel kindly to every one. Andif I thought that any of my works contained a sentence hurtful to anyone's feelings, I would burn it. I think even my novels (for he did notdisown any of them) are free from that blame.'"He had been led to make this protestation from my having remarked tohim the singularly general feeling of goodwill and sympathy towards himwhich every one was anxious to testify upon the present occasion. Thesentiments of resignation and of cheerful acquiescence in thedispensation of the Almighty which he expressed were those of aChristian thankful for the blessings left, and willing, withoutostentation, to do his best. It was really beautiful to see the workingsof a strong and upright mind under the first lash of adversity calmlyreposing upon the consolation afforded by his own integrity and manfulpurposes. 'Lately,' he said, 'you saw me under the apprehension of thedecay of my mental faculties, and I confess that I was under mortal fearwhen I found myself writing one word for another, and misspelling everyword, but that wore off, and was perhaps occasioned by the effects ofthe medicine I had been taking, but have I not reason to be thankfulthat that misfortune did not assail me?--Ay! few have more reason tofeel grateful to the Disposer of all events than I have.'"--_Mr. Skene'sReminiscences._[135] "The energy with which Sir Walter had set about turning hisresources, both present and past, to immediate account, with a view toprove to his creditors, with as little delay as possible, that all thatcould depend upon himself should be put in operation to retrieve hisaffairs, made him often reluctant to quit his study however much hefound himself exhausted. However, the employment served to occupy hismind, and prevent its brooding over the misfortune which had befallenhim, and joined to the natural contentedness of his dispositionprevented any approach of despondency. 'Here is an old effort of mine tocompose a melo-drama' (showing me one day a bundle of papers which hehad found in his repositories). 'This trifle would have been long agodestroyed had it not been for our poor friend Kinnedder, who arrested myhand as he thought it not bad, and for his sake it was kept. I have justread it over, and, do you know, with some satisfaction. Faith, I haveknown many worse things make their way very well in the world, so, Godwilling, it shall e'en see the light, if it can do aught in the hour ofneed to help the hand that fashioned it.' Upon asking the name of thisproduction, he said, 'I suspect I must change it, having alreadyforestalled it by the _Fortunes of Nigel_. I had called it the _Fortunesof Devorgoil_, but we must not begin to double up in that way, for ifyou leave anything hanging loose, you may be sure that some maliciousdevil will tug at it. I think I shall call it _The Doom of Devorgoil_.It will make a volume of itself, and I do not see why it should not comeout by particular desire as a fourth volume to _Woodstock_. They havesome sort of connection, and it would not be a difficult matter to bindthe connection a little closer. As the market goes, I have no doubt ofthe Bibliopolist pronouncing it worth 1000, or 1500.' I asked him ifhe meant it for the stage. 'No, no; the stage is a sorry job, thatcourse will not do for these hard days; besides, there is too muchmachinery in the piece for the stage.' I observed that I was not sure ofthat, for pageant and machinery was the order of the day, and hadShakespeare been of this date he might have been left to die adeer-stealer. 'Well, then, with all my heart, if they can get the beastto lead or to drive, they may bring it on the stage if they like. It isa sort of goblin tale, and so was the _Castle Spectre_, which had itsrun.' I asked him if the _Castle Spectre_ had yielded Lewis much.'Little of that, in fact to its author absolutely nothing, and yet itsmerits ought to have brought something handsome to poor Mat. ButSheridan, then manager, you know, generally paid jokes instead of cash,and the joke that poor Mat got was, after all, not a bad one. Have youheard it? Don't let me tell you a story you know.' As I had not heardit, he proceeded. 'Well, they were disputing about something, and Lewishad clenched his argument by proposing to lay a bet about it. I shalllay what you ought long ago to have paid me for my _Castle, Spectre_.'"No, no, Mat," said Sheridan, "I never lay large bets; but come, I willbet a trifle with you--I'll bet what the _Castle Spectre_ was worth."Now Constable managed differently; he paid well and promptly, but deviltake him, it was all spectral together. Moonshine and no merriment. Hesowed my field with one hand, and as liberally scattered the tares withthe other.'"--_Mr. Skene's Reminiscences._[136] These two gentlemen were at this time Directors of the Bank ofScotland.[137] Sir W. Forbes and Co.'s Banking House.[138] An extract from what is probably the letter to Laidlaw written onthis day was printed in _Chambers's Journal_ for July 1845. The italicsare the editor's:--"For you, my dear friend, we must part--that is, as laird andfactor--and it rejoices me to think that your patience and endurance,which set me so good an example, are like to bring round better days.You never flattered my prosperity, and in my adversity it is not theleast painful consideration that I cannot any longer be useful to you.But Kaeside, I hope, will still be your residence, and I will have theadvantage of your company and advice, and probably your service asamanuensis. Observe, I am not in indigence, though no longer inaffluence, and if I am to exert myself in the common behalf, I must havehonorable and easy means of life, although it will be my inclination toobserve the most strict privacy, the better to save expense, and alsotime. Lady Scott's spirits were affected at first, but she is gettingbetter. _For myself, I feel_ _like the Eildon Hills--quite firm, thougha little cloudy._"I do not dislike the path which lies before me. I have seen all thatsociety can show, and enjoyed all that wealth can give me, and I amsatisfied much is vanity, if not vexation of spirit. What can I saymore, except that I will write to you the instant I know what is to bedone."[139] _Life of Bonaparte_. (?)[140] "In the management of his Trust," Mr. Gibson remarks, "everythingwent on harmoniously--the chief labour devolving upon myself, but myco-Trustees giving their valuable aid and advice whenrequired."--_Reminiscences_, p. 16.[141] The total liabilities of the three firms amounted in round numbersto nearly half-a-million sterling. Sir Walter, as the partner ofBallantyne and Co., was held responsible for about 130,000;--this largesum was ultimately paid in full by Scott and his representatives. Theother two firms paid their creditors about 10 per cent, of the amountsdue. It must be kept in mind, however, as far as Constable's house wasconcerned, that their property appears to have been foolishly sacrificedby forced sales of copyrights and stock.[142] Mr. Gordon was at this time Scott's amanuensis; he _copied_, thatis to say, the MS. for press.--J.G.L.FEBRUARY._February_ 1.--A most generous letter (though not more so than Iexpected) from Walter and Jane, offering to interpose with theirfortune, etc. God Almighty forbid! that were too unnatural in me toaccept, though dutiful and affectionate in them to offer. They talk ofIndia still. With my damaged fortune I cannot help them to remain byexchange, and so forth. He expects, if they go, to go out eldestCaptain, when, by staying two or three years, he will get the step ofMajor. His whole thoughts are with his profession, and I understand thatwhen you quit or exchange, when a regiment goes on distant ordisagreeable service, you are not accounted as serious in yourprofession; God send what is for the best! Remitted Charles a bill for40--35 advance at Christmas makes 75. He must be frugal.Attended the Court, and saw J.B. and Cadell as I returned. Both verygloomy. Came home to work, etc., about two._February_ 2.--An odd visit this morning from Miss Jane Bell of NorthShields, whose law-suit with a Methodist parson of the name of Hill madesome noise. The worthy divine had in the basest manner interfered toprevent this lady's marriage by two anonymous letters, in which hecontrived to refer the lover, to whom they were addressed, for furthercorroboration to _himself_. The whole imposition makes the subject of alittle pamphlet published by Marshall, Newcastle. The lady ventured forredress into the thicket of English law--lost one suit--gained another,with 300 damages, and was ruined. The appearance and person of MissBell are prepossessing. She is about thirty years old, a brunette, withregular and pleasing features, marked with melancholy,--an enthusiast inliterature, and probably in religion. She had been at Abbotsford to seeme, and made her way to me here, in the vain hope that she could get herstory worked up into a novel; and certainly the thing is capable ofinteresting situations. It throws a curious light upon the aristocraticor rather hieratic influence exercised by the Methodist preachers withinthe _connection_, as it is called. Admirable food this would be for the_Quarterly_, or any other reviewers who might desire to feed fat theirgrudge against these sectarians. But there are two reasons against sucha publication. First, it would do the poor sufferer no good. Secondly,it might hurt the Methodistic connection very much, which I for onewould not like to injure. They have their faults, and are peculiarlyliable to those of hypocrisy, and spiritual ambition, and priestcraft.On the other hand, they do infinite good, carrying religion into classesin society where it would scarce be found to penetrate, did it relymerely upon proof of its doctrines, upon calm reasoning, and uponrational argument. Methodists add a powerful appeal to the feelings andpassions; and though I believe this is often exaggerated into absoluteenthusiasm, yet I consider upon the whole they do much to keep alive asense of religion, and the practice of morality necessarily connectedwith it. It is much to the discredit of the Methodist clergy, that whenthis calumniator was actually convicted of guilt morally worse than manymen are hanged for, they only degraded him from the _first_ to the_second_ class of their preachers,--leaving a man who from mere hatredat Miss Bell's brother, who was a preacher like himself, had proceededin such a deep and infamous scheme to ruin the character and destroy thehappiness of an innocent person, in possession of the pulpit, and anauthorised teacher of others. If they believed him innocent they did toomuch--if guilty, far too little.[143]I wrote to my nephew Walter to-day, cautioning him against a littledisposition which he has to satire or _mchancet_, which may be a greatstumbling-block in his course in life. Otherwise I presage well of him.He is lieutenant of engineers, with high character for mathematicalscience--is acute, very well-mannered, and, I think, good-hearted. Hehas seen enough of the world too, to regulate his own course throughlife, better than most lads at his age._February_ 3.--This is the first morning since my troubles that I feltat awaking    "I had drunken deep    Of all the blessedness of sleep."[144]I made not the slightest pause, nor dreamed a single dream, nor evenchanged my side. This is a blessing to be grateful for. There is to be ameeting of the creditors to-day, but I care not for the issue. If theydrag me into the Court, _obtorto collo_, instead of going into thisscheme of arrangement, they would do themselves a great injury, and,perhaps, eventually do me good, though it would give me much pain. JamesBallantyne is severely critical on what he calls imitations of Mrs.Radcliffe in _Woodstock_. Many will think with him, yet I am of opinionhe is quite wrong, or, as friend J. F[errier] says, _vrong_[145] In thefirst place, I am to look on the mere fact of another author havingtreated a subject happily as a bird looks on a potato-bogle which scaresit away from a field otherwise as free to its depredations as any one'selse! In 2d place, I have taken a wide difference: my object is not toexcite fear of supernatural tilings in my reader, but to show the effectof such fear upon the agents in the story--one a man of sense andfirmness--one a man unhinged by remorse--one a stupid uninquiringclown--one a learned and worthy, but superstitious divine. In the thirdplace, the book turns on this hinge, and cannot want it. But I will tryto insinuate the refutation of Aldiboronti's exception into theprefatory matter.From the 19th January to the 2d February inclusive is exactly fifteendays, during which time, with the intervention of some days' idleness,to let imagination brood on the task a little, I have written a volume.I think, for a bet, I could have done it in ten days. Then I must havehad no Court of Session to take me up two or three hours every morning,and dissipate my attention and powers of working for the rest of theday. A volume, at cheapest, is worth 1000. This is working at the rateof 24,000 a year; but then we must not bake buns faster than peoplehave appetite to eat them. They are not essential to the market, likepotatoes.John Gibson came to tell me in the evening that a meeting to-day hadapproved of the proposed trust. I know not why, but the news gives melittle concern. I heard it as a party indifferent. I remember hearingthat Mandrin[146] testified some horror when he found himself boundalive on the wheel, and saw an executioner approach with a bar of ironto break his limbs. After the second and third blow he fell a-laughing,and being asked the reason by his confessor, said he laughed at his ownfolly which had anticipated increased agony at every blow, when it wasobvious that the _first_ must have jarred and confounded the system ofthe nerves so much as to render the succeeding blows of littleconsequence. I suppose it is so with the moral feelings; at least Icould not bring myself to be anxious whether these matters were settledone way or another._February_ 4.--Wrote to Mr. Laidlaw to come to town upon Monday and seethe trustees. To farm or not to farm, that is the question. With ourcareless habits, it were best, I think, to risk as little as possible.Lady Scott will not exceed with ready money in her hand; but calculatingon the produce of a farm is different, and neither she nor I are capableof that minute economy. Two cows should be all we should keep. But Ifind Lady S. inclines much for the four. If she had her youthfulactivity, and could manage things, it would be well, and would amuseher. But I fear it is too late a week.Returned from Court by Constable's, and found Cadell had fled to thesanctuary, being threatened with ultimate diligence by the Bank ofScotland. If this be a vindictive movement, it is harsh, useless, andbad of them, and flight, on the contrary, seems no good sign on hispart. I hope he won't prove his father or grandfather at Prestonpans:--    "Cadell dressed among the rest,      Wi' gun and good claymore, man,    On gelding grey he rode that day,      Wi' pistols set before, man.    The cause was gude, he'd spend his blude      Before that he would yield, man,    But the night before he left the corps,      And never faced the field, man."[147]Harden and Mrs. Scott called on Mamma. I was abroad. Henry called on me.Wrote only two pages (of manuscript) and a half to-day. As the boatswainsaid, one can't dance always _nowther_, but, were we sure of thequality of the stuff, what opportunities for labour does this samesystem of retreat afford us! I am convinced that in three years I coulddo more than in the last ten, but for the mine being, I fear, exhausted.Give me my popularity--_an awful postulate!_--and all my presentdifficulties shall be a joke in five years; and it is _not_ lost yet, atleast._February_ 5.--Rose after a sound sleep, and here am I without bile oranything to perturb my inward man. It is just about three weeks since sogreat a change took place in my relations in society, and already I amindifferent to it. But I have been always told my feelings of joy andsorrow, pleasure and pain, enjoyment and privation, are much colder thanthose of other people.     "I think the Romans call it stoicism."[148]Missie was in the drawing-room, and overheard William Clerk and melaughing excessively at some foolery or other in the back-room, to herno small surprise, which she did not keep to herself. But do peoplesuppose that he was less sorry for his poor sister,[149] or I for mylost fortune? If I have a very strong passion in the world, it is_pride_, and that never hinged upon world's gear, which was always withme--Light come, light go._February_ 6.--Letters received yesterday from Lord Montagu, JohnMorritt, and Mrs. Hughes--kind and dear friends all--with solicitousinquiries. But it is very tiresome to tell my story over again, and Ireally hope I have few more friends intimate enough to ask me for it. Idread letter-writing, and envy the old hermit of Prague, who never sawpen or ink. What then? One must write; it is a part of the law we liveon. Talking of writing, I finished my six pages, neat and handsome,yesterday. _N.B._ At night I fell asleep, and the oil dropped from thelamp upon my manuscript. Will this extreme unction make it go smoothlydown with the public?    Thus idly we "profane the sacred time"    By silly prose, light jest, and lighter rhyme.[150]I have a song to write, too, and I am not thinking of it. I trust itwill come upon me at once--a sort of catch it should be.[151] I walkedout, feeling a little overwrought. Saw Constable and turned overClarendon. Cadell not yet out of hiding. This is simple work. Obliged toborrow 240, to be refunded in spring, from John Gibson, to pay mynephew's outfit and passage to Bombay. I wish I could have got thismoney otherwise, but I must not let the orphan boy, and such a cleverfellow, miscarry through my fault. His education, etc., has been at myexpense ever since he came from America._February_ 7.--Had letters yesterday from Lady Davy and Lady LouisaStuart,[152] two very different persons. Lady Davy, daughter andco-heiress of a wealthy Antigua merchant, has been known to me all mylife. Her father was a relation of ours of a Scotch calculation. He wasof a good family, Kerr of Bloodielaws, but decayed. Miss Jane Kerrmarried first Mr. Apreece, son of a Welsh Baronet. The match was nothappy. I had lost all acquaintance with her for a long time, when abouttwenty years ago we renewed it in London. She was then a widow, gay,clever, and most actively ambitious to play a distinguished part inLondon society. Her fortune, though handsome and easy, was not largeenough to make way by dint of showy entertainments, and so forth. So shetook the _blue_ line, and by great tact and management actuallyestablished herself as a leader of literary fashion. Soon after, shevisited Edinburgh for a season or two, and studied the Northern Lights.One of the best of them, poor Jack Playfair,[153] was disposed "to shootmadly from his sphere,"[154] and, I believe, asked her, but he was alittle too old. She found a fitter husband in every respect in SirHumphry Davy, to whom she gave a handsome fortune, and whose splendidtalents and situation as President of the Royal Society gave hernaturally a distinguished place in the literary society of theMetropolis. Now this is a very curious instance of an active-mindedwoman forcing her way to the point from which she seemed furthestexcluded. For, though clever and even witty, she had no peculiaraccomplishment, and certainly no good taste either for science orletters naturally. I was once in the Hebrides with her, and I admired toobserve how amidst sea-sickness, fatigue, some danger, and a good dealof indifference as to what she saw, she gallantly maintained herdetermination to see everything.[155] It marked her strength ofcharacter, and she joined to it much tact, and always addressed peopleon the right side. So she stands high, and deservedly so, for to theseactive qualities, more French I think than English, and partaking of theCreole vivacity and suppleness of character, she adds, I believe,honourable principles and an excellent heart. As a lion-catcher, I couldpit her against the world. She flung her lasso (see Hall's _SouthAmerica_) over Byron himself. But then, poor soul, she is not happy. Shehas a temper, and Davy has a temper, and these tempers are not onetemper, but two tempers, and they quarrel like cat and dog, which maybe good for stirring up the stagnation of domestic life, but they letthe world see it, and that is not so well. Now in all this I may bethought a little harsh on my friend, but it is between my _Gurnal_ andme, and, moreover, I would cry heartily if anything were to ail mylittle cousin, though she be addicted to rule the Ceruleanatmosphere.[156] Then I suspect the cares of this as well as otherempires overbalance its pleasures. There must be difficulty in beingalways in the right humour to hold a court. There are usurpers to beencountered, and insurrections to be put down, an incessant troop,_biensances_ to be discharged, a sort of etiquette which is the curseof all courts. An old lion cannot get hamstrung quietly at four hundredmiles distance, but the Empress must send him her condolence and a potof lipsalve. To be sure the monster is consanguinean, as Sir Tobysays.[157]Looked in at Constable's coming home; Cadell emerged from Alsatia;borrowed Clarendon. Home by half-past twelve.My old friend Sir Peter Murray[158] called to offer his own assistance,Lord Justice-Clerk's, and Abercromby's, to negotiate for me a seat uponthe Bench [of the Court of Session] instead of my Sheriffdom andClerkship. I explained to him the use which I could make of my pen wasnot, I thought, consistent with that situation; and that, besides, I hadneglected the law too long to permit me to think of it; but this waskindly and honourably done. I can see people think me much worse offthan I think myself. They may be right; but I will not be beat till Ihave tried a rally, and a bold one._February_ 8.--Slept ill, and rather bilious in the morning. Many of theBench now are my juniors. I will not seek _ex eleemosyn_ a placewhich, had I turned my studies that way, I might have aspired to longago _ex meritis_. My pen should do much better for me than the odd 1000a year. If it fails, I will lean on what they leave me. Another chancemight be, if it fails, in the patronage which might, after a year ortwo, place me in Exchequer. But I do not count on this unless, indeed,the D[uke] of B[uccleuch], when he comes of age, should choose to makeplay.Got to my work again, and wrote easier than the two last days.Mr. Laidlaw[159] came in from Abbotsford and dined with us. We spent theevening in laying down plans for the farm, and deciding whom we shouldkeep and whom dismiss among the people. This we did on the truenegro-driving principle of self-interest, the only principle I knowwhich _never_ swerves from its objects. We chose all the active, young,and powerful men, turning old age and infirmity adrift. I cannot helpthis, for a guinea cannot do the work of five; but I will contrive tomake it easier to the sufferers._February_ 9.--A stormy morning, lowering and blustering, like ourfortunes. _Mea virtute me involvo._ But I must say to the Muse offiction, as the Earl of Pembroke said to the ejected nuns of Wilton, "Gospin, you jades, go spin!" Perhaps she has no _tow_ on her _rock_.[160]When I was at Kilkenny last year we went to see a nunnery, but could notconverse with the sisters because they were in strict retreat. I wasdelighted with the red-nosed Padre, who showed us the place with a sortof proud, unctuous humiliation, and apparent dereliction of the world,that had to me the air of a complete Tartuffe; a strong, sanguine,square-shouldered son of the Church, whom a Protestant would be apt towarrant against any sufferings he was like to sustain by privation. Mypurpose, however, just now was to talk of the "strict retreat," whichdid not prevent the nuns from walking in their little garden, breviaryin hand, peeping at us, and allowing us to peep at them. Well, now, _we_are in _strict retreat_; and if we had been so last year, instead ofgallivanting to Ireland, this affair might not have befallen--ifliterary labour could have prevented it. But who could have suspectedConstable's timbers to have been rotten from the beginning?Visited the Exhibition on my way home from the Court. The new rooms aremost splendid, and several good pictures. The Institution has subsistedbut five years, and it is astonishing how much superior the worst of thepresent collection are to the teaboard-looking things which firstappeared. John Thomson, of Duddingston, has far the finest picture inthe Exhibition, of a large size--subject _Dunluce_, a ruinous castle ofthe Antrim family, near the Giant's Causeway, with one of those terribleseas and skies which only Thomson can paint. Found Scrope thereimproving a picture of his own, an Italian scene in Calabria. He is, Ithink, greatly improved, and one of the very best amateur painters Iever saw--Sir George Beaumont scarcely excepted. Yet, hang it, _I do_except Sir George.I would not write to-day after I came home. I will not say could not,for it is not true; but I was lazy; felt the desire _far niente_, whichis the sign of one's mind being at ease. I read _The English inItaly_,[161] which is a clever book.Byron used to kick and frisk more contemptuously against the literarygravity and slang than any one I ever knew who had climbed so high.Then, it is true, I never knew any one climb so high; and before youdespise the eminence, carrying people along with you, as convinced thatyou are not playing the fox and the grapes, you must be at the top.Moore told me some delightful stories of him. One was that while theystood at the window of Byron's Palazzo in Venice, looking at a beautifulsunset, Moore was naturally led to say something of its beauty, whenByron answered in a tone that I can easily conceive, "Oh! come, d--n me,Tom, don't be poetical." Another time, standing with Moore on thebalcony of the same Palazzo, a gondola passed with two Englishgentlemen, who were easily distinguished by their appearance. They casta careless look at the balcony and went on. Byron crossed his arms, andhalf stooping over the balcony said, "Ah! d--n ye, if ye had known whattwo fellows you were staring at, you would have taken a longer look atus." This was the man, quaint, capricious, and playful, with all hisimmense genius. He wrote from impulse, never from effort; and thereforeI have always reckoned Burns and Byron the most genuine poeticalgeniuses of my time, and half a century before me. We have, however,many men of high poetical talent, but none, I think, of thatever-gushing and perennial fountain of natural water.Mr. Laidlaw dined with us. Says Mr. Gibson told him he would dispose ofmy affairs, were it any but S.W.S.[162] No doubt, so should I, and amwellnigh doing so at any rate. But, _fortuna juvante!_ much may beachieved. At worst, the prospect is not very discouraging to one whowants little. Methinks I have been like Burns's poor labourer,    "So constantly in Ruin's sight,    The view o't gives me little fright."_[Edinburgh,] February_ 10.--Went through, for a new day, the task ofbuttoning, which seems to me somehow to fill up more of my morning thanusual--not, certainly, that such is really the case, but that my mindattends to the process, having so little left to hope or fear. The halfhour between waking and rising has all my life proved propitious to anytask which was exercising my invention.[163] When I get over any knottydifficulty in a story, or have had in former times to fill up a passagein a poem, it was always when I first opened my eyes that the desiredideas thronged upon me. This is so much the case that I am in the habitof relying upon it, and saying to myself, when I am at a loss, "Nevermind, we shall have it at seven o'clock to-morrow morning." If I haveforgot a circumstance, or a name, or a copy of verses, it is the samething. There is a passage about this sort of matutinal inspiration inthe Odyssey,[164] which would make a handsome figure here if I couldread or write Greek. I will look into Pope for it, who, ten to one, willnot tell me the real translation. I think the first hour of the morningis also favourable to the bodily strength. Among other feats, when I wasa young man, I was able at times to lift a smith's anvil with one hand,by what is called the _horn_, or projecting piece of iron on whichthings are beaten to turn them round. But I could only do this beforebreakfast, and shortly after rising. It required my full strength,undiminished by the least exertion, and those who choose to try it willfind the feat no easy one. This morning I had some good ideas respecting_Woodstock_ which will make the story better. The devil of a difficultyis, that one puzzles the skein in order to excite curiosity, and thencannot disentangle it for the satisfaction of the prying fiend they haveraised. A letter from Sir James Mackintosh of condolence, prettilyexpressed, and which may be sung to the old tune of "Welcome, welcome,brother Debtor." A brother son of chivalry dismounted by mischance issure to excite the compassion of one laid on the arena before him.Yesterday I had an anecdote from old Sir James Steuart Denham,[165]which is worth writing down. His uncle, Lord Elcho, was, as is wellknown, engaged in the affair of 1745. He was dissatisfied with theconduct of matters from beginning to end. But after the left wing of theHighlanders was repulsed and broken at Culloden, Elcho rode up to theChevalier and told him all was lost, and that nothing remained except tocharge at the head of two thousand men, who were still unbroken, andeither turn the fate of the day or die sword in hand, as became hispretensions. The Chevalier gave him some evasive answer, and, turninghis horse's head, rode off the field. Lord Elcho called after him (Iwrite the very words), "There you go for a damned cowardly Italian," andnever would see him again, though he lost his property and remained anexile in the cause. Lord Elcho left two copies of his memoirs, one withSir James Steuart's family, one with Lord Wemyss. This is betterevidence than the romance of Chevalier Johnstone; and I have littledoubt it is true. Yet it is no proof of the Prince's cowardice, thoughit shows him to have been no John of Gaunt. Princes are constantlysurrounded with people who hold up their own _life_ and _safety_ to themas by far the most important stake in any contest; and this is adoctrine in which conviction is easily received. Such an eminent personfinds everybody's advice, save here and there that of a desperate Elcho,recommend obedience to the natural instinct of self-preservation, whichvery often men of inferior situations find it difficult to combat, whenall the world are crying to them to get on and be damned, instead ofencouraging them to run away. At Prestonpans the Chevalier offered tolead the van, and he was with the second line, which, during that briefaffair, followed the first very close. Johnstone's own account,carefully read, brings him within a pistol-shot of the first line. Atthe same time, Charles Edward had not a head or heart for great things,notwithstanding his daring adventure; and the Irish officers, by whom hewas guided, were poor creatures. Lord George Murray was the soul of theundertaking.[166]_February 11_.--Court sat till half-past one. I had but a trifle to do,so wrote letters to Mrs. Maclean Clephane and nephew Walter. Sent thelast, 40 in addition to 240 sent on the 6th, making his full equipment280. A man, calling himself Charles Gray of Carse, wrote to me,expressing sympathy for my misfortunes, and offering me half the profitsof what, if I understand him right, is a patent medicine, to which Isuppose he expects me to stand trumpeter. He endeavours to get over myobjections to accepting his liberality (supposing me to entertain them)by assuring me his conduct is founded on a _sage selfishness_. This isdiverting enough. I suppose the Commissioners of, Police will next sendme a letter of condolence, begging my acceptance of a broom, a shovel,and a scavenger's greatcoat, and assuring me that they had appointed meto all the emoluments of a well-frequented crossing. It would be doingmore than they have done of late for the cleanliness of the streets,which, witness my shoes, are in a piteous pickle. I thanked the selfishsage with due decorum--for what purpose can anger serve? I remember oncebefore, a mad woman, from about Alnwick, baited me with letters andplans--first for charity to herself or some _protg_. I gave my guinea.Then she wanted to have half the profit of a novel which I was topublish under my name and auspices. She sent me the manuscript, and a_moving_ tale it was, for some of the scenes lay in the _cabinet l'eau._ I declined the partnership. Lastly, my fair correspondentinsisted I was a lover of speculation, and would be much profited bygoing shares in a patent medicine which she had invented for the benefitof little babies, I believe. I dreaded to have anything to do with sucha Herod-like affair, and begged to decline the honour of hercorrespondence in future. I should have thought the thing a quiz, butthat the novel was real and substantial. Anne goes to Ravelston to-dayto remain to-morrow. Sir Alexander Don called, and we had a good laughtogether._February_ 12.--Having ended the second volume of _Woodstock_ lastnight, I have to begin the third this morning. Now I have not theslightest idea how the story is to be wound up to a catastrophe. I amjust in the same case as I used to be when I lost myself in former daysin some country to which I was a stranger. I always pushed for thepleasantest road, and either found or made it the nearest. It is thesame in writing, I never could lay down a plan--or, having laid it down,I never could adhere to it; the action of composition always dilutedsome passages, and abridged or omitted others; and personages wererendered important or insignificant, not according to their agency inthe original conception of the plan, but according to the success, orotherwise, with which I was able to bring them out. I only tried to makethat which I was actually writing diverting and interesting, leaving therest to fate. I have been often amused with the critics distinguishingsome passages as particularly laboured, when the pen passed over thewhole as fast as it could move, and the eye never again saw them, exceptin proof. Verse I write twice, and sometimes three times over. This maybe called in Spanish the _Dar donde diere_ mode of composition, inEnglish _hab nab at a venture_; it is a perilous style, I grant, but Icannot help it. When I chain my mind to ideas which are purelyimaginative--for argument is a different thing--it seems to me that thesun leaves the landscape, that I think away the whole vivacity andspirit of my original conception, and that the results are cold, tame,and spiritless. It is the difference between a written oration and onebursting from the unpremeditated exertions of the speaker, which havealways something the air of enthusiasm and inspiration. I would not haveyoung authors imitate my carelessness, however; _consilium non currumeape_.Read a few pages of Will D'Avenant, who was fond of having it supposedthat Shakespeare intrigued with his mother. I think the pretension canonly be treated as Phaeton's was, according to Fielding's farce--    "Besides, by all the village boys I'm shamed,    You, the sun's son, you rascal?--you be damn'd."Egad--I'll put that into _Woodstock_.[167] It might come well from theold admirer of Shakespeare. Then Fielding's lines were not written. Whatthen?--it is an anachronism for some sly rogue to detect. Besides, it iseasy to swear they were written, and that Fielding adopted them fromtradition. Walked with Skene on the Calton Hill._February_ 13.--The Institution for the Encouragment of the Fine Artsopens to-day, with a handsome entertainment in the Exhibition-room, asat Somerset House. It strikes me that the direction given by amateursand professors to their _protgs_ and pupils, who aspire to be artists,is upon a pedantic and false principle. All the Fine Arts have it fortheir highest and more legitimate end and purpose, to affect the humanpassions, or smooth and alleviate for a time the more unquiet feelingsof the mind--to excite wonder, or terror, or pleasure, or emotion ofsome kind or other. It often happens that, in the very rise and originof these arts, as in the instance of Homer, the principal object isobtained in a degree not equalled by his successors. But there is adegree of execution which, in more refined times, the poet or musicianbegins to study, which gives a value of its own to their productions ofa different kind from the rude strength of their predecessors. Poetrybecomes complicated in its rules--music learned in its cadences andharmonies--rhetoric subtle in its periods. There is more given to thelabour of executing--less attained by the effect produced. Still thenobler and popular end of these arts is not forgotten; and if we havesome productions too learned, too _recherchs_ for public feeling, wehave, every now and then, music that electrifies a whole assembly,eloquence which shakes the forum, and poetry which carries men up to thethird heaven. But in painting it is different; it is all become amystery, the secret of which is lodged in a few connoisseurs, whoseobject is not to praise the works of such painters as produce effect onmankind at large, but to class them according to their proficiency inthe inferior rules of the art, which, though most necessary to be taughtand learned, should yet only be considered as the _Gradus adParnassum_--the steps by which the higher and ultimate object of a greatpopular effect is to be attained. They have all embraced the very styleof criticism which induced Michael Angelo to call some Pope a poorcreature, when, turning his attention from the general effect of a noblestatue, his Holiness began to criticise the hem of the robe. This seemsto me the cause of the decay of this delightful art, especially inhistory, its noblest branch. As I speak to myself, I may say that apainting should, to be excellent, have something to say to the mind of aman, like myself, well-educated, and susceptible of those feelings whichanything strongly recalling natural emotion is likely to inspire. Buthow seldom do I see anything that moves me much! Wilkie, the far morethan Teniers of Scotland, certainly gave many new ideas. So does WillAllan, though overwhelmed with their rebukes about colouring andgrouping, against which they are not willing to place his general andoriginal merits. Landseer's dogs were the most magnificent things I eversaw--leaping, and bounding, and grinning on the canvas. Leslie has greatpowers; and the scenes from Moliere by [Newton] are excellent. Yetpainting wants a regenerator--some one who will sweep the cobwebs out ofhis head before he takes the palette, as Chantrey has done in the sisterart. At present we are painting pictures from the ancients, as authorsin the days of Louis Quatorze wrote epic poems according to the recipeof Madame Dacier and Co. The poor reader or spectator has no remedy; thecompositions are _secundum artem_, and if he does not like them, he isno judge--that's all._February 14_--I had a call from Glengarry[168] yesterday, as kind andfriendly as usual. This gentleman is a kind of Quixote in our age,having retained, in their full extent, the whole feelings of clanshipand chieftainship, elsewhere so long abandoned. He seems to have lived acentury too late, and to exist, in a state of complete law and order,like a Glengarry of old, whose will was law to his sept. Warmhearted,generous, friendly, he is beloved by those who know him, and his effortsare unceasing to show kindness to those of his clan who are disposedfully to admit his pretensions. To dispute them is to incur hisresentment, which has sometimes broken out in acts of violence whichhave brought him into collision with the law. To me he is a treasure, asbeing full of information as to the history of his own clan, and themanners and customs of the Highlanders in general. Strong, active, andmuscular, he follows the chase of the deer for days and nights together,sleeping in his plaid when darkness overtakes him in the forest. He wasfortunate in marrying a daughter of Sir William Forbes, who, by yieldingto his peculiar ideas in general, possesses much deserved influence withhim. The number of his singular exploits would fill a volume[169]; for,as his pretensions are high, and not always willingly yielded to, he isevery now and then giving rise to some rumour. He is, on many of theseoccasions, as much sinned against as sinning; for men, knowing histemper, sometimes provoke him, conscious that Glengarry, from hischaracter for violence, will always be put in the wrong by the public. Ihave seen him behave in a very manly manner when thus tempted. He has oflate prosecuted a quarrel, ridiculous enough in the present day, to havehimself admitted and recognised as Chief of the whole Clan Ranald, orsurname of Macdonald. The truth seems to be, that the present Clanranaldis not descended from a legitimate Chieftain of the tribe; for, havingaccomplished a revolution in the sixteenth century, they adopted aTanist, or Captain--that is, a Chief not in the direct line ofsuccession, a certain Ian Moidart, or John of Moidart, who took thetitle of Captain of Clanranald, with all the powers of Chief, and evenGlengarry's ancestor recognised them as chiefs _de facto_ if not _dejure_. The fact is, that this elective power was, in cases of insanity,imbecility, or the like, exercised by the Celtic tribes; and though IanMoidart was no chief by birth, yet by election he became so, andtransmitted his power to his descendants, as would King William III., ifhe had had any. So it is absurd to set up the _jus sanguinis_ now, whichGlengarry's ancestors did not, or could not, make good, when it was aright worth combating for. I wrought out my full task yesterday.Saw Cadell as I returned from the Court. He seems dejected, apprehensiveof another trustee being preferred to Cowan, and gloomy about the extentof stock of novels, etc., on hand. He infected me with his want ofspirits, and I almost wish my wife had not asked Mr. Scrope and CharlesK. Sharpe for this day. But the former sent such loads of game that LadyScott's gratitude became ungovernable. I have not seen a creature atdinner since the direful 17th January, except my own family and Mr.Laidlaw. The love of solitude increases by indulgence; I hope it willnot diverge into misanthropy. It does not mend the matter that this isthe first day that a ticket for sale is on my house. Poor No. 39.[170]One gets accustomed even to stone walls, and the place suited me verywell. All our furniture, too, is to go--a hundred little articles thatseemed to me connected with all the happier years of my life. It is asorry business. But _sursum corda_.My two friends came as expected, also Missie, and stayed till half-pastten. Promised Sharpe the set of Piranesi's views in the dining-parlour.They belonged to my uncle, so I do not like to sell them.[171]_February_ 15.--Yesterday I did not write a line of _Woodstock_. Partly,I was a little out of spirits, though that would not have hindered.Partly, I wanted to wait for some new ideas--a sort of collecting ofstraw to make bricks of. Partly, I was a little too far beyond thepress. I cannot pull well in long traces, when the draught is too farbehind me. I love to have the press thumping, clattering, and banging inmy rear; it creates the necessity which almost always makes me workbest. Needs must when the devil drives--and drive he does even accordingto the letter. I must work to-day, however. Attended a meeting of theFaculty about our new library. I spoke--saying that I hoped we would nowat length act upon a general plan, and look forward to commencing uponsuch a scale as would secure us at least for a century against the pettyand partial management, which we have hitherto thought sufficient, offitting up one room after another. Disconnected and distant, these havebeen costing large sums of money from time to time, all now thrown away.We are now to have space enough for a very large range of buildings,which we may execute in a simple taste, leaving Government to ornamentthem if they shall think proper--otherwise, to be plain, modest, andhandsome, and capable of being executed by degrees, and in suchportions as convenience may admit of.Poor James Hogg, the Ettrick Shepherd, came to advise with me about hisaffairs,--he is sinking under the times; having no assistance to givehim, my advice, I fear, will be of little service. I am sorry for him ifthat would help him, especially as, by his own account, a couple ofhundred pounds would carry him on._February_ 16.---"Misfortune's gowling bark"[172] comes louder andlouder. By assigning my whole property to trustees for behoof ofcreditors, with two works in progress and nigh publication, and with allmy future literary labours, I conceived I was bringing into the field alarge fund of payment, which could not exist without my exertions, andthat thus far I was entitled to a corresponding degree of indulgence. Itherefore supposed, on selling this house, and various other property,and on receiving the price of _Woodstock_ and _Napoleon_, that theywould give me leisure to make other exertions, and be content with therents of Abbotsford, without attempting a sale. This would have been themore reasonable, as the very printing of these works must amount to alarge sum, of which they will reap the profits. In the course of thisdelay I supposed I was to have the chance of getting some insight bothinto Constable's affairs and those of Hurst and Robinson. Nay, employingthese houses, under precautions, to sell the works, the publisher'sprofit would have come in to pay part of their debts. But Gibson lastnight came in after dinner, and gave me to understand that the Bank ofScotland see this in a different point of view, and consider mycontribution of the produce of past, present, and future labours, ascompensated in full by their accepting of the trust-deed, instead ofpursuing the mode of sequestration, and placing me in the _Gazette_.They therefore expected the trustees instantly to commence a law-suitto reduce the marriage settlement, which settles the estate upon Walter,thus loading me with a most expensive suit, and, I suppose, sellinglibrary and whatever they can lay hold on.Now this seems unequal measure, and would besides of itself totallydestroy any power of fancy or genius, if it deserves the name, which mayremain to me. A man cannot write in the House of Correction; and thisspecies of _peine forte et dure_ which is threatened would render itimpossible for one to help himself or others. So I told Gibson I had mymind made up as far back as the 24th of January, not to suffer myself tobe harder pressed than law would press me. If this great commercialcompany, through whose hands I have directed so many thousands, thinkthey are right in taking every advantage and giving none, it must be mycare to see that they take none but what law gives them. If they takethe sword of the law, I must lay hold of the shield. If they aredetermined to consider me as an irretrievable bankrupt, they have notitle to object to my settling upon the usual terms which the Statuterequires. They probably are of opinion that I will be ashamed to do thisby applying publicly for a sequestration. Now, my feelings aredifferent. I am ashamed to owe debts I cannot pay; but I am not ashamedof being classed with those to whose rank I belong. The disgrace is inbeing an actual bankrupt, not in being made a legal one. I had like tohave been too hasty in this matter. I must have a clear understandingthat I am to be benefited or indulged in some way, if I bring in twosuch funds as those works in progress, worth certainly from 10,000 to15,000.Clerk came in last night and drank wine and water.Slept ill, and bilious in the morning. _N.B._--I smoked a cigar, thefirst for this present year, yesterday evening._February_ 17.--Slept sound, for Nature repays herself for the vexationthe mind sometimes gives her. This morning put interlocutors on severalSheriff-Court processes from Selkirkshire. Gibson came to-night to saythat he had spoken at full length with Alexander Monypenny, proposed astrustee on the part of the Bank of Scotland, and found him decidedly infavour of the most moderate measures, and taking burthen on himself forthe Bank of Scotland proceeding with such lenity as might enable me tohave some time and opportunity to clear these affairs out. I reposetrust in Mr. M. entirely. His father, old Colonel Monypenny, was myearly friend, kind and hospitable to me when I was a mere boy. He hadmuch of old Withers about him, as expressed in Pope's epitaph--    "O youth in arms approved!    O soft humanity in age beloved."[173]His son David, and a younger brother, Frank, a soldier who perished bydrowning on a boating party from Gibraltar, were my school-fellows; andwith the survivor, now Lord Pitmilly,[174] I have always kept up afriendly intercourse. Of this gentleman, on whom my fortunes are todepend, I know little. He was Colin Mackenzie's partner in businesswhile my friend pursued it, and he speaks highly of him: that's a greatdeal. He is secretary to the Pitt Club, and we have had all our livesthe habit _idem sentire de republica_: that's much too. Lastly, he is aman of perfect honour and reputation; and I have nothing to ask whichsuch a man would not either grant or convince me was unreasonable. Ihave, to be sure, some of my constitutional and hereditary obstinacy;but it is in me a dormant quality. Convince my understanding, and I amperfectly docile; stir my passions by coldness or affronts, and thedevil would not drive me from my purpose. Let me record, I have strivenagainst this besetting sin. When I was a boy, and on foot expeditions,as we had many, no creature could be so indifferent which way our coursewas directed, and I acquiesced in what any one proposed; but if I wasonce driven to make a choice, and felt piqued in honour to maintain myproposition, I have broken off from the whole party, rather than yieldto any one. Time has sobered this pertinacity of mind; but it stillexists, and I must be on my guard against it.It is the same with me in politics. In general I care very little aboutthe matter, and from year's end to year's end have scarce a thoughtconnected with them, except to laugh at the fools who think to makethemselves great men out of little, by swaggering in the rear of aparty. But either actually important events, or such as seemed so bytheir close neighbourhood to me, have always hurried me off my feet, andmade me, as I have sometimes afterwards regretted, more forward and moreviolent than those who had a regular jog-trot way of busying themselvesin public matters. Good luck; for had I lived in troublesome times, andchanced to be on the unhappy side, I had been hanged to a certainty.What I have always remarked has been, that many who have hallooed me onat public meetings, and so forth, have quietly left me to the odiumwhich a man known to the public always has more than his own share of;while, on the other hand, they were easily successful in pressing beforeme, who never pressed forward at all, when there was any distribution ofpublic favours or the like. I am horribly tempted to interfere in thisbusiness of altering the system of banks in Scotland; and yet I knowthat if I can attract any notice, I will offend my English friendswithout propitiating one man in Scotland. I will think of it tillto-morrow. It is making myself of too much importance after all._February_ 18.--I set about Malachi Malagrowther's Letter on the latedisposition to change everything in Scotland to an English model, butwithout resolving about the publication. They do treat us veryprovokingly.    "O Land of Cakes! said the Northern bard,      Though all the world betrays thee,    One faithful pen thy rights shall guard,      One faithful harp shall praise thee."[175]Called on the Lord Chief Commissioner, who, understanding there was ahitch in our arrangements, had kindly proposed to execute an arrangementfor my relief. I could not, I think, have thought of it at any rate. Butit is unnecessary._February_ 19.--Finished my letter (Malachi Malagrowther) this morning,and sent it to James B., who is to call with the result this forenoon. Iam not very anxious to get on with _Woodstock_. I want to see whatConstable's people mean to do when they have their trustee. For anunfinished work they must treat with the author. It is the old story ofthe varnish spread over the picture, which nothing but the artist's ownhand could remove. A finished work might be seized under some legalpretence.Being troubled with thick-coming fancies, and a slight palpitation ofthe heart, I have been reading the Chronicle of the Good Knight MessireJacques de Lalain--curious, but dull, from the constant repetition ofthe same species of combats in the same style and phrase. It is likewashing bushels of sand for a grain of gold. It passes the time,however, especially in that listless mood when your mind is half on yourbook, half on something else. You catch something to arrest theattention every now and then, and what you miss is not worth going backupon; idle man's studies, in short. Still things occur to one. Somethingmight be made out of the Pass or Fountain of Tears,[176] a tale ofchivalry,--taken from the Passages of Arms, which Jacques de Lalainmaintained for the first day of every month for a twelvemonth.[177] Thefirst mention perhaps of red-hot balls appears in the siege of Oudenardeby the citizens of Ghent. _Chronique_, p. 293. This would be lightsummer work.J.B. came and sat an hour. I led him to talk of _Woodstock_; and, to saytruth, his approbation did me much good. I am aware it _may_--nay,_must_--be partial; yet is he Tom Tell-truth, and totally unable todisguise his real feelings.[178] I think I make no habit of feeding onpraise, and despise those whom I see greedy for it, as much as I shouldan under-bred fellow, who, after eating a cherry-tart, proceeded to lickthe plate. But when one is flagging, a little praise (if it can be hadgenuine and unadulterated by flattery, which is as difficult to come byas the genuine mountain-dew) is a cordial after all. So now--_vamoscorazon_--let us atone for the loss of the morning._February_ 20.--Yesterday, though late in beginning, I nearly finishedmy task, which is six of my close pages, about thirty pages of print,to a full and uninterrupted day's work. To-day I have already writtenfour, and with some confidence. Thus does flattery or praise oil thewheels. It is but two o'clock. Skene was here remonstrating against mytaking apartments at the Albyn Club,[179] and recommending that I shouldrather stay with them.[180] I told him that was altogether impossible; Ihoped to visit them often, but for taking a permanent residence I wasaltogether the country mouse, and voted for    "--A hollow tree,    A crust of bread and liberty."[181]The chain of friendship, however bright, does not stand the attrition ofconstant close contact._February_ 21.--Corrected the proofs of _Malachi_[182] this morning; itmay fall dead, and there will be a squib lost; it may chance to light onsome ingredients of national feeling and set folk's beards in ablaze--and so much the better if it does. I mean better forScotland--not a whit for me. Attended the hearing in P[arliament] Housetill near four o'clock, so I shall do little to-night, for I am tiredand sleepy. One person talking for a long time, whether in pulpit or atthe bar, or anywhere else, unless the interest be great, and theeloquence of the highest character, always sets me to sleep. Iimpudently lean my head on my hand in the Court and take my nap withoutshame. The Lords may keep awake and mind their own affairs. _Quod supranos nihil ad nos._ These clerks' stools are certainly as easy seats asare in Scotland, those of the Barons of Exchequer always excepted._February_ 22.--Paid Lady Scott her fortnight's allowance, 24.Ballantyne breakfasted, and is to negotiate about _Malachi_ withConstable and Blackwood. It reads not amiss; and if I can get a fewguineas for it I shall not be ashamed to take them; for paying LadyScott, I have just left between 3 and 4 for any necessary occasionand my salary does not become due until 20th March, and the expense ofremoving, etc., is to be provided for:    "But shall we go mourn for that, my dear?      The cold moon shines by night,    And when we wander here and there,      We then do go most right."[183]The mere scarcity of money (so that actual wants are provided) is notpoverty--it is the bitter draft to owe money which we cannot pay.Laboured fairly at _Woodstock_ to-day, but principally in revising andadding to _Malachi_, of which an edition as a pamphlet is anxiouslydesired. I have lugged in my old friend Cardrona[184]--I hope it willnot be thought unkindly. The Banks are anxious to have it published.They were lately exercising lenity towards me, and if I can benefitthem, it will be an instance of the "King's errand lying in the cadger'sgate."_February_ 23.--Corrected two sheets of _Woodstock_ this morning. Theseare not the days of idleness. The fact is, that the not seeing companygives me a command of my time which I possessed at no other period in mylife, at least since I knew how to make some use of my leisure. There isa great pleasure in sitting down to write with the consciousness thatnothing will occur during the day to break the spell. Detained in theCourt till past three, and came home just in time to escape a terriblesquall. I am a good deal jaded, and will not work till after dinner.There is a sort of drowsy vacillation of mind attends fatigue with me. Ican command my pen as the school copy recommends, but cannot equallycommand my thought, and often write one word for another. Read a littlevolume called _The_ _Omen_[185]--very well written--deep and powerfullanguage. _Aut Erasmus aut Diabolus_, it is Lockhart or I am strangelydeceived. It is passed for Wilson's though, but Wilson has more of thefalsetto of assumed sentiment, less of the depth of gloomy and powerfulfeeling._February_ 24.--Went down to printing-office after the Court, andcorrected _Malachi_. J.B.'s name is to be on the imprint, so he willsubscribe the book. He reproaches me with having taken much more painson this temporary pamphlet than on works which have a greater intereston my fortunes. I have certainly bestowed enough of revision andcorrection. But the cases are different. In a novel or poem, I run thecourse alone--here I am taking up the cudgels, and may expect a drubbingin return. Besides, I do feel that this is public matter in which thecountry is deeply interested; and, therefore, is far more important thananything referring to my fame or fortune alone. The pamphlet will soonbe out--meantime _Malachi_ prospers and excites much attention.[186] TheBanks have bespoke 500 copies. The country is taking the alarm; and Ithink the Ministers will not dare to press the measure. I should rejoiceto see the old red lion ramp a little, and the thistle again claim its_nemo me impune_. I do believe Scotsmen will show themselves unanimousat least where their cash is concerned. They shall not want backing. Iincline to cry with Biron in _Love's Labour's Lost_,    "More Ats, more Ats! stir them on."I suppose all imaginative people feel more or less of excitation from ascene of insurrection or tumult, or of general expression of nationalfeeling. When I was a lad, poor Davie Douglas[187] used to accuse me ofbeing _cupidus novarum rerum_, and say that I loved the stimulus of abroil. It might be so then, and even still--    "Even in our ashes glow their wonted fires."[188]Whimsical enough that when I was trying to animate Scotland against thecurrency bill, John Gibson brought me the deed of trust, assigning mywhole estate to be subscribed by me; so that I am turning patriot, andtaking charge of the affairs of the country, on the very day I wasproclaiming myself incapable of managing my own. What of that? Theeminent politician, _Quidnunc_,[189] was in the same condition. Whowould think of their own trumpery debts, when they are taking thesupport of the whole system of Scottish banking on their shoulders? Oddenough too--on this day, for the first time since the awful 17thJanuary, we entertain at dinner--Lady Anna Maria Elliot,[190] W. Clerk,John A. Murray,[191] and Thomas Thomson,[192] as if we gave a dinner onaccount of my _cessio fori_._February_ 25.--Our party yesterday went off very gaily; much laugh andfun, and I think I enjoyed it more from the rarity of the event--I meanfrom having seen society at home so seldom of late. My head achesslightly though; yet we were but a bottle of Champagne, one of Port, oneof old Sherry, and two of Claret, among four gentlemen and three ladies.I have been led from this incident to think of taking chambers nearClerk, in Rose Court.[193] Methinks the retired situation should suit mewell. There a man and woman would be my whole establishment. Mysuperfluous furniture might serve, and I could ask a friend or two todinner, as I have been accustomed to do. I will look at the placeto-day.I must set now to a second epistle of _Malachi_ to the Athenians. If Ican but get the sulky Scottish spirit set up, the devil won't turn them.    "Cock up your beaver, and cock it fu' sprush;    We'll over the Border, and give them a brush;    There's somebody there we'll teach better behaviour;    Hey, Johnnie lad, cock up your beaver."[194]_February_ 26.--Spent the morning and till dinner on _Malachi's_ secondepistle to the Athenians. It is difficult to steer betwixt the naturalimpulse of one's national feelings setting in one direction, and theprudent regard to the interests of the empire and its internal peace andquiet, recommending less vehement expression. I will endeavour to keepsight of both. But were my own interests alone concerned, d--n me but Iwould give it them hot! Had some valuable communications from ColinMackenzie and Lord Medwyn, which will supply my plentiful lack of facts.Received an anonymous satire in doggrel, which, having read the firstverse and last, I committed to the flames. Peter Murray, son of theclever Lord Elibank, called and sat half-an-hour--an old friend, andwho, from the peculiarity and originality of his genius, is one of themost entertaining companions I have ever known.[195] But I must finish_Malachi_._February_ 27.--_Malachi_ is getting on; I must finish him to-night. Idare say some of my London friends will be displeased--Canning perhaps,for he is _engou_ of Huskisson. Can't help it.The place I looked at won't do; but I really must get some lodging, for,reason or none, Dalgleish[196] will not leave me, and cries and makes ascene. Now if I stayed alone in a little set of chambers, he would servegreatly for my accommodation. There are some nice places of the kind inthe. New Buildings, but they are distant from the Court, and I cannotwalk well on the pavement. It is odd enough that just when I had made aresolution to use my coach frequently I ceased to keep one--in town atleast._February_ 28.--Completed _Malachi_ to-day. It is more serious than thefirst, and in some places perhaps too peppery. Never mind, if you wouldhave a horse kick, make a crupper out of a whin-cow,[197] and I trust tosee Scotland kick and fling to some purpose. _Woodstock_ lies back forthis. But _quid non pro patria_?FOOTNOTES:[143] _Cause of Truth defended_, etc. Two Trials of the Rev. T. Hill,Methodist Preacher, for defamation of the character of Miss Bell, etc.etc. 8vo. Hull and London, 1827.[144] Coleridge's _Christabel_, Part II.[145] James Ferrier, one of the Clerks of Session,--the father of theauthoress of _Marriage, The Inheritance_, and _Destiny_. Mr. Ferrier wasborn in 1744, and died in 1829.[146] "Authentic Memoirs of the remarkable Life and surprising Exploitsof Mandrin, Captain-General of the French Smugglers, who for the spaceof nine months resolutely stood in defiance of the whole army ofFrance," etc. 8vo, Lond. 1755. See _Waverley Novels_, vol. xxxvii. p.434, Note.--J.G.L.[147] See _Tranent Muir_ by Skirving.[148] Addison, _Cato_, i. 4.[149] See p. 83.[150] Variation from 2 _Henry IV._, Act II. Sc. 4.[151] _See_ "Glee for King Charles," _Waverley Novels_, vol. xl. p.40.--J.G.L.[152] Lady Louisa Stuart, youngest daughter of John, third Earl of Bute,and grand-daughter of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu.[153] The well-known Mathematician and Natural Philosopher. ProfessorPlayfair died in 1819 in his seventy-second year.  Have you seen the famed Bas bleu, the gentle dame Apreece,  Who at a glance shot through and through the Scots Review,    And changed its swans to geese?  Playfair forgot his mathematics, astronomy, and hydrostatics,  And in her presence often swore, he knew not two and two made four.[Squib of 1811.][154] See _Midsummer Night's Dream_, Act II. Sc. 2.[155] This journey was made in 1810.--_See Life_, Chapter xxi. vol. iii.p. 271.[156] Lady Davy survived her distinguished husband for more than aquarter of a century; she died in London, May 1855.[157] _Twelfth Night_, Act II. Sc. 3.[158] Sir Patrick Murray of Ochtertyre, then a baron of the Court ofExchequer in Scotland; he died in June 1837.[159] This cherished and confidential friend had been living at Kaesidefrom 1817, and acting as steward on the estate. Mr. Laidlaw died inRoss-shire in 1845.Mr. Lockhart says, "I have the best reason to believe that the kind andmanly character of Dandie [Dinmont in _Guy Mannering_], the gentle anddelicious one of his wife, and some at least of the most picturesquepeculiarities of the _mnage_ at Charlieshope were filled up fromScott's observation, years after this period [1792], of a family, withone of whose members he had, through the best part of his life, a closeand affectionate connection. To those who were familiar with him, I haveperhaps already sufficiently indicated the early home of his dearfriend, William Laidlaw." _Life_, vol. i. p. 268. See also vol. ii. p.59; v. pp. 210-15, 251; vii. p. 168; viii. p. 68, etc.[160] Flax on her distaff.[161] _The English in Italy_, 3 vols., Lond. 1825, ascribed to theMarquis of Normanby.[162] "S.W.S." Scott, in writing of himself, often uses these threeletters in playful allusion to a freak of his trusty henchman TomPurdie, who, in his joy on hearing of the baronetcy, proceeded to markevery sheep on the estate with a large letter "S" in addition to theowner's initials, W.S., which, according to custom, had already beenstamped on their backs.[163] Moore also felt that the morning was his happiest time for work,but he preferred "composing" in bed! He says somewhere that he wouldhave passed half his days in bed for the purpose of composition had henot found it too relaxing.Macaulay, too, when engaged in his _History_, was in the habit ofwriting three hours before breakfast daily.[164] I am assured by Professor Butcher that there is no such passage inthe Odyssey, but he suggests "that what Scott had in his mind was merelythe Greek idea of a _waking vision_ being a true one. They spoke of itas a  opposed to an , a mere dream. These waking visions areusually said to be seen towards morning."In the Odyssey there are two such visions which turn out to berealities:--that of Nausicaa, Bk. vi. 20, etc., and that of Penelope,Bk. xix. 535, etc. In the former case we are told that the visionoccurred just before dawn; I. 48-49,  ' , 'straightwaycame the Dawn,' etc. In the latter, there is no special mention of thehour. The vision, however, is said to be not a dream, but a true visionwhich shall be accomplished (547,   '  ,   )."Such passages as these, which are frequent in Greek literature, mighteasily have given rise to the notion of a 'matutinal inspiration,' ofwhich Scott speaks."[165] General Sir James Steuart Denham of Coltness, Baronet, Colonel ofthe Scots Greys. His father, the celebrated political economist, tookpart in the Rebellion of 1745, and was long afterwards an exile. Thereader is no doubt acquainted with "Lady Mary Wortley Montagu's Letters"addressed to him and his wife, Lady Frances.--J.G.L. See also Mrs.Calderwood's _Letters_, 8vo. Edin. 1884. Sir James died in 1839.[166] "Had Prince Charles slept during the whole of the expedition,"says the Chevalier Johnstone, "and allowed Lord George Murray to act forhim according to his own judgment, there is every reason for supposinghe would have found the crown of Great Britain on his head when heawoke."--_Memoirs of the Rebellion of 1745_, etc. 4to, p. 140. London,1810.--J.G.L.[167] The lines are given in _Woodstock_, with the following apology:"We observe this couplet in Fielding's farce of _Tumbledown Dick_,founded on the same classical story. As it was current in the time ofthe Commonwealth, it must have reached the author of _Tom Jones_ bytradition, for no one will suspect the present author of making theanachronism."[168] Colonel Ranaldson Macdonell of Glengarry. He died in January1828.--J.G.L.[169] "We have had Marchal Macdonald here. We had a capital account ofGlengarry visiting the interior of a convent in the ancient Highlandgarb, and the effect of such an apparition on the nuns, who fled in alldirections."--Scott to Skene, Edinburgh, 24th June 1825.[170] No. 39 Castle Street, which had been occupied by him from 1802,when he removed from No. 10 in the same street. The situation suitedhim, as the houses of nearly all his friends were within a circle of afew hundred yards. For description see _Life_, vol. v. pp. 321, 333-4,etc.[171] See below, _March_ 12.[172] Burns's _Dedication_ to Gavin Hamilton--  "May ne'er misfortune's gowling bark Howl through the dwelling o' the_Clerk_."[173]  "O born to arms! O worth in youth approved, O soft humanity in agebeloved!"--See Pope, _Epitaphs_, 9.[174] David Monypenny had been on the Bench from 1813; he retired in1830, and died at the age of eighty-one in 1850.[175] Parody on Moore's _Minstrel Boy_.--J.G.L.[176] "Le Pas de la Fontaine des Pleurs."--_Chroniques Nationales_.[177] This hint was taken up in _Count Robert of Paris_.--J.G.L.[178] James Ballantyne gives an interesting account of an interview adozen years before this time, when "Tom Telltruth" had a somewhatdelicate task to perform:--"_The Lord of the Isles_ was by far the least popular of the series, andMr. Scott was very prompt at making such discoveries. In about a weekafter its publication he took me into his library, and asked me what thepeople were saying about _The Lord of the Isles_. I hesitated, much inthe same manner that Gil Blas might be supposed to do when a similarquestion was put by the Archbishop of Grenada, but he very speedilybrought the matter to a point--'Come, speak out, my good fellow, whathas put it in your head to be on ceremony with me? But the result is inone word--disappointment!' My silence admitted his inference to itsfullest extent. His countenance certainly did look rather blank for afew seconds (for it is a singular fact, that before the public, orrather the booksellers, gave _their_ decision he no more knew whether hehad written well or ill, than whether a die, which he threw out of abox, was to turn out a sise or an ace). However, he almost instantlyresumed his spirits and expressed his wonder rather that his popularityhad lasted so long, than that it should have given way at last. Atlength, with a perfectly cheerful manner, he said, 'Well, well, James,but you know we must not droop--for you know we can't and won't giveover--we must just try something else, and the question is, what it's tobe?' Nor was it any wonder he spoke thus, for he could not fail to beunconsciously conscious, if I dare use such a term, of his own gigantic,and as yet undeveloped, powers, and was somewhat under forty years old.I am by no means sure whether he then alluded to _Waverley_, as if hehad mentioned it to me for the first time, for my memory has greatlyfailed me touching this, or whether he alluded to it, as in fact appearsto have been the case, as having been commenced and laid aside severalyears before, but I well recollect that he consulted me with his usualopenness and candour respecting his probability of succeeding as anovelist, and I confess my expectations were not very sanguine. He sawthis and said, 'Well, I don't see why I should not succeed as well asother people. Come, faint heart never won fair lady--let us try.' Iremember when the work was put into my hands, I could not get myself tothink much, of the Waverley Honour scenes, but to my shame be it spoken,when he had reached the exquisite scenes of Scottish manners atTully-Veolan, I thought them, and pronounced them, vulgar! When thesuccess of the book so utterly knocked me down as a man of taste, allthat the good-natured Author observed was, 'Well, I really thought youmight be wrong about the Scotch. Why, Burns had already attracteduniversal attention to all about Scotland, and I confess I could not seewhy I should not be able to keep the flame alive, merely because I wrotein prose in place of rhyme.'"--_Memorandum_.[179] This was a club-house on the London plan, in Princes Street [No.54], a little eastward from the Mound. On its dissolution soonafterwards, Sir W. was elected by acclamation into the elder Society,called the _New Club_, who had then their house in St. Andrew Square[No. 3], and since 1837 in Princes Street [No. 85].[180] Mr. Skene's house was No. 126 Princes Street. Scott's writtenanswer has been preserved:--"MY DEAR SKENE,--A thousand thanks for your kind proposal. But I am asolitary monster by temper, and must necessarily couch in a den of myown. I should not, I assure you, have made any ceremony in acceptingyour offer had it at all been like to suit me."But I must make an arrangement which is to last for years, and perhapsfor my lifetime; therefore the sooner I place myself on my footing itwill be so much the better.--Always, dear Skene, your obliged andfaithful, W. SCOTT."[181] Pope's _Imitation of Horace_, Bk. ii Sat. 6.--J.G.L.[182] These Letters appeared in the _Edinburgh Weekly Journal_ inFebruary and March 1826. "They were then collected into a pamphlet, andran through numerous editions; in the subsequent discussions inParliament, they were frequently referred to; and although an elaborateanswer by the then Secretary of the Admiralty, Mr. Croker, attractedmuch notice, and was, by the Government of the time, expected toneutralise the effect of the northern lucubrations--the proposedmeasure, as regarded Scotland, was ultimately abandoned, and that resultwas universally ascribed to Malachi Malagrowther."--Scott's _Misc.Works_, vol. xxi.[183] _Winter's Tale_, Act iv. Sc. 2, slightly altered.[184] The late Mr. Williamson of Cardrona in Peeblesshire, was a strangehumorist, of whom Sir Walter told many stories. The allusion here is tothe anecdote of the _Leetle Anderson_ in the first of _Malachi_'sEpistles.:--See Scott's _Prose Miscellanies_, vol. xxi. p.289.--_J.G.L._[185] _The Omen_, by Galt, had just been published.--See Sir Walter'sreview of this novel in the _Miscellaneous Prose Works_, vol. xviii. p.333. John Gait died at Greenock in April 1839.--J.G.L.[186] "A Letter from Malachi Malagrowther, Esq., to the Editor of the_Edinburgh Weekly Journal_, on the proposed Change of Currency, andother late alterations as they affect, or are intended to affect, theKingdom of Scotland. 8 vo, Edin. 1826."The motto to the epistle was:--  "When the pipes begin to play  _Tutti taittie_ to the drum,  Out claymore and down wi' gun,  And to the rogues again."In the next edition it was suppressed, as some friends thought it mightbe misunderstood. Mr. Croker in his reply had urged that if the authorappealed to the edge of the claymore at Prestonpans, he might refer himto the point of the bayonet at Culloden.--See Croker's _Correspondence_,vol. i. pp. 317-320, and Scott's _Life_, vol. viii. pp. 301-5.[187] Lord Reston, who died at Gladsmuir in 1819. He was one of Scott'scompanions at the High School.--See _Life_., vol. i. p. 40.[188] See Gray's _Elegy_.--J.G.L.[189] In Arthur Murphy's farce of _The Upholsterer, or What News_?[190] Lady Anna Maria Elliot, daughter of the first Earl of Minto. Shemarried Sir Rufane Donkin in 1832.[191] Afterwards Lord Advocate, 1834 and 1835, and Judge under the titleof Lord Murray from 1839; he died in 1859.[192] The learned editor of the Acts of the Parliaments of Scotland, in10 vols. folio, Edin. 1814-24; he succeeded Sir Walter as President ofthe Bannatyne Club in 1832, and died in 1852.[193] Rose Court, where Mr. Clerk had a bachelor's establishment, wassituated immediately behind St. Andrew's Church, George Street. The namedisappeared from our Street Directories shortly after Mr. Clerk's deathin 1847.[194] Burns, in Johnson's _Musical Museum_, No. 319.[195] One of the nineteen original members of _The Club_.--See Mr.Irving's letter with names, _Life_, vol. i. pp. 207-8, and Scott'sjoyous visit in 1793 to Meigle, pp. 292-4.[196] Dalgleish was Sir Walter's butler. He said he cared not how muchhis wages were reduced--but go he would not.--J.G.L.[197] Whin-cow--_Anglic_, a bush of furze.--J.G.L.MARCH._March_ 1.--_Malachi_ is in the _Edinburgh Journal_ to-day, and readslike the work of an uncompromising right-forward Scot of the old school.Some of the cautious and pluckless instigators will be afraid of theirconfederate; for if a man of some energy and openness of characterhappens to be on the same side with these truckling jobbers, they standas much in awe of his vehemence as doth the inexperienced conjurer whoinvokes a fiend whom he cannot manage. Came home, in a heavy shower withthe Solicitor. I tried him on the question, but found him reserved andcautious. The future Lord Advocate must be cautious; but I can tell mygood friend John Hope that, if he acts the part of a firm and resoluteScottish patriot, both his own country and England will respect him themore. Ah! Hal Dundas, there was no such truckling in thy day!Looked out a quantity of things to go to Abbotsford; for we areflitting, if you please.[198] It is with a sense of pain that I leavebehind a parcel of trumpery prints and little ornaments, once the prideof Lady S----'s heart, but which she sees consigned with indifference tothe chance of an auction. Things that have had their day of importancewith me I cannot forget, though the merest trifles. But I am glad thatshe, with bad health and enough to vex her, has not the same uselessmode of associating recollections with this unpleasant business. Thebest part of it is the necessity of leaving behind, viz., setting ridof, a set of most wretched daubs of landscapes, in great gilded frames,of which I have often been heartily ashamed. The history of them wascurious. An amateur artist (a lady) happened to fall into misfortunes,upon which her landscapes, the character of which had been buoyed up farbeyond their proper level, sank even beneath it, and it was low enough.One most amiable and accomplished old lady continued to encourage herpencil, and to order picture after picture, which she sent in presentsto her friends. I suppose I have eight or ten of them, which I could notavoid accepting. There will be plenty of laughing when they come to besold. It would be a good joke enough to cause it to be circulated thatthey were performances of my own in early youth, and they would belooked on and bought up as curiosities. True it is that I took lessonsof oil-painting in youth from a little Jew animalcule, a smouch calledBurrell, a clever sensible creature though; but I could make no progresseither in painting or drawing. Nature denied me correctness of eye andneatness of hand, yet I was very desirous to be a draughtsman at least,and laboured harder to attain that point than at any other in myrecollection, to which I did not make some approaches. My oil-paintingswere to Miss ------ above commemorated what hers are to Claude Lorraine.Yet Burrell was not useless to me altogether neither; he was a Prussian,and I got from him many a long story of the battles of Frederic, inwhose armies his father had been a commissary, or perhaps a spy. Iremember his picturesque account of seeing a party of the Black Hussarsbringing in some forage carts which they had taken from a body of theCossacks, whom he described as lying on the top of the carts of hay,mortally wounded, and, like the Dying Gladiator, eyeing their own bloodas it ran down through the straw. I afterwards took lessons from Walker,whom we used to call Blue-beard. He was one of the most conceitedpersons in the world, but a good teacher--one of the ugliestcountenances he had too--enough, as we say, to spean weans.[199] Theman was always extremely precise in the quality of everything about him,his dress, accommodations, and everything else. He became insolvent,poor man, and for some reason or other I attended the meeting of thoseconcerned in his affairs. Instead of ordinary accommodations forwriting, each of the persons present was equipped with a large sheet ofdrawing paper and a swan's quill. It was mournfully ridiculous enough.Skirving[200] made an admirable likeness of Walker, not a single scar ormark of the smallpox which seamed his countenance, but the too accuratebrother of the brush had faithfully laid it down in longitude andlatitude. Poor Walker destroyed it (being in crayons) rather than letthe caricature of his ugliness appear at the sale of his effects. I didlearn myself to take some vile views from Nature. When Will Clerk and Ilived very much together, I used sometimes to make them under hisinstruction. He to whom, as to all his family, art is a familiarattribute, wondered at me as a Newfoundland dog would at a greyhoundwhich showed fear of the water.Going down to Liddesdale once, I drew the castle of Hermitage in myfashion, and sketched it so accurately that with a few verbalinstructions Clerk put it into regular form, Williams[201] (the Grecian)copied over Clerk's, and _his_ drawing was engraved as the frontispieceof the first volume of the Kelso edition, _Minstrelsy of the ScottishBorder_.[202] Do you know why you have written all this down, Sir W.?Because it pleases me to record that this thrice-transmitted drawing,though taken originally from a sketch of mine, was extremely likeHermitage, which neither of my colleagues in the task had ever seen? No,that's not the reason. You want to put off writing _Woodstock_, just aseasily done as these memoranda, but which it happens your duty and yourprudence recommend, and therefore you are loath to begin.            "Heigho,            I can't say no;        But this piece of task-work off I can stave, O,        For Malachi's posting into an octavo;    To correct the proof-sheets only this night I have, O,    So, Madame Conscience, you've gotten as good as you gave, O    But to-morrow's a new day and we'll better behave, O,    So I lay down the pen, and your pardon I crave, O."In the evening Mr. Gibson called and transacted business._March_ 2.--I have a letter from Colin Mackenzie, approving_Malachi_,--"Cold men may say it is too strong; but from the true men ofScotland you are sure of the warmest gratitude." I never have yet found,nor do I expect it on this occasion, that ill-will dies in debt, or whatis called gratitude distresses herself by frequent payments. The one islike a ward-holding and pays its reddendo in hard blows. The other ablanch-tenure, and is discharged for payment of a red rose or apeppercorn. He that takes the forlorn hope in an attack, is oftendeserted by those that should support him, and who generally throw theblame of their own cowardice upon his rashness. We shall see this willend in the same way. But I foresaw it from the beginning. The bankerswill be persuaded that it is a squib which may burn their own fingers,and will curse the poor pyrotechnist that compounded it; if they do,they be d--d. Slept indifferently, and dreamed of Napoleon's lastmoments, of which I was reading a medical account last night, by Dr.Arnott. Horrible death--a cancer on the pylorus. I would have givensomething to have lain still this morning and made up for lost time. But_desidiae valedixi_. If you once turn on your side after the hour atwhich you ought to rise, it is all over. Bolt up at once. Bad nightlast--the next is sure to be better.    "When the drum beats, make ready;    When the fife plays, march away--    To the roll-call, to the roll-call, to the roll-call,    Before the break of day."Dined with Chief-Commissioner, Admiral Adam, W. Clerk, Thomson, and I.The excellent old man was cheerful at intervals--at times sad, as wasnatural. A good blunder he told us, occurred in the Annandale case,which was a question partly of domicile. It was proved that leavingLochwood, the Earl had given up his _kain_ and _carriages_;[203] this anEnglish Counsel contended was the best of all possible proofs that thenoble Earl designed an absolute change of residence, since he laid asidehis _walking-stick_ and his _coach_.First epistle of _Malachi_ is getting out of print, or rather is out ofprint already._March_ 3.--Could not get the last sheets of _Malachi_, Second Epistle,last night, so they must go out to the world uncorrected--a great loss,for the last touches are always most effectual; and I expect misprintsin the additional matter. We were especially obliged to have it out thismorning, that it may operate as a gentle preparative for the meeting ofinhabitants at two o'clock. _Vogue la galre_--we shall see if Scotsmenhave any pluck left. If not, they may kill the next Percy themselves. Itis ridiculous enough for me, in a state of insolvency for the present,to be battling about gold and paper currency. It is something like thehumorous touch in Hogarth's _Distressed Poet_, where the poor starvelingof the Muses is engaged, when in the abyss of poverty, in writing anEssay on payment of the National Debt; and his wall is adorned with aplan of the mines of Peru. Nevertheless, even these fugitive attempts,from the success which they have had, and the noise they are making,serve to show the truth of the old proverb--    "When house and land are gone and spent,    Then learning is most excellent."On the whole, I am glad of this brulzie, as far as I am concerned;people will not dare talk of me as an object of pity--no more"poor-manning." Who asks how many punds Scots the old champion had inhis pocket when    "He set a bugle to his mouth,      And blew so loud and shrill,    The trees in greenwood shook thereat,      Sae loud rang ilka hill"?[204]This sounds conceited enough, yet is not far from truth.The meeting was very numerous, 500 or 600 at least, and unanimous, savein one Mr. Howden, who having been all his life, as I am told, in bitteropposition to Ministers, proposed on the present occasion that the wholecontested measure should be trusted to their wisdom. I suppose he chosethe opportunity of placing his own opinion in opposition, singleopposition too, to that of a large assembly. The speaking was verymoderate. Report had said that Jeffrey, J.A. Murray, and other sages ofthe economical school, were to unbuckle their mails, and give us theiropinions. But no such great guns appeared. If they had, having themultitude on my side, I would have tried to break a lance with them. Afew short but well-expressed resolutions were adopted unanimously. Thesewere proposed by Lord Rollo, and seconded by Sir James Fergusson, Bart.I was named one of a committee to encourage all sorts of opposition tothe measure. So I have already broken through two good and wiseresolutions--one, that I would not write on political controversy;another, that I would not be named on public committees. If my goodresolves go this way, like _snaw aff a dyke_--the Lord help me!_March_ 4.--Last night I had a letter from Lockhart, who, speaking of_Malachi_, says, "The Ministers are sore beyond imagination at present;and some of them, I hear, have felt this new whip on the raw to somepurpose." I conclude he means Canning is offended. I can't help it, as Isaid before--_fiat justitia, ruat coelum_. No cause in which I had theslightest personal interest should have made me use my pen 'gainst them,blunt or pointed as it may be. But as they are about to throw thiscountry into distress and danger, by a measure of useless anduncalled-for experiment, they must hear the opinion of the Scotsmen, towhom it is of no other consequence than as a general measure affectingthe country at large,--and mine they _shall_ hear. I had determined tolay down the pen. But now they shall have another of _Malachi_,beginning with buffoonery, and ending as seriously as I can write it. Itis like a frenzy that they will agitate the upper and middling classesof society, so very friendly to them, with unnecessary and hazardous[projects],    "Oh, thus it was they loved them dear,      And sought how to requite 'em,    And having no friends left but they,      They did resolve to fight them."The country is very high just now. England may carry the measure if shewill, doubtless. But what will be the consequence of the distressensuing, God only can foretell.Lockhart, moreover, inquires about my affairs anxiously, and asks whathe is to say about them; says, "He has inquiries every day; kind, mostkind all, and among the most interested and anxious, Sir WilliamKnighton,[205] who told me the king was quite melancholy all the eveninghe heard of it." _This_ I can well believe, for the king, educated as aprince, has, nevertheless, as true and kind a heart as any subject inhis dominions. He goes on: "I do think they would give you a Baron'sgown as soon as possible," etc. I have written to him in answer, showingI have enough to carry me on, and can dedicate my literary efforts toclear my land. The preferment would suit me well, and the late Duke ofBuccleuch gave me his interest for it. I dare say the young duke woulddo the same, for the unvaried love I have borne his house; and by and byhe will have a voice potential. But there is Sir William Rae in themeantime, whose prevailing claim I would never place my own inopposition to, even were it possible by a _tour de force_, such as L.points at, to set it aside. Meantime, I am building a barrier betwixt meand promotion. Any prospect of the kind is very distant and veryuncertain. _Come time, come, rath_, as the German says.In the meanwhile, now I am not pulled about for money, etc., methinks Iam happier without my wealth than with it. Everything is paid. I have noone wishing to _make up a sum_ of money, and writing for his account tobe paid. Since 17th January I have not laid out a guinea, out of my ownhand, save two or three in charity, and six shillings for a pocket-book.But the cash with which I set out having run short for family expenses Idrew on Blackwood, through Ballantyne, which was honoured, for 25, toaccount of _Malachi's Letters_, of which another edition of 1000 isordered, and gave it to Lady Scott, because our removal will requirethat in hand. This is for a fortnight succeeding Wednesday next, beingthe 8th March current. On the 20th my quarter comes in, and though Ihave something to pay out of it, I shall be on velvet for expense--andregular I will be. Methinks all trifling objects of expenditure seem togrow light in my eyes. That I may regain independence, I must be saving.But ambition awakes, as love of quiet indulgence dies and is mortifiedwithin me. "Dark Cuthullin will be renowned or dead."[206]_March_ 5.--Something of toddy and cigar in that last quotation, Ithink. Yet I only smoked two, and liquified with one glass of spiritsand water. I have sworn I will not blot out what I have once writtenhere._Malachi_ goes on, but I am dubious about the commencement--it must bemended at least--reads prosy.Had letters from Walter and Jane, the dears. All well. Regiment about tomove from Dublin._March_ 6.--Finished third _Malachi_, which I don't much like. Itrespects the difficulty of finding gold to replace the papercirculation. Now this should have been considered first. The admittingthat the measure may be imposed is yielding up the question, and_Malachi_ is like a commandant who should begin to fire from interiordefences before his outworks were carried. If Ballantyne be of my ownopinion I will suppress it. We are all in a bustle shifting things toAbbotsford. I believe we shall stay here till the beginning of nextweek. It is odd, but I don't feel the impatience for the country which Ihave usually experienced._March_ 7.--Detained in the Court till _three_ by a hearing. Then to theCommittee appointed at the meeting on Friday, to look after thesmall-note business. A pack of old _fainants_, incapable of managingsuch a business, and who will lose the day from mere coldness of heart.There are about a thousand names at the petition. They have added nodesignations--a great blunder; for _testimonia sunt ponderanda, nonnumeranda_ should never be lost sight of. They are disconcerted andhelpless; just as in the business of the King's visit, when everybodythrew the weight on me, for which I suffered much in my immediatelabour, and after bad health it brought on a violent eruption on myskin, which saved me from a fever at the time, but has been troublesomemore or less ever since. I was so disgusted with seeing them sitting inineffectual helplessness spitting on the hot iron that lay before them,and touching it with a timid finger, as if afraid of being scalded,that at another time I might have dashed in and taken up the hammer,summoned the deacons and other heads of public bodies, and by consultingthem have carried them with me. But I cannot waste my time, health, andspirits in fighting thankless battles. I left them in a quarter of anhour, and presage, unless the country make an alarm, the cause is lost.The philosophical reviewers manage their affairs better--hold off--avoidcommitting themselves, but throw their _vis inerti_ into the oppositescale, and neutralise the feelings which they cannot combat. To forcethem to fight on disadvantageous ground is our policy. But we have moresneakers after Ministerial favour than men who love their country, andwho upon a liberal scale would serve their party. For to force the Whigsto avow an unpopular doctrine in popular assemblies, or to wrench thegovernment of such bodies from them, would be a _coup de matre_. Butthey are alike destitute of manly resolution and sound policy. D--n thewhole nest of them! I have corrected the last of _Malachi_, and let thething take its chance. I have made enemies enough, and indisposed enoughof friends._March_ 8.--At the Court, though a teind day. A foolish thing happenedwhile the Court were engaged with the teinds. I amused myself withwriting on a sheet of paper notes on Frederick Maitland's account of thecapture of Bonaparte; and I have lost these notes--shuffled in perhapsamong my own papers, or those of the teind clerks. What a curiousdocument to be found in a process of valuation!Being jaded and sleepy, I took up Le Due de Guise on Naples.[207] Ithink this, with the old Memoires on the same subject which I have atAbbotsford, would enable me to make a pretty essay for the _Quarterly_.We must take up _Woodstock_ now in good earnest. Mr. Cowan, a good andable man, is chosen trustee in Constable's affairs, with full power.From what I hear, the poor man is not sensible of the nature of his ownsituation; for myself, I have succeeded in putting the matters perfectlyout of my mind since I cannot help them, and have arrived at a_flocci-pauci-nihili-pili-_fication of money, and I thank Shenstone forinventing that long word.[208] They are removing the wine, etc., to thecarts, and you will judge if our flitting is not making a noise in theworld--or in the street at least._March_ 9.--I foresaw justly,    "When first I set this dangerous stone a-rolling,    'Twould fall upon myself."[209]Sir Robert Dundas to-day put into my hands a letter of between thirtyand forty pages, in angry and bitter reprobation of _Malachi_, full ofgeneral averments and very untenable arguments, all written at me byname, but of which I am to have no copy, and which is to be shown to me_in extenso_, and circulated to other special friends, to whom it may benecessary to "give the sign to hate."[210] I got it at two o'clock, andreturned [it] with an answer four hours afterwards, in which I havestudied not to be tempted into either sarcastic or harshexpressions.[211] A quarrel it is however, in all the forms, between myold friend and myself, and his lordship's reprimand is to be _read outin order_ to all our friends. They all know what I have said is true,but that will be nothing to the purpose if they are desired to considerit as false. As for Lord Melville, I do not wonder that he is angry,though he has little reason, for he, our _watchman stented_, has fromtime to time suffered all manner of tampering to go on under his nosewith the institutions and habits of Scotland. As for myself, I was quiteprepared for my share of displeasure. It is very curious that I shouldhave foreseen all this so distinctly as far back as 17th February.Nobody at least can plague me for interest with Lord Melville as theyused to do. By the way, from the tone of his letter, I think hislordship will give up the measure, and I will be the peace-offering. Allwill agree to condemn me as too warm--too rash--and get rich onprivileges which they would not have been able to save but for a littlerousing of spirit, which will not perhaps fall asleep again.[212] Agentleman called on the part of a Captain [Rutherford], to make inquiryabout the Border Rutherfords. Not being very _cleever_, as John Fraserused to say, at these pedigree matters, referred him to Mrs. Dr. Russelland Robt. Rutherford. The noble Captain conceits he has some title tothe honours of Lord Rutherford. Very odd--when there is a vacant ordormant title in a Scottish family or _name_, everybody, and allconnected with the clan, conceive they have _quodam modo_ a right to it.Not being engrossed by any individual, it communicates part of itslustre to every individual in the tribe, as if it remained in commonstock for that purpose._March_ 10.--I am not made entirely in the same mould of passions likeother people. Many men would deeply regret a breach with so old a friendas Lord Melville, and many men would be in despair at losing the goodgraces of a Minister of State for Scotland, and all pretty visions aboutwhat might be done for myself and my sons, especially Charles. But Ithink my good lord doth ill to be angry, like the patriarch of old, andI have, in my odd sans souciance character, a good handful of meal fromthe grist of the Jolly Miller, who                      "Once    Dwelled on the river Dee;    I care for nobody, no, not I,    Since nobody cares for me."Breakfasted with me Mr. Franks, a young Irishman from Dublin, whobrought letters from Walter and Captain Longmore of the Royal Staff. Hehas written a book of poetry, _Tales of Chivalry and Romance_, far frombad, yet wants spirit. He talks of publishing his recollections in thePeninsula, which must be interesting, for he has, I think, sense andreflection.Sandie Young[213] came in at breakfast-time with a Monsieur Brocque ofMontpelier.Saw Sir Robert Dundas at Court, who condemns Lord Melville, and says hewill not show his letter to any one; in fact it would be exactlyplacarding me in a private and confidential manner. He is to send myletter to Lord Melville. Colin Mackenzie concurs in thinking LordMelville quite wrong. "_He must cool in the skin he het in._"On coming home from the Court a good deal fatigued, I took a nap in myeasy-chair, then packed my books, and committed the refuse to JockStevenson--    "Left not a limb on which a Dane could triumph."Gave Mr. Gibson my father's cabinet, which suits a man of business well.Gave Jock Stevenson the picture of my old favourite dog Camp, mentionedin one of the introductions to _Marmion_, and a little crow-quilldrawing of Melrose Abbey by Nelson, whom I used to call the Admiral.Poor fellow! he had some ingenuity, and was, in a moderate way, a goodpenman and draughtsman. He left his situation of amanuensis to go intoLord Home's militia regiment, but his dissipated habits got the betterof a strong constitution, and he fell into bad ways and poverty, anddied, I believe, in the hospital at Liverpool. Strange enough that HenryWeber, who acted afterwards as my amanuensis for many years, had also amelancholy fate ultimately. He was a man of very superior attainments,an excellent linguist and geographer, and a remarkable antiquary. Hepublished a collection of ancient Romances, superior, I think, to theelaborate Ritson. He also published an edition of Beaumont and Fletcher,but too carelessly done to be reputable. He was a violent Jacobin, whichhe thought he disguised from me, while I, who cared not a fig about thepoor young man's politics, used to amuse myself with teasing him. He wasan excellent and affectionate creature, but unhappily was afflicted withpartial insanity, especially if he used strong liquors, to which, likeothers with that unhappy tendency, he was occasionally addicted. In1814[214] he became quite insane, and, at the risk of my life, I had todisarm him of a pair of loaded pistols, which I did by exerting the sortof authority which, I believe, gives an effectual control in such cases.His friends, who were respectable, placed him in the York Asylum, wherehe pined away and died, I think, in 1814 or 1815.[215] My patronage inthis way has not been lucky to the parties protected. I hope poor GeorgeHuntly Gordon will escape the influence of the evil star. He has novice, poor fellow, but his total deafness makes him helpless._March_ 11.--This day the Court rose after a long and laborioussederunt. I employed the remainder of the day in completing a set ofnotes on Captain Maitland's manuscript narrative of the reception ofNapoleon Bonaparte on board the _Bellerophon_. It had been previously inthe hands of my friend Basil Hall, who had made many excellentcorrections in point of style; but he had been hypercritical in wishing(in so important a matter where everything depends on accuracy) thisexpression to be altered for delicacy's sake,--that to be omitted forfear of giving offence,--and that other to be abridged for fear of beingtedious. The plain sailor's narrative for me, written on the spot, andbearing in its minuteness the evidence of its veracity.Lord Elgin sent me, some time since, a curious account of hisimprisonment in France, and the attempts which were made to draw himinto some intrigue which might authorise treating him with rigour[216].He called to-day and communicated some curious circumstances, on theauthority of Fouch, Denon, and others, respecting Bonaparte and theempress Maria Louise, whom Lord Elgin had conversed with on the subjectin Italy. His conduct towards her was something like that of Ethwald toElburga, in Joanna Baillie's fine tragedy[217], making her postpone herhigh rank by birth to the authority which he had acquired by histalents. Dinner was usually announced for a particular hour, andNapoleon's business often made him late. She was not permitted to sitdown to table, an etiquette which was reasonable enough. But from thehour of dinner till the Emperor appeared she was to be in the act ofsitting down; that is to say, he was displeased if he found her engagedwith a book, with work, or with anything else. She was obliged to be ina state of absolute "being about to sit down." She seemed a good deal_gne_ by something of that kind, though remembering with pride she hadbeen Empress, it might almost be said of the world. The rest forto-morrow._March_ 12.--Resumed _Woodstock_, and wrote my task of six pages. I wasinterrupted by a slumberous feeling which made me obliged to stop onceor twice. I shall soon have a remedy in the country, which affords thepleasanter resource of a walk when such feelings come on. I hope I amthe reverse of the well-known line, "sleepy myself, to give my readerssleep." I cannot _gurnalise_ at any rate, having wrought my eyes nearlyout.[218]_March_ 13.--Wrote to the end of a chapter, and knowing no more than theman in the moon what comes next, I will put down a few of Lord Elgin'sremembrances, and something may occur to me in the meanwhile. WhenM[aria] Louise first saw B[onaparte], she was in the carriage with hisrepresentative general, when she saw a horseman ride forward at thegallop, passing and repassing the carriage in a manner which, joined tothe behaviour of her companion, convinced her who it was, especially ashe endeavoured, with a curiosity which would not have been tolerated inanother, to peep into the windows. When she alighted at the inn at----,Napoleon presented himself, pulled her by the ear, and kissed herforehead.Bonaparte's happiest days passed away when he dismissed from about himsuch men as Talleyrand and Fouch, whose questions and objectionscompelled him to recur upon, modify, and render practicable the greatplans which his ardent conception struck out at a heat. When he hadMurat and such persons about him, who marvelled and obeyed, hisschemes, equally magnificent, were not so well matured, and ended in theprojector's ruin.I have hinted in these notes that I am not entirely free from a sort ofgloomy fits, with a fluttering of the heart and depression of spirits,just as if I knew not what was going to befall me. I can sometimesresist this successfully, but it is better to evade than to combat it.The hang-dog spirit may have originated in the confusion and chuckingabout of our old furniture, the stripping of walls of pictures, androoms of ornaments; the leaving a house we have so long called our homeis altogether melancholy enough. I am glad Lady S. does not mind it, andyet I wonder, too. She insists on my remaining till Wednesday, notknowing what I suffer. Meanwhile, to make my recusant spirit do penance,I have set to work to clear away papers and pack them for my journey.What a strange medley of thoughts such a task produces! There lieletters which made the heart throb when received, now lifeless anduninteresting--as are perhaps their owners. Riddles which time hasread--schemes which he has destroyed or brought to maturity--memorialsof friendships and enmities which are now alike faded. Thus does thering of Saturn consume itself. To-day annihilates yesterday, as the oldtyrant swallowed his children, and the snake its tail. But I must say tomy _Gurnal_ as poor Byron did to Moore, "Damn it, Tom, don't bepoetical."_Memorandum_.--I received some time since from Mr. Riddoch, of Falkirk,a sort of iron mallet, said to have been found in the ruins of Grame'sDike; there it was reclaimed about three months since by the gentlemanon whose lands it was found, a Doctor--by a very polite letter from hisman of business. Having unluckily mislaid his letter, and being totallyunable either to recollect the name of the proprietor or theprofessional gentleman, I returned this day the piece of antiquity toMr. Riddoch, who sent it to me. Wrote at the same time to Tom Grahameof Airth, mentioning what I had done. "Touch my honour, touch mylife--there is the spoon."[219]_March_ 14.--J.B. called this morning to take leave, and receivedirections about proofs, etc. Talks of the uproar about _Malachi_; but Iam tired of _Malachi_--the humour is off, and I have said what I wantedto say, and put the people of Scotland on their guard, as well asMinisters, if they like to be warned. They are gradually destroying whatremains of nationality, and making the country _tabula rasa_ fordoctrines of bold innovation. Their loosening and grinding down allthose peculiarities which distinguished us as Scotsmen will throw thecountry into a state in which it will be universally turned todemocracy, and instead of canny Saunders, they will have a verydangerous North British neighbourhood.Some [English] lawyer expressed to Lord Elibank an opinion, that at theUnion the English law should have been extended all over Scotland. "Icannot say how that might have answered our purpose," said Lord Patrick,who was never nonsuited for want of an answer, "but it would scarce havesuited _yours_, since by this time the _Aberdeen Advocates_[220] wouldhave possessed themselves of all the business in Westminster Hall."What a detestable feeling this fluttering of the heart is! I know it isnothing organic, and that it is entirely nervous; but the sickeningeffects of it are dispiriting to a degree. Is it the body brings it onthe mind, or the mind that inflicts it upon the body? I cannot tell; butit is a severe price to pay for the _Fata Morgana_ with which Fancysometimes amuses men of warm imaginations. As to body and mind, I fancyI might as well inquire whether the fiddle or fiddlestick makes thetune. In youth this complaint used to throw me into involuntary passionsof causeless tears. But I will drive it away in the country by exercise.I wish I had been a mechanic: a turning-lathe or a chest of tools wouldhave been a God-send; for thought makes the access of melancholy ratherworse than better. I have it seldom, thank God, and, I believe, lightly,in comparison of others.It was the fiddle after all was out of order, not the fiddlestick; thebody, not the mind. I walked out; met Mrs. Skene, who took a turn withme in Princes Street. Bade Constable and Cadell farewell, and had abrisk walk home, which enables me to face the desolation here with morespirit. News from Sophia. She has had the luck to get an anti-druggistin a Dr. Gooch, who prescribes care for Johnnie instead of drugs, and alittle home-brewed ale instead of wine; and, like a liberal physician,supplies the medicine he prescribes. As for myself, while I have scarcestirred to take exercise for four or five days, no wonder I had themulligrubs. It is an awful sensation though, and would have made anenthusiast of me, had I indulged my imagination on devotional subjects.I have been always careful to place my mind in the most tranquil posturewhich it can assume during my private exercises of devotion.I have amused myself occasionally very pleasantly during the last fewdays, by reading over Lady Morgan's novel of _O'Donnel_,[221] which hassome striking and beautiful passages of situation and description, andin the comic part is very rich and entertaining. I do not remember beingso much pleased with it at first. There is a want of story, always fatalto a book the first reading--and it is well if it gets a chance of asecond. Alas! poor novel! Also read again, and for the third time atleast, Miss Austen's very finely written novel of _Pride and Prejudice_.That young lady had a talent for describing the involvements andfeelings and characters of ordinary life, which is to me the mostwonderful I ever met with. The Big Bow-wow strain I can do myself likeany now going; but the exquisite touch, which renders ordinarycommonplace things and characters interesting, from the truth of thedescription and the sentiment, is denied to me. What a pity such agifted creature died so early![222]_March_ 15.--This morning I leave No. 39 Castle Street, for the lasttime. "The cabin was convenient," and habit had made it agreeable to me.I never reckoned upon a change in this particular so long as I held anoffice in the Court of Session. In all my former changes of residence itwas from good to better; this is retrograding. I leave this house forsale, and I cease to be an Edinburgh citizen, in the sense of being aproprietor, which my father and I have been for sixty years at least. Sofarewell, poor 39, and may you never harbour worse people than those whonow leave you! Not to desert the Lares all at once, Lady S. and Anneremain till Sunday. As for me, I go, as aforesaid, this morning.    "Ha til mi tulidh'!--"[223]_Abbotsford_, 9 _at night_.--The naturally unpleasant feelings whichinfluenced me in my ejectment, for such it is virtually, readilyevaporated in the course of the journey, though I had no pleasantercompanions than Mrs. Mackay, the housekeeper, and one of the maids; andI have a shyness of disposition, which looks like pride, but it is not,which makes me awkward in speaking to my household domestics. With anout-of-doors labourer, or an old woman gathering sticks, I can talk forever. I was welcomed here on my arrival by the tumult, great of men anddogs, all happy to see me. One of my old labourers killed by the fall ofa stone working at Gattonside Bridge. Old Will Straiton, my man ofwisdom and proverbs, also dead. He was entertaining from his importanceand self-conceit, but really a sensible old man. When he heard of mymisfortunes, he went to bed, and said he would not rise again, and kepthis word. He was very infirm when I last saw him. Tom Purdie in greatglory, being released from all farm duty, and destined to attend thewoods, and be my special assistant. The gardener Bogie is to take careof what small farm we have left, which little would make me give upentirely._March_ 16.--Pleasant days make short Journals, and I have little to sayto-day. I wrote in the morning at _Woodstock_; walked from one tillfour; was down at Huntly Burn and paid my respects to the ladies. Thespring seems promising, and everything in great order. Visited WillStraiton's widow, who squeezed out among many tears a petition for ahouse. I do not think I shall let her have one, as she has a bad temper,but I will help her otherwise; she is greedy besides, as was the defunctphilosopher William. In a year or two I shall have on the toft field agallant show of extensive woodland, sweeping over the hill, and itsboundaries carefully concealed. In the evening, after dinner, read Mrs.Charlotte Smith's novel of _Desmond_[224]--decidedly the worst of hercompositions._March_ 17.--Sent off a packet to J.B.; only three pages copy, so mustwork hard for a day or two. I wish I could wind up my bottomhandsomely--an odd but accredited phrase. The conclusion will beluminous; we must try to make it dashing. Go spin, you jade, go spin.Have a good deal to do between-hands in sorting up the newly arrivedaccession of books.I need not have exulted so soon in having attained ease and quiet. I amrobbed of both with a vengeance. A letter from Lockhart, with oneenclosed from Sophia, announces the medical people think the child isvisibly losing strength, that its walking becomes more difficult, and,in short, that the spine seems visibly affected. They recommend tepidbaths in sea-water, so Sophia has gone down to Brighton, leavingLockhart in town, who is to visit her once a week. Here is my worstaugury verified.[225] The bitterness of this probably impending calamityis extreme. The child was almost too good for this world; beautiful infeatures; and, though spoiled by every one, having one of the sweetesttempers, as well as the quickest intellect I ever saw; a sense of humourquite extraordinary in a child, and, owing to the general notice whichwas taken of him, a great deal more information than suited his years.He was born in the eighth month, and such children are neverstrong--seldom long-lived. I look on this side and that, and see nothingbut protracted misery, a crippled frame, and decayed constitution,occupying the attention of his parents for years, and dying at the endof that period, when their hearts were turned on him; or the poor childmay die before Sophia's confinement, and that may again be a dangerousand bad affair; or she may, by increase of attention to him, injure herown health. In short, to trace into how many branches such a misery mayflow is impossible. The poor dear love had so often a slow fever, thatwhen it pressed its little lips to mine, I always foreboded to my ownheart what all I fear are now aware of.Lockhart writes me that Croker is the author of the Letters in the_Courier_ against _Malachi_, and that Canning is to make another attackon me in the House of Commons.[226] These things would make a man proud.I will not answer, because I must show up Sir William Rae, and even LordMelville, and I have done enough to draw public attention, which is allI want. Let them call me ungrateful, unkind, and all sorts of names, sothey keep their own fingers free of this most threatening measure. It isvery curious that each of these angry friends--Melville, Canning, andCroker--has in former days appealed to me in confidence against eachother.While I smoked my cigar after dinner, my mind has been running into fourthreads of bitter fancies, or rather into three decidedly bitter, andone that is indifferent. There is the distress incumbent on the countryby these most untimely proceedings, which I would stop with my life werethat adequate to prevent them. 2d, there is the unpleasant feeling ofseeing a number of valued friends pass from me; that I cannot help. 3d,there is the gnawing misery about that sweet child and its parents. 4th,there is the necessity of pursuing my own labours, for which perhaps Iought to be thankful, since it always wrenches one's mind aside fromwhat it must dwell on with pain. It is odd that the state of excitationwith me rather increases than abates the power of labour, I must finish_Woodstock_ well if I can: otherwise how the Philistines will rejoice!_March_ 18.--Slept indifferently, and under the influence of Queen Mab,seldom auspicious to me, dreamed of reading the tale of the Prince ofthe Black Marble Islands to little Johnnie, extended on a paralyticchair, and yet telling all his pretty stories about Ha-papa, as he callsme, and Chiefswood--and waked to think I should see the little darlingno more, or see him as a thing that had better never have existed. Oh,misery! misery! that the best I can wish for him is early death, withall the wretchedness to his parents that is like to ensue! I intended tohave stayed at home to-day; but Tom more wisely had resolved that Ishould walk, and hung about the window with his axe and my own in hishand till I turned out with him, and helped to cut some fine paling._March_ 19.--I have a most melancholy letter from Anne. Lady S., thefaithful and true companion of my fortunes, good and bad, for so manyyears, has, but with difficulty, been prevailed on to see Dr.Abercrombie, and his opinion is far from favourable. Her asthmaticcomplaints are fast terminating in hydropsy, as I have long suspected;yet the avowal of the truth and its probable consequences areoverwhelming. They are to stay a little longer in town to try theeffects of a new medicine. On Wednesday they propose to return hither--anew affliction, where there was enough before; yet her constitution isso good that if she will be guided by advice, things may be yetameliorated. God grant it! for really these misfortunes come too closeupon each other.A letter from Croker of a very friendly tone and tenor, which I willanswer accordingly, not failing, however, to let him know that if I donot reply it is not for fear of his arguments or raillery, far less fromdiffidence in my cause. I hope and trust it will do good.[227]Maxpopple[228] and two of his boys arrived to take part of my poordinner. I fear the little fellows had little more than the needful, butthey had all I had to give them.I wrote a good deal to-day notwithstanding heavy thoughts._March_ 20.--Despatched proofs and copy this morning; and Swanston, thecarpenter, coming in, I made a sort of busy idle day of it with alteringand hanging pictures and prints, to find room for those which came fromEdinburgh, and by dint of being on foot from ten to near five, put allthings into apple-pie order. What strange beings we are! The seriousduties I have on hand cannot divert my mind from the most melancholythoughts; and yet the talking with these workmen, and the triflingoccupation which they give me, serves to dissipate my attention. Thetruth is, I fancy that a body under the impulse of violent motion cannotbe stopped or forced back, but may indirectly be urged into a differentchannel. In the evening I read, and sent off my Sheriff-Court processes.I have a sort of grudging to give reasons why _Malachi_ does not replyto the answers which have been sent forth. I don't know--I am stronglytempted--but I won't. To drop the tone might seem mean, and perhaps tomaintain it would only exasperate the quarrel, without producing anybeneficial results, and might be considered as a fresh insult by myalienated friends, so on the whole I won't.The thing has certainly had more effect than it deserves; and I suspectmy Ministerial friends, if they love me less, will not hold me cheaperfor the fight I have made. I am far from saying _oderint dum emerint_,but there is a great difference betwixt that and being a mere protg, apoor broken-down man, who was to be assisted when existingcircumstances, that most convenient of all apologies and happiest of allphrases, would permit._March_ 21.--Perused an attack on myself, done with as much ability astruth, by no less a man than Joseph Hume, the night-work man of theHouse of Commons, who lives upon petty abuses, and is a very useful manby so doing. He has had the kindness to say that I am interested inkeeping up the taxes; I wish I had anything else to do with them than topay them. But he lies, and is an ass, and not worth a man's thinkingabout. Joseph Hume, indeed!--I say Joseph Hum,--and could add a Swiftianrhyme, but forbear.Busy in unpacking and repacking. I wrote five pages of _Woodstock_,which work begins    "To appropinque an end."[229]_March_ 22.--A letter from Lord Downshire's man of business about fundssupposed to belong to my wife, or to the estate of my latebrother-in-law. The possessor of the secret wants some reward. If any isgranted, it should be a percentage on the net sum received, with thecondition no cure--no pay. I expect Lady S., and from Anne's last letterhope to find her better than the first anticipation led me to dread.Sent off proofs and copy, and shall indulge a little leisure to-day tocollect my ideas and stretch my limbs. I am again far before the press._March_ 23.--Lady Scott arrived yesterday to dinner. She was better thanI expected, but Anne, poor soul, looked very poorly, and had been muchworried with the fatigue and discomfort of the last week. Lady S. takesthe digitalis, and, as she thinks, with advantage, though the medicinemakes her very sick. Yet, on the whole, things are better than my gloomyapprehensions had anticipated.I wrote to Lockhart and to Lord Downshire's Agent,--G. Handley, Esq.,Pentonville, London.Took a good brushing walk, but not till I had done a good task._March_ 24.--Sent off copy, proofs, etc. J.B. clamorous for a motto.It is foolish to encourage people to expect mottoes and such-likedecoraments. You have no credit for success in finding them, and thereis a disgrace in wanting them. It is like being in the habit of showingfeats of strength, which you at length gain praise by accomplishing,while some shame occurs in failure._March_ 25.--The end winds out well enough. I have almost finishedto-night; indeed I might have done so had I been inclined, but I had awalk in a hurricane of snow for two hours and feel a little tired. MissMargaret Ferguson came to dinner with us.[230]_March_ 26.--Here is a disagreeable morning, snowing and hailing, withgleams of bright sunshine between, and all the ground white, and all theair frozen. I don't like this jumbling of weather. It is ungenial, andgives chilblains. Besides, with its whiteness, and its coldness, and itsglister, and its discomfort, it resembles that most disagreeable of allthings, a vain, cold, empty, beautiful woman, who has neither mind norheart, but only features like a doll. I do not know what is so like thisdisagreeable day, when the sun is so bright, and yet so uninfluential,that    "One may gaze upon its beams    Till he is starved with cold."No matter, it will serve as well as another day to finish _Woodstock_.Walked out to the lake, and coquetted with this disagreeable weather,whereby I catch chilblains in my fingers and cold in my head. Fed theswans.Finished _Woodstock_, however, _cum tota sequela_ of title-page,introduction, etc., and so, as Dame Fortune says in _Quevedo_,    "Go wheel, and may the devil drive thee."[231]_March_ 27.--Another bright cold day. I answered two modest requestsfrom widow ladies. One, whom I had already assisted in some lawbusiness, on the footing of her having visited my mother, requested meto write to Mr. Peel, saying, on her authority, that her second son, ayouth of infinite merit and accomplishment, was fit for any situation ina public office, and that I requested he might be provided accordingly.Another widowed dame, whose claim is having read _Marmion_ and the _Ladyof the Lake_, besides a promise to read all my other works--Gad, it is arash engagement!--demands that I shall either pay 200 to get her cubinto some place or other, or settle him in a seminary of education.Really this is very much after the fashion of the husbandman of MiguelTurra's requests of Sancho when Governor.[232] "Have you anything elseto ask, honest man?" quoth Sancho. But what are the demands of an honestman to those of an honest woman, and she a widow to boot? I do believeyour destitute widow, especially if she hath a charge of children, andone or two fit for patronage, is one of the most impudent animalsliving.Went to Galashiels and settled the dispute about Sandie's wall._March_ 28.--We have now been in solitude for some time--myself nearlytotally so, excepting at meals, or on a call as yesterday from Henry andWilliam Scott of Harden. One is tempted to ask himself, knocking at thedoor of his own heart, Do you love this extreme loneliness? I can answerconscientiously, _I do_. The love of solitude was with me a passion ofearly youth; when in my teens, I used to fly from company to indulge invisions and airy castles of my own, the disposal of ideal wealth, andthe exercise of imaginary power. This feeling prevailed even till I waseighteen, when love and ambition awakening with other passions threw memore into society, from which I have, however, at times withdrawnmyself, and have been always even glad to do so. I have risen from afeast satiated; and unless it be one or two persons of very strongintellect, or whose spirits and good-humour amuse me, I wish neither tosee the high, the low, nor the middling class of society. This is afeeling without the least tinge of misanthropy, which I always consideras a kind of blasphemy of a shocking description. If God bears with thevery worst of us, we may surely endure each other. If thrown intosociety, I always have, and always will endeavour to bring pleasure withme, at least to show willingness to please. But for all this "I hadrather live alone," and I wish my appointment, so convenient otherwise,did not require my going to Edinburgh. But this must be, and in mylittle lodging I will be lonely enough.Had a very kind letter from Croker disowning the least idea of personalattack in his answer to _Malachi_.Reading at intervals a novel called _Granby_; one of that very difficultclass which aspires to describe the actual current of society, whosecolours are so evanescent that it is difficult to fix them on thecanvas. It is well written, but over-laboured--too much attempt to putthe reader exactly up to the thoughts and sentiments of the parties. Thewomen do this better: Edgeworth, Ferrier, Austen have all had theirportraits of real society, far superior to anything man, vain man, hasproduced of the like nature.[233]_March_ 29.--Worked in the morning. Had two visits from Colonels Russelland Ferguson. Walked from one till half-past four. A fine, flashy,disagreeable day; snow-clouds sweeping past among sunshine, driving downthe valley, and whitening the country behind them.Mr. Gibson came suddenly in after dinner. Brought very indifferent newsfrom Constable's house. It is not now hoped that they will pay abovethree or four shillings in the pound. Robinson supposed not to be muchbetter.Mr. G. goes to London immediately, and is to sell _Woodstock_ toRobinson if he can, otherwise to those who will, John Murray, etc. Thiswork may fail, perhaps, though better than some of its predecessors. Ifso, we must try some new manner. I think I could catch the dogs yet.A beautiful and perfect lunar rainbow to-night._March_ 30.--Mr. Gibson looks unwell, and complains of cold--bitter badweather for his travelling, and he looks but frail.These indifferent news he brought me affect me but to a little degree.It is being too confident to hope to ensure success in the long seriesof successive struggles which lie before me. But somehow, I do fullyentertain the hope of doing a good deal._March_ 31.--    "He walked and wrote poor soul, what then?    Why then, he wrote and walked again."But I am begun _Nap. Bon._ again, which is always a change, because itgives a good deal of reading and research, whereas _Woodstock_ and suchlike, being extempore from my mother-wit, is a sort of spinning of thebrains, of which a man tires. The weather seems milder to-day.FOOTNOTES:[198] The full-length picture of Sir Walter (with, the two dogs, Campand the deerhound) by Raeburn, painted in 1809, was at this time givento Mr. Skene, and remained in his possession till 1831, when it was sentto Abbotsford, where it now hangs.--See Letter, Scott to Skene, underJanuary 16th, 1831.[199] Spean a wean, _i.e._ wean a child.[200] Archibald Skirving (1749-1819), well known as a portrait-painterin chalk and crayons in Edinburgh in the early part of this century.[201] H.W. Williams, a native of Wales, who settled in Edinburgh at thebeginning of this century. His _Travels in Italy and Greece_ werepublished in 1820, and the _Views in Greece_ in 1827. This work wascompleted in 1829, the year in which he died.[202] Vols. i. and ii. were published in 1802.[203] _Kain_ in Scotch law means payment in _kind. Carriages_ in thesame phraseology stands for services in driving with horse and cart.[204] Ballad of _Hardyknute_, slightly altered.--J.G.L.[205] Sir W. Knighton was Physician and Private Secretary to George IV.Rogers (_Table-Talk_, p. 289) says no one had more influence with theKing. Sir William died in 1836; his _Memoirs_ were published in 1838,edited by his widow.[206] Ossian.--J.G.L.[207] Pastoret: _Le Duc de Guise  Naples, etc., en_ 1647 _et_ 1648.8vo, 1825; also _Memoires relating his passage to Naples and heading theSecond Revolt of that people_. Englished, sm. 8vo, 1669."The Reviewal then meditated was afterwards published in _ForeignQuarterly Review_, vol. iv. p 355, but not included in the _Misc. ProseWorks."_--_Abbotsford Library Catalogue_, p. 36.[208] W. Shenstone's _Essays_ (1765), p. 115, or _Works_ (1764-69), vol.iii. p. 49.I am indebted to Dr. J.A.H. Murray for this reference, which he kindlysupplied from the materials for his great English Dictionary onHistorical Principles.[209] _King Henry VIII._, Act v. Sc. 2, slightly altered.--J.G.L.[210] "Watch the sign to hate."--Johnson's _Vanity of Human Wishes_.[211] See _Arniston Memoirs_, 8vo, Edin. 1888, for text of LordMelville's letter and Sir Walter's reply, pp. 315-326.[212] "Seldom has any political measure called forth so strong and souniversal an expression of public opinion. In every city and in everycounty public meetings were held to deprecate the destruction of the onepound and guinea notes."--_Annual Register_ (1826), p. 24.[213] Alex. Young of Harburn, a steady Whig of the old school, and asteady and esteemed friend of Sir Walter's.--J.G.L.[214] See _Life_, vol. iv. pp. 146-148.[215] Henry Weber died in 1818.[216] See Life of Bonaparte. _Miscellaneous Prose Works_, vol. xi. pp.346-351.--J.G.L.[217] _Plays on the Passions_, 2 vols. 8vo, Lond. 1802, vol. ii. pp.211-215.[218] He had, however, snatched a moment to write the following playfulnote to Mr. Sharpe, little dreaming that the sportive allusion to hisreturn in May would be so sadly realised:--"MY DEAR CHARLES,--You promised when I _displenished_ this house thatyou would accept of the prints of Roman antiquities, which I now send. Ibelieve they were once in some esteem, though now so detestably smokedthat they will only suit your suburban villa in the Cowgate when youremove to that classical residence. I also send a print which is an oldfavourite of mine, from the humorous correspondence between Mr.Mountebank's face and the monkey's. I leave town to-day or to-morrow atfurthest. When I return in May I shall be  Bachelor Bluff, bachelor Bluff,  Hey for a heart that's rugged and tough.I shall have a beefsteak and a bottle of wine of a Sunday, which I hopeyou will often take share of,--Being with warm regard always yours,WALTER SCOTT."--Sharpe's _Correspondence_, vol. ii. pp. 359-60.[219] Apropos of the old Scotch lady who had surreptitiously pocketed asilver spoon, one of a set of a dozen which were being passed round forexamination in an auction room. Suspicion resting on her, she was askedto allow her person to be searched, but she indignantly produced thearticle, with "Touch my honour," etc.[220] The _Attorneys_ of Aberdeen are styled _advocates_. This valuableprivilege is said to have been bestowed at an early period by some(sportive) monarch.--J.G.L.[221] This clever book was published in 1814: at the same time as_Waverley_. Had it contained nothing else than the sketch of Bran, thegreat Irish wolf-hound, it would have commended itself to Scott. Theauthoress died in 1859.[222] It is worth noting that a quarter of a century after Sir Walterhad written these lines, we find Macaulay stating that, in his opinion,"there are in the world no compositions which approach nearerperfection." Scott had already criticised Miss Austen in the 27th No. ofthe _Quarterly_. She died in 1817.[223] "I return no more,"--see _Mackrimmon's Lament_ byScott.--_Poetical Works_, vol. xi. p. 332.[224] Published as far back as 1792. An appreciative criticism on Mrs.Smith's works will be found in Scott's _Miscellaneous Prose Works_, vol.iv. pp. 58-70.[225] See this Journal, 2 December last.[226] The letters of _Malachi_ were treated by some members of the Houseof Commons as incentives to rebellion, and senators gravely averred thatnot many years ago they would have subjected the author to condignpunishment.The Chancellor of the Exchequer, however, declared that he did not dread"the flashing of that Highland claymore though evoked from its scabbardby the incantations of the mightiest magician of the age."--Speech ofRt. Hon. F.J. Robinson.[227] Both letters are quoted in Lockhart's _Life_, vol. viii. pp.299-305. See also _Croker's Correspondence and Diaries_, edited by LouisJ. Jennings, 3 vols. 8vo, Lond. 1884, vol. i. pp. 315-319.[228] W. Scott, Esq., afterwards of Raeburn, Sir Walter'sSheriff-substitute.[229] Hudibras.--J.G.L.[230] One of Sir Walter's kindly "_weird sisters_" and neighbours,daughters of Professor Ferguson. They had occupied the house atToftfield (on which Scott at the ladies' request bestowed the name ofHuntly Burn) from the spring of 1818. Miss Margaret has been describedas extremely like her brother Sir Adam in the turn of thought and ofhumour.--See _Life_, vol. vi. p. 322.[231] _Fortune in her Wits, and the Hour of all Men_, Quevedo's Works,Edin. 1798, vol. iii. p. 107.[232] _Don Quixote_, Pt. II. cap. 47.[233] _Granby_ was written by a young man, Thos. H. Lister, some yearsafterwards known as the author of _The Life and Administration of theFirst Earl of Clarendon_, 3 vols. 8vo, 1837-38. Mr. Lister died in his41st year in 1842.APRIL._April_ 1.--_Ex uno die disce omnes._ Rose at seven or sooner, studied,and wrote till breakfast with Anne, about a quarter before ten. LadyScott seldom able to rise till twelve or one. Then I write or studyagain till one. At that hour to-day I drove to Huntly Burn, and walkedhome by one of the hundred and one pleasing paths which I have madethrough the woods I have planted--now chatting with Tom Purdie, whocarries my plaid, and speaks when he pleases, telling long stories ofhits and misses in shooting twenty years back--sometimes chewing the cudof sweet and bitter fancy--and sometimes attending to the humours of twocurious little terriers of the Dandie Dinmont breed, together with anoble wolf-hound puppy which Glengarry has given me to replace Maida.This brings me down to the very moment I do tell--the rest is prophetic.I will feel sleepy when this book is locked, and perhaps sleep untilDalgleish brings the dinner summons. Then I will have a chat with LadyS. and Anne; some broth or soup, a slice of plain meat--and man's chiefbusiness, in Dr. Johnson's estimation, is briefly despatched. Half anhour with my family, and half an hour's coquetting with a cigar, atumbler of weak whisky and water, and a novel perhaps, lead on to tea,which sometimes consumes another half hour of chat; then write and readin my own room till ten o'clock at night; a little bread and then aglass of porter, and to bed.And this, very rarely varied by a visit from some one, is the tenor ofmy daily life--and a very pleasant one indeed, were it not forapprehensions about Lady S. and poor Johnnie Hugh. The former will, Ithink, do well--for the latter--I fear--I fear--_April_ 2.--I am in a wayward mood this morning. I received yesterdaythe last proof-sheets of _Woodstock_, and I ought to correct them. Now,this _ought_ sounds as like as possible to _must_, and _must_ I cannotabide. I would go to Prester John's country of free good-will, soonerthan I would _must_ it to Edinburgh. Yet this is all folly, and sillyfolly too; and so _must_ shall be for once obeyed after I have thuswritten myself out of my aversion to its peremptory sound. Corrected thesaid proofs till twelve o'clock--when I think I will treat resolution,not to a dram, as the drunken fellow said after he had passed thedram-shop, but to a walk, the rather that my eyesight is somewhatuncertain and wavering. I think it must be from the stomach. The wholepage waltzes before my eyes. J.B. writes gloomily about _Woodstock_; butcommends the conclusion. I think he is right. Besides, my manner isnearly caught, and, like Captain Bobadil[234], I have taught nearly ahundred gentlemen to fence very nearly, if not altogether, as well asmyself. I will strike out something new._April_ 3.--I have from Ballantyne and Gibson the extraordinary andgratifying news that _Woodstock_ is sold for 8228 in all, readymoney--a matchless sum for less than three months' work[235]. IfNapoleon does as well, or near it, it will put the trust affairs in highflourish. Four or five years of leisure and industry would, with [such]success, amply replace my losses, and put me on a steadier footing thanever. I have a curious fancy: I will go set two or three acorns, andjudge by their success in growing whether I will succeed in clearing myway or not. I have a little toothache keeps me from working muchto-day, besides I sent off, per Blucher, copy for _Napoleon_, as well asthe d--d proofs.A blank forenoon! But how could I help it, Madam Duty? I was not lazy;on my soul I was not. I did not cry for half holiday for the sale of_Woodstock_. But in came Colonel Ferguson with Mrs. Stewart ofBlackhill, or hall, or something, and I must show her the garden,pictures, etc. This lasts till one; and just as they are at their lunch,and about to go off, guard is relieved by the Laird and Lady Harden, andMiss Eliza Scott--and my dear Chief, whom I love very much, though alittle obsidional or so, remains till three. That same crown, composedof the grass which grew on the walls of besieged places, should beoffered to visitors who stay above an hour in any eident[236] person'shouse. Wrote letters this evening._April_ 4.--Wrote two pages in the morning. Then went to Ashestiel inthe sociable, with Colonel Ferguson. Found my cousin Russell settledkindly to his gardening and his projects. He seems to have brought homewith him the enviable talent of being interested and happy in his ownplace. Ashestiel looks worst, I think, at this period of the year; butis a beautiful place in summer, where I passed nine happy years. Did Iever pass unhappy years anywhere? None that I remember, save those atthe High School, which I thoroughly detested on account of theconfinement. I disliked serving in my father's office, too, from thesame hatred to restraint. In other respects, I have had unhappydays--unhappy weeks--even, on one or two occasions, unhappy months; butFortune's finger has never been able to play a dirge on me for a quarterof a year together.I am sorry to see the Peel-wood, and other natural coppice, decaying andabridged about Ashestiel--    'The horrid plough has razed the green,      Where once my children play'd;    The axe has fell'd the hawthorn screen,      The schoolboy's summer shade.'[237]There was a very romantic pasturage called the Cow-park, which I wasparticularly attached to, from its wild and sequestered character.Having been part of an old wood which had been cut down, it was full ofcopse--hazel, and oak, and all sorts of young trees, irregularlyscattered over fine pasturage, and affording a hundred intricacies sodelicious to the eye and the imagination. But some misjudging friend hadcut down and cleared away without mercy, and divided the varied andsylvan scene, which was divided by a little rivulet, into the two mostformal things in nature--a thriving plantation, many-angled as usual,and a park laid down in grass; wanting therefore the rich graminivorousvariety which Nature gives its carpet, and having instead a braird ofsix days' growth--lean and hungry growth too--of ryegrass and clover. Asfor the rill, it stagnates in a deep square ditch, which silences itsprattle, and restrains its meanders with a witness. The original scenewas, of course, imprinted still deeper on Russell's mind than mine, andI was glad to see he was intensely sorry for the change._April_ 5.--Rose late in the morning, past eight, to give the cold andtoothache time to make themselves scarce, which they have obliginglydone. Yesterday every tooth on the right side of my head was absolutelywaltzing. I would have drawn by the half dozen, but country dentists arenot to be lippened to.[238] To-day all is quiet, but a little swellingand stiffness in the jaw. Went to Chiefswood at one, and marked withregret forty trees indispensably necessary for paling--much like drawinga tooth; they _are_ wanted and will never be better, but I amavaricious of grown trees, having so few.Worked a fair task; dined, and read Clapperton's journey and Denham'sinto Bornou. Very entertaining, and less botheration about mineralogy,botany, and so forth, than usual. Pity Africa picks up so many bravemen, however. Work in the evening._April_ 6.--Wrote in the morning. Went at one to Huntly Burn, where Ihad the great pleasure to hear, through a letter from Sir Adam, thatSophia was in health, and Johnnie gaining strength. It is a fineexchange from deep and aching uncertainty on so interesting a subject,to the little spitfire feeling of "Well, but they might have taken thetrouble to write"; but so wretched a correspondent as myself has notmuch to say, so I will just grumble sufficiently to maintain thepatriarchal dignity.I returned in time to work, and to receive a shoal of things from J.B.Among others, a letter from an Irish lady, who, for the _beaux yeux_,which I shall never look upon, desires I will forthwith send her all theWaverley Novels, which are published, with an order to furnish her withall others in course as they appear, which she assures me will be an_era_ in her life. She may find out some other epocha._April_ 7.--Made out my morning's task; at one drove to Chiefswood, andwalked home by the Rhymer's Glen, Mar's Lee, and Haxell-Cleugh. Took methree hours. The heath gets somewhat heavier for me every year--butnever mind, I like it altogether as well as the day I could tread itbest. My plantations are getting all into green leaf, especially thelarches, if theirs may be called leaves, which are only a sort of hair,and from the number of birds drawn to these wastes, I may congratulatemyself on having literally made the desert to sing. As I returned, therewas, in the phraseology of that most precise of prigs in a whitecollarless coat and _chapeau bas_, Mister Commissary Ramsay--"a ratherdense inspissation of rain." Deil care.    "Lord, who would live turmoiled in the Court,    That might enjoy such quiet walks as these?"[239]Yet misfortune comes our way too. Poor Laidlaw lost a fine prattlingchild of five years old yesterday.It is odd enough--Iden, the Kentish Esquire, has just made theejaculation which I adopted in the last page, when he kills Cade, andposts away up to Court to get the price set upon his head. Here is aletter come from Lockhart, full of Court news, and all sort ofnews,--best is his wife is well, and thinks the child gains in health.Lockhart erroneously supposes that I think of applying to Ministersabout Charles, and that notwithstanding Croker's terms of pacification Ishould find _Malachi_ stick in my way. I would not make such anapplication for millions; I think if I were to ask patronage it would[not] be through them, for some time at least, and I might have betteraccess.[240]_April_ 8.--We expect _a raid_ of folks to visit us this morning, whomwe must have _dined_ before our misfortunes. Save time, wine, and money,these misfortunes--and so far are convenient things. Besides, there is adignity about them when they come only like the gout in its mildestshape, to authorise diet and retirement, the night-gown and the velvetshoe; when the one comes to chalkstones, and the other to prison,though, there would be the devil. Or compare the effects of Sieur Goutand absolute poverty upon the stomach--the necessity of a bottle oflaudanum in the one case, the want of a morsel of meat in the other.Laidlaw's infant, which died on Wednesday, is buried to-day. The peoplecoming to visit prevent my going, and I am glad of it. I hatefunerals--always did. There is such a mixture of mummery with realgrief--the actual mourner perhaps heart-broken, and all the rest makingsolemn faces, and whispering observations on the weather and publicnews, and here and there a greedy fellow enjoying the cake and wine. Tome it is a farce full of most tragical mirth, and I am not sorry (likeProvost Coulter[241]) but glad that I shall not see my own. This is amost unfilial tendency of mine, for my father absolutely loved afuneral; and as he was a man of a fine presence, and looked the mournerwell, he was asked to every interment of distinction. He seemed topreserve the list of a whole bead-roll of cousins, merely for thepleasure of being at their funerals, which he was often asked tosuperintend, and I suspect had sometimes to pay for. He carried me withhim as often as he could to these mortuary ceremonies; but feeling I wasnot, like him, either useful or ornamental, I escaped as often as Icould.I saw the poor child's funeral from a distance. Ah, that Distance! Whata magician for conjuring up scenes of joy or sorrow, smoothing allasperities, reconciling all incongruities, veiling all absurdness,softening every coarseness, doubling every effect by the influence ofthe imagination. A Scottish wedding should be seen at a distance; thegay band of the dancers just distinguished amid the elderly group of thespectators,--the glass held high, and the distant cheers as it isswallowed, should be only a sketch, not a finished Dutch picture, whenit becomes brutal and boorish. Scotch psalmody, too, should be heardfrom a distance. The grunt and the snuffle, and the whine and thescream, should be all blended in that deep and distant sound, which,rising and falling like the Eolian harp, may have some title to becalled the praise of our Maker. Even so the distant funeral: the fewmourners on horseback, with their plaids wrapped around them--the fatherheading the procession as they enter the river, and pointing out theford by which his darling is to be carried on the last long road--notone of the subordinate figures in discord with the general tone of theincident--seeming just accessories, and no more--this _is_ affecting._April_ 9.--I worked at correcting proofs in the morning, and, what isharder, at correcting manuscript, which fags me excessively. I was deadsick of it by two o'clock, the rather as my hand, O revered "Gurnal," beit said between ourselves, gets daily worse.Lockhart's _Review_.[242] Don't like his article on Sheridan's life.There is no breadth in it, no general views, the whole flung away insmart but party criticism. Now, no man can take more general and liberalviews of literature than J.G.L. But he lets himself too easily into thatadvocatism of style, which is that of a pleader, not a judge or acritic, and is particularly unsatisfactory to the reader. Lieut.-Col.Ferguson dined here._April_ 10.--Sent off proofs and copy galore before breakfast, and mightbe able to give idleness a day if I liked. But it is as well reading for_Boney_ as for anything else, and I have a humour to make my amusementuseful. Then the day is changeable, with gusts of wind, and I believe astart to the garden will be my best out-of-doors exercise. No thoroughhill-expedition in this gusty weather._April_ 11.--Wrought out my task, although I have been much affectedthis morning by the Morbus, as I call it. Aching pain in the back,rendering one posture intolerable, fluttering of the heart, idle fears,gloomy thoughts and anxieties, which if not unfounded are at leastbootless. I have been out once or twice, but am driven in by the rain.Mercy on us, what poor devils we are! I shook this affection off,however. Mr. Scrope and Col. Ferguson came to dinner, and we twaddledaway the evening well enough._April_ 12.--I have finished my task this morning at half-pasteleven--easily and early--and, I think, not amiss. I hope J.B. will makesome great points of admiration!!!--otherwise I will be disappointed. Ifthis work answers--if it _but_ answers, it must set us on our legs; I amsure worse trumpery of mine has had a great run. Well, I will consolemyself and do my best! But fashion changes, and I am getting old, andmay become unpopular, but it is time to cry out when I am hurt. Iremember with what great difficulty I was brought to think myselfsomething better than common,[243]--and now I will not in mere faintnessof heart give up good hopes. So Fortune protect the bold. I havefinished the whole introductory sketch of the Revolution--too long foran introduction. But I think I may now go to my solitary walk._April_ 13.--On my return from my walk yesterday I learnt with greatconcern the death of my old friend, Sir Alexander Don. He cannot havebeen above six-or seven-and-forty. Without being much together, we had,considering our different habits, lived in much friendship, and Isincerely regret his death. His habits were those of a gay man, muchconnected with the turf; but he possessed strong natural parts, and inparticular few men could speak better in public when he chose. He hadtact, wit, power of sarcasm, and that indescribable something whichmarks the gentleman. His manners in society were extremely pleasing, andas he had a taste for literature and the fine arts, there were few morepleasant companions, besides being a highly-spirited, steady, andhonourable man. His indolence prevented his turning these good partstowards acquiring the distinction he might have attained. He was amongthe _dtenus_ whom Bonaparte's iniquitous commands confined so long inFrance;[244] and coming there into possession of a large estate in rightof his mother, the heiress of the Glencairn family, he had the means ofbeing very expensive, and probably then acquired those gay habits whichrendered him averse to serious business. Being our member forRoxburghshire, his death will make a stir amongst us. I prophesyHarden[245] will be here to talk about starting his son Henry.Accordingly the Laird and Lady called. I exhorted him to write to LordMontagu[246] instantly. I do not see what they can do better, and unlesssome pickthank intervene to insinuate certain irritating suspicions, Isuppose Lord M. will make no objection. There can be no objection toHenry Scott for birth, fortune, or political principle; and I do not seewhere we could get a better representative._April_ 14.--Wrote to Lord M. last night. I hope they will keep thepeace in the county. I am sure it would be to me a most distressingthing if Buccleuch and Harden were to pull different ways, being sointimate with both families.I did not write much yesterday, not above two pages and a half. I havebegun _Boney_, though, and _c'est toujours quelque chose_. This morningI sent off proofs and manuscript. Had a letter from the famous DenisDavidoff, the Black Captain, whose abilities as a partisan were so muchdistinguished during the retreat from Moscow. If I can but wheedle himout of a few anecdotes, it would be a great haul.A kind letter from Colin Mack[enzie]; he thinks the Ministry will notpush the measure against Scotland. I fear they will; there is usually anobstinacy in weakness. But I will think no more about it. Time draws on.I have been here a month. Another month carries me to be a hermit in thecity instead of the country. I could scarce think I had been here aweek. I wish I was able, even at great loss, to retire from Edinburghentirely. Here is no bile, no visits, no routine, and yet on the whole,things are as well perhaps as they are._April_ 15.--Received last night letters from Sir John Scott Douglas,and from that daintiest of Dandies, Sir William Elliot of Stobs,canvassing for the county. Young Harry's[247] the lad for me. But willhe be the lad for Lord Montagu?--there is the point. I should have givenhim a hint to attend to Edgerston. Perhaps being at Minto, and notthere, may give offence, and a bad report from that quarter would playthe devil. It is rather too late to go down and tell them this, and, tosay truth, I don't like the air of making myself busy in the matter.Poor Sir Alexander Don died of a disease in the heart; the body wasopened, which was very right. Odd enough, too, to have a man, probably afriend two days before, slashing at one's heart as it were a bullock's.I had a letter yesterday from John Gibson. The House of Longman and Co.guarantee the sale [of _Woodstock_] to Hurst, and take the work, ifHurst and Robinson (as is to be feared) can make no play.Also I made up what was due of my task both for 13th and 14th. So heyfor a Swiftianism--    "I loll in my chair,    And around me I stare    With a critical air,    Like a calf at a fair;    And, say I, Mrs. Duty,    Good-morrow to your beauty,    I kiss your sweet shoe-tie,    And hope I can suit ye."Fair words butter no parsnips, says Duty; don't keep talking then, butget to your work again. Here is a day's task before you--the siege ofToulon. Call you that a task? d---- me, I'll write it as fast as _Boney_carried it on._April_ 16.--I am now far ahead with _Nap._ I wrote a little thismorning, but this forenoon I must write letters, a task in which I amfar behind.    "Heaven sure sent letters for some wretch's plague."[248]Lady Scott seems to make no way, yet can scarce be said to lose any. Shesuffers much occasionally, especially during the night. Sleeps a greatdeal when at ease; all symptoms announce water upon the chest. A sadprospect.In the evening a despatch from Lord Melville, written with all thefamiliarity of former times, desiring me to ride down and press Mr.Scott of Harden to let Henry stand, and this in Lord Montagu's name aswell as his own, so that the two propositions cross each other on theroad, and Henry is as much desired by the Buccleuch interest as hedesires their support._Jedburgh, April_ 17.--Came over to Jedburgh this morning, to breakfastwith my good old friend Mr. Shortreed, and had my usual warm reception.Lord Gillies held the Circuit Court, and there was no criminal trial forany offence whatsoever. I have attended these circuits with tolerableregularity since 1792, and though there is seldom much of importance tobe done, yet I never remember before the Porteous roll[249] being quiteblank. The judge was presented with a pair of white gloves, inconsideration of its being a maiden circuit. Harden came over and talkedabout his son's preferment, naturally much pleased.Received 100 from John Lockhart, for review of Pepys;[250] but this isby far too much; 50 is plenty. Still I must impeticos the gratility forthe present,[251]--for Whitsunday will find me only with 300 in hand,unless Blackwood settles a few scores of pounds for _Malachi_.Wrote a great many letters. Dined with the Judge, where I met thedisappointed candidate, Sir John Scott Douglas, who took my excuse likea gentleman. Sir William Elliot, on the other hand, was, being a fineman, very much out of sorts, that having got his own consent, he couldnot get that of the county. He showed none of this, however, to me._April_ 18.--This morning I go down to Kelso from Jedburgh to poor Don'sfuneral. It is, I suppose, forty years since I saw him first. I wasstaying at Sydenham, a lad of fourteen, or by 'r Lady some sixteen; andhe, a boy of six or seven, was brought to visit me on a pony, a groomholding the leading rein--and now, I, an old grey man, am going to layhim in his grave. Sad work. I detest funerals; there is always a want ofconsistency; it is a tragedy played by strolling performers, who aremore likely to make you laugh than cry. No chance of my being made tolaugh to-day. The very road I go is a road of grave recollections. Mustwrite to Charles seriously on the choice of his profession, and I willdo it now.[_Abbotsford_,] _April_ 19.--Returned last night from the house of deathand mourning to my own, now the habitation of sickness and anxiousapprehension. Found Lady S. had tried the foxglove in quantity, till itmade her so sick she was forced to desist. The result cannot yet bejudged. Wrote to Mrs. Thomas Scott to beg her to let her daughter Anne,an uncommonly, sensible, steady, and sweet-tempered girl, come and staywith us a season in our distress, who I trust will come forthwith.Two melancholy things. Last night I left my pallet in our familyapartment, to make way for a female attendant, and removed to adressing-room adjoining, when to return, or whether ever, God only cantell. Also my servant cut my hair, which used to be poor Charlotte'spersonal task. I hope she will not observe it.The funeral yesterday was very mournful; about fifty persons present,and all seemed affected. The domestics in particular were very much so.Sir Alexander was a kind, though an exact master. It was melancholy tosee those apartments, where I have so often seen him play the gracefuland kind landlord filled with those who were to carry him to his longhome.There was very little talk of the election, at least till the funeralwas over._April_ 20.--Lady Scott's health in the same harassing state ofuncertainty, yet on my side with more of hope than I had two days since.Another death; Thomas Riddell, younger of Camiston, Sergeant-Major ofthe Edinburgh Troop in the sunny days of our yeomanry, and a very goodfellow.The day was so tempting that I went out with Tom Purdie to cut sometrees, the rather that my task was very well advanced. He led me intothe wood, as the blind King of Bohemia was led by his four knights intothe thick of the battle at Agincourt or Crecy,[252] and then, like theold King, "I struck good strokes more than one," which is manlyexercise._April_ 21.--This day I entertained more flattering hopes of LadyScott's health than late events permitted. I went down to Mertoun withColonel Ferguson, who returned to dine here, which consumed time so muchthat I made a short day's work.Had the grief to find Lady Scott had insisted on coming downstairs andwas the worse of it. Also a letter from Lockhart, giving a poor accountof the infant. God help us! earth cannot._April_ 22.--Lady Scott continues very poorly. Better news of the child.Wrought a good deal to-day, rather correcting sheets and acquiringinformation than actually composing, which is the least toilsome of thethree.J.G.L. kindly points out some solecisms in my style, as "amid" for"amidst," "scarce" for "scarcely." "Whose," he says, is the propergenitive of "which" only at such times as "which" retains its quality ofimpersonification. Well! I will try to remember all this, but after allI write grammar as I speak, to make my meaning known, and a solecism inpoint of composition, like a Scotch word in speaking, is indifferent tome. I never learned grammar; and not only Sir Hugh Evans but even Mrs.Quickly might puzzle me about Giney's case and horum harum horum.[253] Ibelieve the Bailiff in _The Good-natured Man_ is not far wrong when hesays, "One man has one way of expressing himself, and another another,and that is all the difference between them."[254] Went to Huntly Burnto-day and looked at the Colonel's projected approach. I am sure if thekind heart can please himself he will please me._April_ 23.--A glorious day, bright and brilliant, and, I fancy, mild.Lady Scott is certainly better, and has promised not to attempt quittingher room.Henry Scott has been here, and his canvass comes on like a moor burning._April_ 24.--Good news from Brighton. Sophia is confined; both she andher baby are doing well, and the child's name is announced to beWalter--a favourite name in our family, and I trust of no bad omen. Yetit is no charm for life. Of my father's family I was the second Walter,if not the third. I am glad the name came my way, for it was borne by myfather, great-grandfather, and great-great-grandfather; also by thegrandsire of that last-named venerable person who was the first laird ofRaeburn.Hurst and Robinson, the Yorkshire tykes, have failed after all theirswaggering, and Longman and Co. take _Woodstock_. But if _Woodstock_ and_Napoleon_ take with the public I shall care little about theirinsolvency, and if they do not, I don't think their solvency would havelasted long. Constable is sorely broken down.    "Poor fool and knave, I have one part in my heart    That's sorry yet for thee."[255]His conduct has not been what I deserved at his hand, but, I believethat, walking blindfold himself, he misled me without _malice prepense_.It is best to think so at least, unless the contrary be demonstrated. Tonourish angry passions against a man whom I really liked would be to laya blister on my own heart._April_ 25.--Having fallen behind on the 23d, I wrought pretty hardyesterday; but I had so much reading, and so many proofs to correct,that I did not get over the daily task, so am still a little behind,which I shall soon make up. I have got _Nap._, d--n him, into Italy,where with bad eyes and obscure maps, I have a little difficulty intracing out his victorious chess-play.Lady Scott was better yesterday, certainly better, and was sound asleepwhen I looked in this morning. Walked in the afternoon. I looked at ahooded crow building in the thicket with great pleasure. It is a shorterdate than my neighbour Torwoodlee[256] thought of, when he told me, asI was bragging a little of my plantations, that it would be long erecrows built in them._April_ 26.--Letters from Walter and Lockharts; all well and doing well.Lady S. continues better, so the clouds are breaking up. I made a goodday's work yesterday, and sent off proofs, letters, and copy thismorning; so, if this fine day holds good, I will take a drive at one.There is an operation called putting to rights--_Scottic_, _reddingup_--which puts me into a fever. I always leave any attempt at it halfexecuted, and so am worse off than before, and have only embroiled thefray. Then my long back aches with stooping into the low drawers of oldcabinets, and my neck is strained with staring up to their attics. Thenyou are sure never to get the thing you want. I am certain they creepabout and hide themselves. Tom Moore[257] gave us the insurrection ofthe papers. That was open war, but this is a system of privy plot andconspiracy, by which those you seek creep out of the way, and those youare not wanting perk themselves in your face again and again, until atlast you throw them into some corner in a passion, and then they are theobjects of research in their turn. I have read in a French Eastern taleof an enchanted person called _L'homme qui cherche_, a sort of "Sir Guythe Seeker," always employed in collecting the beads of a chaplet,which, by dint of gramarye, always dispersed themselves when he wasabout to fix the last upon the string. It was an awful doom;transmogrification into the Laidleyworm of Spindlestaneheugh[258] wouldhave been a blessing in comparison. Now, the explanation of all this is,that I have been all this morning seeking a parcel of sticks of sealingwax which I brought from Edinburgh, and the "_Weel Brandt and Vasthoud_"[259] has either melted without the agency of fire or barricadeditself within the drawers of some cabinet, which has declared itself ina state of insurrection. A choice subject for a journal, but what betterhave I?I did not quite finish my task to-day, nay, I only did one third of it.It is so difficult to consult the maps after candles are lighted, or toread the Moniteur, that I was obliged to adjourn. The task is threepages or leaves of my close writing per diem, which corresponds to abouta sheet (16 pages) of _Woodstock_, and about 12 of _Bonaparte_, which isa more comprehensive page. But I was not idle neither, and wrote some_Balaam_[260] for Lockhart's _Review_. Then I was in hand a leaf abovethe tale, so I am now only a leaf behind it._April_ 27.--This is one of those abominable April mornings whichdeserve the name of _Sans Cullotides_, as being cold, beggarly, coarse,savage, and intrusive. The earth lies an inch deep with snow, to theconfusion of the worshippers of Flora. By the way, Bogie attended hisprofessional dinner and show of flowers at Jedburgh yesterday. Here is abeautiful sequence to their _floralia_. It is this uncertainty in April,and the descent of snow and frost when one thinks themselves clear ofthem, and that after fine encouraging weather, that destroys ourScottish fruits and flowers. It is as imprudent to attach yourself toflowers in Scotland as to a caged bird; the cat, sooner or later, snapsup one, and these--_Sans Cullotides_--annihilate the other. It was butyesterday I was admiring the glorious flourish of the pears andapricots, and now hath come the killing frost.[261]But let it freeze without, we are comfortable within. Lady Scottcontinues better, and, we may hope, has got the turn of her disease._April_ 28.--Beautiful morning, but ice as thick as pasteboard, toosurely showing that the night has made good yesterday's threat.Dalgleish, with his most melancholy face, conveys the most dolefultidings from Bogie. But servants are fond of the woful, it gives suchconsequence to the person who communicates bad news.Wrote two letters, and read till twelve, and then for a stout walk amongthe plantations till four. Found Lady Scott obviously better, I think,than I had left her in the morning. In walking I am like a spavinedhorse, and heat as I get on. The flourishing plantations around me are agreat argument for me to labour hard. "_Barbarus has segetes?_" I willwrite my finger-ends off first._April_ 29.--I was always afraid, privately, that _Woodstock_ would notstand the test. In that case my fate would have been that of theunfortunate minstrel trumpeter Maclean at the battle of Sheriffmuir--    "By misfortune he happened to fa', man;      By saving his neck      His trumpet did break,    And came off without music at a', man."[262]J.B. corroborated my doubts by his raven-like croaking and criticising;but the good fellow writes me this morning that he is written down anass, and that the approbation is unanimous. It is but Edinburgh, to besure; but Edinburgh has always been a harder critic than London. It is agreat mercy, and gives encouragement for future exertion. Having writtentwo leaves this morning, I think I will turn out to my walk, though twohours earlier than usual. Egad, I could not persuade myself that it wassuch bad _Balaam_ after all._April_ 30.--I corrected this morning a quantity of proofs and copy, anddawdled about a little, the weather of late becoming rather milder,though not much of that. Methinks Duty looks as if she were buthalf-pleased with me; but would the Pagan bitch have me work on theSunday?FOOTNOTES:[234] Ben Jonson's _Every Man in his Humour_, Act IV, Sc. 5.[235] The reader will understand that the Novel was sold for behoof ofJames Ballantyne & Co.'s creditors, and that this sum includes the costof printing the first edition as well as paper.--J.G.L.[236] Eident, _i.e._ eagerly diligent.--J.G.L.[237] These lines slightly altered from Logan.--J.G.L.[238] Lippened, _i.e._ relied upon.--J.G.L.[239] 2 _King Henry VI_., Act IV. Sc. 10, slightly varied.[240] In a letter of the same day he says--"My interest, as you mighthave known, lies Windsor way."--J.G.L.[241] William Coulter, Lord Provost of Edinburgh, died in office, April1810, and was said to have been greatly consoled on his deathbed by theprospect of so grand a funeral as must needs occur in his case.--Scott_used to take him off_ as saying, at some public meeting, "Gentlemen,though doomed to the trade of a stocking-weaver, I was born with thesoul of a _Sheepio_" (Scipio).[242] _Quarterly Review_, No. 66: Lockhart's review of Sheridan's Life.[243] It is interesting to read what James Ballantyne has recorded onthis subject.--"Sir Walter at all times laboured under the strangestdelusion, as to the merits of his own works. On this score he was notonly inaccessible to compliments, but even insensible to the truth; infact, at all times, he hated to talk of any of his productions; as, forinstance, he greatly preferred Mrs. Shelley's _Frankenstein_ to any ofhis own romances. I remember one day, when Mr. Erskine and I were diningwith him, either immediately before or immediately after the publicationof one of the best of the latter, and were giving it the high praise wethought it deserved, he asked us abruptly whether we had read_Frankenstein_. We answered that we had not. 'Ah,' he said, 'havepatience, read _Frankenstein_, and you will be better able to judgeof----.' You will easily judge of the disappointment thus prepared forus. When I ventured, as I sometimes did, to press him on the score ofthe reputation he had gained, he merely asked, as if he determined to bedone with the discussion, 'Why, what is the value of a reputation whichprobably will not last above one or two generations?' One morning, Irecollect, I went into his library, shortly after the publication of the_Lady of the Lake_, and finding Miss Scott there, who was then a veryyoung girl, I asked her, 'Well, Miss Sophia, how do you like the _Ladyof the Lake_, with which everybody is so much enchanted?' Her answerwas, with affecting simplicity, 'Oh, I have not read it. Papa saysthere's nothing so bad for young girls as reading bad poetry.' Yet hecould not be said to be hostile to compliments in the abstract--nothingwas so easy as to flatter him about a farm or a field, and his manner onsuch an occasion plainly showed that he was really open to such acompliment, and liked it. In fact, I can recall only one instance inwhich he was fairly cheated into pleasure by a tribute paid to hisliterary merit, and it was a striking one. Somewhere betwixt two andthree years ago I was dining at the Rev. Dr. Brunton's, with a large andaccomplished party, of whom Dr. Chalmers was one. The conversationturned upon Sir Walter Scott's romances generally, and the course of itled me very shortly afterwards to call on Sir Walter, and address him asfollows--I knew the task was a bold one, but I thought I saw that Ishould get well through it--'Well, Sir Walter,' I said, 'I was diningyesterday, where your works became the subject of very copiousconversation.' His countenance immediately became overcast--and hisanswer was, 'Well, I think, I must say your party might have been betteremployed.' 'I knew it would be your answer,'--the conversationcontinued,--'nor would I have mentioned it, but that Dr. Chalmers waspresent, and was by far the most decided in his expressions of pleasureand admiration of any of the party.' This instantly roused him to themost vivid animation. 'Dr. Chalmers?' he repeated; 'that throws newlight on the subject--to have produced any effect upon the mind of sucha man as Dr. Chalmers is indeed something to be proud of. Dr. Chalmersis a man of the truest genius. I will thank you to repeat all you canrecollect that he said on the subject.' I did so accordingly, and I canrecall no other similar instance."--_James Ballantyne's MS._[244] For the life led by many of the _dtenus_ in France before 1814,and for anecdotes regarding Sir Alexander Don, see Sir James Campbell ofArdkinglas' _Memoirs_, 2 vols. 8vo, London 1832, vol. ii. chaps. 7 and8.[245] Hugh Scott of Harden, afterwards (in 1835) LordPolwarth--succeeded by his son Henry, in 1841.[246] Henry Jas. Scott, who succeeded to the Barony of Montagu on thedemise of his grandfather, the Duke of Montagu, was the son of Henry, 3dDuke of Buccleuch. At Lord M.'s death in 1845 the Barony of Montaguexpired.[247] Henry Scott, afterwards Lord Polwarth.[248] Slightly altered from Pope's _Eloisa to Abelard_.[249] The Catalogue of Criminals brought before the Circuit Courts atone time was termed in Scotland the Portuous Roll. The name appears tohave been derived from the practice in early times of delivering to thejudges lists of Criminals for Trials _in Portu_, or in the gateway asthey entered the various towns on their circuit ayres.--Chambers's _Bookof Scotland_, p. 310.Jamieson suggests that the word may have come from "Porteous" asoriginally applied to a Breviary, or portable book of prayers, whichmight easily be transferred to a portable roll of indictments.[250] _Quarterly Review_, No. 66, Pepys' _Diary_.[251] _Twelfth Night_, Act II. Sc. 3.[252] See Froissart's account of the Battle of Crecy, Bk. i. cap. 129.[253] _Merry Wives of Windsor_, Act iv. Sc. 1.[254] See Goldsmith's Comedy, Act III.[255] _King Lear_, Act III. Sc. 2.[256] James Pringle, Convener of Selkirkshire for more than half acentury. For an account of the Pringles of Torwoodlee, see Mr. CraigBrown's _History of Selkirkshire_, vol. i. pp. 459-470.[257] "_The Insurrection of the Papers--a Dream_." _The TwopennyPost-Bag_, 12mo, London, 1812.[258] The well-known ballads on these two North-country legends werepublished by M.G. Lewis and Mr. Lambe, of Norham. "Sir Guy," in the_Tales of Wonder_, and "The Worm," in Ritson's _NorthumberlandGarland_.--See Child's _English and Scottish Ballads_, 8 vols. 12mo,Boston, 1857, vol. i. p. 386.[259] _Fyn Segellak wel brand en vast houd_: old brand used bysealing-wax makers.[260] _Balaam_ is the cant name in a Newspaper Office for asinineparagraphs, about monstrous productions of Nature and the like, keptstanding in type to be used whenever the real news of the day leaves anawkward space that must be filled up somehow.--J.G.L.[261] _Henry VIII._ Act III. Sc. 2.[262] Ritson, _Scottish Songs_, xvi.MAY._May_ 1.--I walked to-day to the western corner of the Chiefswoodplantation, and marked out a large additional plantation to be drawnalong the face of the hill. It cost me some trouble to carry theboundaries out of the eye, for nothing is so paltry as a plantation ofalmost any extent if its whole extent lies defined to the eye. Byavailing myself of the undulations of the ground I think I have avoidedthis for the present; only when seen from the Eildon Hills the cranksand turns of the enclosure will seem fantastic, at least until the treesget high.This cost Tom and me three or four hours. Lieut.-Colonel Ferguson joinedus as we went home, and dined at Abbotsford.My cousin, Barbara Scott of Raeburn, came here to see Lady S. I thinkshe was shocked with the melancholy change. She insisted upon walkingback to Lessudden House, making her walk 16 or 18 miles, and though thecarriage was ordered she would not enter it._May_ 2.--Yesterday was a splendid May day--to-day seems inclined to be_soft_, as we call it; but _tant mieux_. Yesterday had a twang of frostin it. I must get to work and finish Boaden's _Life of Kemble_, andKelly's _Reminiscences_,[263] for the _Quarterly_.I wrote and read for three hours, and then walked, the day being softand delightful; but alas! all my walks are lonely from the absence of mypoor companion. She does not suffer, thank God, but strength must failat last. Since Sunday there has been a gradual change--verygradual--but, alas! to the worse. My hopes are almost gone. But I amdetermined to stand this grief as I have done others._May_ 3,--Another fine morning. I answered a letter from Mr. Handley,who has taken the pains to rummage the Chancery Records until he hasactually discovered the fund due to Lady Scott's mother, 1200; it seemsto have been invested in the estates of a Mr. Owen, as it appears forMadame Charpentier's benefit, but, she dying, the fund was lost sight ofand got into Chancery, where I suppose it must have accumulated, but Icannot say I understand the matter; at a happier moment the news wouldhave given poor Charlotte much pleasure, but now--it is a day too late._May_ 4.--On visiting Lady Scott's sick-room this morning I found hersuffering, and I doubt if she knew me. Yet, after breakfast, she seemedserene and composed. The worst is, she will not speak out about thesymptoms under which she labours. Sad, sad work; I am under the mostmelancholy apprehension, for what constitution can hold out under thesecontinued and wasting attacks?My niece, Anne Scott, a prudent, sensible, and kind young woman, arrivedto-day, having come down to assist us in our distress from so far asCheltenham. This is a great consolation._May_ 5.--Haunted by gloomy thoughts; but I corrected proofs from sevento ten, and wrote from half-past ten to one. My old friend Sir Adamcalled, and took a long walk with me, which was charity. His gaietyrubbed me up a little. I had also a visit from the Laird and Lady ofHarden. Henry Scott carries the county without opposition._May_ 6.--- The same scene of hopeless (almost) and unavailing anxiety.Still welcoming me with a smile, and asserting she is better. I fear thedisease is too deeply entwined with the principles of life. Yet theincrease of good weather, especially if it would turn more genial,might, I think, aid her excellent constitution. Still labouring at this_Review_, without heart or spirits to finish it. I am a tolerable Stoic,but preach to myself in vain.    "Since these things are necessities,    Then let us meet them like necessities."[264]And so we will._May_ 7.--Hammered on at the _Review_ till my backbone ached. But Ibelieve it was a nervous affection, for a walk cured it. Sir Adam andthe Colonel dined here. So I spent the evening as pleasantly as I wellcould, considering I am so soon to leave my own house, and go like astranger to the town of which I have been so long a citizen, and leavemy wife lingering, without prospect of recovery, under the charge of twopoor girls. _Talia cogit dura necessitas.__May_ 8.--I went over to the election at Jedburgh. There was a numerousmeeting; the Whigs, who did not bring ten men to the meeting, of coursetook the whole matter under their patronage, which was much of a piecewith the Blue Bottle drawing the carriage. I tried to pull up once ortwice, but quietly, having no desire to disturb the quiet of theelection. To see the difference of modern times! We had a good dinner,and excellent wine; and I had ordered my carriage at half-past seven,almost ashamed to start so soon. Everybody dispersed at so early anhour, however, that when Henry had left the chair, there was no carriagefor me, and Peter proved his accuracy by showing me it was but aquarter-past seven. In the days I remember they would have kept it uptill day-light; nor do I think poor Don would have left the chair beforemidnight. Well, there is a medium. Without being a veteran Vice, a greyIniquity, like Falstaff, I think an occasional jolly bout, if notcarried to excess, improved society; men were put into good humour; whenthe good wine did its good office, the jest, the song, the speech, haddouble effect; men were happy for the night, and better friends everafter, because they had been so._May_ 9.--My new Liverpool neighbour, Mr. Bainbridge, breakfasts hereto-day with some of his family. They wish to try the fishing inCauldshields Loch, and [there is] promise of a fine soft morning. Butthe season is too early.They have had no sport accordingly after trying with Trimmers. Mr.Bainbridge is a good cut of John Bull--plain, sensible, and downright;the maker of his own fortune, and son of his own works._May_ 10.--To-morrow I leave my home. To what scene I may suddenly berecalled, it wrings my heart to think. If she would but be guided by themedical people, and attend rigidly to their orders, something might behoped, but she is impatient with the protracted suffering, and nowonder. Anne has a severe task to perform, but the assistance of hercousin is a great comfort. Baron Weber, the great composer, wants me(through Lockhart) to compose something to be set to music by him, andsung by Miss Stephens--as if I cared who set or who sung any lines ofmine. I have recommended instead Beaumont and Fletcher's unrivalled songin the _Nice Valour_:    "Hence, all ye vain delights," etc.[_Edinburgh_],[265] _May_ 11.--    "Der Abschiedstag ist da,    Schwer liegt er auf den Herzen--schwer."[266]Charlotte was unable to take leave of me, being in a sound sleep, aftera very indifferent night. Perhaps it was as well. Emotion might havehurt her; and nothing I could have expressed would have been worth therisk. I have foreseen, for two years and more, that this menaced eventcould not be far distant. I have seen plainly, within the last twomonths, that recovery was hopeless. And yet to part with the companionof twenty-nine years when so very ill--that I did not, could notforesee.[267] It withers my heart to think of it, and to recollect thatI can hardly hope again to seek confidence and counsel from that ear towhich all might be safely confided. But in her present lethargic state,what would my attentions have availed? and Anne has promised close andconstant intelligence. I must dine with James Ballantyne to-day _enfamille_. I cannot help it; but would rather be at home and alone.However, I can go out too. I will not yield to the barren sense ofhopelessness which struggles to invade me. I passed a pleasant day withhonest J.B., which was a great relief from the black dog which wouldhave worried me at home. We were quite alone._[Edinburgh,] May_ 12.--Well, here I am in Arden. And I may say withTouchstone, "When I was at home I was in a better place,"[268] and yetthis is not by any means to be complained of. Good apartments, thepeople civil and apparently attentive. No appearance of smoke, andabsolute warrandice against my dreaded enemies, bugs. I must, when thereis occasion, draw to my own Bailie Nicol Jarvie's consolation, "Onecannot carry the comforts of the Saut-Market about with one." Were I atease in mind, I think the body is very well cared for. I have two steadyservants, a man and woman, and they seem to set out sensibly enough.Only one lodger in the house, a Mr. Shandy, a clergyman; and despite hisname, said to be a quiet one._May_ 13.--The projected measure against the Scottish bank-notes hasbeen abandoned, the resistance being general. _Malachi_ might clap hiswings upon this, but, alas! domestic anxiety has cut his comb.I think very lightly in general of praise; it costs men nothing, and isusually only lip-salve. They wish to please, and must suppose thatflattery is the ready road to the good will of every professor ofliterature. Some praise, however, and from some people, does at oncedelight and strengthen the mind, and I insert in this place thequotation with which Ld. C. Baron Shepherd concluded a letter concerningme to the Chief Commissioner: "_Magna etiam illa laus et admirabilisvideri solet tulisse casus sapienter adversos, non fractum esse fortun,retinuisse in rebus asperis dignitatem._"[269] I record these words, notas meriting the high praise they imply, but to remind me that such anopinion being partially entertained of me by a man of a character soeminent, it becomes me to make my conduct approach as much as possibleto the standard at which he rates it.As I must pay back to Terry some cash in London, 170, together withother matters here, I have borrowed from Mr. Alexander Ballantyne thesum of 500, upon a promissory note for 512, 10s. payable 15th Novemberto him or his order. If God should call me before that time, I requestmy son Walter will, in reverence to my memory, see that Mr. AlexanderBallantyne does not suffer for having obliged me in a sort ofexigency--he cannot afford it, and God has given my son the means torepay him._May_ 14.--A fair good-morrow to you, Mr. Sun, who are shining sobrightly on these dull walls. Methinks you look as if you were lookingas bright on the banks of the Tweed; but look where you will, Sir Sun,you look upon sorrow and suffering. Hogg was here yesterday in danger,from having obtained an accommodation of 100 from Mr. Ballantyne, whichhe is now obliged to repay. I am unable to help the poor fellow, beingobliged to borrow myself. But I long ago remonstrated against thetransaction at all, and gave him 50 out of my pocket to avoid grantingthe accommodation, but it did no good._May_ 15.--Received the melancholy intelligence that all is over atAbbotsford.[_Abbotsford_,] _May_ 16.--She died at nine in the morning, after beingvery ill for two days,--easy at last.I arrived here late last night. Anne is worn out, and has had hysterics,which returned on my arrival. Her broken accents were like those of achild, the language, as well as the tones, broken, but in the mostgentle voice of submission. "Poor mamma--never return again--'gone forever--a better place." Then, when she came to herself, she spoke withsense, freedom, and strength of mind, till her weakness returned. Itwould have been inexpressibly moving to me as a stranger--what was itthen to the father and the husband? For myself, I scarce know how Ifeel, sometimes as firm as the Bass Rock, sometimes as weak as the wavethat breaks on it.I am as alert at thinking and deciding as I ever was in my life. Yet,when I contrast what this place now is, with what it has been not longsince, I think my heart will break. Lonely, aged, deprived of myfamily--all but poor Anne, an impoverished and embarrassed man, I amdeprived of the sharer of my thoughts and counsels, who could alwaystalk down my sense of the calamitous apprehensions which break the heartthat must bear them alone. Even her foibles were of service to me, bygiving me things to think of beyond my weary self-reflections.I have seen her. The figure I beheld is, and is not, my Charlotte--mythirty years' companion. There is the same symmetry of form, thoughthose limbs are rigid which were once so gracefully elastic--but thatyellow masque, with pinched features, which seems to mock life ratherthan emulate it, can it be the face that was once so full of livelyexpression? I will not look on it again. Anne thinks her little changed,because the latest idea she had formed of her mother is as she appearedunder circumstances of sickness and pain. Mine go back to a period ofcomparative health. If I write long in this way, I shall write down myresolution, which I should rather write up, if I could. I wonder how Ishall do with the large portion of thoughts which were hers for thirtyyears. I suspect they will be hers yet for a long time at least. But Iwill not blaze cambric and crape in the public eye like a disconsolatewidower, that most affected of all characters._May_ 17.--- Last night Anne, after conversing with apparent ease,dropped suddenly down as she rose from the supper-table, and lay six orseven minutes as if dead. Clarkson, however, has no fear of theseaffections._May_ 18.--Another day, and a bright one to the external world, againopens on us; the air soft, and the flowers smiling, and the leavesglittering. They cannot refresh her to whom mild weather was a naturalenjoyment. Cerements of lead and of wood already hold her; cold earthmust have her soon. But it is not my Charlotte, it is not the bride ofmy youth, the mother of my children, that will be laid among the ruinsof Dryburgh, which we have so often visited in gaiety and pastime. No,no. She is sentient and conscious of my emotions somewhere--somehow;_where_ we cannot tell; _how_ we cannot tell; yet would I not at thismoment renounce the mysterious yet certain hope that I shall see her ina better world, for all that this world can give me. The necessity ofthis separation,--that necessity which rendered it even a relief,--thatand patience must be my comfort. I do not experience those paroxysms ofgrief which others do on the same occasion. I can exert myself and speakeven cheerfully with the poor girls. But alone, or if anything touchesme--the choking sensation. I have been to her room: there was no voicein it--no stirring; the pressure of the coffin was visible on the bed,but it had been removed elsewhere; all was neat as she loved it, butall was calm--calm as death. I remembered the last sight of her; sheraised herself in bed, and tried to turn her eyes after me, and said,with a sort of smile, "You all have such melancholy faces." They werethe last words I ever heard her utter, and I hurried away, for she didnot seem quite conscious of what she said. When I returned, immediately[before] departing, she was in a deep sleep. It is deeper now. This wasbut seven days since.They are arranging the chamber of death; that which was long theapartment of connubial happiness, and of whose arrangements (better thanin richer houses) she was so proud. They are treading fast and thick.For weeks you could have heard a foot-fall. Oh, my God!_May_ 19.--Anne, poor love, is ill with her exertions andagitation--cannot walk--and is still hysterical, though less so. Iadvised flesh-brush and tepid bath, which I think will bring her about.We speak freely of her whom we have lost, and mix her name with ourordinary conversation. This is the rule of nature. All primitive peoplespeak of their dead, and I think virtuously and wisely. The idea ofblotting the names of those who are gone out of the language andfamiliar discourse of those to whom they were dearest is one of therules of ultra-civilisation which, in so many instances, stranglenatural feeling by way of avoiding a painful sensation. The Highlandersspeak of their dead children as freely as of their living, and mentionhow poor Colin or Robert would have acted in such or such a situation.It is a generous and manly tone of feeling; and, so far as it may beadopted without affectation or contradicting the general habits ofsociety, I reckon on observing it._May_ 20.--To-night, I trust, will bring Charles or Lockhart, or both;at least I must hear from them. A letter from Violet [Lockhart] gave usthe painful intelligence that she had not mentioned to Sophia thedangerous state in which her mother was. Most kindly meant, butcertainly not so well judged. I have always thought that truth, evenwhen painful, is a great duty on such occasions, and it is seldom thatconcealment is justifiable.Sophia's baby was christened on Sunday, 14th May, at Brighton, by thename of Walter Scott.[270] May God give him life and health to wear itwith credit to himself and those belonging to him. Melancholy to thinkthat the next morning after this ceremony deprived him of so near arelation. Sent Mr. Curle 11 to remit Mrs. Bohn, York Street, CoventGarden, for books--I thought I had paid the poor woman before._May_ 21.--Our sad preparations for to-morrow continue. A letter fromLockhart; doubtful if Sophia's health or his own state of business willlet him be here. If things permit he comes to-night. From Charles not aword; but I think I may expect him. I wish to-morrow were over; not thatI fear it, for my nerves are pretty good, but it will be a day of manyrecollections._May_ 22.--Charles arrived last night, much affected of course. Anne hada return of her fainting-fits on seeing him, and again upon seeing Mr.Ramsay, the gentleman who performs the service.[271] I heard him do sowith the utmost propriety for my late friend, Lady Alvanley,[272] thearrangement of whose funeral devolved upon me. How little I could guesswhen, where, and with respect to whom I should next hear those solemnwords. Well, I am not apt to shrink from that which is my duty, merelybecause it is painful; but I wish this day over. A kind of cloud ofstupidity hangs about me, as if all were unreal that men seem to bedoing and talking about._May_ 23.--About an hour before the mournful ceremony of yesterday,Walter arrived, having travelled express from Ireland on receiving thenews. He was much affected, poor fellow, and no wonder. Poor Charlottenursed him, and perhaps for that reason she was ever partial to him. Thewhole scene floats as a sort of dream before me--the beautiful day, thegrey ruins covered and hidden among clouds of foliage and flourish,where the grave, even in the lap of beauty, lay lurking and gaped forits prey. Then the grave looks, the hasty important bustle of men withspades and mattocks--the train of carriages--the coffin containing thecreature that was so long the dearest on earth to me, and whom I was toconsign to the very spot which in pleasure-parties we so frequentlyvisited. It seems still as if this could not be really so. But it isso--and duty to God and to my children must teach me patience.Poor Anne has had longer fits since our arrival from Dryburgh thanbefore, but yesterday was the crisis. She desired to hear prayers readby Mr. Ramsay, who performed the duty in a most solemn manner. But herstrength could not carry it through. She fainted before the service wasconcluded.[273]_May_ 24.--Slept wretchedly, or rather waked wretchedly, all night, andwas very sick and bilious in consequence, and scarce able to hold up myhead with pain. A walk, however, with my sons did me a great deal ofgood; indeed their society is the greatest support the world can affordme. Their ideas of everything are so just and honourable, kind towardstheir sisters, and affectionate to me, that I must be grateful to Godfor sparing them to me, and continue to battle with the world for theirsakes, if not for my own._May_ 25.--I had sound sleep to-night, and waked with little or nothingof the strange, dreamy feeling which made me for some days feel like onebewildered in a country where mist or snow has disguised those featuresof the landscape which are best known to him.Walter leaves me to-day; he seems disposed to take interest in countryaffairs, which will be an immense resource, supposing him to tire of thearmy in a few years. Charles, he and I, went up to Ashestiel to callupon the Misses Russell, who have kindly promised to see Anne onTuesday. This evening Walter left us, being anxious to return to hiswife as well as to his regiment. We expect he will be here early inautumn, with his household._May_ 26.--A rough morning, and makes me think of St. George's Channel,which Walter must cross to-night or to-morrow to get to Athlone. Thewind is almost due east, however, and the channel at the narrowest pointbetween Port-Patrick and Donaghadee. His absence is a great blank in ourcircle, especially, I think, to his sister Anne, to whom he showsinvariably much kindness. But indeed they do so without exception eachtowards the other; and in weal or woe have shown themselves a family oflove. No persuasion could force on Walter any of his poor mother'sornaments for his wife. He undid a reading-glass from the gold chain towhich it was suspended, and agreed to give the glass to Jane, but wouldon no account retain the chain. I will go to town on Monday and resumemy labours. Being of a grave nature, they cannot go against the generaltemper of my feelings, and in other respects the exertion, as far as Iam concerned, will do me good; besides, I must re-establish my fortunefor the sake of the children, and of my own character. I have notleisure to indulge the disabling and discouraging thoughts that press onme. Were an enemy coming upon my house, would I not do my best to fight,although oppressed in spirits, and shall a similar despondency preventme from mental exertion? It shall not, by Heaven! This day and to-morrowI give to the currency of the ideas which have of late occupied my mind,and with Monday they shall be mingled at least with other thoughts andcares. Last night Charles and I walked late on the terrace at Kaeside,when the clouds seemed accumulating in the wildest masses both on theEildon Hills and other mountains in the distance. This rough morningreads the riddle.Dull, drooping, cheerless has the day been. I cared not to carry my owngloom to the girls, and so sate in my own room, dawdling with oldpapers, which awakened as many stings as if they had been the nest offifty scorpions. Then the solitude seemed so absolute--my poor Charlottewould have been in the room half-a-score of times to see if the fireburned, and to ask a hundred kind questions. Well, that is over--and ifit cannot be forgotten, must be remembered with patience._May_ 27.--A sleepless night. It is time I should be up and be doing,and a sleepless night sometimes furnishes good ideas. Alas! I have nocompanion now with whom I can communicate to relieve the loneliness ofthese watches of the night. But I must not fail myself and myfamily--and the necessity of exertion becomes apparent. I must try a_hors d'oeuvre_, something that can go on between the necessaryintervals of _Nap._ Mrs. M[urray] K[eith's] Tale of the Deserter, withher interview with the lad's mother, may be made most affecting, butwill hardly endure much expansion.[274] The framework may be a Highlandtour, under the guardianship of the sort of postilion, whom Mrs. M.K.described to me--a species of conductor who regulated the motions of hiscompany, made their halts, and was their cicerone._May_ 28.--I wrote a few pages yesterday, and then walked. I believe thedescription of the old Scottish lady may do, but the change has beenunceasingly rung upon Scottish subjects of late, and it strikes me thatthe introductory matter may be considered as an imitation of WashingtonIrving. Yet not so neither. In short, I will go on, to-day make a dozenof close pages ready, and take J.B.'s advice. I intend the work as an_olla podrida_, into which any species of narrative or discussion may bethrown.I wrote easily. I think the exertion has done me good. I slept soundlast night, and at waking, as is usual with me, I found I had some clearviews and thoughts upon the subject of this trifling work. I wonder ifothers find so strongly as I do the truth of the Latin proverb, _Auroramusis amica_. If I forget a thing over-night, I am sure to recollect itas my eyes open in the morning. The same if I want an idea, or amencumbered by some difficulty, the moment of waking always supplies thedeficiency, or gives me courage to endure the alternative.[275]_May_ 29.--To-day I leave for Edinburgh this house of sorrow. In themidst of such distress, I have the great pleasure to see Anne regainingher health, and showing both patience and steadiness of mind. Godcontinue this, for my own sake as well as hers. Much of my futurecomfort must depend upon her.[_Edinburgh_,] _May_ 30.--Returned to town last night with Charles. Thismorning resume ordinary habits of rising early, working in the morning,and attending the Court. All will come easily round. But it is at firstas if men looked strange on me, and bit their lip when they wring myhand, and indicated suppressed feelings. It is natural this shouldbe--undoubtedly it has been so with me. Yet it is strange to findone's-self resemble a cloud which darkens gaiety wherever it interposesits chilling shade. Will it be better when, left to my own feelings, Isee the whole world pipe and dance around me? I think it will. Thussympathy intrudes on my private affliction.I finished correcting the proofs for the _Quarterly_; it is but a flimsyarticle, but then the circumstances were most untoward.This has been a melancholy day, most melancholy. I am afraid poorCharles found me weeping. I do not know what other folks feel, but withme the hysterical passion that impels tears is of terrible violence--asort of throttling sensation--then succeeded by a state of dreamingstupidity, in which I ask if my poor Charlotte can actually be dead. Ithink I feel my loss more than at the first blow.Poor Charles wishes to come back to study here when his term ends atOxford. I can see the motive._May_ 31.--The melancholy hours of yesterday must not return. Toencourage that dreamy state of incapacity is to resign all authorityover the mind, and I have been wont to say--    "My mind to me a kingdom is."[276]I am rightful monarch; and, God to aid, I will not be dethroned by anyrebellious passion that may rear its standard against me. Such aremorning thoughts, strong as carle-hemp--says Burns--    "Come, firm Resolve, take thou the van,    Thou stalk of carle-hemp in man."Charles went by the steam-boat this morning at six. We parted last nightmournfully on both sides. Poor boy, this is his first serious sorrow.Wrote this morning a Memorial on the Claims which Constable's peopleprefer as to the copyrights of _Woodstock_ and _Napoleon_.[277]FOOTNOTES:[263] See _Miscellaneous Prose Works_, vol. xx. pp. 152-244, or_Quarterly Review_ No. 67, Kelly's _Reminiscences_.[264] 2 _Henry IV_., Act III. Sc. I, slightly altered.[265] [Mrs. Brown's Lodgings, No. 6 North St. David Street.][266] This is the opening couplet of a German trooper's song, alluded toin _Life_, vol. ii. p. 13. The literal translation is:--  "The day of departure is come;  Heavy lies it on the hearts--heavy."--J.G.L.[267] Scott had written:--"and yet to part with the companion of twentyyears just six," and had then deleted the three words, "years just six,"and written "nine" above them. It looks as if he had meant at first torefer to the change in his fortunes, "just six" MONTHS before, and hadafterwards thought it better to refrain. This would account for acertain obscurity of meaning.[268] _As You Like It_, Act II. Sc. 4.[269] Cicero, _de Orat._ ii. p. 346.--J.G.L.[270] Walter Scott Lockhart, died at Versailles in 1853, and was buriedin the Cemetery of Notre-Dame there.[271] The Rev. Edward Bannerman Ramsay, A.M., St. John's College,Cambridge, incumbent St. John's, Edinburgh, afterwards Dean of theDiocese in the Scots Episcopal Church, and still more widely known asthe much-loved "Dean Ramsay," author of _Reminiscences of Scottish Lifeand Character_. This venerable Scottish gentleman was for many years thedelight of all who had the privilege of knowing him. He died at the ageof eighty-three in his house, 23 Ainslie Place, Edinburgh, Dec. 27th,1872.[272] See _Life_, vol. iv. p. 2.[273] Mr. Skene has preserved the following note written on thisday:--"I take the advantage of Mr. Ramsay's return to Edinburgh toanswer your kind letter. It would have done no good to have brought youhere when I could not have enjoyed your company, and there were enoughfriends here to ensure everything being properly adjusted. Anne,contrary to a natural weakness of temper, is quite quiet and resigned toher distress, but has been visited by many fainting fits, the effect, Iam told, of weakness, over-exertion, and distress of mind. Her brothersare both here--Walter having arrived from Ireland yesterday in time toassist at the _munus inane_; their presence will do her much good, but Icannot think of leaving her till Monday next, nor could I do my brethrenmuch good by coming to town, having still that stunned and giddy feelingwhich great calamities necessarily produce. It will soon give way to myusual state of mind, and my friends will not find me much different fromwhat I have usually been."Mr. Ramsay, who I find is a friend of yours, appears an excellent youngman.--My kind love to Mrs. Skene, and am always, yours truly,"WALTER SCOTT. ABBOTSFORD, _23d May_."[274] _The Highland Widow_, Waverley Novels, vol. xli.[275] See February 10, 1826.[276] This excellent philosophical song appears to have been famous inthe sixteenth century.--Percy's _Reliques_, vol. i. 307.--J.G.L.[277] See June 2.JUNE._June_ 1.--Yesterday I also finished a few trifling memoranda on a bookcalled _The Omen_, at Blackwood's request. There is something in thework which pleases me, and the style is good, though the story is notartfully conducted. I dined yesterday in family with Skene, and had avisit from Lord Chief-Commissioner; we met as mourners under a commoncalamity. There is something extremely kind in his disposition.Sir R. D[undas] offers me three days of the country next week, whichtempts me strongly were it but the prospect of seeing Anne. But I thinkI must resist and say with Tilburina,    "Duty, I'm all thine own."[278]If I do this I shall deserve a holiday about the 15th June, and I thinkit is best to wait till then._June_ 2.--A pleasant letter from Sophia, poor girl; all doing wellthere, for which God be praised.I wrote a good task yesterday, five pages, which is nearly double theusual stint.I am settled that I will not go to Abbotsford till to-morrow fortnight.I might have spared myself the trouble of my self-denial, for go Icannot, Hamilton having a fit of gout.Gibson seems in high spirits on the views I have given to him on thenature of Constable and Co.'s claim. It amounts to this, that being nolonger accountable as publishers, they cannot claim the character ofsuch, or plead upon any claim arising out of the contracts entered intowhile they held that capacity._June_ 3.--I was much disturbed this morning by bile and itsconsequences, and lost so much sleep that I have been rather late inrising by way of indemnification. I must go to the map and study theItalian campaigns instead of scribbling._June_ 4.--I wrote a good task yesterday, and to-day a great one, scarcestirring from the desk the whole day, except a few minutes when Lady Raecalled. I was glad to see my wife's old friend, with whom in early lifewe had so many liaisons. I am not sure it is right to work so hard; buta man must take himself, as well as other people, when he is in thehumour. A man will do twice as much at one time and in half the time,and twice as well as he will be able to do at another. People are alwayscrying out about method, and in some respects it is good, and shows togreat advantage among men of business, but I doubt if men of method, whocan lay aside or take up the pen just at the hour appointed, will everbe better than poor creatures. Lady L[ouisa] S[tuart] used to tell me ofMr. Hoole, the translator of _Tasso_ and _Ariosto_, and in that capacitya noble transmuter of gold into lead, that he was a clerk in the IndiaHouse, with long ruffles and a snuff-coloured suit of clothes, whooccasionally visited her father [John, Earl of Bute]. She sometimesconversed with him, and was amused to find that he _did_ exactly so manycouplets day by day, neither more or less; and habit had made it lightto him, however heavy it might seem to the reader.Well, but if I lay down the pen, as the pain in my breast hints that Ishould, what am I to do? If I think, why, I shall weep--and that'snonsense; and I have no friend now--none--to receive my tediousness forhalf-an-hour of the gloaming. Let me be grateful--I have good news fromAbbotsford._June_ 5.--Though this be Monday, I am not able to feague it away, asBayes says.[279] Between correcting proofs and writing letters, I havegot as yet but two pages written, and that with labour and a sensationof pain in the chest. I may be bringing on some serious disease byworking thus hard; if I had once justice done to other folks, I do notmuch care, only I would not like to suffer long pain. Harden made me avisit. He argued with me that Lord M. affichd his own importance, toomuch at the election, and says Henry is anxious about it. I hinted tohim the necessity of counter-balancing it the next time, which will besoon.Thomson also called about the Bannatyne Club.These two interruptions did me good, though I am still a poor wretch.After all, I have fagged through six pages; and made poor Wurmser laydown his sword on the glacis of Mantua--and my head aches--my eyesache--my back aches--so does my breast--and I am sure my heart aches,and what can Duty ask more?_June_ 6.--I arose much better this morning, having taken some medicine,which has removed the strange and aching feeling in my back and breast.I believe it is from the diaphragm; it must be looked to, however. Ihave not yet breakfasted, yet have cleared half my day's work holding itat the ordinary stint.Worked hard. John Swinton, my kinsman, came to see me,--very kind andaffectionate in his manner; my heart always warms to that Swintonconnection, so faithful to old Scottish feelings. Harden was also withme. I talked with him about what Lord M. did at the election; I findthat he disapproves--I see these visits took place on the 5th._June_ 7.--Again a day of hard work, only at half-past eight I went tothe Dean of Faculty's to a consultation about Constable,[280] and metwith said Dean and Mr. [J.S.] More and J. Gibson. I find they have ashigh hope of success as lawyers ought to express; and I think I know howour profession speak when sincere. I cannot interest myself deeply init. When I had come home from such a business, I used to carry the newsto poor Charlotte, who dressed her face in sadness or mirth as she sawthe news affect me; this hangs lightly about me. I had almost forgot theappointment, if J.G. had not sent me a card, I passed a piper in thestreet as I went to the Dean's and could not help giving him a shillingto play _Pibroch a Donuil Dhu_ for luck's sake--what a child I am!_June_ 8.--Bilious and headache this morning. A dog howl'd all night andleft me little sleep. Poor cur! I dare say he had his distresses, as Ihave mine. I was obliged to make Dalgleish shut the windows when heappeared at half-past six, as usual, and did not rise till nine, when_me voici_. I have often deserved a headache in my younger days withouthaving one, and Nature is, I suppose, paying off old scores. Ay, butthen the want of the affectionate care that used to be ready, withlowered voice and stealthy pace, to smooth the pillow--and offercondolence and assistance,--gone--gone--for ever--ever--ever. Well,there is another world, and we'll meet free from the mortal sorrows andfrailties which beset us here. Amen, so be it. Let me change the topicwith hand and head, and the heart must follow.I think that sitting so many days and working so hard may have broughton this headache. I must inflict a walk on myself to-day. Strange thatwhat is my delight in the country is _here_ a sort of penance! Well, butnow I think on it, I will go to the Chief-Baron and try to get hisLordship's opinion about the question with Constable; if I carry it, asthere is, I trust, much hope I shall, Mr. Gibson says there will befunds to divide 6s. in the pound, without counting upon getting anythingfrom Constable or Hurst, but sheer hard cash of my own. Such anotherpull is possible, especially if _Boney_ succeeds, and the rogue had aknack at success. Such another, I say, and we touch ground I believe,for surely Constable, Robinson, etc., must pay something; the struggleis worth waring[281] a headache upon.I finished five pages to-day, headache, laziness, and all._June_ 9.--Corrected a stubborn proof this morning. These battles havebeen the death of many a man--I think they will be mine. Well but itclears to windward; so we will fag on.Slept well last night. By the way, how intolerably selfish this Journalmakes me seem--so much attention to one's naturals and non-naturals!Lord Mackenzie[282] called, and we had much chat about business. Thelate regulations for preparing cases in the Outer-House do not workwell, and thus our old machinery, which was very indifferent, issucceeded by a kind that will hardly move at all. Mackenzie says hisbusiness is trebled, and that he cannot keep it up. I question whetherthe extreme strictness of rules of court be advisable in practice theyare always evaded, upon an equitable showing. I do not, for instance,lodge a paper _debito tempore_, and for an accident happening, perhapsthrough the blunder of a Writer's apprentice, I am to lose my cause. Thepenalty is totally disproportioned to the delict, and the consequenceis, that means are found out of evasion by legal fictions and the like.The judges listen to these; they become frequent, and the rule of Courtends by being a scarecrow merely. Formerly, delays of this kind werechecked by corresponding _amendes_. But the Court relaxed this pettyfine too often. Had they been more strict, and levied the mulct on theagents, with _no recourse_ upon their clients, the abuse might have beenremedied. I fear the present rule is too severe to do much good.One effect of running causes fast through the Courts below is, that theygo by scores to appeal, and Lord Gifford[283] has hitherto decided themwith such judgment, and so much rapidity, as to give great satisfaction.The consequence will in time be, that the Scottish Supreme Court will bein effect situated in London. Then down fall--as national objects ofrespect and veneration--the Scottish Bench, the Scottish Bar, theScottish Law herself, and--and--"there is an end of an auld sang."[284]Were I as I have been, I would fight knee-deep in blood ere it came tothat. But it is a catastrophe which the great course of events bringsdaily nearer--    "And who can help it, Dick?"I shall always be proud of _Malachi_ as having headed back the Southron,or helped to do so, in one instance at least._June_ 10.--This was an unusual teind-day at Court. In the morning andevening I corrected proofs--four sheets in number; and I wrote my taskof three pages and a little more. Three pages a day will come, atConstable's rate, to about 12,000 to 15,000 per year. They have senttheir claim; it does not frighten me a bit._June_ 11.--Bad dreams about poor Charlotte. Woke, thinking my old andinseparable friend beside me; and it was only when I was fully awakethat I could persuade myself that she was dark, low, and distant, andthat my bed was widowed. I believe the phenomena of dreaming are in agreat measure occasioned by the _double touch_, which takes place whenone hand is crossed in sleep upon another. Each gives and receives theimpression of touch to and from the other, and this complicatedsensation our sleeping fancy ascribes to the agency of another being,when it is in fact produced by our own limbs acting on each other. Well,here goes--_incumbite remis_._June_ 12.--Finished volume third of _Napoleon_. I resumed it on the 1stof June, the earliest period that I could bend my mind to it after mygreat loss. Since that time I have lived, to be sure, the life of ahermit, except attending the Court five days in the week for about threehours on an average. Except at that time I have been reading or writingon the subject of _Boney_, and have finished last night, and sent toprinter this morning the last sheets of fifty-two written since 1stJune. It is an awful screed; but grief makes me a house-keeper, and tolabour is my only resource. Ballantyne thinks well of the work--verywell, but I shall [expect] inaccuracies. An' it were to do again, Iwould get some one to look it over. But who could that some one be? Whomis there left of human race that I could hold such close intimacy with?No one. "_Tanneguy du Chtel, ou es-tu!_"[285]. Worked five pages._June_ 13.--I took a walk out last evening after tea, and called on LordChief-Commissioner and the Macdonald Buchanans, that kind and friendlyclan. The heat is very great, and the wrath of the bugs in proportion.Two hours last night I was kept in an absolute fever. I must make somearrangement for winter. Great pity my old furniture was sold in such ahurry! The wiser way would have been to have let the house furnished.But it's all one in the Greek."_Peccavi, peccavi, dies quidem sine line!_" I walked to make calls;got cruelly hot; drank ginger-beer; wrote letters. Then as I was goingto dinner, enter a big splay-footed, trifle-headed, old potteringminister, who came to annoy me about a claim which one of hisparishioners has to be Earl of Annandale, and which he conceits to beestablished out of the Border Minstrelsy. He mentioned a curiousthing--that three brothers of the Johnstone family, on whose descendantsthe male representative of these great Border chiefs devolved, wereforced to fly to the north in consequence of their feuds with theMaxwells, and agreed to change their names. They slept on the side ofthe Soutra Hills, and asking a shepherd the name of the place, agreed infuture to call themselves Sowtra or Sowter Johnstones. The oldpudding-headed man could not comprehend a word I either asked him ortold him, and maundered till I wished him in the Annandalebeef-stand.[286] Mr. Gibson came in after tea, and we talked business.Then I was lazy and stupid, and dosed over a book instead of writing. Soon the whole, _Confiteor, confiteor, culpa mea, culpa mea_!_June_ 14.--In the morning I began with a page and a half beforebreakfast. This is always the best way. You stand like a child going tobe bathed, shivering and shaking till the first pitcherful is flungabout your ears, and then are as blithe as a water-wagtail. I am justcome home from Parliament House; and now, my friend _Nap._, have at youwith a down-right blow! Methinks I would fain make peace with myconscience by doing six pages to-night. Bought a little bit of Gruyrecheese, instead of our domestic choke-dog concern. When did I everpurchase anything for my own eating? But I will say no more of that. Andnow to the bread-mill._June_ 15.--I laboured all the evening, but made little way. There weremany books to consult; and so all I could really do was to make out mytask of three pages. I will try to make up the deficit of Tuesday to-dayand to-morrow. Letters from Walter--all well. A visit yesterday fromCharles Sharpe._June_ 16.--Yesterday sate in the Court till nearly four. I had, ofcourse, only time for my task. I fear I will have little more to-day,for I have accepted to dine at Hector's. I got, yesterday, a present oftwo engravings from Sir Henry Raeburn's portrait of me, which (poorfellow!) was the last he ever painted, and certainly not his worst.[287]I had the pleasure to give one to young Mr. Davidoff for his uncle, thecelebrated Black Captain of the campaign of 1812. Curious that he shouldbe interested in getting the resemblance of a person whose mode ofattaining some distinction has been very different. But I am sensible,that if there be anything good about my poetry or prose either, it is ahurried frankness of composition which pleases soldiers, sailors, andyoung people of bold and active disposition. I have been no sigher inshades--no writer of    "Songs and sonnets and rustical roundelays,    Framed on fancies, and whistled on reeds."[288][_Abbotsford, Saturday_,] _June_ 17.--Left Edinburgh to-day afterParliament House to come [here]. My two girls met me at Torsonce, whichwas a pleasant surprise, and we returned in the sociable all together.Found everything right and well at Abbotsford under the new regime. Iagain took possession of the family bedroom and my widowed couch. Thiswas a sore trial, but it was necessary not to blink such a resolution.Indeed, I do not like to have it thought that there is any way in whichI can be beaten.[289]_June_ 18.--This morning wrote till half-twelve--good day's work--at_Canongate Chronicles_. Methinks I can make this work answer. Then droveto Huntly Burn and called at Chiefswood. Walked home. The country cryingfor rain; yet on the whole the weather delicious, dry, and warm, with afine air of wind. The young woods are rising in a kind of profusion Inever saw elsewhere. Let me once clear off these encumbrances, and theyshall wave broader and deeper yet. But to attain this I _must work_.Wrought very fair accordingly till two; then walked; after dinner outagain with the girls. Smoked two cigars, first time these two months._June_ 19.--Wrought very fair indeed, and the day being scorching wedined _al fresco_ in the hall among the armour, and went out early inthe evening. Walked to the lake and back again by the Marle pool; verydelightful evening._June_ 20.--This is also a hard-working day. Hot weather is favourablefor application, were it not that it makes the composer sleepy. Pray Godthe reader may not partake the sensation! But days of hard work makeshort journals. To-day we again dine in the hall, and drive to Ashestielin the evening _pour prendre le frais_._June_ 21--We followed the same course we proposed. For a party ofpleasure I have attended to business well. Twenty pages of Croftangry,five printed pages each, attest my diligence, and I have had adelightful variation by the company of the two Annes. Regulated mylittle expenses here.[_Edinburgh_,] _June_ 22.--Returned to my Patmos. Heard good news fromLockhart. Wife well, and John Hugh better. He mentions poor Southeytestifying much interest for me, even to tears. It is odd--am I sohard-hearted a man? I could not have wept for him, though in distress Iwould have gone any length to serve him. I sometimes think I do notdeserve people's good opinion, for certainly my feelings are ratherguided by reflection than impulse. But everybody has his own mode ofexpressing interest, and mine is stoical even in bitterest grief. _Agereatque pati, Romanum est._ I hope I am not the worse for wanting thetenderness that I see others possess, and which is so amiable. I thinkit does not cool my wish to be of use where I can. But the truth is, Iam better at enduring or acting than at consoling. From childhood'searliest hour my heart rebelled against the influence of externalcircumstances in myself and others. _Non est tanti!_To-day I was detained in the Court from half-past ten till near four;yet I finished and sent off a packet to Cadell, which will finishone-third of the _Chronicles_, vol. 1st.Henry Scott came in while I was at dinner, and sat while I ate mybeef-steak. A gourmand would think me much at a loss, coming back to myploughman's meal of boiled beef and Scotch broth, from the rather_recherch_ table at Abbotsford, but I have no philosophy in mycarelessness on that score. It is natural--though I am no ascetic, as myfather was._June_ 23.--The heat tremendous, and the drought threatening the hay andbarley crop. Got from the Court at half-twelve, and walked to theextremity of Heriot Row to see poor Lady Don; left my card as she doesnot receive any one. I am glad this painful meeting is adjourned. Ireceived to-day 10 from Blackwood for the article on _The Omen_. Timewas I would not have taken these small tithes of mint and cummin, butscornful dogs will eat dirty puddings, and I, with many depending on me,must do the best I can with my time--God help me![_Blair-Adam_,] _June_ 24.--Left Edinburgh yesterday after the Court,half-past twelve, and came over here with the Lord Chief-Baron andWilliam Clerk, to spend as usual a day or two at Blair-Adam. In general,this is a very gay affair. We hire a light coach-and-four, and scour thecountry in every direction in quest of objects of curiosity. But theLord Chief-Commissioner's family misfortunes and my own make our holidaythis year of a more quiet description than usual, and a sensible degreeof melancholy hangs on the reunion of our party. It was wise, however,not to omit it, for to slacken your hold on life in any agreeable pointof connection is the sooner to reduce yourself to the indifference andpassive vegetation of old age._June_ 25.--Another melting day; thermometer at 78 even here. 80 wasthe height yesterday at Edinburgh. If we attempt any active proceedingwe dissolve ourselves into a dew. We have lounged away the morningcreeping about the place, sitting a great deal, and walking as little asmight be on account of the heat.Blair-Adam has been successively in possession of three generations ofpersons attached to and skilled in the art of embellishment, and may befairly taken as a place where art and taste have done a great deal toimprove nature. A long ridge of varied ground sloping to the foot of thehill called Benarty, and which originally was of a bare, mossy, boggycharacter, has been clothed by the son, father, and grandfather; whilethe undulations and hollows, which seventy or eighty years since musthave looked only like wrinkles in the black morasses, being now drainedand limed, are skirted with deep woods, particularly of spruce, whichthrives wonderfully, and covered with excellent grass. We drove in thedroskie and walked in the evening._June_, 26.--Another day of unmitigated heat; thermometer 82; must behigher in Edinburgh, where I return to-night, when the decline of thesun makes travelling practicable. It will be well for my work to bethere--not quite so well for me; there is a difference between theclean, nice arrangement of Blair-Adam and Mrs. Brown's accommodations,though he who is insured against worse has no right to complain of them.But the studious neatness of poor Charlotte has perhaps made mefastidious. She loved to see things clean, even to Orientalscrupulosity. So oddly do our deep recollections of other kindscorrespond with the most petty occurrences of our life.Lord Chief-Baron told us a story of the ruling passion strong in death.A Master in Chancery was on his deathbed--a very wealthy man. Someoccasion of great urgency occurred in which it was necessary to make anaffidavit, and the attorney, missing one or two other Masters, whom heinquired after, ventured to ask if Mr. ------ would be able to receivethe deposition. The proposal seemed to give him momentary strength; hisclerk sent for, and the oath taken in due form, the Master was lifted upin bed, and with difficulty subscribed the paper; as he sank down again,he made a signal to his clerk--"Wallace."--"Sir?"--"Yourear--lower--lower. Have you got the _half-crown_?" He was dead beforemorning.[_Edinburgh_,] _June_ 27.--Returned to Edinburgh late last night, andhad a most sweltering night of it. This day also cruel hot. However, Imade a task or nearly so, and read a good deal about the EgyptianExpedition. Had comfortable accounts of Anne, and through her of Sophia.Dr. Shaw doubts if anything is actually the matter with poor Johnnie'sback. I hope the dear child will escape deformity, and the infirmitiesattending that helpless state. I have myself been able to fight up verywell, notwithstanding my lameness, but it has cost great efforts, and Iam besides very strong. Dined with Colin Mackenzie; a fine family allgrowing up about him, turning men and women, and treading fast on ourheels. Some thunder and showers which I fear will be but partial.Hot--hot--hot._June_, 28.--Another hot morning, and something like an idle day, thoughI have read a good deal. But I have slept also, corrected proofs, andprepared for a great start, by filling myself with facts and ideas._June_ 29.--I walked out for an hour last night, and made one or twocalls--the evening was delightful--    "Day its sultry fires had wasted,      Calm and cool the moonbeam rose;    Even a captive's bosom tasted      Half oblivion of his woes."[290]I wonder often how Tom Campbell, with so much real genius, has notmaintained a greater figure in the public eye than he has done of late.The _Magazine_ seems to have paralysed him. The author, not only of the_Pleasures of Hope_, but of _Hohenlinden, Lochiel_, etc., should havebeen at the very top of the tree. Somehow he wants audacity, fears thepublic, and, what is worse, fears the shadow of his own reputation. Heis a great corrector too, which succeeds as ill in composition as ineducation. Many a clever boy is flogged into a dunce, and many anoriginal composition corrected into mediocrity. Yet Tom Campbell oughtto have done a great deal more. His youthful promise was great. JohnLeyden introduced me to him. They afterwards quarrelled. When I repeated_Hohenlinden_ to Leyden, he said, "Dash it, man, tell the fellow that Ihate him, but, dash him, he has written the finest verses that have beenpublished these fifty years." I did mine errand as faithfully as one ofHomer's messengers, and had for answer, "Tell Leyden that I detest him,but I know the value of his critical approbation." This feud wastherefore in the way of being taken up. "When Leyden comes back fromIndia," said Tom Campbell, "what cannibals he will have eaten and whattigers he will have torn to pieces!"Gave a poor poetess 1. Gibson writes me that 2300 is offered for thepoor house; it is worth 300 more, but I will not oppose my own opinion,or convenience to good and well-meant counsel: so farewell, poor No. 39.What a portion of my life has been spent there! It has sheltered me fromthe prime of life to its decline; and now I must bid good-bye to it. Ihave bid good-bye to my poor wife, so long its courteous and kindmistress,--and I need not care about the empty rooms; yet it gives me aturn. I have been so long a citizen of Edinburgh, now an indweller only.Never mind; all in the day's work.J. Ballantyne and B. Cadell dined with me, and, as Pepys would say, allwas very handsome. Drank amongst us one bottle of champagne, one ofclaret, a glass or two of port, and each a tumbler of whisky toddy. J.B.had courage to drink his with _hot_ water; mine was iced._June_ 30.--Here is another dreadful warm day, fit for nobody but theflies. And then one is confined to town.Yesterday I agreed to let Cadell have the new work,[291] edition 1500,he paying all charges, and paying also 500--two hundred and fifty atLammas, to pay J. Gibson money advanced on the passage of young Walter,my nephew, to India. It is like a thorn in one's eye this sort of debt,and Gibson is young in business, and somewhat involved in my affairsbesides. Our plan is, that this same _Miscellany_ or _Chronicle_ shallbe committed quietly to the public, and we hope it will attractattention. If it does not, we must turn public attention to itourselves. About one half of vol. i. is written, and there is worseabomination, or I mistake the matter.I was detained in Court till four; dreadfully close, and obliged todrink water for refreshment, which formerly I used to scorn, even on themoors, with a burning August sun, the heat of exercise, and a hundredsprings gushing around me.Corrected proofs, etc., on my return. I think I have conquered thetrustees' objections to carry on the small edition of novels. GotCadell's letter about the _Chronicle_.FOOTNOTES:[278] Sheridan's _Critic_, Act IV. Sc. 2.[279] Buckingham's _Rehearsal_.--The expression "To Feague" does notoccur in the first edition, where the passage stands thus:--"_Phys._--When a knotty point comes, I lay my head close to it, with apipe of tobacco in my mouth and then _whew_ it away. I' faith."_Bayes_.--I do just so, i' gad, always." Act II. Sc. 4.In some subsequent editions the words are:--"I lay my head close to itwith a _snuff-box in my hand_, and I _feague_ it away. I' faith."I am indebted to Dr. Murray for this reference, which he kindlyfurnished me with from the materials collected for his great EnglishDictionary.[280] This alludes to the claim advanced by the creditors of Constableand Co. to the copyright of _Woodstock_ and the _Life of Napoleon_. TheDean of the Faculty of Advocates was at that time George Cranstoun,afterwards a judge on the Scottish Bench under the title; of LordCorehouse, from 1826 until 1839, when he retired; he died 1850.[281] _i.e._ spending.[282] The eldest son of "_The Man of Feeling_." He had been a judge from1822; he died at the age of seventy-four in 1851.[283] Baron Gifford died a few months later, viz., in Sept. 1826; he hadbeen Attorney-General in 1819, and Chief-Justice in 1824. Lord and LadyGifford had visited Abbotsford in the autumn of 1825.[284] Speech of Lord Chancellor Seafield on the ratification of theScottish Union.--See _Miscell. Prose Works_, vol. xxv. p. 93.[285] See Morri's _Dictionnaire_, Art. "Tanneguy du Chtel."[286] An example of Scott's wonderful patience, and his power ofutilising hints gathered from the most unpromising materials. Apropos ofthis Mr. Skene relates:--"In one of our frequent walks to the pier ofLeith, to which the freshness of the sea breeze offered a stronginducement to those accustomed to pass a few of the morning hours withinthe close and impure atmosphere of the Court of Session, I happened tomeet with, and to recognise, the Master of a vessel in which I hadsailed in the Mediterranean. Our recognition of each other seemed togive mutual satisfaction, as the cordial grasp of the seaman's hard fisteffectually indicated. It was some years since we had been shipmates, hehad since visited almost every quarter of the globe, but he shook hishead, and looked serious when he came to mention his last trip. He hadcommanded a whaler, and having been for weeks exposed to great stress ofweather in the polar regions, finally terminated in the total loss ofhis vessel, with most of her equipage, in the course of a darktempestuous night. When thrown on her beam-ends, my friend had beenwashed overboard, and in his struggles to keep himself above water hadgot hold of a piece of ice, on the top of which he at length succeededin raising himself--'and there I was, sir, on a cursed dark dirty night,squatted on a round lump of floating ice, for all the world like atea-table adrift in the middle of a stormy sea, without being able tosee whether there was any hope within sight, and having enough ado tohold on, cold as my seat was, with sometimes one end of me in the water,and sometimes the other, as the ill-fashioned crank thing kept whirling,and whomeling about all night. However, praised be God, daylight had notbeen long in, when a boat's crew on the outlook hove in sight, andtaking me for a basking seal, and maybe I was not unlike that same, upthey came of themselves, for neither voice nor hand had I to signalthem, and if they lost their blubber, faith, sir, they did get a willingprize on board; so, after just a little bit gliff of a prayer for themercy that sent them to my help, I soon came to myself again, and nowthat I am landed safe and sound, I am walking about, ye see, like agentleman, till I get some new craft to try the trade again.'--SirWalter, who was leaning on my arm during this narrative, had not takenany share in the dialogue, and kept gazing to seaward, with his usualheavy, absorbed expression, and only joined in wishing the seaman bettersuccess in his next trip as we parted. However, the detail had by nomeans escaped his notice, but dropping into the fertile soil of hismind, speedily yielded fruit, quite characteristic of his habits. Wehappened that evening to dine in company together; I was not near SirWalter at table, but in the course of the evening my attention wascalled to listen to a narrative with which he was entertaining thosearound him, and he seemed as usual to have excited the eager interest ofhis hearers. The commencement of the story I had not heard, but soonperceived that a shipwreck was the theme, which he described with allthe vivid touches of his fancy, marshalling the incidents and strikingfeatures of the situation with a degree of dexterity that seemed tobring all the horrors of a polar storm home to every one's mind, andalthough it occurred to me that our rencontre in the morning with theshipwrecked Whaler might have recalled a similar story to hisrecollection, it was not until he came to mention _the tea-table of ice_that I recognised the identity of my friend's tale, which had luxuriatedto such an extent in the fertile soil of the poet's imagination, as tohave left the original germ in comparative insignificance. He cast aglance towards me at the close, and observed, with a significant nod,'You see, you did not hear one-half of that honest seaman's story thismorning.' It was such slender hints, which in the common intercourse oflife must have hourly dropped on the soil of his retentive memory, thatfed the exuberance of Sir Walter's invention, and supplied the seeminglyinexhaustible stream of fancy, from which he drew forth at pleasure theground-work of romance."--_Reminiscences_.[287] Painted for Lord Montagu in 1822.--See _Life_, vol. vii. p. 13.Raeburn apparently executed two "half lengths" of Scott almost identicalat this time, giving Lord Montagu his choice. The picture chosenremained at Ditton, near Windsor, until 1845, when at Lord Montagu'sdeath it became the property of his son-in-law, the Earl of Home, and itis now (1889) at the Hirsel, Coldstream. The engraving referred to wasmade from the replica, which remained in the artist's possession, by Mr.Walker, and published in 1826. Sir Henry Raeburn died in July 1823, andI do not know what became of the original, which may be identified by anofficial chain round the neck, not introduced in the Montagu picture.[288] Song of _The Hunting of the Hare_.--J.G.L.[289] This entry reminds one of Hannah More's account of Mrs. Garrick'sconduct after her husband's funeral. "She told me," says Mrs. More,"that she prayed with great composure, then went and kissed the dearbed, and got into it with a sad pleasure."--See _Memoirs of Mrs. More_,vol. i. p. 135.--J.G.L.[290] Campbell's _Turkish Lady_, slightly altered. The poet was theneditor of the _New Monthly Magazine_, but he soon gave it up.--J.G.L.[291] Viz.: the first series of _Chronicles of the Canongate_, which waspublished in 1827. The title originally proposed was _The CanongateMiscellany_ or _Traditions of the Sanctuary_._Woodstock_ had just been launched under the followingtitle:--_Woodstock, or the Cavalier; a Tale of the Year Sixteen Hundredand Fifty-one_, by the author of _Waverley, Tales of the Crusaders_,etc. "He was a very perfect gentle knight" (Chaucer). Edinburgh: Printedfor Archibald Constable and Co., Edinburgh; and Longman, Rees, Orme,Brown, and Green, London, 1826. (At the end) Edinburgh: Printed by JamesBallantyne and Co. 3 vols. post 8vo.JULY.[_Edinburgh_,] _July 1st._--Another sunny day. This threatens absolutelySyrian drought. As the Selkirk election comes on Monday, I go out to-dayto Abbotsford, and carry young Davidoff and his tutor with me, to seeour quiet way of managing the choice of a national representative.I wrote a page or two last night slumbrously.[_Abbotsford_,] _July_ 2.--Late at Court. Got to Abbotsford last nightwith Count Davidoff about eight o'clock. I worked a little this morning,then had a long and warm walk. Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton from Chiefswood,the present inhabitants of Lockhart's cottage, dined with us, which madethe society pleasant. He is a fine, soldierly-looking man[292]--thoughaffected with paralysis--his wife a sweet good-humoured little woman. Heis supposed to be a writer in Blackwood's _Magazine_. Since we were tolose the Lockharts, we could scarce have had more agreeable folks.At Selkirk, where Borthwickbrae was elected with the usual unanimity ofthe Forest freeholders. This was a sight to my young Muscovite. Wewalked in the evening to the lake._July_ 5.--Still very hot, but with thunder showers. Wrote tillbreakfast, then walked and signed the death-warrant of a number of oldfirs at Abbotstown. I hope their deaths will prove useful. Their livesare certainly not ornamental. Young Mr. Davidoff entered upon the causeof the late discontents in Russia, which he imputes to a deep-seatedJacobin conspiracy to overthrow the state and empire and establish agovernment by consuls.[_Edinburgh_,] _July_ 6.--Returned last night with my frozen Muscovitesto the Capital, and suffered as usual from the incursions of the blackhorse during the night. It was absolute fever. A bunch of letters, butlittle interesting. Mr. Barry Cornwall[293] writes to condole with me. Ithink our acquaintance scarce warranted this; but it is well meant andmodestly done. I cannot conceive the idea of forcing myself on strangersin distress, and I have half a mind to turn sharp round on some of myconsolers. Came home from Court. R.P. Gillies called; he is writing asatire. He has a singular talent of aping the measure and tone of Byron,and this poem goes to the tune of _Don Juan_, but it is the Champagneafter it has stood two days with the cork drawn. Thereafter came CharlesK. Sharpe and Will Clerk, as Robinson sayeth, to my exceedingrefreshment.[294] And last, not least, Mr. Jollie, one of the triumvirswho manage my poor matters. He consents to going on with the smalledition of novels, which he did not before comprehend. All this hasconsumed the day, but we will make up tide-way presently. I must dressto go to Lord Medwyn[295] to dinner, and it is near time._July_ 7.--Coming home from Lord Medwyn's last night I fell in withWillie Clerk, and went home to drink a little shrub and water, overwhich we chatted of old stories until half-past eleven. This morning Icorrected two proofs of C[roftangr]y, which is getting on. But theremust be a little check with the throng of business at the close of thesession. D---n the session! I wish it would close its eyes for acentury. It is too bad to be kept broiling here; but, on the otherhand, we must have the instinctive gratitude of the Laird of M'Intosh,who was for the King that gave M'Intosh half-a-guinea the day andhalf-a-guinea the morn. So I retract my malediction.Received from Blackwood to account sales of _Malachi_ 72 with some oddshillings. This was for copies sold to Banks. The cash comes far fromill-timed, having to clear all odds and ends before I leave Edinburgh.This will carry me on tidily till 25th, when precepts become payable.Well! if _Malachi_ did me some mischief, he must also contribute _quodammodo_ to my comfort._July_ 8.--Wrote a good task this morning. I may be mistaken; but I dothink the tale of Elspat McTavish[296] in my bettermost manner--but J.B.roars for chivalry. He does not quite understand that everything may beoverdone in this world, or sufficiently estimate the necessity ofnovelty. The Highlanders have been off the field now for some time.Returning from Court, looked into a show of wild beasts, and saw Nerothe great lion, whom they had the cruelty to bait with bull-dogs,against whom the noble creature disdained to exert his strength. He waslying like a prince in a large cage, where you might be admitted if youwish. I had a month's mind--- but was afraid of the newspapers; I couldbe afraid of nothing else, for never did a creature seem more gentle andyet majestic--I longed to caress him. Wallace, the other lion, born inScotland, seemed much less trustworthy. He handled the dogs as hisnamesake did the southron.Enter a confounded Dousterswivel, called Burschal, or some such name,patronised by John Lockhart, teacher of German and learner of English.He opened the trenches by making me a present of a German work called_Der Bibelische Orient_, then began to talk of literature at large; anddisplay his own pretensions. Asked my opinion of Gray as a poet, andwished me to subscribe an attestation of his own merits for the purposeof getting him scholars. As I hinted my want of acquaintance with hisqualifications, I found I had nearly landed myself in a proof, for hewas girding up his loins to repeated thundering translations by himselfinto German, Hebrew, until, thinking it superfluous to stand on verymuch ceremony with one who used so little with me, hinted at letters towrite, and got him to translate himself elsewhere.Saw a good house in Brunswick Street, which I liked. This evening suppedwith Thomas Thomson about the affairs of the Bannatyne. There was theDean, Will Clerk, John Thomson, young Smythe of Methven; very pleasant._July_ 9.--Rather slumbrous to-day from having sat up till twelve lastnight. We settled, or seemed to settle, on an election for the BannatyneClub. There are people who would wish to confine it much to one party.But those who were together last night saw it in the true and liberalpoint of view, as a great national institution, which may do much goodin the way of publishing our old records, providing we do not fall intothe usual habit of antiquarians, and neglect what is useful for thingsthat are merely curious. Thomson is a host for such an undertaking. Iwrote a good day's work at the Canongate matter, notwithstanding theintervention of two naps. I get sleepy oftener than usual. It is theweather I suppose--_Naboclish!_[297] I am near the end of the firstvolume, and every step is one out of difficulty._July_ 10.--Slept too long this morning. It was eight before Irose--half-past eight ere I came into the parlour. Terry and J.Ballantyne dined with me yesterday, and I suppose the wassail, thoughthere was little enough of it, had stuck to my pillow.This morning I was visited by a Mr. Lewis, a smart Cockney, whose objectis to amend the handwriting. He uses as a mechanical aid a sort ofpuzzle of wire and ivory, which is put upon the fingers to keep them inthe desired position, like the muzzle on a dog's nose to make him bearhimself right in the field. It is ingenious, and may be useful. If theman comes here, as he proposes, in winter, I will take lessons. Bearwitness, good reader, that if W.S. writes a cramp hand, as is the case,he is desirous to mend it.Dined with John Swinton _en famille_. He told me an odd circumstance.Coming from Berwickshire in the mail coach he met with a passenger whoseemed more like a military man than anything else. They talked on allsorts of subjects, at length on politics. _Malachi's_ letters werementioned, when the stranger observed they were much more seditious thansome expressions for which he had three or four years ago been nearlysent to Botany Bay. And perceiving John Swinton surprised at thisavowal, he added, "I am Kinloch of Kinloch." This gentleman had gotengaged in the radical business (the only real gentleman by the way whodid), and harangued the weavers of Dundee with such emphasis that hewould have been tried and sent to Botany Bay had he not fled abroad. Hewas outlawed, and only restored to his status on a composition withGovernment. It seems to have escaped Mr. Kinloch that the conduct of aman who places a lighted coal in the middle of combustibles, and uponthe floor, is a little different from that of one who places the samequantity of burning fuel in a fire-grate![298]_July_ 11.--The last day of the session, and as toilsome a one as I eversaw. There were about 100 or 120 cases on the roll, and most of them ofan incidental character, which gives us Clerks the greatest trouble, forit is the grasshopper that is a burthen to us. Came home about four,tired and hungry. I wrought little or none; indeed I could not, havingbooks and things to pack. Went in the evening to sup with JohnMurray,[299] where I met Will Clerk, Thomson, Henderland, and CharlesStuart Blantyre, and had of course a pleasant party. I came late home,though, for me, and was not in bed till past midnight; it would not dofor me to do this often._July_ 12.--I have the more reason to eschew evening parties that Islept two mornings till past eight; these vigils would soon tell on myutility, as the divines call it, but this is the last day in town, andthe world shall be amended. I have been trying to mediate between theunhappy R.P. G[illies] and his uncle Lord G. The latter talks like a manof sense and a good relation, and would, I think, do something forE.P.G., if he would renounce temporary expedients and bring his affairsto a distinct crisis. But this E.P. will not hear of, but flattershimself with ideas which seem to me quite visionary. I could makenothing of him; but, I conclude, offended him by being of his uncle'sopinion rather than his, as to the mode of extricating his affairs.I am to dine out to-day, and I would fain shirk and stay at home; never,Shylock-like, had I less will to feasting forth, but I must go or bethought sulky. Lord M. and Lady Abercromby called this morning, and aworld of people besides, among others honest Mr. Wilson, late ofWilsontown, who took so much care of me at London, sending fresh eggsand all sorts of good things. Well, I have dawdled and written letterssorely against the grain all day. Also I have been down to see WillAllan's picture of the Landing of Queen Mary, which he has begun in agreat style; also I have put my letters and papers to rights, which onlyhappens when I am about to move, and now, having nothing left to do, I_must_ go and dress myself._July_ 13.--Dined yesterday with Lord Abercromby at a party he gave toLord Melville and some old friends, who formed the Contemporary Club.Lord M. and I met with considerable feeling on both sides, and all ourfeuds were forgotten and forgiven; I conclude so at least, because oneor two people, whom I know to be sharp observers of the weatherglass onoccasion of such squalls, have been earnest with me to meet Lord M. atparties--which I am well assured they would not have been (had I beenHorace come to life again[300]) were they not sure the breeze was over.For myself, I am happy that our usual state of friendship should berestored, though I could not have _come down proud stomach_ to makeadvances, which is, among friends, always the duty of the richer andmore powerful of the two.To-day I leave Mrs. Brown's lodgings. Altogether I cannot complain, butthe insects were voracious, even until last night when the turtle-soupand champagne ought to have made me sleep like a top. But I have done amonstrous sight of work here notwithstanding the indolence of this lastweek, which must and shall be amended.    "So good-by, Mrs. Brown,    I am going out of town,    Over dale, over down,    Where bugs bite not,    Where lodgers fight not,    Where below you chairmen drink not,    Where beside you gutters stink not;    But all is fresh, and clean, and gay,    And merry lambkins sport and play,    And they toss with rakes uncommonly short hay,    Which looks as if it had been sown only the other day,    And where oats are at twenty-five shillings a boll, they say,    But all's one for that, since I must and will away."_July_ 14, ABBOTSFORD.--Arrived here yesterday before five o'clock.Anybody would think, from the fal-de-ral conclusion of my journal ofyesterday, that I left town in a very gay humour--_cujus contrariumverum est_. But nature has given me a kind of buoyancy, I know not whatto call it, that mingles even with my deepest afflictions and mostgloomy hours. I have a secret pride--I fancy it will be so most trulytermed--which impels me to mix with my distresses strange snatches ofmirth "which have no mirth in them." In fact, the journey hither, theabsence of the affectionate friend that used to be my companion on thejourney, and many mingled thoughts of bitterness, have given me a fit ofthe bile._July_ 15.--This day I did not attempt to work, but spent my time in themorning in making the necessary catalogue and distribution of two orthree chests of books which I have got home from the binder, Niece Anneacting as my Amanuensis. In the evening we drove to Huntly Burn, andtook tea there. Returning home we escaped a considerable danger. Theiron screw bolts of the driving-seat suddenly giving way, the servantswere very nearly precipitated upon the backs of the horses. Had it beendown hill instead of being on the level, the horses must have takenfright, and the consequences might have been fatal. Indeed, they hadalmost taken fright as it was, had not Peter Matheson,[301] who, in Mr.Fag's phrase, I take to be, "the discreetest of whips,"[302] kept hispresence of mind, when losing his equilibrium, so that he managed tokeep the horses in hand until we all got out. I must say it is not thefirst imminent danger on which I have seen Peter (my Automedon for neartwenty-five years) behave with the utmost firmness._July_ 16.--Very unsatisfactory to-day. Sleepy, stupid,indolent--finished arranging the books, and after that was totallyuseless--unless it can be called study that I slumbered for three orfour hours over a variorum edition of the Gill's-Hill's tragedy.[303]Admirable recipe for low spirits--for, not to mention the brutality ofso extraordinary a murder, it led John Bull into one of his uncommonfits of gambols, until at last he become so maudlin as to weep for thepitiless assassin, Thurtell, and treasure up the leaves and twigs of thehedge and shrubs in the fatal garden as valuable relics--nay, throngedthe minor theatres to see the very roan horse and yellow gig in whichthe body was transported from one place to another. I have not steptover the threshold to-day, so very stupid have I been._July_ 17.--_Desidi longum valedixi._ Our time is like our money. Whenwe change a guinea, the shillings escape as things of small account;when we break a day by idleness in the morning, the rest of the hourslose their importance in our eye. I set stoutly to work about seven thismorning to _Boney_--    And long ere dinner-time, I have      Full eight close pages wrote;    What, Duty, hast thou now to crave?      Well done, Sir Walter Scott!_July_ 18.--This, as yesterday, has been a day of unremitting labour,though I only got through half the quantity of manuscript, owing todrowsiness, a most disarming annoyance. I walked a little before dinnerand after tea, but was unable to go with the girls and Charles to thetop of Cauldshiels Hill. I fear my walking powers are diminishing, butwhy not? They have been wonderfully long efficient, all thingsconsidered, only I fear I shall get fat and fall into diseases. Well,things must be as they may. Let us use the time and faculties which Godhas left us, and trust futurity to his guidance. Amen.This is the day of St. Boswell's Fair. That watery saint has for oncehad a dry festival._July_ 19.--Wrote a page this morning, but no more. Corrected proofshowever, and went to Selkirk to hold Sheriff Court; this consumed theforenoon. Colonel and Miss Ferguson, with Mr. and Mrs. Laidlaw, dinedand occupied the evening. The rain seemed to set in this night._July_ 20.--To-day rainy. A morning and forenoon of hard work. Aboutfive pages, which makes up for yesterday's lee way. I am sadly tiredhowever. But as I go to Mertoun at four, and spend the night there, theexertion was necessary._July_ 21.--To Mertoun we went accordingly. Lord and Lady Minto werethere, with part of their family, David Haliburton, etc., besides theirown large family. So my lodging was a little room which I had notoccupied since I was a bachelor, but often before in my frequentintercourse with this kind and hospitable family. Feeling myselfreturned to that celibacy, which renders many accommodations indifferentwhich but lately were indispensable, my imagination drew a melancholycontrast between the young man entering the world on fire for fame, andrestless in imagining means of coming by it, and the aged widower,_blas_ on the point of literary reputation, deprived of the socialcomforts of a married state, and looking back to regret instead oflooking forward to hope. This brought bad sleep and unpleasing dreams.But if I cannot hope to be what I have been, I will not, if I can helpit, suffer vain repining to make me worse than I may be.We left Mertoun after breakfast, and the two Annes and I visited LadyRaeburn at Lessudden. My Aunt is now in her ninetieth year--so clean,so nice, so well arranged in every respect, that it makes old agelovely. She talks both of late and former events with perfect possessionof her faculties, and has only failed in her limbs. A great deal of kindfeeling has survived, in spite of the frost of years.Home to dinner, and worked all the afternoon among the Moniteurs--tolittle purpose, for my principal acquisition was a headache. I wrotenothing to-day but part of a trifle for _Blackwood_._July_ 22.--The same severe headache attends my poor pate. But I haveworked a good deal this morning, and will do more. I wish to have halfthe volume sent into town on Monday if possible. It will be a royaleffort, and more than make up for the blanks of this week._July_ 23.--I wrote very hard this day, and attained page 40; 45 wouldbe more than half the volume. Colonel Russell came about one, andcarried me out a-walking, which I was all the better of. In the eveningwe expected Terry and his wife, but they did not come, which makes mefear she may be unwell again._July_ 24.--A great number of proof-sheets to revise and send off, andafter that I took a fancy to give a more full account of theConstitution framed by Sieys--a complicated and ingenious web; it isbut far too fine and critical to be practically useful._July_ 25.--Terry and wife arrived yesterday. Both very well. Atdinner-time to-day came Dr. Jamieson[304] of the Scottish Dictionary, anexcellent good man, and full of auld Scottish cracks, which amuse mewell enough, but are _caviare_ to the young people. A little prolix andheavy is the good Doctor; somewhat prosaic, and accustomed to muchattention on the Sunday from his congregation, and I hope on the sixother days from his family. So _he will_ demand full attention from alland sundry before he begins a story, and once begun there is no chanceof his ending._July_ 26.--This day went to Selkirk, and held a Court. The Doctor andTerry chose to go with me. Captain and Mrs. Hamilton came to dinner.Desperate warm weather! Little done in the literary way except sendingoff proofs. Roup of standing corn, etc., went off very indifferently.Letter from Ballantyne wanting me to write about absentees. But I haveenough to do without burning my fingers with politics._July_ 27.--Up and at it this morning, and finished four pages. Anunpleasant letter from London, as if I might be troubled by some of thecreditors there, when going to town to get materials for _Nap_. I haveno wish to go,--none at all. I would even like to put off my visit, sofar as John Lockhart and my daughter are concerned, and see them whenthe meeting could be more pleasant. But then, having an offer to see thecorrespondence from St. Helena, I can make no doubt that I ought to go.However, if it is to infer any danger to my personal freedom, Englishwind will not blow on me. It is monstrous hard to prevent me doing whatis certainly the best for all parties._July_ 28.--I am well-nigh choked with the sulphurous heat of theweather--or I am unwell, for I perspire as if I had been walking hard,and my hand is as nervous as a paralytic's. Read through and corrected_St. Ronan's Well_. I am no judge, but I think the language of thispiece rather good. Then I must allow the fashionable portraits are notthe true thing. I am too much out of the way to see and remark theridiculous in society. The story is terribly contorted and unnatural,and the catastrophe is melancholy, which should always be avoided. Nomatter; I have corrected it for the press.[305]The worthy Lexicographer left us to-day. Somewhat ponderous he is, poorsoul! but there are excellent things about him.Action and Reaction--Scots proverb: "the unrest (_i.e._ pendulum) of aclock _goes aye as far the ae gait as the t'other_."Walter's account of his various quarters per last despatch. Query iforiginal:--    "Loughrea is a blackguard place      To Gort I give my curse;    Athlone itself is bad enough,      But Ballinrobe is worse.    I cannot tell which is the worst,      They're all so very bad;    But of all towns I ever saw,      Bad luck to Kinnegad."Old Mr. Haliburton dined with us, also Colonel Russell. What a man forfourscore or thereby is Old Haly--an Indian too. He came home in 1785._July_ 29.--Yesterday I wrought little, and light work, almost stifledby the smothering heat. To-day I wrought about half task in the morning,and, as a judgment on me I think for yesterday's sloth, Mr. H. stayedunusually late in the forenoon. He is my friend, my father's friend, andan excellent, sensible man besides; and a man of eighty and upwards maybe allowed to talk long, because in the nature of things he cannot havelong to talk. If I do a task to-day, I hope to send a good parcel onMonday and keep tryst pretty well._July_ 30.--I did better yesterday than I had hoped for--four instead ofthree pages, which, considering how my time was cut up by prolongedmorning lounging with friend Haly, was pretty fair. I wrote a good taskbefore eleven o'clock, but then my good friends twaddled and dawdled fornear two hours before they set off. The time devoted to hospitality,especially to those whom I can reckon upon as sincere good friends, Inever grudge, but like to "welcome the coming, speed the partingguest." By my will every guest should part at half-past ten, or arrangehimself to stay for the day.We had a long walk in a sweltering hot day. Met Mr. Blackwood coming tocall, and walked him on with us, so blinked his visit--_gratias,domine_!! Asked him for breakfast to-morrow to make amends. I ratherover-walked myself--the heat considered._July_ 31st_.--I corrected six sheets and sent them off, with eightleaves of copy, so I keep forward pretty well. Blackwood the booksellercame over from Chiefswood to breakfast, and this kept me idle tilleleven o'clock. At twelve I went out with the girls in the sociable, andcalled on the family at Bemerside, on Dr.[306] and Mrs. Brewster, andMr. Bainbridge at Gattonside House. It was five ere we got home, sothere was a day dished, unless the afternoon does something for us. I amkeeping up pretty well, however, and, after all, visitors will come, andcalls must be made. I must not let Anne forego the custom of well-bredsociety.FOOTNOTES:[292] Thomas Hamilton, Esq. (brother of Sir William Hamilton, theMetaphysician), author of _Cyril Thornton_, _Men and Manners inAmerica_, _Annals of the Peninsular Campaign_, _etc._ Died in 1842.[293] Bryan Waller Procter, author of _Dramatic Scenes, and otherPoems_, 1819. He died in London in 1874.[294] A favourite expression of Scott's, from _Robinson Crusoe_.[295] John Hay Forbes (Lord Medwyn from 1825 to 1852), second son of SirWilliam Forbes of Pitsligo. Lord Medwyn died at the age of seventy-eightin 1854.[296] _The Highland Widow_.[297] A favourite exclamation of Sir Walter's, which he had picked up onhis Irish tour, signifying "don't mind it"--_Na-bac-leis_. Compare SirBoyle Roche's dream that his head was cut off and placed upon a table:"'_Quis separabit?_' says the head; '_Naboclish_,' says I, in the samelanguage."[298] That Mr. Kinloch was not singular in his opinion has been shown bythe remarks made in the House of Commons (see _ante_, March 17). LordCockburn in his _Trials for Sedition_ says, "With Botany Bay before him,and money to make himself comfortable in Paris, George Kinloch wouldhave been an idiot if he had stayed." Mr. Kinloch had just returned toScotland.[299] His neighbour, John Archibald Murray, then living at 122 GeorgeStreet.--See p. 133.[300] See Molire's _l'cole des Femmes_.[301] In 1827 Scott was one day heard saying, as he saw Peter guidingthe plough on the haugh:--"Egad, auld Pepe's whistling at his darg: ifthings get round with me, easy will be his cushion!" Old Peter liveduntil he was eighty-four. He died at Abbotsford in 1854, where he hadbeen well cared for, respected, and beloved by all the members of thefamily since Sir Walter's death.[302] Sheridan's _Rivals_, Act II. Sc. 1.[303] The murder of Weare by Thurtell and Co., at Gill's-Hill inHertfordshire (1824). Sir Walter collected printed trials with greatassiduity, and took care always to have the contemporary ballads andprints bound up with them. He admired particularly this verse of Mr.Hook's broadside--  "They cut his throat from ear to ear,  His brains they battered in;  His name was Mr. William Weare,  He dwelt in Lyon's Inn."--J.G.L.[304] Dr. John Jamieson, formerly minister to a Secession congregationin Forfar, removed to a like charge in Edinburgh in 1795, where heofficiated for forty-three years; he died in his house in 4 GeorgeSquare in 1838, aged seventy-nine.[305] This novel was passing through the press in 8vo, 12mo, and 18mo,to complete collective editions in these sizes.--J.G.I.[306] Afterwards Sir David Brewster. He died at Allerley House on theTweed, aged eighty-seven, on February 10, 1868.AUGUST._August_ 1.--Yesterday evening did nothing for the _idlesse_ of themorning. I was hungry; eat and drank and became drowsy; then I took toarranging the old plays, of which Terry had brought me about a dozen,and dipping into them scrambled through two. One, called _MichaelmasTerm_,[307] full of traits of manners; and another a sort of bouncingtragedy, called the _Hector of Germany, or the Palsgrave_.[308] Thelast, worthless in the extreme, is, like many of the plays in thebeginning of the seventeenth century, written to a good tune. Thedramatic poets of that time seem to have possessed as joint-stock ahighly poetical and abstract tone of language, so that the worst of themoften remind you of the very best. The audience must have had a muchstronger sense of poetry in those days than now, since language wasreceived and applauded at the Fortune or at the Red Bull,[309] whichcould not now be understood by any general audience in Great Britain.This leads far.This morning I wrote two hours, then out with Tom Purdie, and gavedirections about thinning all the plantations above Abbotsford properlyso called. Came in at one o'clock and now set to work. _Debout, debout,Lyciscas, debout._[310] Finished four leaves._August_ 2.--Well; and to-day I finished before dinner five leaves more,and I would crow a little about it, but here comes Duty like an oldhousekeeper to an idle chambermaid. Hear her very words:--DUTY.--Oh! you crow, do you? Pray, can you deny that your sitting soquiet at work was owing to its raining heavily all the forenoon, andindeed till dinner-time, so that nothing would have stirred out thatcould help it, save a duck or a goose? I trow, if it had been a fineday, by noon there would have been aching of the head, throbbing,shaking, and so forth, to make an apology for going out.EGOMET IPSE.--And whose head ever throbbed to go out when it rained,Mrs. Duty?DUTY.--_Answer not to me with a fool-born jest_, as your poor friendErskine used to say to you when you escaped from his good advice underthe fire of some silly pun. You smoke a cigar after dinner, and I nevercheck you--drink tea, too, which is loss of time; and then, instead ofwriting me one other page, or correcting those you have written out, yourollick into the woods till you have not a dry thread about you; andhere you sit writing down my words in your foolish journal instead ofminding my advice.EGO.--Why, Mrs. Duty, I would as gladly be friends with [you] asCrabbe's[311] tradesman fellow with his conscience; but you should havesome consideration with human frailty.DUTY.--Reckon not on that. But, however, good-night for the present. Iwould only recommend to you to think no thoughts in which I am notmingled--to read no books in which I have no concern--to write threesheets of botheration all the six days of the week _per diem_, and onthe seventh to send them to the printer. Thus advising, I heartily bidyou farewell.EGO.--Farewell, madam (exit Duty) and be d--d to ye for an unreasonablebitch! "The devil must be in this greedy gled!" as the Earl of Angussaid to his hawk; "will she never be satisfied?"[312] I believe in mysoul she is the very hag who haunted the merchant Abudah.[313]I'll have my great chest upstairs exorcised, but first I'll take a naptill supper, which must take place within ten minutes._August_ 3.--Wrote half a task in the morning. From eleven tillhalf-past eight in Selkirk taking precognitions about a _row_, and camehome famished and tired. Now, Mrs. Duty, do you think there is no otherDuty of the family but yourself? Or can the Sheriff-depute neglect hisDuty, that the author may mind _his_? The thing cannot be; the people ofSelkirk must have justice as well as the people of England books. So thetwo Duties may go pull caps about it. My conscience is clear._August_ 4.--Wrote to Miss Edgeworth on her sister's marriage, whichconsumed the better part of the morning. I must read for Marengo._Item_, I must look at the pruning. _Item_, at the otter hunt; but myhope is constant to make up a good day's task notwithstanding. Failed infinding the otter, and was tired and slept, and did but a poor day'swork._August_ 6.--Wrote to-day a very good day's work. Walked to Chiefswood,and saw old Mrs. Tytler,[314] a friend when life was young. Her husband,Lord Woodhouselee, was a kind, amiable, and accomplished man; and whenwe lived at Lasswade Cottage, soon after my marriage, we saw a greatdeal of the family, who were very kind to us as newly entered on theworld.[315] Walked home, and worked in the evening; four leavesfinished._August_ 7.--My niece Anne leaves us this morning, summoned back fromone scene of distress to another. Her uncle, David Macculloch, isextremely ill--a paralytic stroke, I fancy. She is a charming girl,lady-like in thought and action, and very pleasant in society. We are todine to-day with our neighbours at Gattonside. Meantime I will availmyself of my disposition to labour, and work instead of journalising.Mr. H. Cranstoun[316] looked in a morning call. He is become extremelydeaf. He gave me a letter from the Countess Purgstall, his sister, whichI have not the heart to open, so many reproaches I have deserved for notwriting. It is a sad thing, though, to task eyes as hard wrought as mineto keep up correspondence. Dined at Gattonside.[317]_August_ 8.--Wrote my task this morning, and now for walk. Dine to-dayat Chiefswood; have company to-morrow. Why, this is dissipation! But nomatter, Mrs. Duty, if the task is done. "Ay, but," says she, "you oughtto do something extra--provide against a rainy day." Not I, I'll make arainy day provide against a fair one, Mrs. Duty. I write twice as muchin bad weather. Seriously, I write fully as much as I ought. I do notlike this dull aching in the chest and the back, and its giving way toexercise shows that it originates in remaining too long in a sittingposture. So I'll take the field, while the day is good._August_ 9.--I wrote only two leaves to-day, but with as many additionsas might rank for three. I had a long and warm walk. Mrs. Tytler ofWoodhouselee, the Hamiltons, and Colonel Ferguson dined here. How manyearly stories did the old lady's presence recall! She might almost be mymother, yet there we sat, like two people of another generation, talkingof things and people the rest knew nothing of. When a certain period oflife is survived, the difference of years between the survivors, evenwhen considerable, becomes of much less consequence._August_ 10.--Rose early, and wrote hard till two, when I went with Anneto Minto. The place, being new to my companion, gave her much amusement.We found the Scotts of Harden, etc., and had a very pleasant party. Ilike Lady M. particularly, but missed my facetious and lively friend,Lady A[nna] M[aria].[318] It is the fashion for women and silly men toabuse her as a blue-stocking. If to have wit, good sense, andgood-humour, mixed with a strong power of observing, and an equallystrong one of expressing the result, be _blue_, she shall be as blue asthey will. Such cant is the refuge of persons who fear those who they[think] can turn them into ridicule; it is a common trick to revengesupposed raillery with good substantial calumny. Slept at Minto._August_ 11.--I was up as usual, and wrote about two leaves, meaning tofinish my task at home; but found my Sheriff-substitute[319] here on myreturn, which took up the evening. But I shall finish the volume onSunday; that is less than a month after beginning it. The same exertionwould bring the book out at Martinmas, but December is a better time._August_ 12.--Wrote a little in the morning; then Duty and I havesettled that this is to be a kind of holiday, providing the volume befinished to-morrow. I went to breakfast at Chiefswood, and after thataffair was happily transacted, I wended me merrily to the Black CockStripe, and there caused Tom Purdie and John Swanston cut out aquantity of firs. Got home about two o'clock, and set to correct a setof proofs. James Ballantyne presages well of this work, but is afraid ofinaccuracies--so am I--but things must be as they may. There is a kindof glamour about me, which sometimes makes me read dates, etc., in theproof-sheets, not as they actually do stand, but as they ought to stand.I wonder if a pill of holy trefoil would dispel this fascination.By the way, John Swanston measured a young shoot that was growingremarkably, and found that for three days successively it grew half aninch every day. Fine-Ear[320] used to hear the grass grow--how far offwould he have heard this extravagant rapidity of vegetation? The tree isa silver fir or spruce in the patch at the Green-tongue park._August_ 13.--Yesterday I was tired of labouring in the rough ground.Well, I must be content to feel my disabilities increase. One sure thingis, that all wise men will soon contrive to lay aside inclination whenperformance grows toilsome. I have hobbled over many a rough heugh in myday--no wonder if I must sing at last--    "Thus says the auld man to the aik tree,    Sair failed, hinny, since I kenn'd thee."But here are many a mile of smooth walk, just when I grow unable to facebent and brae, and here is the garden when all fails. To a sailor thelength of his quarter-deck is a good space of exercising ground.I wrote a good task to-day, then walked to the lake, then came back bythree o'clock, hungering and thirsting to finish the volume. I haveseldom such fits of voluntary industry, so Duty shall have the benefit.Finished volume iv. this evening--_Deo Gratias_._August_ 14.--This is a morning I have not seen many a day, for itappears to set in for a rainy day. It has not kept its word though. Iwas seized by a fit of the "clevers," and finished my task by twelveo'clock, and hope to add something in the evening. I was guilty,however, of some waywardness, for I began volume v. of _Boney_ insteadof carrying on the _Canongate_ as I proposed. The reason, however, wasthat I might not forget the information I had acquired about the Treatyof Amiens._August_ 15.--The weather seems decidedly broken. Yesterday, indeed,cleared up, but this day seems to persevere in raining. _Naboclish!_It's a rarity nowadays. I write on, though a little afflicted with theoppression on my chest. Sometimes I think it is something dangerous, butas it always goes away on change of posture, it cannot be speedily so. Iwant to finish my task, and then good-night. I will never relax mylabour in these affairs, either for fear of pain or love of life. I willdie a free man, if hard working will do it. Accordingly, to-day Icleared the ninth leaf, which is the tenth part of a volume, in twodays--four and a half leaves a day. Walter and Jane, with Mrs. Jobson,are arrived to interrupt me._August_ 16.--God be praised for restoring to me my dear children ingood health, which has made me happier than anything that has happenedthese several months. Walter and Jane appear cordial and happy in eachother; the greatest blessing Heaven can bestow on them or me who witnessit. If we had Lockhart and Sophia, there would be a meeting of thebeings dearest to me in life. Walked to Huntly Burn, where I found acertain lady on a visit--so youthy, so beautiful, so strong invoice--with sense and learning--above all, so fond of good conversation,that, in compassion to my eyes, ears, and understanding, I bolted in themiddle of a tremendous shower of rain, and rather chose to be wet to theskin than to be bethumped with words at that rate. There seemed morethan I of the same opinion, for Col Ferguson chose the ducking ratherthan the conversation. Young Mr. Surtees came this evening._August_ 17.--Wrote half a leaf short of my task, having proofs, etc.,to correct, and being called early to walk with the ladies. I havegained three leaves in the two following days, so I cannot blame myself._Sat cito si sat bene. Sat boni_ I am sure--I may say--a truly execrablepun that; hope no one will find it out.In the evening we had music from the girls, and the voice of the harpand viol were heard in my halls once more, which have been so longdeprived of mirth. It is with a mixed sensation I hear these sounds. Ilook on my children and am happy; and yet every now and then a pangshoots across my heart. It seems so strange that my poor wife should notbe there. But enough of this. Colonel Ferguson dined._August_ 18.--Again I fell a half page behind, being summoned out tooearly for my task, but I am still two leaves before on the whole week.It is natural to see as much of these young people as I can. Waltertalks of the Ionian Islands. It is an awful distance. A long walk invery warm weather. Music in the evening._August_ 19.--This morning wrote none, excepting extracts, etc., beingunder the necessity of reading and collating a great deal, which lastedtill one o'clock or thereabouts, when Dr. and Mrs. Brewster and theiryoung people came to spend a day of happiness at the lake. We were metthere by Captain and Mrs. Hamilton and a full party. Since the days ofSeged, Emperor of Ethiopia,[321] these days of appointed sport andhappiness have seldom answered; but we came off indifferently well. Wedid not indeed catch much fish; but we lounged about in a delightfulday, eat and drank--and the children, who are very fine infantry, wereclamorously enjoying themselves. We sounded the loch in two or threedifferent places--the deepest may be sixty feet. I was accustomed tothink it much more, but your deepest pools, like your deepestpoliticians and philosophers, often turn out more shallow than wasexpected. The whole party dine with us._August_ 20.--Wrote four leaves. The day wet and rainy, though notuniformly so. No temptation, however, to play truant; so this will makesome amends for a blank day yesterday. I am far in advance of the press,but it is necessary if I go to Drumlanrig on Wednesday as I intend, andto Lochore next week, which I also meditate. This will be no greatinterruption, however, if I can keep the _Canongate_ moving, for I shallbe more than half a volume in advance with _Napoleon_._August_ 21.--Wrought out my task, though much bothered with a cold inmy head and face, how caught I know not. Mrs. Crampton, wife of theSurgeon-General[322] in Ireland, sends to say she is hereabouts, so weask her. Hospitality must not be neglected, and most hospitable are theCramptons. All the "calliachs"[323] from Huntly Burn are to be here, andAnne wishes we may have enough of dinner. Naboclish! it is hoped therewill be a _pice de rsistance_._August_ 22.--Mrs. and Misses Crampton departed. I was rather sorry togive them such brief entertainment, for they were extremely kind. Butgoing to Eildon Hall to-day, and to Drumlanrig to-morrow, there wasnothing more could be done for them. It is raining now "_successfully_,"as old Macfarlane of the Arroquhar used to say. What is the odds? We geta soaking before we cross the Birkendailly--wet against dry, ten to one._August_ 23 [_Bittock's Bridge_].--Set off cheerily with Walter,Charles, and Surtees in the sociable, to make our trip to Drumlanrig. Webreakfasted at Mr. Boyd's, Broadmeadows, and were received with Yarrowhospitality. From thence climbed the Yarrow, and skirted Saint Mary'sLake, and ascended the Birkhill path, under the moist and mistyinfluence of the _genius loci_. Never mind; my companions were merry andI cheerful. When old people can be with the young without fatiguing themor themselves, their tempers derive the same benefits which somefantastic physicians of old supposed accrued to their constitutions fromthe breath of the young and healthy. You have not, cannot again have,their gaiety of pleasure in seeing sights, but still it reflects itselfupon you, and you are cheered and comforted. Our luncheon eaten in theherd's cottage; but the poor woman saddened me unawares, by asking forpoor Charlotte, whom she had often seen there with me. She put me inmind that I had come twice over those hills and bogs with awheeled-carriage, before the road, now an excellent one, was made. Iknew it was true; but, on my soul, looking where we must have gone, Icould hardly believe I had been such a fool. For riding, pass if youwill; but to put one's neck in such a venture with a wheeled-carriagewas too silly. Here we are, however, at Bittock's Inn for this night._Drumlanrig, August_ 24.--This morning lunched at Parkgate under a veryheavy shower, and then pushed on to Drumlanrig, where I was pleased tosee the old Castle, and old servants solicitous and anxious to be civil.What visions does not this magnificent old house bring back to me! Theexterior is much improved since I first knew it. It was then in thestate of dilapidation to which it had been abandoned by the celebratedold Q.,[324] and was indeed scarce wind and water tight. Then the wholewood had been felled, and the outraged castle stood in the midst ofwaste and desolation, excepting a few scattered old stumps, not judgedworth the cutting. Now, the whole has been, ten or twelve years since,completely replanted, and the scattered seniors look as graceful asfathers surrounded by their children. The face of this immense estatehas been scarcely less wonderfully changed. The scrambling tenants, whoheld a precarious tenure of lease under the Duke of Queensberry, at therisk (as actually took place) of losing their possession at his death,have given room to skilful and labouring men, working their farmsregularly, and enjoying comfortable houses and their farms at a fairrent, which is enough to forbid idleness, but not enough to overpowerindustry._August_ 25.--Here are Lord and Lady Home,[325] Charles Douglas,[326]Lord and Lady Charlotte Stopford.[327] I grieve to say the last, thoughas beautiful as ever, is extremely thin, and looks delicate. The Dukehimself has grown up into a graceful and apparently strong young man,and received us most kindly. I think he will be well qualified tosustain his difficult and important task. The heart is excellent, so arethe talents,--good sense and knowledge of the world, picked up at one ofthe great English schools (and it is one of their most importantresults), will prevent him from being deceived; and with perfectgood-nature, he has a natural sense of his own situation, which willkeep him from associating with unworthy companions. God bless him! Hisfather and I loved each other well, and his beautiful mother had as muchof the angel as is permitted to walk this earth. I see the balcony fromwhich they welcomed poor Charlotte and me, long ere the ascent wassurmounted, streaming out their white handkerchiefs from thebattlements. There were _four_ merry people that day--now one sadindividual is all that remains. _Singula praedantur anni_. I had a longwalk to-day through the new plantation, the Duchess's Walk by the Nith,etc. (formed by Prior's _Kitty young and gay_[328]); fell in with theladies, but their donkeys outwalked me--a flock of sheep afterwardsoutwalked me, and I begin to think, on my conscience, that a snail putin training might soon outwalk me. I must lay the old salve to the oldsore, and be thankful for being able to walk at all.Nothing was written to-day, my writing-desk having been forgot atParkgate, but Tom Crighton kindly fetched it up to-day, so somethingmore or less may be done to-morrow morning--and now to dress.[_Bittock's Bridge_,] _August_ 26.--We took our departure from thefriendly halls of Drumlanrig this morning after breakfast andleave-taking. I trust this young nobleman will be    "A hedge about his friends,    A hackle to his foes."[329]I would have him not quite so soft-natured as his grandfather, whosekindness sometimes mastered his excellent understanding. His father hada temper which better lumped with my humour. Enough of ill-nature tokeep your good-nature from being abused is no bad ingredient in theirdisposition who have favours to bestow.[330]In coming from Parkgate here I intended to accomplish a purpose which Ihave for some years entertained, of visiting Lochwood, the ancient seatof the Johnstones, of which King James said, when he visited it, thatthe man who built it must have been a thief in his heart. It rainedheavily, however, which prevented my making this excursion, and indeed Irather overwalked myself yesterday, and have occasion for rest.     "So sit down, Robin, and rest thee."_Abbotsford, August_ 27.--To-day we journeyed through the hills andamongst the storms; the weather rather bullying than bad. We viewed theGrey Mare's Tail, and I still felt confident in crawling along theghastly bank by which you approach the fall. I will certainly get someroad of application to Mr. Hope Johnstone, to pray him to make the placeaccessible. We got home before half-past five, having travelled fortymiles._Blair-Adam, August_ 28.--Set off with Walter and Jane at seven o'clock,and reached this place in the middle of dinner-time. By some of my notunusual blunders we had come a day before we were expected. Luckily, inthis ceremonious generation, there are still houses where such blundersonly cause a little raillery, and Blair-Adam is one of them. Myexcellent friend is in high health and spirits, to which the presence ofSir Frederick adds not a little.[331] His lady is here--a beautifulwoman, whose countenance realises all the poetic dreams of Byron. Thereis certainly [a] something of full maturity of beauty which seems framedto be adoring and adored, and it is to be found in the full dark eye,luxuriant tresses, and rich complexion of Greece, and not among thepale unripened beauties of the north. What sort of a mind this exquisitecasket may contain is not so easily known. She is anxious to please, andwilling to be pleased, and, with her striking beauty, cannot fail tosucceed._August_ 29.--To-day we designed to go to Lochore. But "heigho! the windand the rain." Besides Mrs. and Admiral Adam, Mrs. Loch, and Miss Adam,I find here Mr. Impey, son of that Sir Elijah celebrated in Indianhistory. He has himself been in India, but has, with a great deal ofsense and observation, much better address than always falls to theshare of the Eastern adventurer. The art of quiet and entertainingconversation, which is always easy as well as entertaining, is chieflyknown in England. In Scotland we are pedantic and wrangle, or we runaway with the harrows on some topic we chance to be discursive upon. InIreland they have too much vivacity, and are too desirous to make ashow, to preserve the golden mean. They are the Gascons of Britain.George Ellis was the best converser I ever knew; his patience and goodbreeding made me often ashamed of myself going off at score upon somefavourite topic. Richard Sharp is so celebrated for this peculiar giftas to be generally called Conversation Sharp.[332] The worst of thistalent is that it seems to lack sincerity. You never know what are thereal sentiments of a good converser, or at least it is very difficult todiscover to what extent he entertains them. His politeness isinconsistent with energy. For forming a good converser, good taste andextensive information and accomplishment are the principal requisites,to which must be added an easy and elegant delivery and a well-tonedvoice. I think the higher order of genius is not favourable to thistalent.Mrs. Impey, an intelligent person, likes music, and particularly Scotchairs, which few people play better than Mrs. Lockhart and Miss LouisaAdam. Had a letter from Mr. William Upcott, London Institution,proposing to me to edit an edition of Garrick's Correspondence, which Ideclined by letter of this day. Thorough decided downfall of rain.Nothing for it but patience and proof-sheets._August_ 30.--The weather scarce permitted us more licence thanyesterday, yet we went down to Lochore, and Walter and I perambulatedthe property, and discussed the necessity of a new road from thesouth-west, also that of planting some willows along the ditches in thelow grounds. Returned to Blair-Adam to dinner._Abbotsford, August_ 31.--Left Blair at seven in the morning. Transactedbusiness with Cadell and Ballantyne, but our plans will, I think, bestopped or impeded by the operations before the Arbiter, Mr. Irving, wholeans more to the side of the opposite [party] than I expected. I have aletter from Gibson, found on my arrival at Abbotsford, which givesrather a gloomy account of that matter. It seems strange that I am to bebound to write for men who have broken every bargain with me.Arrived at Abbotsford at eight o'clock at night.FOOTNOTES:[307] By Middleton, 1697.[308] The Hector of Germanie, or the Palsgrave Prime Elector. AnHonourable History by William Smith. 4to, 1615.[309] Two London playhouses.--See Knight's _Biography of Shakespeare_.[310] Molire's _La Princesse d'lide_ (Prologue).[311] See Crabbe's Tale of _The Struggles of Conscience_.--J.G.L.[312] _Tales of a Grandfather_, Miscell. Prose Works, vol. xxiii. p. 72.[313] See _Tales of the Genii_. _The Talisman of Oromanes_.[314] Eldest daughter of William Fraser of Balnain.--See Burgon's _Lifeof P.F. Tytler_, 8vo, Lond. 1859. Mrs. Tytler died in London, agedeighty-four, in 1837.[315] Alexr. Fraser Tytler, 1747-1813. Besides his acknowledged works,Lord Woodhouselee published anonymously a translation of Schiller's_Robbers_ as early as 1792.[316] Henry Cranstoun, elder brother of Lord Corehouse and CountessPurgstall. He resided for some years near Abbotsford, at the Pavilion onthe Tweed, where he died in 1843, aged eighty-six. An interestingaccount of Countess Purgstall is given by Basil Hall, who was with herin Styria at her death in 1835. This very early friend of Scott's wasthought by Captain Hall to have been the prototype of DianaVernon--"that safest of secret keepers."--See _Schloss Hainfeld_, 8vo,Lond. 1836.[317] The property of Gattonside had been purchased in 1824 by GeorgeBainbridge of Liverpool, a keen angler, author of _The Fly Fisher'sGuide_, 8vo, Liverpool, 1816.[318] Lady Anna Maria Elliot, see _ante_, p. 133.[319] W. Scott of Maxpopple.[320] In the fairy tale of Countess D'Aulnoy--_Fortunio_.[321] See Johnson's _Rambler_, Nos. 204 and 205.[322] Afterwards Sir Philip Crampton. "The Surgeon-General struck SirWalter as being more like Sir Humphry Davy than any man he had met, notin person only, but in the liveliness and range of his talk."--_Life_,vol. viii. p. 23.[323] Gaelic for "old women."[324] William Douglas, fourth Duke of Queensberry, succeeded, on thedeath of his kinsman, Duke Charles, in 1778. He died in 1810 at the ageof eighty-six, when his titles and estates were divided between the Dukeof Buccleuch, Lord Douglas, the Marquis of Queensberry, and the Earl ofWemyss.See Wordsworth's indignant lines beginning:  "Degenerate Douglas, oh the unworthy Lord";also _George Selwyn and his Contemporaries_, 4 vols. 8vo, Lond. 1843-4.[325] Alexander, tenth Earl of Home, and his wife, Lady Elizabeth,daughter of Henry, third Duke of Buccleuch.[326] Charles, second son of Archibald Lord Douglas.[327] James Thomas, Viscount Stopford, afterwards fourth Earl ofCourtown, and his wife, Lady Charlotte, sister of the then Duke ofBuccleuch, at that time still in his minority. Lady Charlotte diedwithin eighteen months of this date.[328]  "Thus Kitty, beautiful and young,   And wild as colt untamed."Prior's _Female Phaeton_.Catherine Hyde, daughter of Henry Earl of Clarendon, and wife of CharlesDuke of Queensberry. She was the friend of Gay, and her beauty, wit, andoddities have been celebrated in prose and rhyme by the wits and poetsof two generations. Fifty-six years after Prior had sung her "madGrace's" praises, Walpole added those two lines to the Female Phaeton--  "To many a Kitty Love his car, will for a day engage,   But Prior's Kitty, ever fair, obtained it for an age."She died at a great age in 1777. For her letter to George II. whenforbid the Court, see Agar Ellis, _Historical Inquiries_, Lond. 1827, p.40.[329] Ballad on young Rob Roy's abduction of Jean Key, Cromek's_Collections_.--J.G.L.[330] See Letter to C.K. Sharpe, from Drumlanrig, vol. ii. pp. 369-71.[331] Sir Frederick Adam, son of the Chief Commissioner--a distinguishedsoldier, afterwards High Commissioner of the Ionian Islands, andsubsequently Governor of Madras; he died in 1853.[332] Mr. Richard Sharp published in 1834 a very elegant and interestinglittle volume of _Letters and Essays, in Prose and Verse_.--See_Quarterly Review_, 102.--J.G.L. He had been Member of Parliament from1806 to 1820, and died on the 30th of March 1835 at the age ofseventy-six.SEPTEMBER_September_ 1.--Awaked with a headache, which the reconsideration ofGibson's news did not improve. We save _Bonaparte_ however, and that isa great thing. I will not be downcast about it, let the worst come thatcan; but I wish I saw that worst. It is the devil to be strugglingforward, like a man in the mire, and making not an inch by yourexertions, and such seems to be my fate. Well! I have much to comfortme, and I will take comfort. If there be further wrath to come, I shallbe glad that I bear it alone. Poor Charlotte was too much softened byprosperity to look adverse circumstances courageously in the face. Anneis young, and has Sophia and Jane to trust to for assistance._September_ 2.--Wrote this morning, but only two pages or thereabouts.At twelve o'clock set out with Anne and Walter to visit at Makerstoun,but the road between Makerstoun and Merton being very bad, we drove, Idare say, thirty miles in going and coming, by a circuitous route, andonly got home at half-past seven at night. Saw Lady Brisbane Makdougall,but not Sir Thomas.[333] Thought of old Sir Henry and his older fatherSir George. Received a box of Australian seeds, forwarded by AndrewMurray, now head-gardener to the Governor, whom I detected a clever boy,among my labourers in 1812, and did a little for him. It is pleasant tosee men thrive and be grateful at the same time, so good luck to "AndrewMora," as we called him._September_ 3.--Made up my necessary task for yesterday and to-day also,but not more, writing very heavily. Cousin Archie Swinton came todinner. We had a dish of cousinred of course--and _of auld langsyne_.[334]_September_ 4.--Archie Swinton left us this morning early. I wrote fromseven to half-past two; but, partly that I had five proof-sheets tocorrect, partly that like old John Fraser[335] "I was not very cleeverto-day." I made out but a page and a half._September_ 5.--Wrote task and half a page more. Terry arrived andbrought with him a Mr. Bruce, from Persia, with an introduction,forsooth, from Mr. Blackwood. I will move a _quo warranto_ against thisspecies of introduction; and the good gentleman is to be here, heinforms me, for two days. He is a dark, foreign-looking man, of smallstature, and rather blunt manners, which may be easily accounted for byhis having been in the East for thirty years. He has a considerableshare of information, and made good play after dinner._September_ 6.--Walter being to return to Ireland for three weeks setoff to-day, and has taken Surtees and Charles with him. I fear this isbut a wild plan, but the prospect seemed to make them so happy that Icould not find in my heart to say "No" sufficiently peremptorily. Soaway they all went this morning to be as happy as they can. Youth is afine carver and gilder. Went down to Huntly Burn, and dawdled aboutwhile waiting for the carriage to bring me back. Mr. Bruce and ColonelFerguson pottered away about Persia and India, and I fell asleep by thefireside. Here is a fine spate of work--a day diddled away, and nothingto show for it! I must write letters now, there is nothing else for it.But--yaw--yaw--I must take a nap first. I had a letter from JemBallantyne, plague on him! full of remonstrance, deep and solemn, uponthe carelessness of _Bonaparte_. The rogue is right too. But as tocorrecting my style to the    "Jemmy jemmy linkum feedle"tune of what is called fine writing, I'll be d----d if I do. Drew 12 infavour of Charles for his Irish jaunt; same time exhorted him to makehimself as expensive to Walter, in the way of eating and drinking, as hecould. Mr. and Mrs. Impey arrived to dinner._September_ 7.--Mr. Bruce, the bastinadoed, left us this morningpromising wine from Shiraz and arms from India. From our jointobservation he must be a half-caste, probably half an Arab. He told usof his having been taken by pirates in the Arabian Gulf, and havingreceived two thousand bastinadoes on the soles of his feet, after whichhe was buried in a heap of dung by way of cure. Though the matter wascertainly serious enough to the sufferer, yet it excited our suppressed,or scarce suppressed, mirth. Alas! let never traveller tell any distresswhich borders on the ludicrous if he desires to excite the sympathy ofthe audience.Another thing he mentioned was the mode of seasoning timber forshipbuilding in the Arabian Gulf. They bury it in the sand withinwater-mark, and leave it exposed to the flux and reflux of the tide forsix months at least, but often for twelve or eighteen. The tendency tovegetation which produces the dry-rot is thus prevented effectually, andthe ships built of this wood last for twenty years.We drove to Ashestiel in the morning, after I had written a good task,or nearly so (nay, I lie, it wanted half a page), and passed a pleasantday. Terry read _Bobadil_ in the evening, which he has, I think,improved._September_ 8.--I have rubbed up, by collation with Mr. Impey, SirFrederick Adam's idea of the Greeks. He deeply regrets the present waras premature, undertaken before knowledge and rational education hadextended themselves sufficiently. The neighbourhood of the IonianIslands was fast producing civilisation; and as knowledge is power, itis clear that the example of Europeans, and the opportunities ofeducation thereby afforded, must soon have given them an immensesuperiority over the Turk. This premature war has thrown all back into astate of barbarism. It was precipitated by the agents of Russia. SirFrederick spoke most highly of Byron, the soundness of his views, therespect in which he was held--his just ideas of the Grecian cause andcharacter, and the practical and rational wishes which he formed forthem. Singular that a man whose conduct in his own personal affairs hadbeen anything but practical should be thus able to stand by the helm ofa sinking state! Sir Frederick thinks he might have done much for themif he had lived. The rantipole friends of liberty, who go about freeingnations with the same success which Don Quixote had in redressingwrongs, have, of course, blundered everything which they touched. TheImpeys left us to-day, and Captain Hugh Scott and his lady arrived. Taskis bang-up._September_ 9.--I begin to fear _Nap_. will swell to seven volumes. Ihave a long letter from James B. threatening me with eight; but that isimpossible. The event of his becoming Emperor is the central point ofhis history. Now I have just attained it, and it is the centre of thethird volume. Two volumes and a half may be necessary to complete thewhole. Walked with Hugh Scott up the Rhymer's Glen, and round by thelake. Mr. Bainbridge of Gattonside House dined, also Colonel Ferguson.Was bang up to my task again this day._September_ 10.--Corrected proof-sheets in the morning, then immuredmyself to write, the more willingly that the day seemed showery; but Ifound myself obliged to read and study the map so much that I did notget over half a sheet written. Walked with Hugh Scott through HaxellCleuch. Great pleasure to show the young wood to any who understandsthem well._September_ 11.--Jane and her mother go into town this morning, and Annewith them, to look out a lodging for us during the time we must pass intown. It seems strange to have this to do, having had always my father'shouse or my own to go to. But--_Sic transit gloria mundi_.Well, it is half-past twelve o'clock, and at length having regulated alldisappointments as to post-horses, and sent three or four servants threeor four miles to remedy blunders, which a little forethought might haveprevented, my family and guests are separated--    "Like youthful steers let loose, east, north, and south."[336]Miss Miln goes to Stirling; the Scotts to Lessudden; Anne and Jane toEdinburgh; and I am left alone. I must needs go up and see someoperations about the spring which supplies us with water, though Icalculate my presence is not very necessary. So now--to work--to work.But I reckoned without my host, or, I should rather say, without my_guest_. Just as I had drawn in my chair, fitted a new "Bramah" on thestick, and was preparing to feague it away, I had a call from the son ofan old friend, Mr. Waldie of Henderland. As he left me, enter youngWhytbank and Mr. Auriol Hay[337] of the Lyon Office, and we had a longarmorial chat together, which lasted for some time--then the library wasto be looked at, etc. So, when they went away, I had little better to dothan to walk up to the spring which they are digging, and to go to mysolitary dinner on my return._September_ 12.--Notwithstanding what is above said, I made out my taskyesterday, or nearly so, by working after dinner. After all, theseinterruptions are not such bad things; they make a man keen of the workwhich he is withheld from, and differ in that point much from theindulgence of an indisposition to labour in your own mind, whichincreases by indulgence. _Les fcheux_ seldom interrupt your purposeabsolutely and entirely--you stick to it for contradiction's sake.Well, I visited the spring in the morning, and completed my taskafterwards. As I slept for a few minutes in my chair, to which I am moreaddicted than I could wish, I heard, as I thought, my poor wife call meby the familiar name of fondness which she gave me. My recollections onwaking were melancholy enough. These be    "The airy tongues that syllable men's names."[338]All, I believe, have some natural desire to consider these unusualimpressions as bodements of good or evil to come. But alas! this is aprejudice of our own conceit. They are the empty echoes of what is past,not the foreboding voice of what is to come.I dined at the Club to-day at Selkirk, and acted as croupier. There wereeighteen dined; young men chiefly, and of course young talk. But so ithas been, will be, and must be._September_ 13.--Wrote my task in the morning, and thereafter had aletter from that sage Privy Councillor and booby of a Baronet,----. Thisunutterable idiot proposes to me that I shall propose to the DowagerDuchess of ----, and offers his own right honourable intervention tobring so beautiful a business to bear. I am struck dumb with theassurance of his folly--absolutely mute and speechless--and how toprevent him making me further a fool is not easy, for the wretch hasleft me no time to assure him of the absurdity of what he proposes; andif he should ever hint at such a piece of d----d impertinence, what mustthe lady think of my conceit or of my feelings! I will write to hispresent quarters, however, that he may, if possible, have warning not tocontinue this absurdity.[339]Dined at Major Scott, my cousin's, where was old Lord Buchan. He, too,is a prince of Bores, but age has tamed him a little, and like the giantPope in the _Pilgrim's Progress_, he can only sit and grin at Pilgrimsas they go past, and is not able to cast a fank[340] over them asformerly. A few quiet puns seem his most formidable infliction nowadays._September_ 14.--I should not have forgotten, among the memorabilia ofyesterday, that Mr. Nasmyth, the dentist, and his family called, and Ishowed them the lions, for truly he that has rid a man of the toothacheis well entitled to command a part of his time. _Item_, two youngFrenchmen made their way to our sublime presence in guerdon of alaudatory copy of French verses sent up the evening before, by way of"Open Sesame," I suppose. I have not read them, nor shall I. No man thatever wrote a line despised the _pap_ of praise so heartily as I do.There is nothing I scorn more, except those who think the ordinary sortof praise or censure is matter of the least consequence. People havealmost always some private view of distinguishing themselves, or ofgratifying their curiosity--some point, in short, to carry, with whichyou have no relation, when they take the trouble to praise you. Ingeneral, it is their purpose to get the person praised to puff away inreturn. To me their rank praises no more make amends for their badpoetry than tainted butter would pass off stale fish._September_ 15.--Many proofs to correct and dates to compare. Whatsignify dates in a true story? I was fidgety after breakfast, owing toperusing some advices from J. Gibson, poor fellow. I will not bediscouraged, come of things what will. However, I could not writecontinuously, but went out by starts, and amused myself by cutting treesin the avenue. Thus I dawdled till Anne and Jane came home with merryfaces, and raised my spirits of course. After tea I e'en took heart ofgrace and finished my task, as I now do this day's journal._September_ 16.--Worked hard to-day, and in morning and evening made outfive pages and a half, as much perhaps as one should attempt, yet I wasnot overworked. On the contrary, went out with Tom about one o'clock andcut trees, etc., to clear the avenue; and favour the growth of suchtrees as are designed for standards. I received visits too--the Laird ofBemerside,[341] who had been for nine years in Italy with hisfamily--also the Laird of Kippielaw. Anne and Jane drove up and calledat the Haining.I expected James Ballantyne to dinner as he proposed, but the worthytypographer appeared not. He is sometimes inaccurate in keeping suchappointments, which is not according to the "Academy of compliments."But in the letter which announced his intended visit, he talked ofhaving received himself a visit from the Cholera Morbus. I shall be verysorry if so unwelcome a guest be the cause of the breach of hisappointment._September_ 17.--Rather surprised with a letter from Lord Melville,informing me that he and Mr. Peel had put me into the Commission forinquiring into the condition of the Colleges in Scotland. I know littleon the subject, but I dare say as much as some of the official personswho are inserted of course. The want of efficient men is the reasonalleged. I must of course do my best, though I have little hope of beinguseful, and the time it will occupy is half ruinous to me, to whom timeis everything. Besides, I suppose the honour is partly meant as an actof grace for _Malachi_. I shall never repent of that escapade, althoughit offended persons for the time whose good opinion I value. J.B.continues ill at Teviot Grove, as they call it. I am a little anxiousabout him.I finished my task and an extra page--hope to do another before supper.Accomplished the said diligent purpose._September_ 18.--Rainy and gloomy--that small sifting rain driving on aneastern gale which intermits not. Wrote letters to Lord Melville, etc,and agreed to act under the Commission. Settled to be at MelvilleCastle, Saturday 24th. I fear this will interfere consumedly withbusiness. I corrected proof-sheets, and wrote a good deal, but intend tospend the rest of the day in reading and making notes. No bricks to bemade without straw.[_Jedburgh_,] _September_ 19.--Circuit. Went to poor Mr. Shortreed's,and regretted bitterly the distress of the family, though theyendeavoured to bear it bravely, and to make my reception as comfortableand even cheerful as possible. My old friend R.S. gave me a ring foundin a grave at the Abbey, to be kept in memory of his son. I willcertainly preserve it with especial care.[342]Many trifles at circuit, chiefly owing to the cheap whisky, as they werealmost all riots. One case of assault on a deaf and dumb woman. She washerself the chief evidence; but being totally without education, andhaving, from her situation, very imperfect notions of a Deity, and afuture state, no oath could be administered. Mr. Kinniburgh, teacher ofthe deaf and dumb, was sworn interpreter, together with another person,a neighbour, who knew the accidental or conventional signs which thepoor thing had invented for herself, as Mr. K. was supposed tounderstand the more general or natural signs common to people in such asituation. He went through the task with much address, and it waswonderful to see them make themselves intelligible to each other by merepantomime. Still I did [not] consider such evidence as much to betrusted to in a criminal case. Several previous interviews had beennecessary between the interpreter and the witness, and this is very muchlike getting up a story. Some of the signs, brief in themselves, ofwhich Mr. K. gave long interpretations, put me in mind of Lord Burleighin the _Critic_: "Did he mean all this by the shake of the head?" "Yes,if he shook his head as I taught him."[343] The man was found notguilty. Mr. K. told us of a pupil of his whom he restored, as it may besaid, to humanity, and who told him that his ideas of another world werethat some great person in the skies lighted up the sun in the morning ashe saw his mother light her fire, and the stars in the evening as shekindled a lamp. He said the witness had ideas of truth and falsehood,which was, I believe, true; and that she had an idea of punishment in afuture state, which I doubt. He confessed she could not give any guessat its duration, whether temporary or eternal. I should like to know ifMr. K. is in that respect much wiser than his pupils. Dined, of course,with Lord Mackenzie, the Judge._September_ 20.--Waked after a restless night, in which I dreamed ofpoor Tom Shortreed. Breakfasted with the Rev. Dr. Somerville.[344] Thisvenerable gentleman is one of the oldest of the literary brotherhood--Isuppose about eighty-seven, and except a little deafness quite entire.Living all his life in good society as a gentleman born--and having,besides, professional calls to make among the poor--he must know, ofcourse, much that is curious concerning the momentous changes which havepassed under his eyes. He talks of them accordingly, and has writtensomething on the subject, but has scarce the force necessary to seize onthe most striking points, "_palabras,_ neighbour Verges,"[345]--giftswhich God gives. The bowl that rolls easiest along the green goesfurthest, and has least clay sticking to it. I have often noticed that akindly, placid good-humour is the companion of longevity, and, Isuspect, frequently the leading cause of it. Quick, keen, sharpobservation, with the power of contrast and illustration, disturbs thiseasy current of thought. My good friend, the venerable Doctor, will not,I think, die of that disease.Called at Nesbit Mill on my cousin Charles. His wife received me betterthan I deserved, for I have been a sad neglectful visitor. She has avery pleasant countenance.Some of the Circuit lawyers dined here, namely R. Dundas, Borthwick, thefacetious Peter Robertson,[346] Mr. R. Adam Dundas, and with them HenryScott of Harden._September_ 21.--Our party breakfasted late, and I was heavy-headed, anddid not rise till eight. Had drank a little more wine than usual, but asour friend Othello says, "that's not much."[347] However, we dawdledabout till near noon ere all my guests left me. Then I walked a littleand cut some wood. Read afterwards. I can't get on without it. How didI get on before?--that's a secret. Mr. Thomas Tod[348] and his wife cameto dine. We talked of old stories and got over a pleasant evening._September_ 22.--Still no writing. We have materials to collect. D---nyou, Mother Duty, hold your tongue! I tell you, you know nothing of thematter. Besides, I corrected five sheets. I wish you had to do with someother people, just to teach you the difference. I grant that the daybeing exquisite I went and thinned out the wood from the north front ofthe house. Read and noted a great deal._September_ 23.--Wrought in the morning, but only at reading and proofs.That cursed battle of Jena is like to cost me more time than it didBonaparte to gain it. I met Colonel Ferguson about one, to see his dogsrun. It is a sport I have loved well, but now, I know not why, I find itlittle interesting. To be sure I used to gallop, and that I cannot nowdo. We had good sport, however, and killed five hares. I felt excitedduring the chase, but the feeling was but momentary. My mind wasimmediately turned to other remembrances, and to pondering upon thechange which had taken place in my own feelings. The day was positivelyheavenly, and the wild hillside, with our little coursing party, wasbeautiful to look at. Yet I felt like a man come from the dead, lookingwith indifference on that which interested him while living. So it mustbe    "When once life's day is near the gloaming."[349]We dined at Huntly Burn. Kind and comfortable as usual._September_ 24.--I made a rally to-day and wrote four pages, or nearly.Never stirred abroad the whole day, but was made happy after dinner bythe return of Charles and Surtees full of their Irish jaunt, and happyas young men are with the change of scene. To-morrow I must go toMelville Castle. I wonder what I can do or say about theseUniversities. One thing occurs--the distribution of bursaries only _exmeritis_. That is, I would have the presentations continue in thepresent patrons, but exact that those presented should be qualified bysuccess in their literary attainments and distinction acquired at schoolto hold these scholarships. This seems to be following out the idea ofthe founders, who, doubtless, intended the furthering of goodliterature. To give education to dull mediocrity is a flinging of thechildren's bread to dogs--it is sharpening a hatchet on a razor-strop,which renders the strop useless, and does no good to the hatchet. Well,something we will do._September_ 25.--Morning spent in making up proofs and copy. Set out forMelville Castle with Jane, who goes on to her mother at Edinburgh.Found Lord and Lady M. in great distress. Their son Robert is taken illat a Russian town about 350 miles from Moscow--dangerously ill. Thedistance increases the extreme distress of the parents, who, however,bore it like themselves. I was glad to spend a day upon the old termswith such old friends, and believe my being with them, even in thismoment of painful suspense, as it did not diminish the kindness of myreception, certainly rather seemed to divert them from the cruelsubject.Dr. Nicoll, Principal of St. Andrews, dined--a very gentlemanlikesensible man. We spoke of the visitation, of granting degrees, of publicexaminations, of abolishing the election of professors by the SenatusAcademicus (a most pregnant source of jobs), and much beside--but alldesultory--and Lord M. had either nothing particular to say to me, orwas too much engrossed with his family distress to enter upon it. Heproposes to be here in the end of October._September_ 26.--Returned to Abbotsford after breakfast. Here is a coolthing of my friend J.W. C[roker]. The Duke of Clarence, dining at thePavilion with the King, happened by choice or circumstance to sit lowerthan usual at the table, and being at that time on bad terms with theBoard of Admiralty, took an opportunity to say, that were he king hewould do all that away, and assume the office of Lord High Admiral."Your R.H. may act with great prudence," said C[roker]. "The lastmonarch who did so was James II." Presently after H.M. asked what theywere talking of. "It's only his R.H. of C," answered C[roker], "who isso condescending as to tell us what he will do when he is king."A long letter from R.P. Gillies. I wonder how even he could ask me toannounce myself as the author of _Annotations on German Novels_ which heis to write._September_ 27.--A day of honest labour--but having much to read, proofsto send off, etc., I was only able to execute my task by three o'clockP.M. Then I went to direct the cutting of wood along the road in frontof the house. Dined at Chiefswood with Captain and Mrs. Hamilton, LadyLucy Whitmore, their guest, and neighbours from Gattonside and HuntlyBurn._September_ 28.--Another hard brush, and finished four pages by twelveo'clock, then drove out to Cowdenknowes, for a morning visit. The houseis ancient and curious, though modernised by vile improvements of amodern roof and windows. The inhabited part has over the principal doorthe letters S.I.H.V.I.H. The first three indicate probably Sir JohnHume, but what are we to make of the rest? I will look at them moreheedfully one day. There is a large room said to have been built for thereception of Queen Mary; if so, it has been much modernised. The date onthe door is 1576, which would [not] bear out the tradition. The last twoletters probably signify Lady Hume's name, but what are we to make ofthe _V_? Dr. Hume thinks it means _Uxor_, but why should that word be inLatin and the rest in Scotch?Returned to dinner, corrected proofs, and hope still to finish anotherleaf, being in light working humour. Finished the same accordingly.[_Abbotsford_,] _September_ 29.--- A sort of zeal of working has seizedme, which I must avail myself of. No dejection of mind, and no tremor ofnerves, for which God be humbly thanked. My spirits are neither low norhigh--grave, I think, and quiet--a complete twilight of the mind.Good news of John Lockhart from Lady Montagu, who most kindly wrote onthat interesting topic.I wrote five pages, nearly a double task, yet wandered for three hours,axe in hand, superintending the thinning of the home planting. That doesgood too. I feel it give steadiness to my mind. Women, it is said, gomad much seldomer than men. I fancy, if this be true, it is in somedegree owing to the little manual works in which they are constantlyemployed, which regulate in some degree the current of ideas, as thependulum regulates the motion of the timepiece. I do not know if this issense or nonsense, but I am sensible that if I were in solitaryconfinement, without either the power of taking exercise or employingmyself in study, six months would make me a madman or an idiot._September_ 30.--Wrote four pages. Honest James Ballantyne came aboutfive. I had been cutting wood for two hours. He brought his child, aremarkably fine boy, well-bred, quiet, and amiable. James and I had agood comfortable chat, the boys being at Gattonside House. I am glad tosee him bear up against misfortune like a man. "Bread we shall eat, orwhite or brown," that's the moral of it, Master Muggins.FOOTNOTES:[333] Sir Thomas Brisbane, who had formerly commanded a brigade in thePeninsula. In 1832 he succeeded Sir Walter Scott as President of theRoyal Society of Edinburgh. Sir Thomas had married in 1819 a daughter ofSir Henry Hay Makdougall of Makerstoun, Bart. Sir Thomas died atBrisbane House, Ayrshire, in January 1860, in the eighty-seventh year ofhis age.[334] For an account of this family see _The Swintons of that Ilk andtheir Cadets_, 4to, 1883, a privately printed volume by A.C. Swinton ofKimmerghame. In a letter to his friend Swinton in 1814, Scott says thathe had been reading the family pedigree "to my exceeding refreshment."[335] One of the Abbotsford labourers.[336] _2 Henry IV_. Act IV. Sc. 2.[337] Mr. E.W. Auriol Drummond Hay, heir-presumptive at one time of LordKinnoul, was then residing in Edinburgh, owing to his official duties inthe Lyon Office; he took a great interest in archaeological matters, andwas for two years Secretary to the Society of Antiquaries before hisdeparture as Consul General to the Barbary States. He died at Tangier onthe 1st March 1845.[338] Milton's _Comus_, v. 208.--J.G.L.[339] Lady Scott had not been quite four months dead, and the entry ofthe preceding day shows how extremely ill-timed was this communicationfrom a gentleman with whom Sir Walter had never had any intimacy. Thiswas not the only proposition of the kind that reached him during hiswidowhood.--J.G.L.[340] A coil of rope.[341] See _Life_, vol. x. 95, and _The Haigs of Bemersyde_, 8vo, Edin.1881, edited by J. Russell.[342] Mr. Thomas Shortreed, a young gentleman of elegant taste andattainments, devotedly attached to Sir Walter, and much beloved inreturn, had recently died.--J.G.L.[343] See Act III. Sc. 1.[344] The Rev. Dr. Thomas Somerville, minister of Jedburgh, author ofthe _History of Great Britain during the reign of Queen Anne_, and otherworks, died 14th May 1830, in the ninetieth year of his age, andsixty-fourth of his ministry.--J.G.L. Autobiographical Memorials of his_Life and Times_, 1741-1814, 8vo, Edinburgh, were published in 1861.[345] _Much Ado about Nothing_, Act III. Sc. 5.[346] Afterwards Judge in the Court of Session from 1843, author of_Gleams of Thought reflected from Milton_, etc. It was of this witty andhumorous judge Mr. Lockhart wrote the sportive lines:--  "Here lies that peerless paper peer Lord Peter,   Who broke the laws of God and man and metre."Lord Robertson died in 1855.[347] Act III. Sc. 3.[348] One of Scott's old High School mates.--_Life_, vol. i. p. 163.[349] Burns's _Epistle to J. Smith_.OCTOBER_October_ 1.--Wrote my task, then walked from one till half-past four.Dogs took a hare. They always catch one on Sunday--a Puritan would saythe devil was in them. I think I shall get more done this evening. Iwould fain conclude the volume at the Treaty of Tilsit, which will makeit a pretty long one, by the by. J.B. expressed himself much pleasedwith _Nap_., which gives me much courage. He is gloomy enough whenthings are not well. And then I will try something at my _Canongate_.They talk about the pitcher going to the well; but if it goes not to thewell, how shall we get water? It will bring home none when it stands onthe shelf, I trow. In literature, as in love, courage is half thebattle.    "The public born to be controlled    Stoops to the forward and the bold."_October_ 2.--Wrote my task. Went out at one and wrought in the woodtill four. I was made happy by a letter from my nephew, little Walter,as we used to call him, from his age and size, compared to those of hiscousin. He has been kindly received at Bombay by the GovernorMountstuart Elphinstone, and by Sir Thomas Bradford. He is taking hisground, I think, prudently, and is likely to get on. Already firstLieutenant of Engineers--that is well to begin with.Colonel Ferguson, Miss Margaret, and some ladies, friends of theirs,dine, also Mr. and Mrs. Laidlaw, and James Laidlaw, and young Mr. N.Milne._October_ 3.--I wrote my task as usual, but, strange to tell, there is awant of paper. I expect some to-day. In the meantime, to avoid allquarrel with Dame Duty, I cut up some other leaves into the usualstatutory size. They say of a fowl that if you draw a chalk line on atable, and lay chick-a-diddle down with his bill upon it, the poor thingwill imagine himself opposed by an insurmountable barrier, which he willnot attempt to cross. Suchlike are one-half of the obstacles which serveto interrupt our best resolves, and such is my pretended want of paper.It is like Sterne's want of _sous_ when he went to relieve the _PauvreHonteux_._October_ 4.--I ought to record with gratitude to God Almighty thecontinued health of body and mind, which He hath vouchsafed to grant me.I have had of late no accesses either of bile or of nervous affection,and by mixing exercise with literary labour, I have escaped the _tremorcordis_ which on other occasions has annoyed me cruelly. I went to theinspection of the Selkirkshire Yeomanry, by Colonel Thornhill, 7thHussars. The Colonel is a remarkably fine-looking man, and has a goodaddress. His brow bears token of the fatigues of war. He is a greatfalconer, and has promised to fly his hawks on Friday for my amusement,and to spend the day at Abbotsford. The young Duke of B. was on thefield looking at the corps, most of whom are his tenants. They did verywell, and are fine, smart young men, and well mounted. Too few of themthough, which is a pity. The exercise is a work which in my time I haveloved well.Finished my task at night._October_ 5.--I was thinking this morning that my time glided away in asingularly monotonous manner, like one of those dark grey days whichneither promise sunshine nor threaten rain; too melancholy forenjoyment, too tranquil for repining. But this day has brought a changewhich somewhat shakes my philosophy. I find by a letter from J. Gibsonthat I _may_ go to London without danger, and if I may, I in a manner_must_, to examine the papers in the Secretary of State's office about_Bon_. when at Saint Helena. The opportunity having been offered must beaccepted, and yet I had much rather stay at home. Even the prospect ofseeing Sophia and Lockhart must be mingled with pain, yet this isfoolish too. Lady Hamilton[350] writes me that Pozzo di Borgo,[351] theRussian Minister at Paris, is willing to communicate to me someparticulars of Bonaparte's early life. Query--might I not go on there?In for a penny, in for a pound. I intend to take Anne with me, and thepleasure will be great to her, who deserves much at my hand._October_ 6.--Charles and his friend Surtees left us this morning.Went to see Colonel Thornhill's hawks fly. Some part of the amusement isvery beautiful, particularly the first flight of the hawks, when theysweep so beautifully round the company, jingling their bells from timeto time, and throwing themselves into the most elegant positions as theygaze about for their prey. But I do not wonder that the impatience ofmodern times has renounced this expensive and precarious mode ofsporting. The hawks are liable to various misfortunes, and are besidesaddicted to fly away; one of ours was fairly lost for the day, and oneor two went off without permission, but returned. We killed a crow andfrightened a snipe. There are, however, ladies and gentlemen enough tomake a gallant show on the top of Mintlaw Kipps. The falconer made afine figure--a handsome and active young fellow with the falcon on hiswrist. The Colonel was most courteous, and named a hawk after me, whichwas a compliment. The hawks are not named till they have merited thatdistinction. I walked about six miles and was not fatigued.There dined with us Colonel Thornhill, Clifton, young Whytbank, SpencerStanhope, and his brother, with Miss Tod and my old friend Locker,[352]Secretary to Greenwich Hospital. We did not break up the party till onein the morning, and were very well amused._October_ 7.--A weary day of rain. Locker and I chatted from time totime, and I wrought not at _Boney_, but upon the prose works, of which Iwill have a volume ready to send in on Monday. I got a letter from JohnGibson, with an offer by Longman for _Napoleon_ of ten thousand fivehundred guineas,[353] which I have advised them to accept. Also I hearthere is some doubt of my getting to London, from the indecision ofthese foolish Londoners.I don't care whether I go or no! And yet it is unpleasant to see howone's motions depend on scoundrels like these. Besides, I would like tobe there, were it but to see how the cat jumps. One knows nothing of theworld, if you are absent from it so long as I have been._October_ 8.--Locker left me this morning. He is of opinion the ministrymust soon assume another form, but that the Whigs will not come in. LordLiverpool holds much by Lord Melville--well in point of judgment--and bythe Duke of Wellington--still better, but then the Duke is a soldier--abad education for a statesman in a free country. The Chancellor is alsoconsulted by the Premier on all law affairs. Canning and Huskisson areat the head of the other party, who may be said to have taken theCabinet by storm, through sheer dint of talent. I should like to seehow these ingredients are working; but by the grace of God, I will takecare of putting my finger into the cleft stick.Locker has promised to get my young cousin Walter Scott on somequarter-deck or other.Received from Mr. Cadell the second instalment advance of cash on_Canongate_. It is in English bills and money, in case of my going totown._October_ 9.--A gracious letter from Messrs. Abud and Son, bill-brokers,etc.; assure Mr. Gibson that they will institute no legal proceedingsagainst me for four or five weeks. And so I am permitted to spend mymoney and my leisure to improve the means of paying them their debts,for that is the only use of my present journey. They are Jews: I supposethe devil baits for Jews with a pork griskin. Were I not to exertmyself, I wonder where their money is to come from.A letter from Gillies menacing the world with a foreign miscellany. Theplan is a good one, but "he canna haud it," as John Moodie[354] says. Hewill think all is done when he has got a set of names, and he will findthe difficulty consists not in that, but in getting articles. I wrote onthe prose works.Lord and Lady Minto dined and spent the night at Abbotsford._October_ 10.--Well, I must prepare for going to London, and perhaps toParis. The morning frittered away. I slept till eight o'clock, then ourguests till twelve; then walked out to direct some alterations on thequarry, which I think may at little expense be rendered a pretty recess.Wordsworth swears by an old quarry, and is in some degree a supremeauthority on such points. Rain came on; returned completely wet. I hadnext the displeasure to find that I had lost the conclusion of vol. v.of Napoleon, seven or eight pages at least, which I shall have to writeover again, unless I can find it. Well, as Othello says, "that's notmuch." My cousin James Scott came to dinner.I have great unwillingness to set out on this journey; I almost think itominous; but    "They that look to freits, my master dear,    Their freits will follow them."[355]I will stick to my purpose. Answered a letter from Gillies aboutestablishing a foreign journal; a good plan, but I fear in sorry hands.Of those he names as his assistants they who can be useful will dolittle, and the labours of those who are willing to work will ratherhold the publication down. I fear it will not do.I am downhearted about leaving all my things, after I was quietlysettled; it is a kind of disrooting that recalls a thousand painfulideas of former happier journeys. And to be at the mercy of thesefellows! God help--but rather God bless--man must help himself._October_ 11.--We are ingenious self-tormentors. This journey annoys memore than anything of the kind in my life. My wife's figure seems tostand before me, and her voice is in my ears--"Scott, do not go." Ithalf frightens me. Strong throbbing at my heart, and a disposition to bevery sick. It is just the effect of so many feelings which had beenlulled asleep by the uniformity of my life, but which awaken on any newsubject of agitation. Poor, poor Charlotte!! I cannot daub it further. Iget incapable of arranging my papers too. I will go out forhalf-an-hour. God relieve me!I quelled this _hysterica passio_ by pushing a walk towards Kaeside andback again, but when I returned I still felt uncomfortable, and all thepapers I wanted were out of the way, and all those I did not want seemedto place themselves under my fingers; my cash, according to the natureof riches in general, made to itself wings and fled, I verily believefrom one hiding-place to another. To appease this insurrection of thepapers, I gave up putting my things in order till to-morrow morning.Dined at Kippielaw with a party of neighbours. They had cigars for me,very politely. But I must break folks off this. I would [not] willinglybe like old Dr. Parr, or any such quiz, who has his tastes and whims,forsooth, that must be gratified. So no cigars on the journey._October_ 12.[356]--Reduced my rebellious papers to order. Set out afterbreakfast, and reached Carlisle at eight o'clock at night._Rokeby Park, October_ 13.--We were off before seven, and visitingAppleby Castle by the way (a most interesting and curious place), we gotto Morritt's[357] about half-past four, where we had as warm a welcomeas one of the warmest hearts in the world could give an old friend. Isaw his nephew's wife for the first time, a very pleasing young person.It was great pleasure to me to see Morritt happy in the midst of hisfamily circle, undisturbed, as heretofore, by the sickness of any dearto him.On recalling my own recollections during my journey I may note that Ifound great pleasure in my companion's conversation, as well as in hermode of managing all her little concerns on the road. I am apt to judgeof character by good-humour and alacrity in these petty concerns. Ithink the inconveniences of a journey seem greater to me than formerly;while, on the other hand, the pleasures it affords are rather less. Theascent of Stainmore seemed duller and longer than usual, and Bowes,which used to strike me as a distinguished feature, seemed an ill-formedmass of rubbish, a great deal lower than I had supposed; yet I have seenit twenty times at least. On the other hand, what I lose in my ownpersonal feelings I gain in those of my companion, who shows anintelligent curiosity and interest in what she sees. I enjoy therefore,reflectively, _veluti in speculo_, the sort of pleasure to which I amnow less accessible._October_ 14.--Strolled about in the morning with Morritt, and saw hisnew walk up the Tees, which he is just concocting. Got a pamphlet he haswritten on the Catholic Question. In 1806 he had other views on thatsubject, but "live and learn" as they say. One of his squibs against Foxand Grenville's Administration concludes--    "Though they sleep with the devil, yet theirs is the hope,    On the scum of old England, to rise with the Pope."Set off at two, and reached Wetherby to supper and bed.It was the Corporation of Leeds that by a subscription of 80,000brought in the anti-Catholic candidate. I remember their subscribing asimilar sum to bring in Morritt, if he would have stood.Saw in Morritt's possession an original miniature of Milton by Cooper--avaluable thing indeed. The pedigree seemed authentic. It was paintedfor his favourite daughter--had come into possession of some of theDavenants--was then in the Devonshire collection from which it wasstolen. Afterwards purchased by Sir Joshua Reynolds, and at his sale byMorritt or his father.[358] The countenance handsome and dignified, witha strong expression of genius, probably the only portrait of Miltontaken from the life excepting the drawing from which Faithorne's head isdone.[_Grantham_,] _October_ 15.--Old England is no changeling. It is longsince I travelled this road, having come up to town chiefly by sea oflate years, but things seem much the same. One race of red-nosedinnkeepers are gone, and their widows, eldest sons, or head-waitersexercise hospitality in their room with the same bustle and importance.Other things seem, externally at least, much the same. The land,however, is much better ploughed; straight ridges everywhere adopted inplace of the old circumflex of twenty years ago. Three horses, however,or even four, are often seen in a plough yoked one before the other. Illhabits do not go out at once. We slept at Grantham, where we met withCaptain William Lockhart and his lady, bound for London like ourselves.[_Biggleswade_,] _October_ 16.--Visited Burleigh this morning; the firsttime I ever saw that grand place, where there are so many objects ofinterest and curiosity. The house is magnificent, in the style of JamesI.'s reign, and consequently in mixed Gothic. Of paintings I knownothing; so shall attempt to say nothing. But whether to connoisseurs,or to an ignorant admirer like myself, the Salvator Mundi, by CarloDolci, must seem worth a King's ransom. Lady Exeter, who was at home,had the goodness or curiosity to wish to see us. She is a beauty aftermy own heart; a great deal of liveliness in the face; an absence alikeof form and of affected ease, and really courteous after a genuine andladylike fashion.We reached Biggleswade to-night at six, and paused here to wait for theLockharts. Spent the evening together.[_Pall Mall_,] _October_ 17.--Here am I in this capital once more, afteran April-weather meeting with my daughter and Lockhart. Too much griefin our first meeting to be joyful; too much pleasure to bedistressing--a giddy sensation between the painful and the pleasurable.I will call another subject.Read over _Sir John Chiverton_[359] and _Brambletye House_[360]--novelsin what I may surely claim as the style    "Which I was born to introduce--    Refined it first, and show'd its use."They are both clever books; one in imitation of the days of chivalry;the other (by Horace Smith, one of the authors of the _RejectedAddresses_) dated in the time of the Civil Wars, and introducinghistorical characters. I read both with great interest during thejourney.I am something like Captain Bobadil[361] who trained up a hundredgentlemen to fight very nearly, if not altogether, as well as myself.And so far I am convinced of this, that I believe were I to publish the_Canongate Chronicles_ without my name (_nom de guerre_, I mean) theevent would be a corollary to the fable of the peasant who made the realpig squeak against the imitator, while the sapient audience hissed thepoor grunter as if inferior to the biped in his own language. Thepeasant could, indeed, confute the long-eared multitude by showingpiggy; but were I to fail as a knight with a white and maiden shield,and then vindicate my claim to attention by putting "By the Author of_Waverley_" in the title, my good friend _Publicum_ would defend itselfby stating I had tilted so ill, that my course had not the leastresemblance to my former doings, when indisputably I bore away thegarland. Therefore I am as firmly and resolutely determined that I willtilt under my own cognisance. The hazard, indeed, remains of beingbeaten. But there is a prejudice (not an undue one neither) in favour ofthe original patentee; and Joe Manton's name has borne out many a sorrygun-barrel. More of this to-morrow.Expense of journey,                    4100Anne, pocket-money,                      500Servants on journey,                     200Cash in purse (silver not reckoned),     200                                        ____                                       5000                                        ____This is like to be an expensive journey; but if I can sell an early copyof the work to a French translator, it should bring me home.Thank God, little Johnnie Hoo, as he calls himself, is looking well,though the poor dear child is kept always in a prostrate posture._October_ 18.--I take up again my remarks on imitators. I am sure I meanthe gentlemen no wrong by calling them so, and heartily wish they hadfollowed a better model; but it serves to show me _veluti in speculo_ myown errors, or, if you will, those of the _style_. One advantage, Ithink, I still have over all of them. They may do their fooling withbetter grace; but I, like Sir Andrew Aguecheek, do it morenatural.[362] They have to read old books and consult antiquariancollections to get their knowledge; I write because I have long sinceread such works, and possess, thanks to a strong memory, the informationwhich they have to seek for. This leads to a dragging-in historicaldetails by head and shoulders, so that the interest of the main piece islost in minute descriptions of events which do not affect its progress.Perhaps I have sinned in this way myself; indeed, I am but too consciousof having considered the plot only as what Bayes[363] calls the means ofbringing in fine things; so that in respect to the descriptions, itresembled the string of the showman's box, which he pulls to show insuccession Kings, Queens, the Battle of Waterloo, Bonaparte at SaintHelena, Newmarket Races, and White-headed Bob floored by Jemmy fromtown. All this I may have done, but I have repented of it; and in mybetter efforts, while I conducted my story through the agency ofhistorical personages, and by connecting it with historical incidents, Ihave endeavoured to weave them pretty closely together, and in future Iwill study this more. Must not let the background eclipse the principalfigures--the frame overpower the picture.Another thing in my favour is, that my contemporaries steal too openly.Mr. Smith has inserted in _Brambletye House_ whole pages from Defoe's_Fire and Plague of London_.    "Steal! foh! a fico for the phrase--    Convey, the wise it call!"[364]When I _convey_ an incident or so, I am at as much pains to avoiddetection as if the offence could be indicted in literal fact at the OldBailey.But leaving this, hard pressed as I am by these imitators, who must putthe thing out of fashion at last, I consider, like a fox at his lastshifts, whether there be a way to dodge them, some new device to throwthem off, and have a mile or two of free ground, while I have legs andwind left to use it. There is one way to give novelty: to depend forsuccess on the interest of a well-contrived story. But woe's me! thatrequires thought, consideration--the writing out a regular plan orplot--above all the adhering to one--which I never can do, for the ideasrise as I write, and bear such a disproportioned extent to that whicheach occupied at the first concoction, that (cocksnowns!) I shall neverbe able to take the trouble; and yet to make the world stare, and gain anew march ahead of them all!!! Well, something we still will do.    "Liberty's in every blow;    Let us do or die!"Poor Rob Burns! to tack thy fine strains of sublime patriotism! Bettertake Tristram Shandy's vein. Hand me my cap and bells there. So now, Iam equipped. I open my raree-show with    Ma'am, will you walk in, and fal de ral diddle?    And, sir, will you stalk in, and fal de ral diddle?    And, miss, will you pop in, and fal de ral diddle?    And, master, pray hop in, and fal de ral diddle?Query--How long is it since I heard that strain of dulcet mood, andwhere or how came I to pick it up? It is not mine, "though by yoursmiling you seem to say so."[365] Here is a proper morning's work! But Iam childish with seeing them all well and happy here; and as I canneither whistle nor sing, I must let the giddy humour run to waste onpaper.Sallied forth in the morning; bought a hat. Met S[ir] W[illiam]K[nighton],[366] from whose discourse I guess that _Malachi_ has done meno prejudice in a certain quarter; with more indications of the times,which I need not set down. Sallied again after breakfast, and visitedthe Piccadilly ladies.[367] Saw Rogers and Richard Sharp, also good Dr.and Mrs. Hughes, also the Duchess of Buckingham, and Lady CharlotteBury, with a most beautiful little girl. [Owen] Rees breakfasted, andagreed I should have what the Frenchman has offered for the advantage oftranslating _Napoleon_, which, being a hundred guineas, will help myexpenses to town and down again._October_ 19.--I rose at my usual time, but could not write; so readSouthey's _History of the Peninsular War_. It is very goodindeed,--honest English principle in every line; but there are manyprejudices, and there is a tendency to augment a work already too longby saying all that can be said of the history of ancient timesappertaining to every place mentioned. What care we whether Saragossa bederived from Caesarea Augusta? Could he have proved it to be Numantium,there would have been a concatenation accordingly.[368]Breakfasted at Rogers' with Sir Thomas Lawrence; Luttrell, the greatLondon wit;[369] Richard Sharp, etc. Sam made us merry with an accountof some part of Rose's _Ariosto_; proposed that the Italian should beprinted on the other side for the sake of assisting the indolent readerto understand the English; and complained of his using more than oncethe phrase of a lady having "voided her saddle," which would certainlysound extraordinary at Apothecaries' Hall. Well, well, Rose carries adirk too.[370] The morning was too dark for Westminster Abbey, which wehad projected.I went to the Foreign Office, and am put by Mr. Wilmot Horton into thehands of a confidential clerk, Mr. Smith, who promises access toeverything. Then saw Croker, who gave me a bundle of documents. SirGeorge Cockburn promises his despatches and journal. In short, I haveample prospect of materials.Dined with Mrs. Coutts. Tragi-comic distress of my good friend on themarriage of her presumptive heir with a daughter of Lucien Bonaparte._October_ 20.--Commanded down to pass a day at Windsor. This is verykind of His Majesty.At breakfast, Crofton Croker, author of the _Irish Fairy Tales_--littleas a dwarf, keen-eyed as a hawk, and of very prepossessing manners.Something like Tom Moore. There were also Terry, Allan Cunningham,Newton, and others. Now I must go to work.Went down to Windsor, or rather to the Lodge in the Forest, which,though ridiculed by connoisseurs, seems to be no bad specimen of a royalretirement, and is delightfully situated. A kind of cottage orne--toolarge perhaps for the style--but yet so managed that in the walks youonly see parts of it at once, and these well composed and grouping withimmense trees. His Majesty received me with the same mixture of kindnessand courtesy which has always distinguished his conduct towards me.There was no company beside the royal retinue--Lady C[onyngham], herdaughter, and two or three other ladies. After we left table, there wasexcellent music by the Royal Band, who lay ambushed in a green-houseadjoining the apartment. The King made me sit beside him and talk agreat deal--_too much_, perhaps--for he has the art of raising one'sspirits, and making you forget the _retenue_ which is prudenteverywhere, especially at court. But he converses himself with so muchease and elegance, that you lose thoughts of the prince in admiring thewell-bred and accomplished gentleman. He is, in many respects, the modelof a British monarch--has little inclination to try experiments ongovernment otherwise than through his ministers--sincerely, I believe,desires the good of his subjects, is kind toward the distressed, andmoves and speaks "every inch a king."[371] I am sure such a man isfitter for us than one who would long to head armies, or be perpetuallyintermeddling with _la grande politique_. A sort of reserve, whichcreeps on him daily, and prevents his going to places of public resort,is a disadvantage, and prevents his being so generally popular as isearnestly to be desired. This, I think, was much increased by thebehaviour of the rabble in the brutal insanity of the Queen's trial,when John Bull, meaning the best in the world, made such a beastlyfigure._October_ 21.--Walked in the morning with Sir William Knighton, and hadmuch confidential chat, not fit to be here set down, in case ofaccidents. He undertook most kindly to recommend Charles, when he hastaken his degree, to be attached to some of the diplomatic missions,which I think is best for the lad after all. After breakfast went toWindsor Castle, met by appointment my daughters and Lockhart, andexamined the improvements going on there under Mr. Wyattville, whoappears to possess a great deal of taste and feeling for Gothicarchitecture. The old apartments, splendid enough in extent andproportion, are paltry in finishing. Instead of being lined with heartof oak, the palace of the British King is hung with paper, paintedwainscot colour. There are some fine paintings and some droll ones;among the last are those of divers princes of the House ofMecklenburg-Strelitz, of which Queen Charlotte was descended. They areill-coloured, orang-outang-looking figures, with black eyes andhook-noses, in old-fashioned uniforms.We returned to a hasty dinner [in Pall Mall], and then hurried away tosee honest Dan Terry's house, called the Adelphi Theatre, where we sawthe _Pilot_, from the American novel of that name. It is extremelypopular, the dramatist having seized on the whole story, and turned theodious and ridiculous parts, assigned by the original author to theBritish, against the Yankees themselves. There is a quiet effrontery inthis that is of a rare and peculiar character. The Americans were somuch displeased, that they attempted a row--which rendered the piecedoubly attractive to the seamen at Wapping, who came up and crowded thehouse night after night, to support the honour of the British flag.After all, one must deprecate whatever keeps up ill-will betwixt Americaand the mother country; and we in particular should avoid awakeningpainful recollections. Our high situation enables us to contemn pettyinsults and to make advances towards cordiality. I was, however, glad tosee honest Dan's theatre as full seemingly as it could hold. The heatwas dreadful, and Anne was so very unwell that she was obliged to becarried into Terry's house,--a curious dwelling, no larger than asquirrel's cage, which he has contrived to squeeze out of the vacantspaces of the theatre, and which is accessible by a most complicatedcombination of staircases and small passages. Here we had rare goodporter and oysters after the play, and found Anne much better. She hadattempted too much; indeed I myself was much fatigued._October_ 22.--This morning Drs. Gooch, Shaw, and Yates breakfasted, andhad a consultation about wee Johnnie. They give us great hopes that hishealth will be established, but the seaside or the country seemindispensable. Mr. Wilmot Horton,[372] Under Secretary of State, alsobreakfasted. He is full of some new plan of relieving the poor's-ratesby encouraging emigration. But John Bull will think this savours ofBotany Bay. The attempt to look the poor's-rates in the face iscertainly meritorious.Laboured in writing and marking extracts to be copied from breakfast todinner, with the exception of an hour spent in telling Johnnie thehistory of his namesake, Gilpin.Mr. William and Mrs. Lockhart dined with us. Tom Moore[373] and SirThomas Lawrence came in the evening, which made a pleasant _soire_.Smoke my French--Egad, it is time to air some of my vocabulary. It is, Ifind, cursedly musty._October_ 23.--Sam Rogers and Moore breakfasted here, and we were verymerry fellows. Moore seemed disposed to go to France with us. I visitedthe Admiralty, and got Sir George Cockburn's journal, which isvaluable.[374] Also visited Lady Elizabeth and Sir Charles Stewart. Myheart warmed to the former, on account of the old Balcarres connection.Sir Charles and she were very kind and communicative. I foresee I willbe embarrassed with more communications than I can well use or trust to,coloured as they must be by the passions of those who make them. Thus Ihave a statement from the Duchess d'Escars, to which the Bonapartistswould, I dare say, give no credit. If Talleyrand, for example, could becommunicative, he must have ten thousand reasons for perverting thetruth, and yet a person receiving a direct communication from him wouldbe almost barred from disputing it.    "Sing tantararara, rogues all."We dined at the Residentiary-house with good Dr. Hughes,[375] AllanCunningham, Sir Thomas Lawrence, and young Mr. Hughes. ThomasPringle[376] is returned from the Cape, and called in my absence. Hemight have done well there, could he have scoured his brain of politics,but he must needs publish a Whig journal at the Cape of Good Hope! He isa worthy creature, but conceited withal--_hinc ill lachrym._ Hebrought me some antlers and a skin, in addition to others he had sent toAbbotsford four years since. Crofton Croker made me a present of a smallbox of curious Irish antiquities containing a gold fibula, etc. etc._October_ 24--Laboured in the morning. At breakfast Dr. Holland[377] andCohen, whom they now call Palgrave,[378] a mutation of names whichconfused my recollections. Item, Moore. I worked at the Colonial Officepretty hard. Dined with Mr. Wilmot Horton and his beautiful wife, theoriginal of the "_She walks in Beauty_," etc., of poor Byron.The conversation is seldom excellent among official people. So manytopics are what Otaheitians call _taboo_. We hunted down a pun or two,which were turned out, like the stag at the Epping Hunt, for the pursuitof all and sundry. Came home early, and was in bed by eleven._October_ 25.--Good Mr. Wilson[379] and his wife at breakfast; also SirThomas Lawrence. Locker[380] came in afterwards, and made a proposal tome to give up his intended Life of George III. in my favour on causeshown. I declined the proposal, not being of opinion that _my_ geniuslies that way, and not relishing hunting in couples. Afterwards went tothe Colonial Office, and had Robert Hay's assistance in my inquiries;then to the French Ambassador for my passports. Picked up Sotheby, whoendeavoured to saddle me for a review of his polyglot Virgil. I fear Ishall scarce convince him that I know nothing of the Latin lingo. SirR.H. Inglis, Richard Sharp, and other friends called. We dined at MissDumergue's, and spent a part of our soire at Lydia White's. To-morrow,    "For France, for France, for it is more than need."[381][_Calais_,] _October_ 26.--- Up at five, and in the packet by six. Afine passage--save at the conclusion, while we lay on and off theharbour of Calais. But the tossing made no impression on my companion orme; we ate and drank like dragons the whole way, and were able to managea good supper and best part of a bottle of Chablis, at the classicDessein's, who received us with much courtesy._October_ 27.--Custom House, etc., detained us till near ten o'clock,so we had time to walk on the Boulevards, and to see the fortifications,which must be very strong, all the country round being flat and marshy.Lost, as all know, by the bloody papist bitch (one must be vernacularwhen on French ground) Queen Mary, of red-hot memory. I would rather shehad burned a score more of bishops. If she had kept it, her sister Besswould sooner have parted with her virginity. Charles I. had notemptation to part with it--it might, indeed, have been shuffled out ofour hands during the Civil wars, but Noll would have as soon letmonsieur draw one of his grinders; then Charles II. would hardly havedared to sell such an old possession, as he did Dunkirk; and after thatthe French had little chance till the Revolution. Even then, I think, wecould have held a place that could be supplied from our own element, thesea. _Cui bono?_ None, I think, but to plague the rogues.--We dined atCormont, and being stopped by Mr. Canning having taken up all thepost-horses, could only reach Montreuil that night. I should have likedto have seen some more of this place, which is fortified; and as itstands on an elevated and rocky site must present some fine points. Butas we came in late and left early, I can only bear witness to goodtreatment, good supper, good _vin de Barsac_, and excellent beds._October_ 28.--Breakfasted at Abbeville, and saw a very handsome Gothicchurch, and reached Grandvilliers at night. The house is butsecond-rate, though lauded by various English travellers for themoderation of its charges, as was recorded in a book presented to us bythe landlady. There is no great patriotism in publishing that atraveller thinks the bills moderate; it serves usually as an intimationto mine host or hostess that John Bull will bear a little moresqueezing. I gave my attestation too, however, for the charges of thegood lady resembled those elsewhere; and her anxiety to please wasextreme. Folks must be harder-hearted than I am to resist the_empressement_, which may, indeed, be venal, yet has in its expressiona touch of cordiality.[_Paris_,] _October_ 29.--Breakfasted at Beauvais, and saw itsmagnificent cathedral--unfinished it has been left, and unfinished itwill remain, of course,--the fashion of cathedrals being passed away.But even what exists is inimitable, the choir particularly, and thegrand front. Beauvais is called the _Pucelle_, yet, so far as I can see,she wears no stays--I mean, has no fortifications. On we run, however._Vogue la galre; et voil nous  Paris_, Hotel de Windsor [_RueRivoli_], where we are well lodged. France, so far as I can see, whichis very little, has not undergone many changes. The image of war has,indeed, passed away, and we no longer see troops crossing the country inevery direction; villages either ruined or hastily fortified;inhabitants sheltered in the woods and caves to escape the rapacity ofthe soldiers--all this has passed away. The inns are much amended. Thereis no occasion for that rascally practice of making a bargain--or_combien_-ing your landlady, before you unharness your horses, whichformerly was a matter of necessity. The general taste of the Englishseems to regulate the travelling--naturally enough, as the hotels, ofwhich there are two or three in each town, chiefly subsist by them. Wedid not see one French equipage on the road; the natives seem to travelentirely in the Diligence, and doubtless _ bon march_; the road wasthronged with English.But in her great features France is the same as ever. An oppressive airof solitude seems to hover over these rich and extended plains, while weare sensible that, whatever is the motive of the desolation, it cannotbe sterility. The towns are small, and have a poor appearance, and morefrequently exhibit signs of decayed splendour than of thriving andincreasing prosperity. The chteau, the abode of the gentleman, and thevilla, the retreat of the thriving _ngociant_, are rarely seen till youcome to Beaumont. At this place, which well deserves its name of thefair mount, the prospect improves greatly, and country-seats are seen inabundance; also woods, sometimes deep and extensive, at other timesscattered in groves and single trees. Amidst these the oak seldom ornever is found; England, lady of the ocean, seems to claim itexclusively as her own. Neither are there any quantity of firs. Poplarsin abundance give a formal air to the landscape. The forests chieflyconsist of beeches, with some birches, and the roads are bordered byelms cruelly cropped, pollarded, and switched. The demand for firewoodoccasions these mutilations. If I could waft by a wish the thinnings ofAbbotsford here, it would make a little fortune of itself. But then toswitch and mutilate my trees!--not for a thousand francs. Ay, but sourgrapes, quoth the fox._October_ 30.--Finding ourselves snugly settled in our Hotel, wedetermined to remain here at fifteen francs per day. We are in the midstof what can be seen, and we are very comfortably fed and lodged.This morning wet and surly. Sallied, however, by the assistance of ahired coach, and left cards for Count Pozzo di Borgo, Lord Granville,our ambassador, and M. Gallois, author of the _History of Venice_.[382]Found no one at home, not even the old pirate Galignani,[383] at whoseden I ventured to call. Showed my companion the Louvre (which wasclosed, unluckily), the front of the palace with its courts, and allthat splendid quarter which the fame of Paris rests upon in security. Wecan never do the like in Britain. Royal magnificence can only bedisplayed by despotic power. In England, were the most splendid streetor public building to be erected, the matter must be discussed inParliament, or perhaps some sturdy cobbler holds out, and refuses topart with his stall, and the whole plan is disconcerted. Long may suchimpediments exist! But then we should conform to circumstances, andassume in our public works a certain sober simplicity of character,which should point out that they were dictated by utility rather thanshow. The affectation of an expensive style only places us at adisadvantageous contrast with other nations, and our substitute of brickand plaster for freestone resembles the mean ambition which displaysBristol stones in default of diamonds.We went to theatre in the evening--Comdie Franaise the place,_Rosemunde_ the piece. It is the composition of a young man with apromising name--mile de Bonnechose; the story that of Fair Rosamond.There were some good situations, and the actors in the French tasteseemed to me admirable, particularly Mademoiselle Bourgoin. It would beabsurd to attempt to criticise what I only half understood; but thepiece was well received, and produced a very strong effect. Two or threeladies were carried out in hysterics; one next to our box wasfrightfully ill. A Monsieur _ belles moustaches_--the husband, I trust,though it is likely they were _en partie fine_--was extremely andaffectionately assiduous. She was well worthy of the trouble, being verypretty indeed; the face beautiful, even amidst the involuntaryconvulsions. The afterpiece was _Femme Juge et Partie_, with which I wasless amused than I had expected, because I found I understood thelanguage less than I did ten or eleven years since. Well, well, I ampast the age of mending.Some of our friends in London had pretended that at Paris I might standsome chance of being encountered by the same sort of tumultuaryreception which I met in Ireland; but for this I see no ground. It is apoint on which I am totally indifferent. As a literary man I cannotaffect to despise public applause; as a private gentleman I have alwaysbeen embarrassed and displeased with popular clamours, even when in myfavour. I know very well the breath of which such shouts are composed,and am sensible those who applaud me to-day would be as ready to toss meto-morrow; and I would not have them think that I put such a value ontheir favour as would make me for an instant fear their displeasure. Nowall this disclamation is sincere, and yet it sounds affected. It puts mein mind of an old woman who, when Carlisle was taken by the Highlandersin 1745, chose to be particularly apprehensive of personal violence, andshut herself up in a closet, in order that she might escape ravishment.But no one came to disturb her solitude, and she began to be sensiblethat poor Donald was looking out for victuals, or seeking for some smallplunder, without bestowing a thought on the fair sex; by and by shepopped her head out of her place of refuge with the petty question,"Good folks, can you tell when the ravishing is going to begin?" I amsure I shall neither hide myself to avoid applause, which probably noone will think of conferring, nor have the meanness to do anything whichcan indicate any desire of ravishment. I have seen, when the late LordErskine entered the Edinburgh theatre, papers distributed in the boxesto mendicate a round of applause--the natural reward of a poor player._October_ 31.--At breakfast visited by M. Gallois, an elderly Frenchman(always the most agreeable class), full of information, courteous andcommunicative. He had seen nearly, and remarked deeply, and spokefrankly, though with due caution. He went with us to the Museum, where Ithink the Hall of Sculpture continues to be a fine thing; that ofPictures but tolerable, when we reflect upon 1815. A number of greatFrench daubs (comparatively), by David and Gerard, cover the walls onceoccupied by the Italian _chefs-d'oeuvre. Fiat justitia, ruat coelum_. Wethen visited Notre Dame and the Palace of Justice. The latter isaccounted the oldest building in Paris, being the work of St. Louis. Itis, however, in the interior, adapted to the taste of Louis XIV. Wedrove over the Pont Neuf, and visited the fine quays, which was all wecould make out to-day, as I was afraid to fatigue Anne. When we returnedhome I found Count Pozzo di Borgo waiting for me, a personable man,inclined to be rather corpulent--handsome features, with all theCorsican fire in his eye. He was quite kind and communicative. LordGranville had also called, and sent Mr. Jones [his secretary] to inviteus to dinner to-morrow. In the evening at the Odon, where we saw_Ivanhoe_. It was superbly got up, the Norman soldiers wearing pointedhelmets and what resembled much hauberks of mail, which looked verywell. The number of the attendants, and the skill with which they weremoved and grouped on the stage, were well worthy of notice. It was anopera, and of course the story greatly mangled, and the dialogue in agreat part nonsense. Yet it was strange to hear anything like the wordswhich I (then in an agony of pain with spasms in my stomach) dictated toWilliam Laidlaw at Abbotsford, now recited in a foreign tongue, and forthe amusement of a strange people. I little thought to have survived thecompleting of this novel.[384]FOOTNOTES:[350] Eldest daughter of the illustrious Admiral Lord Duncan, wife ofSir Hew Hamilton Dalrymple. She died in 1852.[351] This implacable enemy of Napoleon,--a Corsican, died in hisseventy-fourth year in 1842.[352] E.H. Locker, Esq., then Secretary, afterwards one of theCommissioners of Greenwich Hospital--an old and dear friend ofScott's.--See Oct. 25.[353] As an illustration of Constable's accuracy in gauging the value ofliterary property, it may be stated that in his formal declaration,after sequestration, he said:--"I was so sanguine as to the success ofthe _Memoirs of Napoleon_ that I did not hesitate to express it as myopinion that I had much confidence in it producing him at least 10,000,and this I observed, as my expectation, to Sir W. Scott." This opinionwas expressed not only before the sale of the work, but before it wasall written.--_A. Constable and his Correspondents_, vol. iii. p. 313.[354] Another of the Abbotsford labourers.[355] See Ballad of _Edom of Gordon_.[356] "On the 12th of October, Sir Walter left Abbotsford for London,where he had been promised access to the papers in the Governmentoffices; and thence he proceeded to Paris, in the hope of gathering fromvarious eminent persons authentic anecdotes concerning Napoleon. HisDiary shows that he was successful in obtaining many valuable materialsfor the completion of his historical work; and reflects, with sufficientdistinctness, the very brilliant reception he on this occasionexperienced both in London and Paris. The range of his society isstrikingly (and unconsciously) exemplified in the record of one day,when we find him breakfasting at the Royal Lodge in Windsor Park, andsupping on oysters and porter in "honest Dan Terry's house, like asquirrel's cage," above the Adelphi Theatre in the Strand. There can beno doubt that this expedition was in many ways serviceable in his _Lifeof Napoleon_; and I think as little that it was chiefly so by renewinghis spirits. The deep and respectful sympathy with which hismisfortunes, and gallant behaviour under them, had been regarded by allclasses of men at home and abroad, was brought home to his perception ina way not to be mistaken. He was cheered and gratified, and returned toScotland with renewed hope and courage for the prosecution of hismarvellous course of industry."--_Life_, vol. ix. pp. 2, 3.[357] John B. Saurey Morritt of Rokeby, a friend of twenty years'standing, and "one of the most accomplished men that ever shared Scott'sconfidence."He had published, before making Scott's acquaintance, a _Vindication ofHomer_, in 1798, a treatise on _The Topography of Troy_, 1800, andtranslations and imitations of the minor Greek Poets in 1802.Mr. Morritt survived his friend till February 12th, 1843, when he diedat Rokeby Park, Yorkshire, in his seventy-second year.--See _Life_throughout.[358] _MS. note on margin of Journal_ by Mr. Morritt: "No--it was leftby Reynolds to Mason, by Mason to Burgh, and given to me by Mr. Burgh'swidow."[359] _Chiverton_ was the first publication (anonymous) of Mr. W.Harrison Ainsworth, the author of _Rookwood_ and other popularromances.--J.G.L.[360] It is interesting to know that Scott would not read this bookuntil _Woodstock_ was fairly off his hands.See _ante_, p. 167, and the introduction to the original edition writtenin March 1826, in which the author says:--"Some accidental collisionthere must be, when works of a similar character are finished on thesame general system of historical manners, and the same historicalpersonages are introduced. Of course, if such have occurred, I shall beprobably the sufferer. But my intentions have been at least innocent,since I look on it as one of the advantages attending the conclusion of_Woodstock_, that the finishing of my own task will permit me to havethe pleasure of reading BRAMBLETYE-HOUSE, from which I have hithertoconscientiously abstained."--_Novels_, vol. xxxix. pp. lxxv-vi.[361] Ben Jonson, _Every Man in his Humour_.[362] _Twelfth Night_, Act II. Sc. 3.[363] _Rehearsal_, Act III. Sc. 1.[364] _Merry Wives_, Act I. Sc. 3.[365] _Hamlet_, Act II. Sc. 2.[366] Sir Walter had made his acquaintance in August 1822, and everafterwards they corresponded with each other--sometimes veryconfidentially.--J.G.L.[367] The Dumergues, at 15 Piccadilly West--early friends of LadyScott's.--See _Life_., vol. ii. p. 120.[368] It is amusing to compare this criticism with Sir Walter's ownanxiety to identify his daughter-in-law's place, _Lochore_, with the_Urbs Orrea_ of the Roman writers. See _Life_, vol. vii. p. 352.--J.G.L.[369] This brilliant conversationalist was the author of several airyand graceful productions in verse, which were published anonymously,such as _Lines written at Ampthill Park_, in 1818; _Advice to Julia, aletter in Rhyme_, in which he sketched high life in London, in 1820. Healso published _Crockford House_: a rhapsody, in 1827. Moore in his_Diary_ has embalmed numerous examples of his satiric wit. HenryLuttrell died in 1851.[370] The _Orlando Furioso_, by Mr. Stewart Rose, was published in 8vols. 8vo, London 1823-1831.[371] _King Lear_, Act IV. Sc. 6.--J.G.L.[372] Afterwards the Right Hon. Sir Robert Wilmot Horton, Governor ofCeylon.[373] Moore, on hearing of Scott's arrival, hastened to London fromSloperton, and had several pleasant meetings, particulars of which aregiven in his _Diary_ (vol. v. pp. 121 to 126). He would, as Scott sayson the 23d, have gone to Paris with them--"seemed disposed to go"; butbetween that date and 25th fancied that he saw something in Scott'smanner that made him hesitate, and then finally give up the idea. Headds that Scott's friends had thrown out hints as to the impropriety ofsuch a political reprobate forming one of the party. This suspicion onMoore's part shows how he had misunderstood Scott's real character. IfScott thought it right to ask the Bard of Ireland to be his companion,no hints from Mr. Wilmot Horton, or any members of the Court party,would have influenced him, even though they had urged that "thispolitical reprobate" was author of _The Fudge Family in Paris_ and the_Twopenny Post-Bag._[374] Sir George died in 1853. His journal does not appear to have beenpublished.[375] Dr. Hughes, who died Jan. 6, 1833, aged seventy-seven, was one ofthe Canons-residentiary of St. Paul's, London. He and Mrs. Hughes wereold friends of Sir Walter, who had been godfather to one of theirgrandchildren.--See _Life_, vol. vii. pp. 259-260. Their son was JohnHughes, Esq., of Oriel College, whose "Itinerary of the Rhone" ismentioned with praise in the introduction to _Quentin Durward_.--Seeletter to Charles Scott, in _Life_, vol. vii. p. 275.[376] Mr. Pringle was a Roxburghshire farmer's son who in youthattracted Sir Walter's notice by his poem called _The AutumnalExcursion; or, Sketches in Teviotdale_. He was for a short time Editorof _Blackwood's Magazine_, but the publisher and he had differentpolitics, quarrelled, and parted. Sir Walter then gave Pringle strongrecommendations to the late Lord Charles Somerset, Governor of the Capeof Good Hope in which colony he settled, and for some years throve underthe Governor's protection; but the newspaper alluded to in the textruined his prospects at the Cape; he returned to England, becameSecretary to the Anti-Slavery Society, published a charming littlevolume entitled _African Sketches_, and died in December 1834. He was aman of amiable feelings and elegant genius.[377] An esteemed friend of Sir Walter's, who attended on him during hisillness in October 1831, and in June 1832.[378] Afterwards Sir Francis Palgrave, Deputy-Keeper of the publicrecords, and author of the _History of Normandy and England_, 4 vols.8vo, 1851-1864, and other works.[379] William Wilson of Wandsworth Common, formerly of Wilsontown, inLanarkshire.--J.G.L.[380] E.H. Locker, then Secretary of Greenwich Hospital.--See _ante_,Oct. 7.[381] _King John_, Act I. Sc. 1.[382] There were two well-known Frenchmen of this name at the time ofScott's visit to Paris: (1) Jean-Antoine-Gauvain Gallois, who was bornabout 1755 and died in 1828; (2) Charles-Andr-Gustave-Lonard Gallois,born 1789, died 1851. It was the latter of these who translated from theItalian of Colletta _Cinq jours de l'histoire de Naples_, 8vo, Paris,1820. But at this date he was only thirty-seven, and it can scarcely beof him that Scott writes (p. 288) as an "elderly" man. The probabilityis that it was the elder Gallois whom Scott saw, and that he ascribed tohim, though the title is misquoted, a work written by the younger.[383] "When he was in Paris," Hazlitt writes, "and went to Galignani's,he sat down in an outer room to look at some book he wanted to see; noneof the clerks had the least suspicion who he was. When it was found out,the place was in a commotion."--From Mr. Alexander Ireland's excellent_Selections from Hazlitt's writings,_ 8vo, Lond. 1889, p. 482.[384] _Ivanhoe_ might have borne a motto somewhat analogous to theinscription which Frederick the Great's predecessor used to affix to hisattempts at portrait-painting when he had the gout: "Fredericus I. intormentis pinxit."--_Recollections of Sir Walter Scott_, p. 240. Lond.1837.NOVEMBER_November_ 1.--I suppose the ravishing is going to begin, for we havehad the Dames des Halles, with a bouquet like a maypole, and a speechfull of honey and oil, which cost me ten francs; also a smallworshipper, who would not leave his name, but came _seulement pour avoirle plaisir, la flicit_ etc. etc. All this jargon I answer withcorresponding _blarney_ of my own, for "have I not licked the blackstone of that ancient castle?" As to French, I speak it as it comes, andlike Doeg in _Absalom and Achitophel_--    "----dash on through thick and thin,    Through sense and nonsense, never out nor in."We went this morning with M. Gallois to the Church of St. Genevieve, andthence to the College Henri IV., where I saw once more my old friendChevalier.[385] He was unwell, swathed in a turban of nightcaps and amultiplicity of _robes de chambre_; but he had all the heart and thevivacity of former times. I was truly glad to see the kind old man. Wewere unlucky in our day for sights, this being a high festival--AllSouls' Day. We were not allowed to scale the steeple of St. Genevieve,neither could we see the animals at the Jardin des Plantes, who, thoughthey have no souls, it is supposed, and no interest of course in thedevotions of the day, observe it in strict retreat, like the nuns ofKilkenny. I met, however, one lioness walking at large in the Jardin,and was introduced. This was Madame de Souza,[386] the authoress of somewell-known French romances of a very classical character, I am told,for I have never read them. She must have been beautiful, and is stillwell-looked. She is the mother of the handsome Count de Flahault, andhad a very well-looking daughter with her, besides a son or two. She wasvery agreeable. We are to meet again. The day becoming decidedly rainy,we returned along the Boulevards by the Bridge of Austerlitz, but theweather was so indifferent as to spoil the fine show.We dined at the Ambassador's--Lord Granville, formerly Lord LevesonGower. He inhabits the same splendid house which Lord Castlereagh had in1815, namely, Numero 30, Rue du Fauxbourg St. Honor. It once belongedto Pauline Borghese, and if its walls could speak, they might tell usmighty curious stories. Without their having any tongue, they spoke tomy feelings "with most miraculous organ."[387] In these halls I hadoften seen and conversed familiarly with many of the great and powerful,who won the world by their swords, and divided it by their counsel.Here I saw very much of poor Lord Castlereagh--a man of sense, presenceof mind, courage, and fortitude, which carried him through many anaffair of critical moment, when finer talents might have stuck in themire. He had been, I think, indifferently educated, and his mode ofspeaking being far from logical or correct, he was sometimes in dangerof becoming almost ridiculous, in spite of his lofty presence, which hadall the grace of the Seymours, and his determined courage.[388] But thenhe was always up to the occasion, and upon important matters was anorator to convince, if not to delight, his hearers. He is gone, and myfriend Stanhope also, whose kindness this town so strongly recalls. Itis remarkable they were the only persons of sense and credibility whoboth attested supernatural appearances on their own evidence, and bothdied in the same melancholy manner. I shall always tremble when anyfriend of mine becomes visionary.[389]I have seen in these rooms the Emperor Alexander, Platoff,Schwarzenberg, old Blucher, Fouch, and many a marchal whose truncheonhad guided armies--all now at peace, without subjects, without dominion,and where their past life, perhaps, seems but the recollection of afeverish dream. What a group would this band have made in the gloomyregions described in the Odyssey! But to lesser things. We were mostkindly received by Lord and Lady Granville, and met many friends, someof them having been guests at Abbotsford; among these were Lords Ashleyand Morpeth--there were also Charles Ellis (Lord Seaford now), _cumplurimis aliis_. Anne saw for the first time an entertainment _ la modede France_, where the gentlemen left the parlour with the ladies. Indiplomatic houses it is a good way of preventing political discussion,which John Bull is always apt to introduce with the second bottle. Weleft early, and came home at ten, much pleased with Lord and LadyGranville's kindness, though it was to be expected, as ourrecommendations came from Windsor._November_ 2.--Another gloomy day--a pize upon it!--and we have settledto go to Saint Cloud, and dine, if possible, with the Drummonds atAuteuil. Besides, I expect poor W.R. S[pencer] to breakfast. There isanother thought which depresses me.Well--but let us jot down a little politics, as my book has a prettyfirm lock. The Whigs may say what they please, but I think the Bourbonswill stand. Gallois, no great Royalist, says that the Duke of Orleanslives on the best terms with the reigning family, which is wise on hispart, for the golden fruit may ripen and fall of itself, but it would bedangerous to    "Lend the crowd his arm to shake the tree."[390]The army, which was Bonaparte's strength, is now very much changed bythe gradual influence of time, which has removed many, and made invalidsof many more. The citizens are neutral, and if the King will governaccording to the Charte, and, what is still more, according to thehabits of the people, he will sit firm enough, and the constitution willgradually attain more and more reverence as age gives it authority, anddistinguishes it from those temporary and ephemeral governments, whichseemed only set up to be pulled down. The most dangerous point in thepresent state of France is that of religion. It is, no doubt, excellentin the Bourbons to desire to make France a religious country; but theybegin, I think, at the wrong end. To press the observances and ritual ofreligion on those who are not influenced by its doctrines is plantingthe growing tree with its head downwards. Rites are sanctified bybelief; but belief can never arise out of an enforced observance ofceremonies; it only makes men detest what is imposed on them bycompulsion. Then these Jesuits, who constitute emphatically an _imperiumin imperio_, labouring first for the benefit of their own order, andnext for that of the Roman See--what is it but the introduction intoFrance of a foreign influence, whose interest may often run counter tothe general welfare of the kingdom?We have enough of ravishment. M. Meurice writes me that he is ready tohang himself that we did not find accommodation at his hotel; and MadameMirbel came almost on her knees to have permission to take my portrait.I was cruel; but, seeing her weeping-ripe, consented she should cometo-morrow and work while I wrote. A Russian Princess Galitzin, too,demands to see me in the heroic vein; "_Elle vouloit traverser les merspour aller voir S.W.S_.," and offers me a rendezvous at my hotel. Thisis precious tomfoolery; however, it is better than being neglected likea fallen sky-rocket, which seemed like to be my fate last year.We went to Saint Cloud with my old friend Mr. Drummond, now at a pretty_maison de campagne_ at Auteuil. Saint Cloud, besides its unequalledviews, is rich in remembrances. I did not fail to revisit the_Orangerie_, out of which Bon. expelled the Council of [Five Hundred]. Ithought I saw the scoundrels jumping the windows, with the bayonets attheir rumps. What a pity the house was not two stories high! I asked theSwiss some questions on the _locale_, which he answered with becomingcaution, saying, however, that "he was not present at the time." Thereare also new remembrances. A separate garden, laid out as a playgroundfor the royal children, is called Il Trocadero,[391] from the siege ofCadiz [1823]. But the Bourbons should not take military ground--it isfiring a pop-gun in answer to a battery of cannon.All within the house is changed. Every trace of Nap. or his reigntotally done away, as if traced in sand over which the tide has passed.Moreau and Pichegru's portraits hang in the royal ante-chamber. Theformer has a mean look; the latter has been a strong and stern-lookingman. I looked at him, and thought of his death-struggles. In theguard-room were the heroes of La Vende--Charette with his white bonnet,the two La Rochejacqueleins, Lescure, in an attitude of prayer,Stofflet, the gamekeeper, with others.We dined at Auteuil. Mrs. Drummond, formerly the beautiful CeciliaTelfer, has lost her looks, but kept her kind heart. On our return, wentto the Italian opera, and saw _Figaro_. Anne liked the music; to me itwas all caviare. A Mr. ------ dined with us; sensible, liberal in hispolitics, but well informed and candid._November_ 3.--Sat to Mad. Mirbel--Spencer at breakfast. Went out andhad a long interview with Marshal Macdonald, the purport of which I haveput down elsewhere. Visited Princess Galitzin, and also Cooper, theAmerican novelist. This man, who has shown so much genius, has a gooddeal of the manner, or want of manner, peculiar to his countrymen.[392]He proposed to me a mode of publishing in America by entering the bookas [the] property of a citizen. I will think of this. Every littlehelps, as the tod says, when, etc. At night at the Theatre de Madame,where we saw two _petit_ pieces, _Le Mariage de Raison_, and _Le plusbeau jour de ma vie_--both excellently played. Afterwards at LadyGranville's rout, which was as splendid as any I ever saw--and I haveseen _beaucoup dans ce genre_. A great number of ladies of the firstrank were present, and if honeyed words from pretty lips could surfeit,I had enough of them. One can swallow a great deal of whipped cream, tobe sure, and it does not hurt an old stomach._November_ 4.--- Anne goes to sit to Mad. Mirbel. I called after ten,Mr. Cooper and Gallois having breakfasted with me. The former seemsquite serious in desiring the American attempt. I must, however, takecare not to give such a monopoly as to prevent the American public fromreceiving the works at the prices they are accustomed to. I think I mayas well try if the thing can be done.After ten I went with Anne to the Tuileries, where we saw the royalfamily pass through the Glass Gallery as they went to Chapel. We werevery much looked at in our turn, and the King, on passing out, did methe honour to say a few civil words, which produced a great sensation.Mad. la Dauphine and Mad. de Berri curtsied, smiled, and lookedextremely gracious; and smiles, bows, and curtsies rained on us likeodours, from all the courtiers and court ladies of the train. We wereconducted by an officer of the Royal Gardes du Corps to a convenientplace in chapel, where we had the pleasure of hearing the grand massperformed with excellent music.I had a perfect view of the King and royal family. The King is the samein age as I knew him in youth at Holyrood House--debonair and courteousin the highest degree. Mad. Dauphine resembles very much the prints ofMarie Antoinette, in the profile especially. She is not, however,beautiful, her features being too strong, but they announce a great dealof character, and the princess whom Bonaparte used to call the _man_ ofthe family. She seemed very attentive to her devotions. The Duchess ofBerri seemed less immersed in the ceremony, and yawned once or twice.She is a lively-looking blonde--looks as if she were good-humoured andhappy, by no means pretty, and has a cast with her eyes; splendidlyadorned with diamonds, however. After this gave Mad. Mirbel a sitting,where I encountered _le gnral_, her uncle,[393] who was _chef del'tat major_ to Bonaparte. He was very communicative, and seemed aninteresting person, by no means over much prepossessed in favour of hislate master, whom he judged impartially, though with affection.We came home and dined in quiet, having refused all temptations to goout in the evening; this on Anne's account as well as my own. It is notquite gospel, though Solomon says it--the eye _can_ be tired withseeing, whatever he may allege in the contrary. And then there are somany compliments. I wish for a little of the old Scotch causticity. I amsomething like the bee that sips treacle._November_ 5.--I believe I must give up my Journal till I leave Paris.The French are literally outrageous in their civilities--bounce in atall hours, and drive one half mad with compliments. I am ungracious notto be so entirely thankful as I ought to this kind and merry people. Webreakfasted with Mad. Mirbel, where were the Dukes of Fitz-James, and, Ithink, Duras,[394] goodly company--but all's one for that. I made ratheran impatient sitter, wishing to talk much more than was agreeable toMadame. Afterwards we went to the Champs Elyses, where a balloon waslet off, and all sorts of frolics performed for the benefit of the _bonsgens de Paris_--besides stuffing them with victuals. I wonder how such acivic festival would go off in London or Edinburgh, or especially inDublin. To be sure, they would not introduce their shillelahs! But inthe classic taste of the French, there were no such gladiatorial doings.To be sure, they have a natural good-humour and gaiety which inclinesthem to be pleased with themselves, and everything about them.We dined at the Ambassador's, where was a large party, Lord Morpeth, theDuke of Devonshire, and others--all were very kind. Pozzo di Borgothere, and disposed to be communicative. A large soire. Home at eleven.These hours are early, however._November_ 6.--Cooper came to breakfast, but we were _obsds partout_.Such a number of Frenchmen bounced in successively, and exploded, I meandischarged, their compliments, that I could hardly find an opportunityto speak a word, or entertain Mr. Cooper at all. After this we sat againfor our portraits. Mad. Mirbel took care not to have any one to divertmy attention, but I contrived to amuse myself with some masons finishinga faade opposite to me, who placed their stones, not like Inigo Jones,but in the most lubberly way in the world, with the help of a largewheel, and the application of strength of hand. John Smith of Darnick,and two of his men, would have done more with a block and pulley thanthe whole score of them. The French seem far behind in machinery.--Weare almost eaten up with kindness, but that will have its end. I havehad to parry several presents of busts, and so forth. The funny thingwas the airs of my little friend. We had a most affectionateparting--wet, wet cheeks on the lady's side.[395] The pebble-hearted curshed as few tears as Crab of dogged memory.[396]Went to Galignani's, where the brothers, after some palaver, offered me105 for the sheets of Napoleon, to be reprinted at Paris in English. Itold them I would think of it. I suppose Treuttel and Wurtz hadapprehended something of this kind, for they write me that they had madea bargain with my publisher (Cadell, I suppose) for the publishing of mybook in all sorts of ways. I must look into this.Dined with Marshal Macdonald and a splendid party;[397] amongst others,Marshal Marmont--middle size, stout-made, dark complexion, and lookssensible. The French hate him much for his conduct in 1814, but it isonly making him the scape-goat. Also, I saw Mons. de Mol, butespecially the Marquis de Lauriston, who received me most kindly. He ispersonally like my cousin Colonel Russell. I learned that his brother,Louis Law,[398] my old friend, was alive, and the father of a largefamily. I was most kindly treated, and had my vanity much flattered bythe men who had acted such important parts talking to me in the mostfrank manner.In the evening to Princess Galitzin, where were a whole covey ofPrincesses of Russia arrayed in tartan! with music and singing to boot.The person in whom I was most interested was Mad. de Boufflers,[399]upwards of eighty, very polite, very pleasant, and with all the_agrmens_ of a French Court lady of the time of Mad. Svign, or of thecorrespondent rather of Horace Walpole. Cooper was there, so the Scotchand American lions took the field together.--Home, and settled ouraffairs to depart._November_ 7.--Off at seven; breakfasted at Beaumont, and pushed on toAiraines. This being a forced march, we had bad lodgings, wet wood,uncomfortable supper, damp beds, and an extravagant charge. I was nevercolder in my life than when I waked with the sheets clinging round melike a shroud._November_ 8.--- We started at six in the morning, having no need to becalled twice, so heartily was I weary of my comfortless couch.Breakfasted at Abbeville; then pushed on to Boulogne, expecting to findthe packet ready to start next morning, and so to have had the advantageof the easterly tide. But, lo ye! the packet was not to sail till nextday. So after shrugging our shoulders--being the solace _ la mode deFrance_--and recruiting ourselves with a pullet and a bottle of Chablis_ la mode d'Angleterre_, we set off for Calais after supper, and it wasbetwixt three and four in the morning before we got to Dessein's, whenthe house was full, or reported to be so. We could only get two wretchedbrick-paved garrets, as cold and moist as those of Airaines, instead ofthe comforts which we were received with at our arrival. But I wasbetter prepared. Stripped off the sheets, and lay down in mydressing-gown, and so roughed it out--_tant bien que mal_._November_ 9.--At four in the morning we were called; at six we got onboard the packet, where I found a sensible and conversible man--a verypleasant circumstance. The day was raw and cold, the wind and tide surlyand contrary, the passage slow, and Anne, contrary to her wont,excessively sick. We had little trouble at the Custom House, thanks tothe secretary of the Embassy, Mr. Jones, who gave me a letter to Mr.Ward. [At Dover] Mr. Ward came with the Lieutenant-Governor of thecastle, and wished us to visit that ancient fortress. I regretted muchthat our time was short, and the weather did not admit of our seeingviews, so we could only thank the gentlemen in declining their civility.The castle, partly ruinous, seems to have been very fine. The Cliff, towhich Shakespeare gave his immortal name, is, as all the world knows, agreat deal lower than his description implies. Our Dover friends, justlyjealous of the reputation of their cliff, impute this diminution of itsconsequence to its having fallen in repeatedly since the poet's time. Ithink it more likely that the imagination of Shakespeare, writingperhaps at a period long after he may have seen the rock, had describedit such as he conceived it to have been. Besides, Shakespeare was bornin a flat country, and Dover Cliff is at least lofty enough to havesuggested the exaggerated features to his fancy. At all events, it hasmaintained its reputation better than the Tarpeian Rock;--no man couldleap from it and live.Left Dover after a hot luncheon about four o'clock, and reached Londonat half-past three in the morning. So adieu to _la belle France_, andwelcome merry England.[400][_Pall Mall_,] _November_ 10.--Ere I leave _la belle France_, however,it is fit I should express my gratitude for the unwontedly kindreception which I met with at all hands. It would be an unworthy pieceof affectation did I not allow that I have been pleased--highlypleased--to find a species of literature intended only for my owncountry has met such an extensive and favourable reception in a foreignland where there was so much _a priori_ to oppose its progress.For my work I think I have done a good deal; but, above all, I have beenconfirmed strongly in the impressions I had previously formed of thecharacter of Nap., and may attempt to draw him with a firmer hand.The succession of new people and unusual incidents has had a favourableeffect [on my mind], which was becoming rutted like an ill-kept highway.My thoughts have for some time flowed in another and pleasanter channelthan through the melancholy course into which my solitary and deprivedstate had long driven them, and which gave often pain to be enduredwithout complaint, and without sympathy. "For this relief," as Franciscosays in Hamlet, "much thanks."To-day I visited the public offices, and prosecuted my researches. Leftinquiries for the Duke of York, who has recovered from a most desperatestate. His legs had been threatened with mortification; but he was savedby a critical discharge; also visited the Duke of Wellington, LordMelville, and others, besides the ladies in Piccadilly. Dined and spentthe evening quietly in Pall Mall._November_ 11.--Croker came to breakfast, and we were soon after joinedby Theodore Hook, _alias_ "John Bull"[401]; he has got as fat as theactual monarch of the herd. Lockhart sat still with us, and we had, asGil Blas says, a delicious morning, spent in abusing our neighbours, atwhich my three neighbours are no novices any more than I am myself,though (like Puss in Boots, who only caught mice for his amusement) Iam only a chamber counsel in matters of scandal. The fact is, I haverefrained, as much as human frailty will permit, from all satiricalcomposition. Here is an ample subject for a little black-balling in thecase of Joseph Hume, the great conomist, who has [managed] the Greekloan so egregiously. I do not lack personal provocation (see 13th Marchlast), yet I won't attack him--at present at least--but _qu'il se gardede moi_:    "I'm not a king, nor nae sic thing,      My word it may not stand;    And Joseph may a buffet bide,      Come he beneath my brand."At dinner we had a little blow-out on Sophia's part: Lord Dudley, Mr.Hay, Under Secretary of State, [Sir Thomas Lawrence, etc.] _Mistress_(as she now calls herself) Joanna Baillie, and her sister, came in theevening. The whole went off pleasantly._November_ 12.--Went to sit to Sir T.L. to finish the picture for hisMajesty, which every one says is a very fine one. I think so myself; andwonder how Sir Thomas has made so much out of an old weather-beatenblock. But I believe the hard features of old Dons like myself are morewithin the compass of the artist's skill than the lovely face anddelicate complexion of females. Came home after a heavy shower. I had along conversation about ------ with Lockhart. All that was whispered istrue--a sign how much better our domestics are acquainted with theprivate affairs of our neighbours than we are. A dreadful tale of incestand seduction, and nearly of blood also--horrible beyond expression inits complications and events--"And yet the end is not;"--and this manwas amiable, and seemed the soul of honour--laughed, too, and was thesoul of society. It is a mercy our own thoughts are concealed from eachother. Oh! if, at our social table, we could see what passes in eachbosom around, we would seek dens and caverns to shun human society! Tosee the projector trembling for his falling speculations; the voluptuaryrueing the event of his debauchery; the miser wearing out his soul forthe loss of a guinea--all--all bent upon vain hopes and vainerregrets--we should not need to go to the hall of the Caliph Vathek tosee men's hearts broiling under their black veils.[402] Lord keep usfrom all temptation, for we cannot be our own shepherd!We dined to-day at Lady Stafford's [at West-hill].[403] Lord S. looksvery poorly, but better than I expected. No company, excepting SamRogers and Mr. Grenville,[404]--the latter is better known by the nameof Tom Grenville--a very amiable and accomplished man, whom I knewbetter about twenty years since. Age has touched him, as it hasdoubtless affected me. The great lady received us with the most cordialkindness, and expressed herself, I am sure, sincerely, desirous to be ofservice to Sophia._November_ 13.--I consider Charles's business as settled by a privateintimation which I had to that effect from Sir W.K.; so I need negotiateno further, but wait the event. Breakfasted at home, and somebody withus, but the whirl of visits so great that I have already forgot theparty. Lockhart and I dined at an official person's, where there was alittle too much of that sort of flippant wit, or rather smartness, whichbecomes the parochial Joe Miller of boards and offices. You must not begrave, because it might lead to improper discussions; and to laughwithout a joke is a hard task. Your professed wags are treasures to thisspecies of company. Gil Blas was right in censuring the literary societyof his friend Fabricio; but nevertheless one or two of the mess wouldgreatly have improved the conversation of his _Commis_.Went to poor Lydia White's, and found her extended on a couch,frightfully swelled, unable to stir, rouged, jesting, and dying. She hasa good heart, and is really a clever creature, but unhappily, or ratherhappily, she has set up the whole staff of her rest in keeping literarysociety about her. The world has not neglected her. It is not always sobad as it is called. She can always make up her soire, and generallyhas some people of real talent and distinction. She is wealthy, to besure, and gives _petit_ dinners, but not in a style to carry the point_ force d'argent_. In her case the world is good-natured, and perhapsit is more frequently so than is generally supposed._November_ 14.--We breakfasted at honest Allan Cunningham's--honestAllan--a leal and true Scotsman of the old cast. A man of genius,besides, who only requires the tact of knowing when and where to stop,to attain the universal praise which ought to follow it. I look upon thealteration of "It's hame and it's hame," and "A wet sheet and a flowingsea," as among the best songs going. His prose has often admirablepassages; but he is obscure, and overlays his meaning, which will not donow-a-days, when he who runs must read.Dined at Croker's, at Kensington, with his family, the Speaker,[405] andthe facetious Theodore Hook.We came away rather early, that Anne and I might visit Mrs. Arbuthnot tomeet the Duke of Wellington. In all my life I never saw him better. Hehas a dozen of campaigns in his body--and tough ones. Anne was delightedwith the frank manners of this unequalled pride of British war, and mehe received with all his usual kindness. He talked away about Bonaparte,Russia, and France._November_ 15.--At breakfast a conclave of medical men about poorlittle Johnnie Lockhart. They give good words, but I cannot help fearingthe thing is very precarious, and I feel a miserable anticipation ofwhat the parents are to undergo. It is wrong, however, to despair. I wasmyself a very weak child, and certainly am one of the strongest men ofmy age in point of constitution. Sophia and Anne went to the Tower, I tothe Colonial Office, where I laboured hard.Dined with the Duke of Wellington. Anne with me, who could not lookenough at the _vainqueur du vainqueur de la terre_. The party were Mr.and Mrs. Peel, and Mr. and Mrs. Arbuthnot,[406] Vesey Fitzgerald,Bankes, and Croker, with Lady Bathurst and Lady Georgina. One gentlemantook much of the conversation, and gave us, with unnecessary emphasis,and at superfluous length, his opinion of a late gambling transaction.This spoiled the evening. I am sorry for the occurrence though, for Lord------ is fetlock deep in it, and it looks like a vile bog. Thismisfortune, with the foolish incident at ------, will not be suffered tofall to the ground, but will be used as a counterpoise to the Greekloan. Peel asked me, in private, my opinion of three candidates for theScotch gown, and I gave it him candidly. We will see if it hasweight.[407]I begin to tire of my gaieties; and the late hours and constant feastingdisagree with me. I wish for a sheep's head and whisky toddy against allthe French cookery and champagne in the world.Well, I suppose I might have been a Judge of Session thisterm--attained, in short, the grand goal proposed to the ambition of aScottish lawyer. It is better, however, as it is, while, at least, I canmaintain my literary reputation.I had some conversation to-day with Messrs. Longman and Co. They agreedto my deriving what advantage I could in America, and that verywillingly._November_ 16.--Breakfasted with Rogers, with my daughters and Lockhart.R. was exceedingly entertaining, in his dry, quiet, sarcastic manner. Ateleven to the Duke of Wellington, who gave me a bundle of remarks onBonaparte's Russian campaign, written in his carriage during his latemission to St. Petersburg.[408] It is furiously scrawled, and theRussian names hard to distinguish, but it _shall_ do me yeoman'sservice. Then went to Pentonville, to old Mr. Handley, a solicitor ofthe old school, and manager of the Devonshire property. Had an accountof the claim arising on the estate of one Mrs. Owen, due to therepresentatives of my poor wife's mother. He was desperately excursive,and spoke almost for an hour, but the prospect of 4000 to my childrenmade me a patient auditor. Thence I passed to the Colonial Office, whereI concluded my extracts. [Lockhart and I] dined with Croker at theAdmiralty _au grand couvert_. No less than five Cabinet Ministers werepresent--Canning, Huskisson, Melville, [Peel,] and Wellington, withsub-secretaries by the bushel. The cheer was excellent, but the presenceof too many men of distinguished rank and power always freezes theconversation. Each lamp shines brightest when placed by itself; when tooclose, they neutralise each other.[409]_November_ 17.--My morning here began with the arrival of Bahauder Jah;soon after Mr. Wright;[410] then I was called out to James Scott theyoung painter. I greatly fear this modest and amiable creature isthrowing away his time. Next came an animal who is hunting out a fortunein Chancery, which has lain _perdu_ for thirty years. The fellow, who isin figure and manner the very essence of the creature called a sloth,has attached himself to this pursuit with the steadiness of awell-scented beagle. I believe he will actually get the prize.Sir John Malcolm acknowledges and recommends my Persian visitor Bruce.Saw the Duke of York. The change on H.R.H. is most wonderful. From abig, burly, stout man, with a thick and sometimes an inarticulate modeof speaking, he has sunk into a thin-faced, slender-looking old man, whoseems diminished in his very size. I could hardly believe I saw the sameperson, though I was received with his usual kindness. He speaks muchmore distinctly than formerly; his complexion is clearer; in short,H.R.H. seems, on the whole, more healthy after this crisis than when inthe stall-fed state, for such it seemed to be, in which I remember him.God grant it! his life is of infinite value to the King and country--itis a breakwater behind the throne._November_ 18.--Was introduced by Rogers to Mad. D'Arblay, thecelebrated authoress of _Evelina_ and _Cecilia_,--an elderly lady, withno remains of personal beauty, but with a gentle manner and a pleasingexpression of countenance. She told me she had wished to see twopersons--myself, of course, being one; the other George Canning. Thiswas really a compliment to be pleased with--a nice little handsome patof butter made up by a neat-handed Phillis[411] of a dairymaid, insteadof the grease, fit only for cart-wheels, which one is dosed with by thepound. Mad. D'Arblay told us the common story of Dr. Burney, herfather, having brought home her own first work, and recommended it toher perusal, was erroneous. Her father was in the secret of _Evelina_being printed. But the following circumstances may have given rise tothe story:--Dr. Burney was at Streatham soon after the publication,where he found Mrs. Thrale recovering from her confinement, low at themoment, and out of spirits. While they were talking together, Johnson,who sat beside in a kind of reverie, suddenly broke out, "You shouldread this new work, madam--you should read _Evelina_; every one says itis excellent, and they are right." The delighted father obtained acommission from Mrs. Thrale to purchase his daughter's work, and retiredthe happiest of men. Mad. D'Arblay said she was wild with joy at thisdecisive evidence of her literary success, and that she could only givevent to her rapture by dancing and skipping round a mulberry-tree in thegarden. She was very young at this time. I trust I shall see this ladyagain. She has simple and apparently amiable manners, with quickfeelings.Dined at Mr. Peel's with Lord Liverpool, Duke of Wellington, Croker,Bankes, etc. The conversation very good--Peel taking the lead in his ownhouse, which he will not do elsewhere. We canvassed the memorablecriminal case of _Ashford_,[412] Peel almost convinced of the man'sinnocence. Should have been at the play, but sat too late at Mr. Peel's.So ends my campaign among these magnificoes and potent signiors,[413]with whom I have found, as usual, the warmest acceptation. I wish Icould turn a little of my popularity amongst them to Lockhart'sadvantage, who cannot bustle for himself. He is out of spirits justnow, and views things _au noir_. I fear Johnnie's precarious state isthe cause.I finished my sittings to Lawrence, and am heartily sorry there shouldbe another picture of me except that which he has finished. The personis remarkably like, and conveys the idea of the stout blunt carle thatcares for few things, and fears nothing. He has represented the authoras in the act of composition, yet has effectually discharged allaffectation from the manner and attitude. He seems pleased with ithimself. He dined with us at Peel's yesterday, where, by the way, we sawthe celebrated Chapeau de Paille, which is not a Chapeau de Paille atall._November_ 19.--Saw this morning Duke of Wellington and Duke of York;the former so communicative that I regretted extremely the length oftime,[414] but have agreed on a correspondence with him. _Trop d'honneurpour moi_. The Duke of York saw me by appointment. He seems stillmending, and spoke of state affairs as a high Tory. Were his healthgood, his spirit is as strong as ever. H.R.H. has a devout horror of theliberals. Having the Duke of Wellington, the Chancellor, and (perhaps) astill greater person on his side, he might make a great fight when theysplit, as split they will. But Canning, Huskisson, and a mitigated partyof Liberaux will probably beat them. Canning's will and eloquence arealmost irresistible. But then the Church, justly alarmed for theirproperty, which is plainly struck at, and the bulk of the landedinterest, will scarce brook a mild infusion of Whiggery into theAdministration. Well, time will show.We visited our friends Peel, Lord Gwydyr, Arbuthnot, etc., and left ourtickets of adieu. In no instance, during my former visits to London, didI ever meet with such general attention and respect on all sides.Lady Louisa Stuart dined--also Wright and Mr. and Mrs. Christie. Dr. andMrs. Hughes came in the evening; so ended pleasantly our last night inLondon.[_Oxford_,] _November_ 20.--Left London after a comfortable breakfast,and an adieu to the Lockhart family. If I had had but comfortable hopesof their poor, pale, prostrate child, so clever and so interesting, Ishould have parted easily on this occasion, but these misgivingsovercloud the prospect. We reached Oxford by six o'clock, and foundCharles and his friend young Surtees waiting for us, with a good fire inthe chimney, and a good dinner ready to be placed on the table. We hadstruggled through a cold, sulky, drizzly day, which deprived of allcharms even the beautiful country near Henley. So we came from cold anddarkness into light and warmth and society. _N.B._--We had neitherdaylight nor moonlight to see the view of Oxford from the MaudlinBridge, which I used to think one of the most beautiful in the world.Upon finance I must note that the expense of travelling has mountedhigh. I am too old to rough it, and scrub it, nor could I have savedfifty pounds by doing so. I have gained, however, in health, spirits, ina new stock of ideas, new combinations, and new views. Myself-consequence is raised, I hope not unduly, by the many flatteringcircumstances attending my reception in the two capitals, and I feelconfident in proportion. In Scotland I shall find time for labour andfor economy.[_Cheltenham_,] _November_ 21.--Breakfasted with Charles in his chambers[at Brasenose], where he had everything very neat. How pleasant it isfor a father to sit at his child's board! It is like an aged manreclining under the shadow of the oak which he has planted. My poorplant has some storms to undergo, but were this expedition conducive tono more than his entrance into life under suitable auspices, I shouldconsider the toil and the expense well bestowed. We then sallied out tosee the lions--guides being Charles, and friend Surtees, Mr. JohnHughes, young Mackenzie (Fitz-Colin), and a young companion or two ofCharles's. Remembering the ecstatic feelings with which I visited Oxfordmore than twenty-five years since, I was surprised at the comparativeindifference with which I revisited the same scenes. Reginald Heber,then composing his Prize Poem, and imping his wings for a long flight ofhonourable distinction, is now dead in a foreign land--Hodgson and otherable men all entombed. The towers and halls remain, but the voices whichfill them are of modern days. Besides, the eye becomes satiated withsights, as the full soul loathes the honeycomb. I admired indeed, but myadmiration was void of the enthusiasm which I formerly felt. I rememberparticularly having felt, while in the Bodleian, like the Persianmagician who visited the enchanted library in the bowels of themountain, and willingly suffered himself to be enclosed in itsrecesses,[415] while less eager sages retired in alarm. Now I had somebase thoughts concerning luncheon, which was most munificently suppliedby Surtees [at his rooms in University College], with the aid of thebest ale I ever drank in my life, the real wine of Ceres, and worth thatof Bacchus. Dr. Jenkyns,[416] the vice-chancellor, did me the honour tocall, but I saw him not. I called on Charles Douglas at All-Souls, andhad a chat of an hour with him.[417]Before three set out for Cheltenham, a long and uninteresting drive,which we achieved by nine o'clock. My sister-in-law [Mrs. Thomas Scott]and her daughter instantly came to the hotel, and seem in excellenthealth and spirits._November_ 22.--Breakfasted and dined with Mrs. Scott, and leavingCheltenham at seven, pushed on to Worcester to sleep._November_ 23.--Breakfasted at Birmingham, and slept at Macclesfield. Aswe came in between ten and eleven, the people of the inn expressedsurprise at our travelling so late, as the general distress of themanufacturers has rendered many of the lower class desperatelyoutrageous. The inn was guarded by a special watchman, who alarmed us bygiving his signal of turn out, but it proved to be a poor deserter whohad taken refuge among the carriages, and who was reclaimed by hissergeant. The people talk gloomily of winter, when the distress of thepoor will be increased._November_ 24.--Breakfasted at Manchester. Ere we left, the seniorchurchwarden came to offer us his services, to show us the town,principal manufactures, etc. We declined his polite offer, pleadinghaste. I found his opinion about the state of trade more agreeable thanI had ventured to expect. He said times were mending gradually butsteadily, and that the poor-rates were decreasing, of which none can beso good a judge as the churchwarden. Some months back the people hadbeen in great discontent on account of the power engines, which theyconceived diminished the demand for operative labour. There was nopolitics in their discontent, however, and at present it wasdiminishing. We again pressed on--and by dint of exertion reached Kendalto sleep; thus getting out of the region of the stern, sullen, unwashedartificers, whom you see lounging sulkily along the streets of the townsin Lancashire, cursing, it would seem by their looks, the stop of tradewhich gives them leisure, and the laws which prevent them employingtheir spare time. God's justice is requiting, and will yet furtherrequite those who have blown up this country into a state ofunsubstantial opulence, at the expense of the health and morals of thelower classes._November_ 25.--Took two pair of horses over the Shap Fells, which arecovered with snow, and by dint of exertion reached Penrith to breakfast.Then rolled on till we found our own horses at Hawick, and returned toour own home at Abbotsford about three in the morning. It is well wemade a forced march of about one hundred miles, for I think the snowwould have stopped us had we lingered.[_Abbotsford_,] _November_ 26.--Consulting my purse, found my good 60diminished to Quarter less Ten. In purse 8. Naturally reflected howmuch expense has increased since I first travelled. My uncle's servant,during the jaunts we made together while I was a boy, used to have hisoption of a shilling per diem for board wages, and usually preferred itto having his charges borne. A servant nowadays, to be comfortable onthe road, should have 4s. or 4s. 6d. board wages, which before 1790would have maintained his master. But if this be pitiful, it is stillmore so to find the alteration in my own temper. When young, onreturning from such a trip as I have just had, my mind would have lovedto dwell on all I had seen that was rich and rare, or have been placing,perhaps in order, the various additions with which I had supplied mystock of information--and now, like a stupid boy blundering over anarithmetical question half obliterated on his slate, I go stumbling onupon the audit of pounds, shillings, and pence. Why, the increase ofcharge I complain of must continue so long as the value of the thingrepresented by cash continues to rise, or as the value of the thingrepresenting continues to decrease--let the economists settle which isthe right way of expressing the process when groats turn plenty and eggsgrow dear--    "And so 'twill be when I am gone,    The increasing charge will still go on,    And other bards shall climb these hills,    And curse your charge, _dear_ evening bills."Well, the skirmish has cost me 200. I wished for information--and Ihave had to pay for it. The information is got, the money is spent, andso this is the only mode of accounting amongst friends.I have packed my books, etc., to go by cart to Edinburgh to-morrow. Iidled away the rest of the day, happy to find myself at home, which ishome, though never so homely. And mine is not so homely neither; on thecontrary, I have seen in my travels none I liked so well--fantastic inarchitecture and decoration if you please--but no real comfortsacrificed to fantasy. "Ever gramercy my own purse," saith thesong;[418] "Ever gramercy my own house," quoth I._November_ 27.--We set off after breakfast, but on reaching FushieBridge at three, found ourselves obliged to wait for horses, all beinggone to the smithy to be roughshod in this snowy weather. So we stayeddinner, and Peter, coming up with his horses, bowled us into town abouteight. Walter came and supped with us, which diverted some heavythoughts. It is impossible not to compare this return to Edinburgh withothers in more happy times. But we should rather recollect under whatdistress of mind I took up my lodgings in Mrs. Brown's last summer, andthen the balance weighs deeply on the favourable side. This house iscomfortable and convenient.[419][_Edinburgh_,] _November_ 28.--Went to Court and resumed old habits.Dined with Walter and Jane at Mrs. Jobson's. When we returned wereastonished at the news of ----'s death, and the manner of it; a quieter,more inoffensive, mild, and staid mind I never knew. He was free fromall these sinkings of the imagination which render those who are liableto them the victims of occasional low spirits. All belonging to thisgifted, as it is called, but often unhappy, class, must have felt attimes that, but for the dictates of religion, or the natural recoil ofthe mind from the idea of dissolution, there have been times when theywould have been willing to throw away life as a child does a broken toy.But poor ------ was none of these: he was happy in his domesticrelations; and on the very day on which the rash deed was committed wasto have embarked for rejoining his wife and child, whom I so lately sawanxious to impart to him their improved prospects.O Lord, what are we--lords of nature? Why, a tile drops from a housetop,which an elephant would not feel more than the fall of a sheet ofpasteboard, and there lies his lordship. Or something of inconceivablyminute origin, the pressure of a bone, or the inflammation of a particleof the brain takes place, and the emblem of the Deity destroys himselfor some one else. We hold our health and our reason on terms slighterthan one would desire were it in their choice to hold an Irish cabin._November_ 29.--Awaked from horrid dreams to reconsideration of the sadreality; he was such a kind, obliging, assiduous creature. I thought hecame to my bedside to expostulate with me how I could believe such ascandal, and I thought I detected that it was but a spirit who spoke, bythe paleness of his look and the blood flowing from his cravat. I hadthe nightmare in short, and no wonder.I felt stupefied all this day, but wrote the necessary lettersnotwithstanding. Walter, Jane, and Mrs. Jobson dined with us--but Icould not gather my spirits. But it is nonsense, and contrary to mysystem, which is of the stoic school, and I think pretty wellmaintained. It is the only philosophy I know or can practise, but itcannot always keep the helm._November_ 30.--I went to the Court, and on my return set in order asheet or two of copy. We came back about two--the new form of hearingcounsel makes our sederunt a long one. Dined alone, and worked in theevening.FOOTNOTES:[385] For an account of M. Chevalier, and an interview in 1815 withDavid "of the blood-stained brush," see _Life_, vol. v. p. 87.[386] Madame de Souza-Botelho, author of _Adle de Senanges_, and otherworks, which formed the subject of an article in the _Edinburgh_, No.68, written by Moore. At the time Scott met her she had just lost hersecond husband, who is remembered by his magnificent editions ofCamoens' _Lusiad_, on which it is said he spent about 4000. Mme. deSouza died in 1836.[387] _Hamlet_, Act II. Sc. 2.[388] The following mixed metaphor is said to have been taken from oneof his speeches:--"Ministers were not to look on like Crocodiles, withtheir hands in their breeches' pockets, doing nothing."[389] The story regarding Castlereagh's Radiant Boy, is that one night,when he was in barracks and alone, he saw a figure glide from thefireplace, the face becoming brighter as it approached him. On LordCastlereagh stepping forward to meet it, the figure retired again, andas he advanced it gradually faded from his view. Sir Walter does nottell us of his friend Stanhope's ghostly experience.[390] Dryden's _Absalom and Achitophel_--Character ofShaftesbury.--J.G.L.[391] The name has since been bestowed on the high ground on the bank ofthe Seine, on which was built the Palace in connection with theInternational Exhibition of 1878.[392] It should be noted that Scott wrote "manner" not "manners," as inall previous editions the word is printed. Of Cooper, his latestAmerican biographer, Mr. Lounsbury, says there was in his manner attimes "a self-assertion that often bordered, or seemed to border, onarrogance" (p. 79).Of this interview, Cooper is said to have recorded in after years thatScott was so obliging as to make him a number of flattering speeches,which, however, he did not repay in kind, giving, as a reason for hassilence, the words of Dr. Johnson regarding his meeting with GeorgeIII.: "It was not for me to bandy compliments with my sovereign." Thesetwo "lions" met on four occasions, viz., on the 3d, 4th, and 6thNovember, Scott leaving Paris next day.It cannot be too widely known that if Scott never derived any profitsfrom the enormous sale of his works in America, it was not the fault ofhis brother author, who urged him repeatedly to try the plan hereproposed. Whether the attempt was made is unknown, but it is amusing tosee one cause of Scott's hesitation was the fear that the Americanpublic would not get his works at the low prices to which they had beenaccustomed.[393] General Monthion.[394] Fitz-James was great-grandson of James II., and Duras was relatedto Feversham, James's general at Sedgemoor. Both died in the same year,1835.[395] Madame Mirbel, who painted Scott at this time, continued to be afavourite artist with the French (Bonapartist, Bourbon, and Orleanist)for the next twenty years. Among her latest sitters (1841) was Scott'sangry correspondent of four months later--General Gourgaud. MadameMirbel died in 1849. The portrait alluded to was probably a miniaturewhich has been engraved at least once--by J.T.Wedgwood.[396] _Two Gentlemen of Verona_, Act II. Sc. 3.--J.G.L.[397] The Marshal had visited Scotland in 1825--and Scott saw a gooddeal of him under the roof of his kinsman, Mr. MacdonaldBuchanan.--J.G.L.[398] Lauriston, the ancient seat of the Laws, so famous in Frenchhistory, is very near Edinburgh, and the estate was in their possessionat the time of the Revolution. Two or three cadets of the family were ofthe first emigration, and one of them (M. Louis Law) was a frequentguest of the Poet's father, and afterwards corresponded during manyyears with himself. I am not sure whether it was M. Louis Law whoseFrench designation so much amused the people of Edinburgh. One brotherof the Marquis de Lauriston, however, was styled _Le Chevalier deMutton-hole_, this being the name of a village on the Scotchproperty.--J.G.L.[399] The Madame de Boufflers best known to the world [Hippolyte deSaujon Comtesse de Boufflers], the correspondent not only of Walpole,but of David Hume, must have been nearer a hundred than eighty years ofage at this date, if we are to believe the _Biographie Universelle_,which gives 1724 as the date of her birth. It does not record her death.It is known that she took refuge in England during the Revolution; butCount Paul de Rmusat, who has been consulted on the subject, has kindlypointed out that the lady of whom Scott speaks must have been the widowof the Chevalier de Boufflers-Remencourt, known by his poems andstories. Her maiden name was de Jean de Manville, and her first husbandwas a Comte de Sabran. She died in 1827.--See _Correspondance indite dela Comtesse de Sabran_, Paris, 8vo, 1875.[400] Readers who may wish to compare with the visit of 1826 Scott'simpressions of Paris in 1815 will find a brilliant record of the latterin _Paul's Letters_, xii.-xvi.[401] A Sunday newspaper started in 1820, to advocate the cause ofGeorge IV., and to vilify the Queen and her friends, male and female.The first number was published on December 17th, and "told at once fromthe convulsed centre to the extremity of the Kingdom. There was talentof every sort in the paper that could have been desired or devised forsuch a purpose. It seemed as if a legion of sarcastic devils had broodedin Synod over the elements of withering derision." Hook, however, wasthe master spirit, the majority of the lampoons in prose, and all theoriginal poetry in the early volumes from the "Hunting the Hare," werefrom his own pen, except, perhaps, "Michael's Dinner," which has beenlaid at Canning's door.Oddly enough Scott appears to have been the indirect means of placingHook in the editorial chair. When he was in London, in April 1820, anobleman called upon him, and asked if he could find him in Edinburghsome clever fellow to undertake the editorship of a paper about to beestablished. Sir Walter suggested that his Lordship need not go so fara-field, described Hook's situation, and the impression he had receivedof him from his table talk, and his Magazine, the _Arcadian_. This wasall that occurred, but when, towards the end of the year, _John Bull_electrified London, Sir Walter confessed that he could not help fancyingthat his mentioning this man's name had had its consequences.Hook, in spite of his 2000 per annum for several years from _JohnBull_, and large prices received for his novels, died in poverty in1841, a prematurely aged man. His sad story may be read in a mostpowerful sketch in the _Quarterly Review_, attributed to Mr. Lockhart.[402] See Beckford's _Vathek_, Hall of Eblis.[403] Lady Stafford says: "We were so lucky as to have Sir W. Scott herefor a day, and were glad to see him look well, and though perfectlyunaltered by his successes, yet enjoying the satisfaction they must havegiven him."--Sharpe's _Letters_, vol. ii. p. 379.[404] The Right Hon. Thomas Grenville died in 1846 at the age ofninety-one. He left his noble collection of books to the nation.[405] The Right Hon. Charles Manners Sutton, afterwards ViscountCanterbury. He died in 1845.[406] Mrs. Arbuthnot was Harriet, third daughter of the Hon. H. Fane,and wife of Charles Arbuthnot, a great friend of the Duke of Wellington.She died in 1838, Mr. Arbuthnot in 1850.[407] Sir Walter had recommended George Cranstoun, his early friend, oneof the brethren of _the mountain_, who succeeded Lord Hermand, and tookhis seat on the Scotch bench before the end of the month. Theappointment satisfied both political parties, though Cockburn said that"his removal was a great loss to the bar which he had long adorned, andwhere he had the entire confidence of the public." An admirable sketchof Cranstoun is given in No. 32 of _Peter's Letters_. He retired in1839, and died at Corehouse, his picturesque seat on the Clyde, in 1850.[408] This striking paper was afterwards printed in full under thetitle, "Memorandum on the War in Russia in 1812," in the _Despatches_edited by his Son (Dec. 1823 to May 1827), Murray, 1868, vol. i. 8vo,pp. 1-53. Sir Walter Scott's letter to the Duke on the subject is givenat p. 590 of the same volume, and see this Journal under Feb. 15, 1827.[409] In returning from this dinner Sir Walter said, "I have seen someof these great men at the same table _for the last time_."--J.G.L.[410] Mr. William Wright, Barrister, Lincoln's Inn.--See _Life_, vol.viii. p. 84.[411] Milton's _L'Allegro._--J.G.L.[412] A murder committed in 1817. The accused claimed the privilege of_Wager of Battle_, which was allowed by the Court for the last time, asthe law was abolished in 1819.--See _Notes and Queries_, 2d series, vol.xi. pp. 88, 259, 317, and p. 431 for a curious account of thebibliography of this very singular case.[413] _Othello_,--J.G.L.[414] Sir Walter no doubt means that he regretted not having seen theDuke at an earlier period of his historical labours.--J.G.L.[415] See Weber's _Tales of the East_, 3 vols. 8vo, Edin. 1812. _Historyof Avicene_, vol. ii. pp. 452-457.[416] Dr. Richard Jenkyns, Master of Balliol College.--J.G.L.[417] Charles Douglas succeeded his brother, Baron Douglas of Douglas,in 1844.[418]  "But of all friends in field or town, Ever gramercy," etc.    _Dame Juliana Berners_.[419] A furnished house in Walker Street which he had taken for thewinter (No. 3).DECEMBER_December_ 1[420].--The Court again very long in its sitting, and Iobliged to remain till the last. This is the more troublesome, as inwinter, with my worn-out eyes, I cannot write so well by candle-light.Naboclish! when I am quite blind, _good-night to you_, as the one-eyedfellow said when a tennis ball knocked out his remaining luminary. Myshort residue of time before dinner was much cut up by calls--all oldfriends, too, and men whom I love; but this makes the loss of time moregalling, that one cannot and dare not growl at those on whom it has beenbestowed. However, I made out two hours better than I expected. I am nowonce more at my oar, and I will row hard._December_ 2.--Returned early from Court, but made some calls by theway. Dined alone with Anne, and meant to have worked, but--I don't knowhow--this horrid story stuck by me, so I e'en read Boutourlin's accountof the Moscow campaign to eschew the foul fiend._December_ 3.--Wrote five pages before dinner. Sir Thomas Brisbane andSir William Arbuthnot called, also John A. Murray. William dined withus, all vivid with his Italian ideas, only Jane besides. Made out fivepages, I think, or nearly._December_ 4.--Much colded, which is no usual complaint of mine, butworked about five leaves, so I am quite up with my task-work and better.But my books from Abbotsford have not arrived. Dined with the RoyalSociety Club--about thirty members present--too many for company. Aftercoffee, the Society were like _Mungo_ in _The Padlock_.[421] I listened,without understanding a single word, to two scientific papers; one aboutthe tail of a comet, and the other about a chucky-stone; besides hearingBasil Hall describe, and seeing him exhibit, a new azimuth. I have halfa mind to cut the whole concern; and yet the situation is honourable,and, as Bob Acres says, one should think of their honour. We tookpossession of our new rooms on the Mound, which are very handsome andgentlemanlike._December_ 5.--Annoyed with the cold and its consequences all night, andwish I could shirk the Court this morning. But it must not be. Was keptlate, and my cold increased. I have had a regular attack of this formany years past whenever I return to the sedentary life and heated roomsof Edinburgh, which are so different from the open air and constantexercise of the country. Odd enough that during cold weather and coldnocturnal journeys the cold never touched me, yet I am no sooner settledin comfortable quarters and warm well-aired couches, but _la voil_. Imade a shift to finish my task, however, and even a leaf more, so weare bang up. We dined and supped alone, and I went to bed early._December_ 6.--A bad and disturbed night with fever, headache, and sometouch of cholera morbus, which greatly disturbed my slumbers. But Ifancy Nature was scouring the gun after her own fashion. I slept littletill morning, and then lay abed, contrary to my wont, until half-pastnine o'clock, when I came down to breakfast. Went to Court, and returnedtime enough to write about five leaves. Dined at Skene's, where we metLord Elgin and Mr. Stewart, a son of Sir M. Shaw Stewart, whom I knewand liked, poor man. Talked among other things and persons of Sir J.Campbell of Ardkinglas, who is now here.[422] He is happy in escapingfrom his notorious title of Callander of Craigforth. In my youth he wasa black-leg and swindler of the first water, and like Pistol did    "Somewhat lean to cut-purse of quick hand."[423]He was obliged to give up his estate to his son Colonel Callander, agentleman of honour, and as Dad went to the Continent in the midst ofthe French Revolution, he is understood to have gone through manyscenes. At one time, Lord Elgin assured us, he seized upon the island ofZante, as he pretended, by direct authority from the English Government,and reigned there very quietly for some months, until, to appease thejealousy of the Turks, Lord Elgin despatched a frigate to dethrone thenew sovereign. Afterwards he traversed India in the dress of a fakir. Heis now eighty and upwards.I should like to see what age and adventures have done upon him. Irecollect him a very handsome, plausible man. Of all good breeding, thatof a swindler (of good education, be it understood) is the most perfect._December_ 7.--Again a very disturbed night, scarce sleeping an hour,yet well when I rose in the morning. I did not do above a leaf to-day,because I had much to read. But I am up to one-fourth of the volume, of400 pages, which I began on the first December current; the 31st mustand shall see the end of vol. vi. We dined alone. I had a book sent meby a very clever woman, in defence of what she calls the rights of hersex. Clever, though. I hope she will publish it._December_ 8.--Another restless and deplorable Knight--night I shouldsay--faith, either spelling will suit. Returned early, but much done upwith my complaint and want of sleep last night. I wrought however, butwith two or three long interruptions, my drowsiness being irresistible.Went to dine with John Murray, where met his brother Henderland,Jeffrey, Harry Cockburn, Rutherfurd, and others of that file. Verypleasant--capital good cheer and excellent wine--much laugh and fun._December_ 9.--I do not know why it is that when I am with a party of myOpposition friends, the day is often merrier than when with our own set.Is it because they are cleverer? Jeffrey and Harry Cockburn are, to besure, very extraordinary men, yet it is not owing to that entirely. Ibelieve both parties meet with the feeling of something like novelty. Wehave not worn out our jests in daily contact. There is also adisposition on such occasions to be courteous, and of course to bepleased. Wrought all day, but rather dawdled, being abominably drowsy. Ifancy it is bile, a visitor I have not had this long time._December_ 10.--An uncomfortable and sleepless night; and the lime waterassigned to cure me seems far less pleasant, and about as inefficaciousas lime punch would be in the circumstances. I felt main stupid thewhole forenoon, and though I wrote my task, yet it was with greatintervals of drowsiness and fatigue which made me, as we Scots says,dover away in my arm-chair. Walter and Jane came to dinner, also my CozColonel Russell, and above and attour[424] James Ballantyne, poorfellow. We had a quiet and social evening, I acting on prescription.Well, I have seen the day--but no matter._December_ 11.--Slept indifferent well with a feverish halo about me,but no great return of my complaint. It paid it off this morning,however, but the difference was of such consequence that I made an ampleday's work, getting over six pages, besides what I may do. On this, the11th December, I shall have more than one-third of vol. vi. finished,which was begun on the first of this current month. Dined quiet and athome. I must take no more frisks till this fit is over.    "When once life's day draws near the gloaming,    Then farewell careless social roaming;    And farewell cheerful tankards foaming,                          And social noise;    And farewell dear deluding woman,                          The joy of joys!"[425]Long life to thy fame and peace to thy soul, Rob Burns! When I want toexpress a sentiment which I feel strongly, I find the phrase inShakespeare--or thee. The blockheads talk of my being likeShakespeare--not fit to tie his brogues.[426]_December_ 12.--Did not go to the Parliament House, but drove withWalter to Dalkeith, where we missed the Duke, and found Mr. Blakeney.One thing I saw there which pleased me much, and that was my ownpicture, painted twenty years ago by Raeburn for Constable, and whichwas to have been brought to sale among the rest of the wreck, hangingquietly up in the dining-room at Dalkeith.[427] I do not care much aboutthese things, yet it would have been annoying to have been knocked downto the best bidder even in effigy; and I am obliged to the friendshipand delicacy which placed the portrait where it now is. Dined at ArchieSwinton's, with all the cousins of that honest clan, and met LordCringletie,[428] his wife, and others. Finished my task this day._December_ 13.--Went to the Court this morning early, and remained tillpast three. Then attended a meeting of the Edinburgh Academy Directorson account of some discussion about flogging. I am an enemy to corporalpunishment, but there are many boys who will not attend without it. Itis an instant and irresistible motive, and I love boys' heads too muchto spoil them at the expense of their opposite extremity. Then, whenchildren feel an emancipation on this point, we may justly fear theywill loosen the bonds of discipline altogether. The master, I fear, mustbe something of a despot at the risk of his becoming something like atyrant. He governs subjects whose keen sense of the present is noteasily ruled by any considerations that are not pressing and immediate.I was indifferently well beaten at school; but I am now quite certainthat twice as much discipline would have been well bestowed.Dined at home with Walter and Jane; they with Anne went out in theevening, I remained, but not I fear to work much. I feel sorely fagged.I am sadly fagged. Then I cannot get ----'s fate out of my head. I seethat kind, social, beneficent face never turned to me without respectand complacence, and--I see it in the agonies of death. This ischildish; I tell myself so, and I trust the feeling to no one else. Buthere it goes down like the murderer who could not cease painting theideal vision of the man he had murdered, and who he supposed hauntedhim. A thousand fearful images and dire suggestions glance along themind when it is moody and discontented with itself. Command them tostand and show themselves, and you presently assert the power of reasonover imagination. But if by any strange alterations in one's nervoussystem you lost for a moment the talisman which controls these fiends,would they not terrify into obedience with their mandates, rather thanwe would dare longer to endure their presence?_December_ 14.--Annoyed with this cursed complaint, though I live like ahermit on pulse and water. Bothered, too, with the Court, which leavesme little room for proof-sheets, and none for copy. They sat to-day tillpast two, so before I had walked home, and called for half an hour onthe Chief Commissioner, the work part of the day was gone; and then mylassitude--I say lassitude--not indolence--is so great that it costs mean hour's nap after I come home. We dined to-day with R. Dundas ofArniston--Anne and I. There was a small cabal about Cheape's electionfor Professor of Civil Law, which it is thought we can carry for him. Hedeserves support, having been very indifferently used in the affair ofthe _Beacon_,[429] where certain high Tories showed a great desire toleave him to the mercy of the enemy; as _Feeble_ says, "I will neverbear a base mind."[430] We drank some "victorious Burgundy," contrary toall prescription._December_ 15.--Egad! I think I am rather better for my good cheer! Ihave passed one quiet night at least, and that is something gained. Aglass of good wine is a gracious creature, and reconciles poor mortalityto itself, and that is what few things can do.Our election went off very decently; no discussions or aggravatingspeeches. Sir John Jackass seconded the Whig's nominee. So much theywill submit to to get a vote. The numbers stood--Cheape,[431] 138; Bell,132. Majority, 6--mighty hard run. The Tory interest was weak among theold stagers, where I remember it so strong, but preferment, countryresidence, etc., has thinned them. Then it was strong in the youngerclasses. The new Dean, James Moncreiff,[432] presided with strictpropriety and impartiality. Walter and Jane dined with us._December_ 16.--Another bad night. I remember I used to think a slightillness was a luxurious thing. My pillow was then softened by the handof affection, and all the little cares which were put in exercise tosoothe the languor or pain were more flattering and pleasing than theconsequences of the illness were disagreeable. It was a new sense to bewatched and attended, and I used to think that the _Malade imaginaire_gained something by his humour. It is different in the latter stages.The old post-chaise gets more shattered and out of order at every turn;windows will not be pulled up; doors refuse to open, or being open willnot shut again--which last is rather my case. There is some new subjectof complaint every moment; your sicknesses come thicker and thicker;your comforting or sympathising friends fewer and fewer; for why shouldthey sorrow for the course of nature? The recollection of youth, health,and uninterrupted powers of activity, neither improved nor enjoyed, is apoor strain of comfort. The best is, the long halt will arrive at last,and cure all.We had a long sitting in the Court. Came home through a cold easterlyrain without a greatcoat, and was well wet. A goodly medicine for myaching bones.[433] Dined at Mr. Adam Wilson's, and had some good singingin the evening. Saw Dr. Stokoe, who attended Boney in Saint Helena, aplain, sensible sort of man.[434]_December_ 17.--This was a day of labour, agreeably varied by a painwhich rendered it scarce possible to sit upright. My Journal is gettinga vile chirurgical aspect.I begin to be afraid of the odd consequences complaints in the _postequitem_ are said to produce. Walter and Jane dined. Mrs. Skene came inthe evening._December_ 18.--Almost sick with pain, and it stops everything. I shalltire of my Journal if it is to contain nothing but biles and plastersand unguents. In my better days I had stories to tell; but death hasclosed the long dark avenue upon loves and friendships; and I can onlylook at them as through the grated door of a long burial-place filledwith monuments of those who were once dear to me, with no insincere wishthat it may open for me at no distant period, provided such be the willof God. My pains were those of the heart, and had something flatteringin their character; if in the head, it was from the blow of a bludgeongallantly received and well paid back.I went to the meeting of the Commissioners;[435] there was none to-day.The carriage had set me down; so I walked from the college in one of thesourest and most unsocial days which I ever felt. Why should I haveliked this? I do not know; it is my dogged humour to yield little toexternal circumstances. Sent an excuse to the Royal Society, however._December_ 19.--Went to Court. No, I lie; I had business there. Wrote atask; no more; could not. Went out to Dalkeith, and dined with the Duke.It delights me to hear this hopeful young nobleman talk with sense andfirmness about his plans for improving his estate, and employing thepoor. If God and the world spare him, he will be far known as a trueScots lord.[436]_December_ 20.--Being a Teind day, I had a little repose. We dined atHector Macdonald's with William Clerk and some youngsters. Highlandhospitality as usual. I got some work done to-day._December_ 21.--In the house till two o'clock nearly. Came home,corrected proof-sheets, etc., mechanically. All well, would the machinebut keep in order, but "The spinning wheel is auld and stiff."I think I shall not live to the usual verge of human existence. I shallnever see the threescore and ten, and shall be summed up at a discount.No help for it, and no matter either._December_ 22.--Poor old Honour and Glory dead--once Lord Moira, morelately Lord Hastings. He was a man of very considerable talents, but hadan overmastering degree of vanity of the grossest kind. It followed ofcourse that he was gullible. In fact the propensity was like a ring inhis nose into which any rogue might put a string. He had a highreputation for war, but it was after the pettifogging hostilities inAmerica where he had done some clever things. He died, having thecredit, or rather having had the credit, to leave more debt than any mansince Caesar's time. 1,200,000 is said to be the least. There was atime that I knew him well, and regretted the foibles which mingled withhis character, so as to make his noble qualities sometimes questionable,sometimes ridiculous. He was always kind to me. Poor Plantagenet! YoungPercival went out to dine at Dalkeith with me._December_ 24.--To add to my other grievances I have this day a properfit of rheumatism in my best knee. I pushed to Abbotsford, however,after the Court rose, though compelled to howl for pain as they helpedme out of the carriage.[_Abbotsford_,] _December_ 25.--By dint of abstinence and opodeldoc Ipassed a better night than I could have hoped for; but took up mylodging in the chapel room, as it is called, for going upstairs wasimpossible.To-day I have been a mere wretch. I lay in bed till past eleven,thinking to get rid of the rheumatism; then I walked as far as Turnagainwith much pain, and since that time I have just roasted myself like apotato by the fireside in my study, slumbering away my precious time,and unable to keep my eyes open or my mind intent on anything, if Iwould have given my life for it. I seemed to sleep tolerably, too, lastnight, but I suppose Nature had not her dues properly paid; neither hasshe for some time.I saw the filling up of the quarry on the terrace walk, and was pleased.Anne and I dined at Mertoun, as has been my old wont and use asChristmas day comes about. We were late in setting out, and I haverarely seen so dark a night. The mist rolled like volumes of smoke onthe road before us._December_ 26.--Returned to Abbotsford this morning. I heard it reportedthat Lord B. is very ill. If that be true it affords ground for hopethat Sir John ------ is not immortal. Both great bores. But the Earl hassomething of wild cleverness, far exceeding the ponderous stupidity ofthe Cavaliero Jackasso._December_ 27.--Still weak with this wasting illness, but it is clearlygoing off. Time it should, quoth Sancho. I began my work again, whichhad slumbered betwixt pain and weakness. In fact I could not write orcompose at all._December_ 28.--Stuck to my work. Mr. Scrope came to dinner, andremained next day. We were expecting young Percival and his wife, oncemy favourite and beautiful Nancy M'Leod, and still a very fine woman;but they came not.In bounced G. T[homson], alarmed by an anonymous letter, whichacquainted him that thirty tents full of Catholics were coming tocelebrate high mass in the Abbey church; and to consult me on such aprecious document he came prancing about seven at night. I hope to gethim a kirk before he makes any extraordinary explosion of simplicity._December_ 29.--Mr. and Mrs. Percival came to-day. He is son of the latelamented statesman, equally distinguished by talents and integrity. Theson is a clever young man, and has read a good deal; pleasant, too, insociety; but tampers with phrenology, which is unworthy of his father'sson. There is a certain kind of cleverish men, either half educated orcock-brained by nature, who are attached to that same turnipology. I amsorry this gentleman should take such whims--sorry even for his name'ssake. Walter and Jane arrived; so our Christmas party thickens. Sir Adamand Colonel Ferguson dined._December_ 30.--Wrote and wrought hard, then went out a drive with Mr.and Mrs. Percival; and went round by the lake. If my days of goodfortune should ever return I will lay out some pretty rides atAbbotsford.Last day of an eventful year; much evil and some good; but especiallythe courage to endure what Fortune sends without becoming a pipe for herfingers.[437]It is _not_ the last day of the year, but to-morrow being Sunday we holdour festival of neighbours to-day instead. The Fergusons came _enmasse_, and we had all the usual appliances of mirth and good cheer. Yetour party, like the chariot-wheels of Pharaoh in the Red Sea, draggedheavily.Some of the party grow old and infirm; others thought of the absence ofthe hostess, whose reception of her guests was always kind. We did aswell as we could, however.    "It's useless to murmur and pout--    There's no good in making ado;    'Tis well the old year is out,    And time to begin a new."_December_ 31.--It must be allowed that the regular recurrence of annualfestivals among the same individuals has, as life advances, something init that is melancholy. We meet on such occasions like the survivors ofsome perilous expedition, wounded and weakened ourselves, and lookingthrough the diminished ranks of those who remain, while we think ofthose who are no more. Or they are like the feasts of the Caribs, inwhich they held that the pale and speechless phantoms of the deceasedappeared and mingled with the living. Yet where shall we fly from vainrepining? Or why should we give up the comfort of seeing our friends,because they can no longer be to us, or we to them, what we once were toeach other?FOOTNOTES:[420] During the winter of 1826-7 Sir Walter suffered great pain (enoughto have disturbed effectually any other man's labours, whether officialor literary) from successive attacks of rheumatism, which seems to havebeen fixed on him by the wet sheets of one of his French inns; and hisDiary contains, besides, various indications that his constitution wasalready shaking under the fatigue to which he had subjected it.Formerly, however great the quantity of work he put through his hands,his evenings were almost all reserved for the light reading of anelbow-chair, or the enjoyment of his family and friends. Now he seemedto grudge every minute that was not spent at his desk. The little thathe read of new books, or for mere amusement, was done by snatches in thecourse of his meals; and to walk, when he could walk at all, to theParliament House, and back again through the Princes Street Gardens, washis only exercise and his only relaxation. Every ailment, of whateversort, ended in aggravating his lameness; and, perhaps, the severest testhis philosophy encountered was the feeling of bodily helplessness thatfrom week to week crept upon him. The winter, to make bad worse, was avery cold and stormy one. The growing sluggishness of his blood showeditself in chilblains, not only on the feet but the fingers, and hishandwriting becomes more and more cramped and confused.--_Life_, vol.ix. pp. 58-9.[421] See Bickerstaff's Comic Opera, _The Padlock_.[422] This gentleman published his own Memoirs (2 vols. 8vo, Lond.1832). They read like chapters from the _Arabian Nights_. He gives asomewhat different account of his occupation of Zante, which he says waseffected at Nelson's suggestion, and by Lord Keith's authority. SirJames died in 1832 at a very great age.[423] _Henry V_. Act v. Sc. 1.[424] For _By and attour_, i.e. over and above.[425] Burns's lines to J. Smith.[426] Delta's lines on Leslie's portrait of Scott may be recordedhere:--  Brother of Homer and of him  On Avon's shore, mid twilight dim,  Who dreamed immortal dreams, and took  From Nature's hand her picture book;  Time hath not seen, Time may not see,  Till ends his reign, a third like thee.[427] Now at Bowhill.[428] James Wolfe Murray succeeded Lord Meadowbank on the Bench as LordCringletie, in November 1816, and died in 1836.[429] A Party Newspaper started by the Tories in Edinburgh at thebeginning of 1821. It was suppressed in the month of August, but duringthe interval contrived to give great offence to the Whig leaders by itspersonality. Lockhart says of it that "a more pitiable mass of blundersand imbecility was never heaped together than the whole of this affairexhibited;" and Scott, who was one of its founders, along with the LordAdvocate and other official persons, wrote to Erskine, "I am terriblymalcontent about the _Beacon_. I was dragged into the bond against allreasons I could make, and now they have allowed me no vote regardingstanding or flying. _Entre nous_, our friends went into the thing likefools, and came out very like cowards." The wretched libels it containedcost Sir A. Boswell his life, and for a moment endangered that ofScott.--See _Life_, vol. vi. pp. 426-429, and Cockburn's _Memorials_, p.312.[430] _2 Henry IV_. Act III. Sc. 2.[431] Douglas Cheape, whose Introductory Lecture was published in 1827.Mr. Cheape died in 1861.[432] James Moncreiff, son of the Rev. Sir Henry Wellwood. The new Deansucceeded Lord Alloway on the Scotch Bench in 1829, and died in 1851.Cockburn writes of him thus:--"During the twenty-one years he was on thecivil and criminal benches, he performed all his duties admirably.Law-learning and law-reasoning, industry, honesty, and high-mindedpurity could do no more for any judge. After forty years of unbrokenfriendship, it is a pleasure to record my love of the man, and myadmiration of his character."--_Journals_, vol. ii, p. 264.[433] _Troilus and Cressida_, Act v. Sc. 2.[434] Dr. Stokoe, who had settled at Durham, died suddenly at York in1852. He had been surgeon in the fleet at Trafalgar, and was afterwardsappointed to St. Helena.[435] The University Commission.--See _ante_, pp. 256, 257.[436] The long life of Walter, fifth Duke of Buccleuch, more thanfulfilled the hopes and prognostics of his friend. A "true Scots lord,"he carried with him to the grave in 1884 the love and respect of hiscountrymen.[437] _Hamlet_, Act III. Sc. 2.--J.G.L.1827JANUARY._January_ 1.--God make this a happy year to the King and country, and toall honest men!I went with all our family to-day to dine as usual at the kind house ofHuntly Burn; but the same cloud which hung over us on Saturday still hadits influence. The effect of grief upon [those] who, like myself and SirA.F., are highly susceptible of humour, has, I think, been finelytouched by Wordsworth in the character of the merry village teacherMatthew, whom Jeffrey profanely calls the hysterical schoolmaster.[438]But, with my friend Jeffrey's pardon, I think he loves to seeimagination best when it is bitted and managed and ridden upon, the_grand pas_. He does not make allowance for starts and sallies andbounds when Pegasus is beautiful to behold, though sometimes perilous tohis rider. Not that I think the amiable bard of Rydal shows judgment inchoosing such subjects as the popular mind cannot sympathise in. It isunwise and unjust to himself. I do not compare myself, in point ofimagination, with Wordsworth--far from it; for [his] is naturallyexquisite, and highly cultivated by constant exercise. But I can see asmany castles in the clouds as any man, as many genii in the curlingsmoke of a steam engine, as perfect a Persepolis in the embers of asea-coal fire. My life has been spent in such day-dreams. But I cry noroast-meat. There are times a man should remember what Rousseau used tosay: _Tais-toi, Jean-Jacques, car on ne t'entend pas_![439]_January 2_.--I had resolved to mark down no more griefs and groans,but I must needs briefly state that I am nailed to my chair like theunhappy Theseus. The rheumatism, exasperated by my sortie of yesterday,has seized on my only serviceable knee--and I am, by Proserpine,motionless as an anvil. Leeches and embrocations are all I have for it._Diable_! there was a twinge. The Russells and Fergusons here; but I wasfairly driven off the pit after dinner, and compelled to retreat to myown bed, there to howl till morning like a dog in his solitary cabin._January_ 3.--Mending slowly. Two things are comfortable--1_st_, I loseno good weather out of doors, for the ground is covered with snow; 2_d_,That, by exerting a little stoicism, I can make my illness promote theadvance of _Nap_. As I can scarcely stand, however, I am terriblyawkward at consulting books, maps, etc. The work grows under my hand,however; vol. vi. [_Napoleon_] will be finished this week, I believe.Russells being still with us, I was able by dint of handing and chairingto get to the dining-room and the drawing-room in the evening.Talking of Wordsworth, he told Anne and me a story, the object of whichwas to show that Crabbe had not imagination. He, Sir George Beaumont,and Wordsworth were sitting together in Murray the bookseller'sback-room. Sir George, after sealing a letter, blew out the candle,which had enabled him to do so, and, exchanging a look with Wordsworth,began to admire in silence the undulating thread of smoke which slowlyarose from the expiring wick, when Crabbe put on the extinguisher. Annelaughed at the instance, and inquired if the taper was wax, and beinganswered in the negative, seemed to think that there was no call on Mr.Crabbe to sacrifice his sense of smell to their admiration of beautifuland evanescent forms. In two other men I should have said "this isaffectations,"[440] with Sir Hugh Evans; but Sir George is the man inthe world most void of affectation; and then he is an exquisite painter,and no doubt saw where the _incident_ would have succeeded in painting.The error is not in you yourself receiving deep impressions from slighthints, but in supposing that precisely the same sort of impression mustarise in the mind of men otherwise of kindred feeling, or that thecommonplace folks of the world can derive such inductions at any time orunder any circumstances._January_ 4.--My enemy gained some strength during the watches of thenight, but has again succumbed under scalding fomentations of camomileflowers. I still keep my state, for my knee, though it has ceased topain me, is very feeble. We began to fill the ice-house to-day. Dinealone--_en famille_, that is, Jane, Anne, Walter, and I. Why, this makesup for _aiches_, as poor John Kemble used to call them. After tea Ibroke off work, and read my young folks the farce of the _Critic_, and"merry folks were we."_January_ 5.--I waked, or _aked_ if you please, for five or six hours Ithink, then fevered a little. I am better though, God be thanked, andcan now shuffle about and help myself to what I want without ringingevery quarter of an hour. It is a fine clear sunny day; I should like togo out, but flannel and poultices cry nay. So I drudge away with theassisting of Pelet, who has a real French head, believing all he desiresshould be true, and affirming all he wishes should be believed. Skenes(Mr. and Mrs., with Miss Jardine) arrived about six o'clock. Skene veryrheumatic, as well as I am._January_ 6.--Worked till dusk, but not with much effect; my head andmind not clear somehow. W. Laidlaw at dinner. In the evening readFoote's farce of the _Commissary,_ said to have been levelled at SirLawrence Dundas; but Sir Lawrence was a man of family. Walter and Janedined at Mertoun._January_ 7.--Wrought till twelve, then sallied and walked with Skenefor two miles; home and corrected proofs, and to a large amount. Mr.Scrope and George Thomson dined._January_ 8.--Slept well last night in consequence I think of my walk,which I will, God willing, repeat to-day. I wrote some letters too longdelayed, and sent off my packets to J.B. Letter from C. Sharpe verypressing. I should employ my interest at Windsor to oppose thealterations on the town of Edinburgh. "One word from you, and all that."I don't think I shall speak that word though. I hate the alterations,that is certain; but then _ne accesseris in consilium nisivocatus_,--what is the use of my volunteering an opinion? Again, thevalue of many people's property may depend on this plan going forward.Have I a right from mere views of amenity to interfere with thoseserious interests? I something doubt it. Then I have always said that Inever meddle in such work, and ought I _sotto voce_ now to begin it? Bymy faith I won't; there are enough to state the case besides me.[441]The young Duke of B. came in to bid us good-bye, as he is going off toEngland. God bless him! He is a hawk of a good nest. Afterwards I walkedto the Welsh pool, Skene declining to go, for I    "-----not over stout of limb,    Seem stronger of the two."_January_ 9.--This morning received the long-expected news of the Dukeof York's death.[442] I am sorry both on public and private accounts.His R.H. was, while he occupied the situation of next in the royalsuccession, a _Breakwater_ behind the throne. I fear his brother ofClarence's opinions may be different, and that he will hoist a standardunder which will rendezvous men of desperate hopes and evil designs. Iam sorry, too, on my own account. The Duke of York was uniformly kind tome, and though I never tasked his friendship deeply, yet I find apowerful friend is gone. His virtues were honour, good sense, integrity;and by exertion of these qualities he raised the British army from avery low ebb to be the pride and dread of Europe. His errors were thoseof a sanguine and social temper; he could not resist the temptation ofdeep play, which was fatally allied with a disposition to the bottle.This last is incident to his complaint, which vinous influence soothesfor the time, while it insidiously increases it in the end.Here blows a gale of wind. I was to go to Galashiels to settle somefoolish lawsuit, and afterwards to have been with Mr. Kerr of Kippilawto treat about a march-dike. I shall content myself with the first duty,for this day does not suit Bowden-moor.Went over to Galashiels like the devil in a gale of wind, and found awriter contesting with half-a-dozen unwashed artificers the possessionof a piece of ground the size and shape of a three-corneredpocket-handkerchief. Tried to "gar them gree," and if I succeed, I shallthink I deserve something better than the _touch of rheumatism_, whichis like to be my only reward.Scotts of Harden and John Pringle of Clifton dined, and we got on verywell._January_ 10.--Enter rheumatism, and takes me by the knee. So much forplaying the peacemaker in a shower of rain. Nothing for it but patience,cataplasm of camomile, and labour in my own room the whole day tilldinner-time--then company and reading in the evening._January_ 11.--Ditto repeated. I should have thought I would have mademore of these solitary days than I find I can do. A morning, or two orthree hours before dinner, have often done more efficient work than sixor seven of these hours of languor, I cannot say of illness, canproduce. A bow that is slackly strung will never send an arrow very far.Heavy snow. We are engaged at Mr. Scrope's, but I think I shall not beable to go. I remained at home accordingly, and, having nothing else todo, worked hard and effectively. I believe my sluggishness was partlyowing to the gnawing rheumatic pain in my knee, for after all I am ofopinion pain is an evil, let Stoics say what they will. Thank God, it isan evil which is mending with me._January_ 12.--All this day occupied with camomile poultices and pen andink. It is now four o'clock, and I have written yesterday and to-day tenof my pages--that is, one-tenth of one of these large volumes--moreover,I have corrected three proof-sheets. I wish it may not prove fool'shaste, yet I take as much pains too as is in my nature._January_ 13.--The Fergusons, with my neighbours Mr. Scrope and Mr.Bainbridge and young Hume, eat a haunch of venison from Drummond Castle,and seemed happy. We had music and a little dancing, and enjoyed inothers the buoyancy of spirit that we no longer possess ourselves. Yet Ido not think the young people of this age so gay as we were. There is aturn for persiflage, a fear of ridicule among them, which stifles thehonest emotions of gaiety and lightness of spirit; and people, when theygive in the least to the expansion of their natural feelings, are alwayskept under by the fear of becoming ludicrous. To restrain your feelingsand check your enthusiasm in the cause even of pleasure is now a ruleamong people of fashion, as much as it used to be among philosophers._January_ 14.--Well--my holidays are out--and I may count my gains andlosses as honest Robinson Crusoe used to balance his accounts of goodand evil.I have not been able, during three weeks, to stir above once or twicefrom the house. But then I have executed a great deal of work, whichwould be otherwise unfinished.Again I have sustained long and sleepless nights and much pain. True;but no one is the worse of the thoughts which arise in the watches ofthe night; and for pain, the complaint which brought on this rheumatismwas not so painful perhaps, but was infinitely more disagreeable anddepressing.Something there has been of dulness in our little reunions of societywhich did not use to cloud them. But I have seen all my own old and kindfriends, with my dear children (Charles alone excepted); and if we didnot rejoice with perfect joy, it was overshadowed from the same sense ofregret.Again, this new disorder seems a presage of the advance of age with itsinfirmities. But age is but the cypress avenue which terminates in thetomb, where the weary are at rest.I have been putting my things to rights to go off to-morrow. Though Ialways wonder why it should be so, I feel a dislike to order and totask-work of all kinds--a predominating foible in my disposition. I donot mean that it influences me in morals; for even in youth I had adisgust at gross irregularities of any kind, and such as I ran into weremore from compliance with others and a sort of false shame, than anypleasure I sought or found in dissipation. But what I mean is adetestation of precise order in petty matters--in reading or answeringletters, in keeping my papers arranged and in order, and so on. Weber,and then Gordon, used to keep my things in some order--now they areverging to utter confusion. And then I have let my cash run ahead sinceI came from the Continent--I must slump the matter as I can._[Shandwick Place,] January_ 15.--- Off we came, and despite ofrheumatism I got through the journey comfortably. Greeted on my arrivalby a number of small accounts whistling like grape-shot; they are of nogreat avail, and incurred, I see, chiefly during the time of illness.But I believe it will take me some hard work till I pay them, and how toget the time to work? It will be hard purchased if, as I think notunlikely, this bitch of a rheumatism should once more pin me to mychair. Coming through Galashiels, we met the Laird of Torwoodlee, who,on hearing how long I had been confined, asked how I bore it, observingthat he had once in his life (Torwoodlee must be between sixty andseventy) been confined for five days to the house, and was like to hanghimself. I regret God's free air as much as any man, but I could amusemyself were it in the Bastile._January_ 16.--Went to Court, and returned through a curious atmosphere,half mist, half rain, famous for rheumatic joints. Yet I felt noincrease of my plaguey malady, but, on the contrary, am rather better. Ihad need, otherwise a pair of crutches for life were my prettiest help.Walter dined with us to-day, Jane remaining with her mother. The goodaffectionate creatures leave us to-morrow. God send them a quick passagethrough the Irish Channel! They go to Gort, where Walter's troop islying--a long journey for winter days._January_ 17.--Another proper day of mist, sleet, and rain, throughwhich I navigated homeward. I imagine the distance to be a mile and ahalf. It is a good thing to secure as much exercise.I observed in the papers my old friend Gifford's funeral. He was a manof rare attainments and many excellent qualities. The translation ofJuvenal is one of the best versions ever made of a classical author, andhis satire of the Baviad and Maeviad squabashed at one blow a set ofcoxcombs who might have humbugged the world long enough.As a commentator he was capital, could he but have suppressed hisrancour against those who had preceded him in the task, but amisconstruction or misinterpretation, nay, the misplacing of a comma,was in Gifford's eyes a crime worthy of the most severe animadversion.The same fault of extreme severity went through his critical labours,and in general he flagellated with so little pity, that people losttheir sense of the criminal's guilt in dislike of the savage pleasurewhich the executioner seemed to take in inflicting the punishment.This lack of temper probably arose from indifferent health, for he wasvery valetudinary, and realised two verses, wherein he says fortuneassigned him--      "----- One eye not over good,    Two sides that to their cost have stood            A ten years' hectic cough,    Aches, stitches, all the various ills    That swell the dev'lish doctor's bills,    And sweep poor mortals off."But he might also justly claim, as his gift, the moral qualitiesexpressed in the next fine stanza--                  "------A soul    That spurns the crowd's malign control,             A firm contempt of wrong:    Spirits above afflictions' power,    And skill to soothe the lingering hour             With no inglorious song."[443]_January_ 18.--To go on with my subject--Gifford was a little man,dumpled up together, and so ill-made as to seem almost deformed, butwith a singular expression of talent in his countenance. Though solittle of an athlete, he nevertheless beat off Dr. Wolcot, when thatcelebrated person, the most unsparing calumniator of his time, chose tobe offended with Gifford for satirising him in his turn. Peter Pindarmade a most vehement attack, but Gifford had the best of the affray, andremained, I think, in triumphant possession of the field of action, andof the assailant's cane. Gifford had one singular custom. He used alwaysto have a duenna of a housekeeper to sit in his study with him while hewrote. This female companion died when I was in London, and his distresswas extreme. I afterwards heard he got her place supplied. I believethere was no scandal in all this.[444]This is another vile day of darkness and rain, with a heavy yellow mistthat might become Charing Cross--one of the benefits of our extendedcity; for that in our atmosphere was unknown till the extent of thebuildings below Queen Street. M'Culloch of Ardwell called.Wrought chiefly on a critique of Mrs. Charlotte Smith's novels,[445] andproofs._January_ 19.--Uncle Adam,[446] _vide Inheritance_, who retired lastyear from an official situation at the age of eighty-four, althoughsubject to fits of giddiness, and although carefully watched by hisaccomplished daughter, is still in the habit of walking by himself if hecan by possibility make an escape. The other day, in one of theseexcursions, he fell against a lamp-post, cut himself much, bled a gooddeal, and was carried home by two gentlemen. What said oldRugged-and-Tough? Why, that his fall against the post was the luckiestthing could have befallen him, for the bleeding was exactly the remedyfor his disorder.    "Lo! stout hearts of men!"Called on said "uncle," also on David Hume, Lord Chief-Commissioner,Will Clerk, Mrs. Jobson, and others. My knee made no allowance for mypoliteness, but has begun to swell again, and to burn like a scorpion'sbite._January_ 20.--Scarce slept all night; scarce able to stand or move thismorning; almost an absolute fixture.    "A sleepless knight,    A weary knight,          God be the guide."[447]This is at the Court a blank day, being that of the poor Duke of York'sfuneral. I can sit at home, luckily, and fag hard.And so I have, pretty well; six leaves written, and four or fiveproof-sheets corrected. Cadell came to breakfast, and proposes an eighthvolume for _Napoleon_. I told him he might write to Longman for theiropinion. Seven is an awkward number, and will extremely cramp the work.Eight, too, would go into six octavos, should it ever be called for inthat shape. But it shall be as they list to have it._January_ 21.--A long day of some pain relieved by labour. Dr. Ross camein and recommended some stuff, which did little good. I would like illto lose the use of my precious limbs. Meanwhile, Patience, cousin, andshuffle the cards.Missie dined with us to-day--an honest Scotch lass, lady-like and frank.I finished about six leaves, doing indeed little else._January_ 22.--Work, varied with camomile; we get on, though. A visitfrom Basil Hall, with Mr. Audubon the ornithologist, who has followedthat pursuit by many a long wandering in the American forests. He is anAmerican by naturalisation, a Frenchman by birth;[448] but less of aFrenchman than I have ever seen--no dash, or glimmer, or shine abouthim, but great simplicity of manners and behaviour; slight in person,and plainly dressed; wears long hair, which time has not yet tinged; hiscountenance acute, handsome, and interesting, but still simplicity isthe predominant characteristic. I wish I had gone to see his drawings;but I had heard so much about them that I resolved not to see them--"acrazy way of mine, your honour."--Five more leaves finished._January_ 23.--I have got a piece of armour, a knee-cap of chamoisleather, which I think does my unlucky rheumatism some good. I begin,too, to sleep at night, which is a great comfort. Spent this daycompletely in labour; only betwixt dinner and tea, while husbanding atumbler of whisky and water, I read the new novel, _Elizabeth deBruce_[449]--part of it, that is._January_ 24.--Visit from Mr. Audubon, who brings some of his birds. Thedrawings are of the first order--the attitudes of the birds of the mostanimated character, and the situations appropriate; one of a snakeattacking a bird's nest, while the birds (the parents) peck at thereptile's eyes--they usually, in the long-run, destroy him, says thenaturalist. The feathers of these gay little sylphs, most of them fromthe Southern States, are most brilliant, and are represented with what,were it [not] connected with so much spirit in the attitude, I wouldcall a laborious degree of execution. This extreme correctness is ofthe utmost consequence to the naturalist, [but] as I think (having noknowledge of _virtu_), rather gives a stiffness to the drawings. Thissojourner in the desert had been in the woods for months together. Hepreferred associating with the Indians to the company of the BackSettlers; very justly, I daresay, for a civilised man of the lowerorder--that is, the dregs of civilisation--when thrust back on thesavage state becomes worse than a savage. They are Wordsworth'sadventurer,    "Deliberate and undeceived    The wild men's vices who received,    And gave them back his own."[450]The Indians, he says, are dying fast; they seem to pine and die wheneverthe white population approaches them. The Shawanese, who amounted, Mr.Audubon says, to some thousands within his memory, are almost extinct,and so are various other tribes. Mr. Audubon could never hear anytradition about the mammoth, though he made anxious inquiries. He givesno countenance to the idea that the Red Indians were ever a morecivilised people than at this day, or that a more civilised people hadpreceded them in North America. He refers the bricks, etc., occasionallyfound, and appealed to in support of this opinion, to the earliersettlers,--or, where kettles and other utensils may have been found, tothe early trade between the Indians and the Spaniards.John Russell[451] and Leonard Horner[452] came to consult me about thepropriety and possibility of retaining the northern pronunciation of theLatin in the new Edinburgh Academy.[453] I will think of it untilto-morrow, being no great judge. We had our solitary dinner; indeed, itis only remarkable nowadays when we have a guest._January_ 25.--Thought during the watches of the night and a part of themorning about the question of Latin pronunciation, and came to thefollowing conclusions. That the mode of pronunciation approved byBuchanan and by Milton, and practised by all nations, excepting theEnglish, assimilated in sound, too, to the Spanish, Italian, and otherlanguages derived from the Latin, is certainly the best, and is likewiseuseful as facilitating the acquisition of sounds which the Englishmanattempts in vain. Accordingly I wish the cockneyfied pedant who firstdisturbed it by reading _Emo_ for _Amo_, and _quy_ for _qui_, had chokedin the attempt. But the question is, whether a youth who has been taughtin a manner different from that used all over England will be heard, ifhe presumes to use his Latin at the bar or the senate; and if he is tobe unintelligible or ludicrous, the question [arises] whether hiseducation is not imperfect under one important view. I am very unwillingto sacrifice our _sumpsimus_ to their old _mumpsimus_--still more tohumble ourselves before the Saxons while we can keep an inch of theScottish flag flying. But this is a question which must be decided noton partialities or prejudices.I got early from the Court to-day, and settled myself to work hard._January_ 26.--My rheumatism is almost gone. I can walk without MajorWeir, which is the name Anne gives my cane, because it is so often outof the way that it is suspected, like the staff of that famouswizard,[454] to be capable of locomotion. Went to Court, and tarriedtill three o'clock, after which transacted business with Mr. Gibson andDr. Inglis as one of Miss Hume's trustees. Then was introduced to youngMr. Rennie,[455] or he to me, by [Sir] James Hall, a genteel-lookingyoung man, and speaks well. He was called into public notice by having,many years before, made a draught of a plan of his father's for LondonBridge. It was sought for when the building was really about to takeplace, and the assistance which young Mr. Rennie gave to render ituseful raised his character so high, that his brother and he are now infirst-rate practice as civil engineers._January_ 27.--Read _Elizabeth de Bruce_; it is very clever, but doesnot show much originality. The characters, though very entertaining, arein the manner of other authors, and the finished and filled up portraitsof which the sketches are to be found elsewhere. One is too apt to feelon such occasions the pettish resentment that you might entertainagainst one who had poached on your manor. But the case is quitedifferent, and a claim set up on having been the first who betookhimself to the illustration of some particular class of characters, ordepartment of life, is no more a right of monopoly than that asserted bythe old buccaneers by setting up a wooden cross, and killing an Indianor two on some new discovered island. If they can make anything of theirfirst discovery, the better luck theirs; if not, let others come,penetrate further into the country, write descriptions, make drawings orsettlements at their pleasure.We were kept in Parliament House till three. Called to return thanks toMr. Menzies of Pitfoddels, who lent some pamphlets about the unhappyDuke d'Enghien. Read in the evening _Boutourlin_ and _Sgur_, toprepare for my Russian campaign._January_ 28.--Continued my reading with the commentary of the D. ofW.[456] If his broad shoulders cannot carry me through, the devil mustbe in the dice. Longman and Company agree to the eight volumes. It willmake the value of the book more than 12,000. Wrought indifferent hard._January_ 29.--Mr. Gibson breakfasted with Dr. Marshman,[457] the headof the missionaries at Serampore, a great Oriental scholar. He is athin, dark-featured, middle-sized man, about fifty or upwards, his eyeacute, his hair just beginning to have a touch of the grey. He spokewell and sensibly, and seemed liberal in his ideas. He was clearly ofopinion that general information must go hand in hand, or even ought toprecede religious instruction. Thinks the influence of European mannersis gradually making changes in India. The natives, so far as theirreligion will allow them, are become fond of Europeans, and invite themto their great festivals. He has a conceit that the Afghans are theremains of the Ten Tribes. I cannot find he has a better reason thantheir own tradition, which calls them Ben-Israel, and says they are notBen-Judah. They have Jewish rites and ceremonies, but so have allMahometans; neither could I understand that their language has anythingpeculiar. The worship of Bhoodah he conceives to have [been] anoriginal, or rather the original, of Hindu religion, until the Brahminsintroduced the doctrines respecting caste and other peculiarities. Butit would require strong proof to show that the superstition of castecould be introduced into a country which had been long peopled, andwhere society had long existed without such restriction. It is more liketo be adopted in the early history of a tribe, when there are but fewindividuals, the descent of whom is accurately preserved. How could thecastes be distinguished or _told off_ in a populous nation? Dr. Marshmanwas an old friend of poor John Leyden._January_ 30.--Blank day at Court, being the Martyrdom. Wrought hard at_Bon._ all day, though I had settled otherwise. I ought to have been atan article for John Lockhart, and one for poor Gillies; but there issomething irresistible in contradiction, even when it consists in doinga thing equally laborious, but not the thing you are especially calledupon to do. It is a kind of cheating the devil, which a self-willedmonster like me is particularly addicted to. Not to make myself worsethan I am though, I was full of information about the Russian campaign,which might evaporate unless used, like lime, as soon after it waswrought up as possible. About three, Pitfoddels called. A bauld crackthat auld papist body, and well informed. We got on religion. He is veryangry with the Irish demagogues, and a sound well-thinking man.[458]Heard of Walter and Jane; all well, God be praised!By a letter from Gibson I see the gross proceeds of_Bonaparte_, at eight volumes, are     12,600 0 0Discount, five months,                          210 0 0                                            -----------                                            12,390 0 0                                            ===========I question if more was ever made by a single work, or by a singleauthor's labours, in the same time. But whether it is deserved or not isthe question._January_ 31.--Young Murray, son of Mr. M., in Albemarle Street,breakfasted with me. English boys have this advantage, that they arewell-bred, and can converse when ours are regular-built cubs. I am notsure if it is an advantage in the long-run. It is a temptation topremature display.Wet to the skin coming from the Court. Called on Skene, to give him, forthe Antiquarian Society, a heart, human apparently, stuck full of pins.It was found lying opposite to the threshold of an old tenement, in[Dalkeith], a little below the surface; it is in perfect preservation.Dined at the Bannatyne Club, where I am chairman. We admitted a batch ofnew members, chiefly noblemen and men connected with the public officesand records in London, such as Palgrave, Petrie, etc. We drank to ourold Scottish heroes, poets, historians, and printers, and were funnyenough, though, like Shylock, I had no will to go abroad. I wassupported by Lord Minto and Lord Eldin.FOOTNOTES:[438] "A half-crazy sentimental person."--_Edin. Rev_. No. xxiii. p.135.--J.G.L.[439] Mme. de Boufflers's saying to the author of _Julie_.[440] _Merry Wives of Windsor_, Act I. Sc. 1.--J.G.L.[441] Mr. Sharpe was doing what he could by voice and pen to prevent thedestruction of many historic buildings in Edinburgh, which the craze for"improvements" caused at this time. St. Giles' Church was unfortunatelyleft to its fate. Witness its external condition at the present day!The immediate cause of Mr. Sharpe's letter was a hint to him from theCourt, "that one person is all-powerful in everything regardingScotland, I mean Sir W.S." This was not the only appeal made to Scott tointerpose, and that he had done so at least in one case effectually maybe seen by referring to Sharpe's _Letters_, vol. ii. pp. 380, 388, 389.[442] Scott sent a biographical notice of the Duke of York to the_Weekly Journal_ on this day. It is now included in the _Misc. ProseWorks_, vol. iv. pp. 400-416.[443] Gifford's _Mviad_, 12mo, Lond. 1797; Ode to Rev. John Ireland,slightly altered.[444] William Gifford, editor of the _Anti-Jacobin_ in 1797, and the_Quarterly_ from 1809 to 1824. His political opponent, Leigh Hunt, wroteof him in 1812:--  'William Gifford's a name, I think, pretty well known.  Oh! now I remember,' said Phoebus;--'ah true--  My thanks to that name are undoubtedly due.  The rod that got rid of the Cruscas and Lauras,  That plague of the butterflies saved me the horrors,  The Juvenal too stops a gap in my shelf,  At least in what Dryden has not done himself,  _And there's something which even, distaste must respect  In the self-taught example that conquered neglect_.'--_Feast of the Poets_.[445] See _Miscell. Prose Works_, vol. iv. pp. 120-70.[446] James Ferrier, Esq.--See p. 103, February 3. 1826.[447] _See Midsummer Night's Dream_; a parody on Helena's  "O weary night O long and tedious night."[448] John James Audubon was born in Louisiana in the United States in1780, but educated in France.--Buchanan's _Life of Audubon_, p. 4.[449] Written by Mrs. J. Johnstone, in after years editor of _Tait'sMagazine_, well known also as the author of _Meg Dods' Cookery Book_,which Sir Walter refers to in _St. Ronan's Well_. Her sense of humourand power of delineating character are shown in her stories and sketchesin _Tait_, and a good example of her ready wit has been told by Mr.Alexander Russel, editor of the _Scotsman_. On a visit to Altrive Mrs.Johnstone and her party were kindly received by the Ettrick Shepherd,who did the honours of the district, and among other places took them toa Fairy Well, from which he drew a glass of sparkling water. Handing itto the lady the bard of Kilmeny said, "Hae, Mrs. Johnstone, ony merritwumman wha drinks a tumbler of this will hae twuns in a twalmont'!" "Inthat case, Mr. Hogg," replied the lady, "I shall only take half atumbler."Mrs. Johnstone died in Edinburgh in 1857.[450] Slightly varied from the lines in _Ruth_,--Poems, vol. ii. p. 112,Edinburgh, 1836.[451] John Russell (a grandson of Principal Robertson), long Chief Clerkin the Jury Court, and Treasurer to the Royal Society and the EdinburghAcademy. He took a keen interest in education, and published in October1855 some curious _Statistics of a Class_ [Christison's] _in the HighSchool_ [of Edinburgh] from 1787 to 1791, of which he had been a member.Mr. Russell died on January 30, 1862.[452] Leonard Horner, editor in after years of the Memoirs of hisbrother Francis (2 vols. 8vo, London, 1843). He died in 1864.[453] See _Report by the Directors to the Proprietors of the EdinburghAcademy on the Pronunciation of Latin_, Edin. 1827. Sir Walter alwaystook a warm interest in the school. His speech as Chairman at theopening ceremony, on the 1st October 1824, is quoted in the _Life_, vol.vii. p. 268.[454] Burnt at Edinburgh in 1670.--See Arnot's _Crim. Trials_. 4to,Edin. 1785.[455] Afterwards Sir John Rennie, knighted on the completion of theBridge.[456] See _ante_, p. 307, and _post_, p. 359.[457] Dr. Marshman died in 1837. See Marshman's _Lives of Carey,Marshman, and Ward_. London, 2 vols. 8vo, 1859.[458] John Menzies of Pitfoddels, the last of an old Aberdeenshirefamily, of whom it was said that for thirty-seven years he never becameaware of distress or difficulty without exerting himself to relieve it.In 1828 he gave the estate of Blairs, near Aberdeen, for the foundationof the Roman Catholic College established there, and was also amunificent benefactor to the Convent of St. Margaret, Edinburgh, openedin 1835. Mr. Menzies died in 1843.FEBRUARY._February_ 1.--I feel a return of the cursed rheumatism. How could itmiss, with my wetting? Also feverish, and a slight headache. So much forclaret and champagne. I begin to be quite unfit for a good fellow. LikeMother Cole in the _Minor_, a thimbleful upsets me,[459]--I mean, annoysmy stomach, for my brains do not suffer. Well, I have had my time ofthese merry doings.    "The haunch of the deer, and the wine's red dye,    Never bard loved them better than I."But it was for the sake of sociality; never either for the flask or thevenison. That must end--is ended. The evening sky of life does notreflect those brilliant flashes of light that shot across its morningand noon. Yet I thank God it is neither gloomy nor disconsolatelylowering; a sober twilight--that is all.I am in great hopes that the Bannatyne Club, by the assistance ofThomson's wisdom, industry, and accuracy, will be something far superiorto the Dilettanti model on which it started. The _Historie of K. JamesVI._, _Melville's Memoirs_, and other works, executed or in hand, aredecided boons to Scottish history and literature._February_ 2.--In confirmation of that which is above stated, I see inThorpe's sale-catalogue a set of the Bannatyne books, lacking five,priced 25. Had a dry walk from the Court by way of dainty, and made ita long one. Anne went at night to Lady Minto's.Hear of Miss White's death. Poor Lydia! she had a party at dinner on theFriday before, and had written with her own hand invitations foranother party. Twenty years ago she used to tease me with her youthfulaffectations--her dressing like the Queen of Chimney-sweeps on May-daymorning, and sometimes with rather a free turn in conversation, when shelet her wit run wild. But she was a woman of much wit, and had a feelingand kind heart. She made her point good, a _bas-bleu_ in London to apoint not easily attained, and contrived to have every evening a verygood literary _mle_, and little dinners which were very entertaining.She had also the newest lions upon town. In a word, she was not andwould not be forgotten, even when disease obliged her, as it did foryears, to confine herself to her couch; and the world, much abused forhard-heartedness, was kind in her case--so she lived in the society sheliked. No great expenditure was necessary for this. She had an easyfortune, but not more. Poor Lydia! I saw the Duke of York and her inLondon, when Death, it seems, was brandishing his dart over them.[460]    "The view o't gave them little fright."[461]Did not get quite a day's work finished to-day, thanks to my walk._February_ 3.--There is nought but care on every hand. James Hogg writesthat he is to lose his farm,[462] on which he laid out, or rather threwaway, the profit of all his publications.Then Terry has been pressed by Gibson for my debt to him. That I may getmanaged.I sometimes doubt if I am in what the good people call the right way.Not to sing my own praises, I have been willing always to do my friendswhat good was in my power, and have not shunned personal responsibility.But then that was in money matters, to which I am naturally indifferent,unless when the consequences press on me. But then I am a bad comforterin case of inevitable calamity; and feeling proudly able to endure in myown case, I cannot sympathise with those whose nerves are of a feeblertexture.Dined at Jeffrey's, with Lord and Lady Minto, John Murray and hislady,[463] a Mr. Featherstone, an Americo-Yorkshireman, and some others.Mrs. Murray is a very amiable person, and seems highly accomplished;plays most brilliantly._February_ 4.--R.R. These two letters, you must understand, do notsignify, as in Bibliomania phrase, a double degree of rarity, but,chirurgically, a double degree of rheumatism. The wine gets to weakplaces, Ross says. I have a letter from no less a person than that pinkof booksellers, Sir Richard Phillips, who, it seems, has been ruined,and as he sees me floating down the same dark tide, sings out his _nospoma natamus_._February_ 5.--R. One R. will do to-day. If this cursed rheumatism givesway to February weather, I will allow she has some right to be called aspring month, to which otherwise her pretensions are slender. I workedthis morning till two o'clock, and visited Mr. Grant's[464] pictures,who has them upon sale. They seem, to my inexperienced eye, genuine, orat least, good paintings. But I fear picture-buying, likehorse-jockeyship, is a profession a gentleman cannot make much ofwithout laying aside some of his attributes. The pictures are toohigh-priced, I should think, for this market. There is a very knowingcatalogue by Frank Grant himself. Next went to see a show of wildbeasts; it was a fine one. I think they keep them much cleaner thanformerly, when the strong smell generally gave me a headache for theday. The creatures are also much tamer, which I impute to more knowledgeof their habits and kind treatment. A lion and tigress went throughtheir exercise like poodles--jumping, standing, and lying down at theword of command. This is rather degrading. I would have the LordChancellor of Beasts good-humoured, not jocose. I treated the elephant,who was a noble fellow, to a shilling's worth of cakes. I wish I couldhave enlarged the space in which so much bulk and wisdom is confined. Hekept swinging his head from side to side, looking as if he marvelled whyall the fools that gaped at him were at liberty, and he cooped up in thecage.Dined at the Royal Society Club--about thirty present. Went to theSociety in the evening, and heard an essay by Peter Tytler[465] on thefirst encourager of Greek learning in England.[466]_February_ 6.--Was at Court till two; afterwards wrote a good deal,which has become a habit with me. Dined at Sir John Hay's, where met theAdvocate and a pleasant party. There had been a Justiciary trialyesterday, in which something curious had occurred. A woman of ratherthe better class, a farmer's wife, had been tried on the 5th forpoisoning her maid-servant. There seems to have been little doubt of herguilt, but the motive was peculiar. The unfortunate girl had an intriguewith her son, which this Mrs. Smith (I think that is the name) wasdesirous to conceal, from some ill-advised puritanic notions, and alsofor fear of her husband. She could find no better way of hiding theshame than giving the girl (with her own knowledge and consent, Ibelieve) potions to cause abortion, which she afterwards changed forarsenic, as the more effectual silencing medicine. In the course of thetrial one of the jury fell down in an epileptic fit, and on his recoverywas far too much disordered to permit the trial to proceed. With onlyfourteen jurymen it was impossible to go on. But the Advocate, SirWilliam Rae, says she shall be tried anew, since she has not tholed anassize. _Sic Paulus ait_--_et recte quidem._ But, having been halftried, I think she should have some benefit of it, as far as saving herlife, if convicted on the second indictment. The Advocate declares,however, she shall be hanged, as certainly she deserves. But it lookssomething like hanging up a man who has been recovered by the surgeons,which has always been accounted harsh justice._February_ 7.--Wrote six leaves to-day, and am tired--that's all._February_ 8.--I lost much time to-day. I got from the Court abouthalf-past twelve, therefore might have reckoned on four hours, or threeat least, before dinner. But I had to call on Dr. Shortt at two, whichmade me lounge till that hour came. Then I missed him, and, too tired toreturn, went to see the exhibition, where Skene was hanging up thepictures, and would not let me in. Then to the Oil Gas Company, whopropose to send up counsel to support their new bill. As I thought thechoice unadvisedly made, I fairly opposed the mission, which, I suppose,will give much offence; but I have no notion of being shamefaced indoing my duty, and I do not think I should permit forward persons topress into situations for which their vanity alone renders themcompetent. Had many proof-sheets to correct in the evening._February_ 9.--We had a long day of it at Court, but I whipped you offhalf-a-dozen of letters, for, as my cases stood last on the roll, Icould do what I liked in the interim. This carried me on till twoo'clock. Called on Baron Hume, and found him, as usual, in high spirits,notwithstanding his late illness. Then crept home--my rheumatism muchbetter, though. Corrected lives of Lord Somerville and the King [GeorgeIII.][467] for the Prose Works, which took a long time; but I had thewhole evening to myself, as Anne dined with the Swintons, and went to aball at the Justice-Clerk's. _N.B._--It is the first and only ball whichhas been given this season--a sign the times are pinching._February_ 10.--I got a present of Lord Francis Gower's printed butunpublished _Tale of the Mill._[468] It is a fine tale of terror initself, and very happily brought out. He has certainly a true taste forpoetry. I do not know why, but from my childhood I have seen somethingfearful, or melancholy at least, about a mill. Whether I had beenfrightened at the machinery when very young, of which I think I havesome shadowy recollection--whether I had heard the stories of the millerof Thirlestane[469] and similar molendinar tragedies, I cannot tell; butnot even recollection of the Lass of Patie's Mill, or the Miller ofMansfield, or he who "dwelt on the river Dee," have ever got over myinclination to connect gloom with a mill, especially when sun issetting. So I entered into the spirit of the terror with which LordFrancis has invested his haunted spot. I dine with the Solicitor to-day,so _quoad_ labour 'tis a blank. But then to-morrow is a new day.    "To-morrow to fresh meads and pastures new."[470]_February_ 11.--Wrought a good deal in the morning, and landed Boney atSmolensk. But I have him to bring off again; and, moreover, I mustcollate the authorities on the movements of the secondary armies ofWitgenstein and the Admiral with the break-tooth name. Dined with LordMinto, where I met Thomson, Cranstoun, and other gay folks. These dinnerparties narrow my working hours; yet they must sometimes be, or onewould fall out of the line of society, and go to leeward entirely, whichis not right to venture. This is the high time for parties in Edinburgh;no wonder one cannot keep clear._February_ 12.--I was obliged to read instead of writing, and theinfernal Russian names, which everybody spells _ad libitum,_ makes itdifficult to trace the operations on a better map than mine. I calledto-day on Dr. Shortt, principal surgeon at Saint Helena, and whopresided at the opening of Bonaparte's body. He mentions as certain thefalsehood of a number of the assertions concerning his usage, theunhealthy state of the island, and so forth. I have jotted down hisevidence elsewhere. I could not write when I came home. Nervous alittle, I think, and not yet up to the motions of Tchitchagoff, as Imust be before I can write. Will [Clerk] and Sir A. Ferguson dine hereto-day--the first time any one has had that honour for long enough,unless at Abbotsford. The good Lord Chief-Commissioner invited himself,and I asked his son, Admiral Adam. Col. Ferguson is of the party._February_ 13.--The dining parties come thick, and interfere with workextremely. I am, however, beforehand very far. Yet, as James B.says--the tortoise comes up with the hare. So Puss must make a newstart; but not this week. Went to see the exhibition--certainly a goodone for Scotland--and less trash than I have seen at Somerset-House(begging pardon of the pockpuddings). There is a beautiful thing byLandseer--a Highlander and two stag-hounds engaged with a deer. Veryspirited, indeed. I forgot my rheumatism, and could have wished myselfof the party. There were many fine folks, and there was a collation,chocolate, and so forth. We dine at Sir H. Jardine's, with LordCh.-Com., Lord Chief-Baron, etc._February_ 14.--"Death's gi'en the art an unco devel."[471] Sir GeorgeBeaumont's dead; by far the most sensible and pleasing man I ever knew;kind, too, in his nature, and generous; gentle in society, and of thosemild manners which tend to soften the causticity of the general London[tone] of persiflage and personal satire. As an amateur, he was apainter of the very highest rank. Though I know nothing of the matter,yet I should hold him a perfect critic on painting, for he always madehis criticisms intelligible, and used no slang. I am very sorry, as muchas is in my nature to be, for one whom I could see but seldom. He wasthe great friend of Wordsworth, and understood his poetry, which is arare thing, for it is more easy to see his peculiarities than to feelhis great merit, or follow his abstract ideas. I dined to-day at LordCh.-Commissioner's--Lord Minto, and Lord Ch.-Baron, also Harden. Littledone to-day._February_ 15.--Rheumatism returns with the snow. I had thoughts ofgoing to Abbotsford on Saturday, but if this lasts, it will not do; and,sooth to speak, it ought not to do; though it would do me much pleasureif it would do.I have a letter from Baron Von Goethe,[472] which I must have read tome; for though I know German, I have forgot their written hand. I makeit a rule seldom to read, and never to answer, foreign letters fromliterary folks. It leads to nothing but the battle-dore and shuttle-cockintercourse of compliments, as light as cork and feathers. But Goethe isdifferent, and a wonderful fellow, the Ariosto at once, and almost theVoltaire of Germany. Who could have told me thirty years ago I shouldcorrespond, and be on something like an equal footing, with the authorof _Goetz_? Ay, and who could have told me fifty things else that havebefallen me?[473]_February_ 16.--R. Still snow; and, alas! no time for work, so hard am Ifagged by the Court and the good company of Edinburgh. I almost wish myrheumatics were bad enough to give me an apology for staying a week athome. But we have Sunday and Monday clear. If not better, I will cribboff Tuesday; and Wednesday is Teind day. We dined to-day with Mr.Borthwick, younger of Crookston._February_ 17.--James Ferguson ill of the rheumatism in head and neck,and Hector B. Macdonald in neck and shoulders. I wonder, as CommodoreTrunnion says, what the blackguard hell's-baby has to say to the Clerksof Session.[474] Went to the Second Division to assist Hector._N.B._--Don't like it half so well as my own, for the speeches are muchlonger. Home at dinner, and wrought in the evening._February_ 18.--Very cold weather. I am rather glad I am not in thecountry. What says Dean Swift--    "When frost and snow come both together,    Then sit by the fire and save shoe leather."Wrought all morning and finished five pages. Missie dined with us._February_ 19.--As well I give up Abbotsford, for Hamilton is laid upwith the gout. The snow, too, continues, with a hard frost. I have seenthe day I would have liked it all the better. I read and wrote at thebitter account of the French retreat from Moscow, in 1812, till thelittle room and coal fire seemed snug by comparison. I felt cold in itsrigour in my childhood and boyhood, but not since. In youth and advancedlife we get less sensible to it, but I remember thinking it worse thanhunger. Uninterrupted to-day, and did eight leaves.[475]_February_ 20.--At Court, and waited to see the poisoning woman. She isclearly guilty, but as one or two witnesses said the poor wench hintedan intention to poison herself, the jury gave that bastard verdict, _Notproven_. I hate that Caledonian _medium quid_. One who is not _provenguilty_ is innocent in the eye of law. It was a face to do or die, orperhaps to do to die. Thin features, which had been handsome, a flashingeye, an acute and aquiline nose, lips much marked, as arguing decision,and, I think, bad temper--they were thin, and habitually compressed,rather turned down at the corners, as one of a rather melancholydisposition. There was an awful crowd; but, sitting within the bar, Ihad the pleasure of seeing much at my ease; the constables knocking theother folks about, which was of course very entertaining.[476]Lord Liverpool is ill of an apoplexy. I am sorry for it. He will bemissed. Who will be got for Premier? Not B---- certainly;[477] he wantsweight. If Peel would consent to be made a peer, he would do better; butI doubt his ambition will prefer the House of Commons. Wrought a a gooddeal._February_ 21.--Being the vacant Wednesday I wrote all the morning. Hadan answer from D. of W., unsuccessful in getting young Skene put uponthe engineer list; he is too old. Went out at two with Anne, and visitedthe exhibition; also called on the Mansfield family and on Sydney Smith.Jeffrey unwell from pleading so long and late for the poisoning woman.He has saved her throat and taken a quinsey in his own. Adam Fergusonhas had a fall with his horse._February_ 22.--Was at Court till two, then lounged till WillMurray[478] came to speak about a dinner for the Theatrical Fund, inorder to make some arrangements. There are 300 tickets given out.[479] Ifear it will be uncomfortable; and whatever the stoics may say, a baddinner throws cold water on the charity. I have agreed to preside, asituation in which I have been rather felicitous, not by muchsuperiority of wit or wisdom, far less of eloquence; but by two or threesimple rules which I put down here for the benefit of posterity.1st. Always hurry the bottle round for five or six rounds withoutprosing yourself or permitting others to prose. A slight fillip of wineinclines people to be pleased, and removes the nervousness whichprevents men from speaking--disposes them, in short, to be amusing andto be amused.2d. Push on, keep moving, as Punch says. Do not think of saying finethings--nobody cares for them any more than for fine music, which isoften too liberally bestowed on such occasions. Speak at all ventures,and attempt the _mot pour rire._ You will find people satisfied withwonderfully indifferent jokes if you can but hit the taste of thecompany, which depends much on its character. Even a very high party,primed with all the cold irony and _non est tanti_ feelings, or nofeelings, of fashionable folks, may be stormed by a jovial, rough,round, and ready preses. Choose your texts with discretion, the sermonmay be as you like. If a drunkard or an ass breaks in with anything outof joint, if you can parry it with a jest, good and well--if not, do notexert your serious authority, unless it is something very bad. Theauthority even of a chairman ought to be very cautiously exercised. Withpatience you will have the support of every one.When you have drunk a few glasses to play the good fellow, and banishmodesty if you are unlucky enough, to have such a troublesome companion,then beware of the cup too much. Nothing is so ridiculous as a drunkenpreses.Lastly. Always speak short, and _Skeoch doch na skiel_--cut a tale witha drink.    "This is the purpose and intent    Of gude Schir Walter's testament."[480]We dined to-day at Mrs. Dundas of Arniston, Dowager._February_ 24.--I carried my own instructions into effect the best Icould, and if our jests were not good, our laugh was abundant. I think Iwill hardly take the chair again when the company is so miscellaneous;though they all behaved perfectly well. Meadowbank taxed me with thenovels, and to end that farce at once I pleaded guilty, so that sploreis ended. As to the collection, it was much cry and little woo', as thedeil said when he shore the sow. Only 280 from 300 people, but manywere to send money to-morrow. They did not open books, which wasimpolitic, but circulated a box, where people might put in what theypleased--and some gave shillings, which gives but a poor idea of thecompany. Yet there were many respectable people and handsome donations.But this fashion of not letting your right hand see what your left handdoeth is no good mode of raising a round sum. Your penny-pig collectionsdon't succeed. I got away at ten at night. The performers performed verylike gentlemen, especially Will Murray. They attended as stewards withwhite rods, and never thought of sitting down till after dinner, takingcare that the company was attended to._February_ 25.--Very bad report of the speeches in the papers. We dinedat Jeffrey's with Sydney Smith--funny and good-natured as usual. One ofhis daughters is very pretty indeed; both are well-mannered, agreeable,and sing well. The party was pleasant._February_ 26.--At home, and settled to work; but I know not why I wasout of spirits--quite Laird of Humdudgeon, and did all I could to shakeit off, and could not. James Ballantyne dined with me._February_ 27.--Humdudgeonish still; hang it, what fools we are! Iworked, but coldly and ill. Yet something is done. I wonder if otherpeople have these strange alternations of industry and incapacity. I amsure I do not indulge myself in fancies, but it is accompanied withgreat drowsiness--bile, I suppose, and terribly jaded spirits. Ireceived to-day Dr. Shortt and Major Crocket, who was orderly-officer onBoney at the time of his death._February_ 28.--Sir Adam breakfasted. One of the few old friends leftout of the number of my youthful companions. In youth we have manycompanions, few friends perhaps; in age companionship is ended, exceptrarely, and by appointment. Old men, by a kind of instinct, seek youngercompanions who listen to their stories, honour their grey hairs whilepresent, and mimic and laugh at them when their backs are turned. Atleast that was the way in our day, and I warrant our chicks of thepresent day crow to the same tune. Of all the friends that I have left Ihave none who has any decided attachment to literature. So either I musttalk on that subject to young people--in other words, turn proser, or Imust turn tea-table talker and converse with ladies. I am too old andtoo proud for either character, so I'll live alone and be contented.Lockhart's departure for London was a loss to me in this way. Came homelate from the Court, but worked tightly in the evening. I thinkdiscontinuing smoking, as I have done for these two months past, leavesme less muzzy after dinner. At any rate, it breaks a custom--I despisecustom.FOOTNOTES:[459] Foote's Comedy, Act I. Sc. 1.[460] Scott, who had accompanied this lady to the Highlands in thesummer of 1808, wrote from Edinburgh on 19th January:--"We have here avery diverting lion and sundry wild beasts; but the most meritorious isMiss Lydia White, who is what Oxonians call a lioness of the firstorder, with stockings nineteen times dyed blue; very lively, verygood-humoured, and extremely absurd. It is very diverting to see thesober Scotch ladies staring at this phenomenon."--_Life_, vol. iii. pp.38, 95, 96.[461] Burns's "Twa Dogs."--J.G.L.[462] Mount Benger.[463] John Archibald Murray, whose capital bachelors' dinner on Dec. 8Scott so pleasantly describes (on page 320), had married in the intervalMiss Rigby, a Lancashire lady, who was long known in Edinburgh for herhospitality and fine social qualities as Lady Murray. (See page 378,April 2, 1827.) Miss Martineau celebrated her parliamentary Tea-Table inLondon, when her husband was Lord Advocate, and Lord Cockburn, thedelights of Strachur on Loch Fyne.[464] Mr. (afterwards Sir Francis) Grant became a member of the ScottishAcademy in 1830, an associate of Royal Academy in 1842, and Academicianin 1851. His successful career as a painter secured his elevation to thePresidentship of the Academy in 1866. Sir Francis died at Melton-Mowbrayin October 1878, aged 75.[465] Patrick Fraser Tytler, the Scottish historian. He died onChristmas-day 1849, aged fifty-eight.--See Burgon's _Memoirs_, 8vo,Lond. 1859.[466] Audubon says in his Journal of the same date:--"Captain Hall ledme to a seat immediately opposite to Sir Walter Scott, the President,where I had a perfect view of the great man, and studied Nature fromNature's noblest work."The publication of Audubon's great work, _The Birds of America_,commenced in 1827, and was completed in 1839, forming 4 vols. in thelargest folio size, and containing 435 plates. It shows the indomitablecourage of the author, that even when the work was completed, he hadonly 161 subscribers, 82 of whom were in America. The price of the bookwas two guineas for each part with 5 coloured plates. During the lastdozen years its price at auctions runs about 250 to 300. Audubon diedin New York in 1851.--See _Life_, by Buchanan, 8vo, London, 1866.[467] Biographical Notices had been sent to the _Weekly Journal_ in1826, and are now included in the _Miscell. Prose Works_, vol. iv. pp.322-342.[468] Afterwards included in _The Pilgrimage and other Poems_, Lond.1856.[469] See Craig Brown's _Selkirkshire_, vol. i. pp. 285-86.[470] Milton's _Lycidas,_ varied.[471]  "Death's gi'en the Lodge an unco devel, Tam Samson's dead."_Burns._--J.G.L.[472] For letter and reply see _Life_, vol. ix. pp. 92, 98.[473] Sir Walter at this date returned the valuable MSS. lent him by theDuke of Wellington in Nov. 1826 (see _ante_, p. 306) with the followingletter:--"EDINBURGH, 15_th February_ 1827."My dear Lord Duke,--The two manuscripts safely packed leave this bypost to-day, as I am informed your Grace's franks carry any weight. * ** "I have been reading with equal instruction and pleasure the memoir onthe Russian campaign, which demonstrates as plainly as possible that theFrench writers have taken advantage of the snow to cover under it alltheir General's blunders, and impute to it all their losses. This Iobserve is Bonaparte's general practice, and that of his admirers.Whenever they can charge anything upon the elements or upon accident, heand they combine in denying all bravery and all wisdom to their enemies.The conduct of Kutusow on more than one occasion in the retreat seems tohave been singularly cautious, or rather timorous. For it is impossibleto give credit to the immense superiority claimed by Sgur, Beauchamp,etc., for the French troops over the Russians. Surely they were the sameRussians who had fought so bravely against superior force, and howshould the twentieth part of the French army have been able to cleartheir way without cavalry or artillery in a great measure? and it seemsnatural to suppose that we must impute to tardy and inactive conduct onthe part of their General what we cannot account for on the idea of theextremely superior valour or discipline claimed for the French soldiersby their country. The snow seems to have become serious on the 6thNovember, when Napoleon was within two marches of Smolensk, which hesoon after reached, and by that time it appears to me that his army wasalready mouldered away from 100,000 men who left Moscow, to about 35,000only, so that his great loss was incurred before the snow began."I am afraid your Grace has done me an unparalleled injury in onerespect, that the clearness, justice, and precision of your Grace'sreasoning puts me out of all patience with my own attempts. I darehardly hope in this increase of business for a note or two on Waterloo;but if your Grace had any, however hasty, which could be copied by asecretary, the debt would be never to be forgotten."I am going to mention a circumstance, which I do with greatapprehension, lest I should be thought to intrude upon your Grace'sgoodness. It respects a youth, the son of one of my most intimatefriends, a gentleman of good family and fortune, who is extremelydesirous of being admitted a cadet of artillery. His father is the bestdraughtsman in Scotland, and the lad himself shows a great deal oftalent both in science and the ordinary branches of learning. I enclosea note of the youth's age, studies, and progress, in case your Gracemight think it possible to place on your list for the Engineer servicethe name of a poor Scots Hidalgo; your Grace knows Scotland is abreeding not a feeding country, and we must send our sons abroad, as wesend our black cattle to England; and, as old Lady Campbell ofArdkinglas proposed to dispose of her nine sons, we have a strongtendency to put our young folks 'a' to the sword.'"I have too long detained you, my Lord Duke, from the many highoccupations which have been redoubled upon your Grace's head, and begyour Grace to believe me, with an unusually deep sense of respect andobligation, my dear Lord Duke, your Grace's much honoured and grateful,humble servant, WALTER SCOTT."--_Wellington's Despatches_, etc.(Continuation), vol. iii. pp. 590-1. London, 8vo, 1868.[474] Smollett's _Peregrine Pickle_, VOL. i. cap. 13.[475] One page of his MS. answers to four or five of the close printedpages of the original edition of his _Bonaparte_.--J.G.L.[476] Lord Cockburn says:--"Scott's description of the woman is verycorrect; she was like a vindictive masculine witch. I remember himsitting within the bar looking at her. As we were moving out, SirWalter's remark upon the acquittal was, 'Well, sirs, all I can say isthat if that woman was my wife I should take good care to be my owncook.'"--_Circuit Journeys_, 8vo, Edinburgh, 1888, p. 12.[477] This can scarcely be taken to refer to Brougham, though at thetime  "Canning calls Brougham his _Learned_ Friend.  'My honours come and share 'em.  Reformers their assistance give  To countenance old Sarum."  _Annus Mirabilis_.It may, however, stand for Lord Bathurst, who became President of theCouncil shortly afterwards in Wellington's Administration.[478] Mr. W.H. Murray, Manager of the Theatre Royal, Edinburgh. Thisexcellent actor retired from the stage with a competency, and spent thelast years of his life in St. Andrews, where he died in March 1852, aged61.[479] This was the dinner at which the veil was publicly withdrawn fromthe authorship of _Waverley_; it took place on Friday, 23d February1827, and a full account of the proceedings is given in the _Life_, vol.ix. pp. 79-84.[480] Sir Walter parodies the conclusion of King Robert the Bruce's"Maxims or Political Testament."--See Hailes' _Annals_, A.D.1311.--J.G.L.MARCH._March_ 1.--At Court until two--wrote letters under cover of thelawyers' long speeches, so paid up some of my correspondents, which Iseldom do upon any other occasion. I sometimes let letters lie for daysunopened, as if that would postpone the necessity of answering them.Here I am at home, and to work we go--not for the first time to-day, forI wrought hard before breakfast. So glides away Thursday 1st. By the by,it is the anniversary of Bosworth Field. In former days _Richard III._was always acted at London on this day; now the custom, I fancy, isdisused. Walpole's _Historic Doubts_ threw a mist about this reign. Itis very odd to see how his mind dwells upon it at first as the meresport of imagination, till at length they become such Delilahs of hisimagination that he deems it far worse than infidelity to doubt hisDoubts. After all, the popular tradition is so very strong and pointedconcerning the character of Richard, that it is I think in vain to doubtthe general truth of the outline. Shakespeare, we may be sure, wrote hisdrama in the tone that was to suit the popular belief, although wherethat did Richard wrong, his powerful scene was sure to augment theimpression. There was an action and a reaction._March_ 2.--Clerk walked home with me from the Court. I was scarce ableto keep up with him; could once have done it well enough. Funny thing atthe Theatre. Among the discourse in "High Life below Stairs,"[481] oneof the ladies' ladies asks who wrote Shakespeare. One says, "BenJonson," another, "Finis." "No," said Will Murray, "it is Sir WalterScott; he confessed it at a public meeting the other day." _March_3.--Very severe weather, came home covered with snow. White as afrosted-plum-cake, by jingo! No matter; I am not sorry to find I canstand a brush of weather yet; I like to see Arthur's Seat and the sternold Castle with their white watch-cloaks on. But, as Byron said toMoore, "d---n it, Tom, don't be poetical." I settled to _Boney_, andwrote right long and well._March_ 4.--I sat in by the chimney-neuk with no chance of interruption,and "feagued it away." Sir Adam came, and had half an hour's chat andlaugh. My jaws ought to be sore, if the unwontedness of the motion coulddo it. But I have little to laugh at but myself, and my own bizarreriesare more like to make me cry. Wrought hard, though--there's sense inthat._March_ 5.--Our young men of first fashion, in whom tranquillity is theprime merit, a sort of quietism of foppery, if one can use theexpression, have one capital name for a fellow that _outrs_ andoutroars the fashion, a sort of high-buck as they were called in mydays. They hold him a vulgarian, and call him a tiger. Mr. Gibson camein, and we talked over my affairs; very little to the purpose I doubt.Dined at home with Anne as usual, and despatched half-a-dozen Selkirkprocesses; among others one which savours of Hamesucken.[482] I thinkto-day I have finished a quarter of vol. viii., and last. Shall I behappy when it is done?--Umph! I think not._March_ 6.--A long seat at Court, and an early dinner, as we went to theplay. John Kemble's brother acted Benedick. He is a fine-looking man,and a good actor, but not superior. He reminds you eternally that he isacting; and he had got, as the devil directed it, hold of my favouriteBenedick, for which he has no power. He had not the slightest idea ofthe part, particularly of the manner in which Benedick should conducthimself in the quarrelling scene with the Prince and Claudio, in whichhis character rises almost to the dignity of tragedy. The laying asidehis light and fantastic humour, and showing himself the man of feelingand honour, was finely marked of yore by old Tom King.[483] I rememberparticularly the high strain of grave moral feeling which he threw uponthe words--"in a false quarrel there is no true valour"--which, spokenas he did, checked the very brutal levity of the Prince and Claudio.There were two farces; one I wished to see, and that being the last, wasobliged to tarry for it. Perhaps the headache I contracted made me asevere critic on Cramond Brig,[484] a little piece ascribed to Lockhart.Perhaps I am unjust, but I cannot think it his;[485] there are so fewgood things in it, and so much prosing transferred from that mine ofmarrowless morality called the _Miller of Mansfield_.[486] Yet itpleases._March_ 7.--We are kept working hard during the expiring days of theSession, but this being a blank day I wrote hard till dressing time,when I went to Will Clerk's to dinner. As a bachelor, and keeping asmall establishment, he does not do these things often, but they areproportionally pleasant when they come round. He had trusted Sir Adam tobespeak his dinner, who did it _con amore_; so we had excellent cheer,and the wines were various and capital. As I before hinted, it is notevery day that M'Nab[487] mounts on horseback, and so our landlord had alittle of that solicitude that the party should go off well, which isvery flattering to the guests. We had a very pleasant evening. TheChief-Commissioner was there, Admiral Adam, Jo. Murray, and Thomson,etc. etc. Sir Adam predominating at the head, and dancing what he callshis "merry andrada" in great style. In short, we really laughed, andreal laughter is a thing as rare as real tears. I must say, too, therewas a _heart_,--a kindly feeling prevailed over the party. Can Londongive such a dinner? It may, but I never saw one; they are too cold andcritical to be so easily pleased. In the evening I went with some othersto see the exhibition lit up for a promenade, where there were all thefashionable folks about town; the appearance of the rooms was very gayindeed._March_ 8.--It snowed all night, which must render the roads impassable,and will detain me here till Monday. Hard work at Court, as Hammie isdone up with the gout. We dine with Lord Corehouse--that's not true bythe by, for I have mistaken the day. It's to-morrow we dine there.Wrought, but not too hard._March_ 9.--An idle morning. Dalgleish being set to pack my books. Wrotenotes upon a Mr. Kinloch's Collection of Scottish Ballads,[488] which Icommunicated to the young author in the Court this present morning. Wewere detained till half-past three o'clock, so when I came home I wasfatigued and slept. I walk slow, heavily, and with pain; but perhaps thegood weather may banish the Fiend of the joints. At any rate, impatiencewill do nae good at a', man. Letter from Charles for 50. Silver andgold have I none; but that which I have I will give unto him. We dinedat the Cranstouns,--I beg his pardon, Lord Corehouse; Ferguson, Thomson,Will Clerk, etc., were there, also the Smiths and John Murray, so we hada pleasant evening._March_ 10.--The business at the Court was not so heavy as I have seenit the last day of the Session, yet sharp enough. About three o'clock Igot to a meeting of the Bannatyne Club. I hope this institution will bereally useful and creditable. Thomson is superintending a capitaledition of Sir James Melville's Memoirs.[489] It is brave to see how hewags his Scots tongue, and what a difference there is in the force andfirmness of the language, compared to the mincing English edition inwhich he has hitherto been alone known. Nothing to-day but correctingproofs; Anne went to the play, I remained at home._March_ 11.--All my books packed this morning, and this and to-morrowwill be blank days, or nearly such; but I am far ahead of the printer,who is not done with vol. vii., while I am deep in volume viii. I hatepacking; but my servants never pack books quite to please me. JamesBallantyne dined with us. He kept up my heart about _Bonaparte_, whichsometimes flags; and he is such a grumbler that I think I may trust himwhen he is favourable. There must be sad inaccuracies, some which mightcertainly have been prevented by care; but as the Lazaroni used to say,"Did you but know how lazy I am!"[_Abbotsford_,] _March_ 12.--Away we set, and came safely to Abbotsfordamid all the dulness of a great thaw, which has set the riversa-streaming in full tide. The wind is wintry, but for my part    "I like this rocking of the battlements."[490]I was received by old Tom and the dogs, with the unsophisticatedfeelings of goodwill. I have been trying to read a new novel which Ihave heard praised. It is called _Almacks_, and the author has so wellsucceeded in describing the cold selfish fopperies of the time, that thecopy is almost as dull as the original. I think I will take up my bundleof Sheriff-Court processes instead of _Almacks_, as the moreentertaining avocation of the two._March_ 13.--Before breakfast, prepared and forwarded the processes toSelkirk. As I had the loan of 250 at March from Cadell I am now vergingon to the 500 which he promised to allow me in advance on second series_Canongate Chronicles_. I do not like this, but unless I review or writeto some other purpose, what else can I do? My own expenses are aslimited as possible, but my house expenses are considerable, and everynow and then starts up something of old scores which I cannot turn overto Mr. Gibson and his co-trustees. Well--time and the hour--money is thesmallest consideration.Had a pleasant walk to the thicket, though my ideas wereolla-podrida-ish, curiously checkered between pleasure and melancholy. Ihave cause enough for both humours, God knows. I expect this will not bea day of work but of idleness, for my books are not come. Would to God Icould make it light thoughtless idleness, such as I used to have whenthe silly smart fancies ran in my brain like the bubbles in a glass ofchampagne,--as brilliant to my thinking, as intoxicating as evanescent.But the wine is somewhat on the lees. Perhaps it was but indifferentcider after all. Yet I am happy in this place, where everything looksfriendly, from old Tom to young Nym.[491] After all, he has little tocomplain of who has left so many things that like him._March_ 14.--All yesterday spent in putting to rights books, and soforth. Not a word written except interlocutors. But this won't do. Ihave tow on the rock, and it must be spun off. Let us see our presentundertakings. 1. Napoleon. 2. Review Home, Cranbourne Chase,[492] andthe Mysteries. 3. Something for that poor faineant Gillies. 4. Essay onBallad and Song. 5. Something on the modern state of France. These twolast for the Prose Works. But they may    "--do a little more,    And produce a little ore."Come, we must up and be doing. There is a rare scud without, which says,"Go spin, you jade, go spin." I loitered on, and might have answered,    "My spinning-wheel is auld and stiff."Smoked a brace of cigars after dinner as a sedative. This is the firsttime I have smoked these two months. I was afraid the custom wouldmaster me. Went to work in the afternoon, and reviewed for LockhartMackenzie's edition of Home's Works.[493] Proceeded as far as the eighthpage._March_ 15.--Kept still at the review till two o'clock; not that thereis any hurry, but because I should lose my ideas, which are not worthpreserving. Went on therefore. I drove over to Huntly Burn with Anne,then walked through the plantations, with Tom's help to pull me throughthe snow-wreaths. Returned in a glow of heat and spirits. Correctedproof-sheets in the evening._March_ 16.--    "A trifling day we have had here,    Begun with trifle and ended."But I hope no otherwise so ended than to meet the rubrick of the ballad,for it is but three o'clock. In the morning I was _l'homme quicherche_--everything fell aside,--the very pens absconded, and crept inamong a pack of letters and trumpery, where I had the devil's workfinding them. Thus the time before breakfast was idled, or ratherfidgeted, away. Afterwards it was rather worse. I had settled to finishthe review, when, behold, as I am apt to do at a set task, I jibb'd, andmy thoughts would rather have gone with Waterloo. So I dawdled, as thewomen say, with both, now writing a page or two of the review, nowreading a few pages of the Battle of Waterloo by Captain Pringle, amanuscript which is excellently-written.[494] Well, I will find theadvantage of it by and by. So now I will try to finish this accursedreview, for there is nothing to prevent me, save the untractablecharacter that hates to work on compulsion, whether of individuals orcircumstances._March 17._--I wrought away at the review and nearly finished it. Wasinterrupted, however, by a note from Ballantyne, demanding copy, whichbrought me back from Home and Mackenzie to _Boney_. I had my walk asusual, and worked nevertheless very fairly. Corrected proofs._March 18._--Took up _Boney_ again. I am now at writing, as I used to beat riding, slow, heavy, and awkward at mounting, but when I did getfixed in my saddle, could screed away with any one. I have got six pagesready for my learned Theban[495] to-morrow morning. William Laidlaw andhis brother George dined with me, but I wrote in the evening all thesame._March 19._--Set about my labours, but enter Captain John Ferguson fromthe Spanish Main, where he has been for three years. The honest tar satabout two hours, and I was heartily glad to see him again. I had ageneral sketch of his adventures, which we will hear more in detail whenwe can meet at kail-time. Notwithstanding this interruption I havepushed far into the seventh page. Well done for one day. Twenty daysshould finish me at this rate, and I read hard too. But allowance mustbe made for interruptions._March 20._--To-day worked till twelve o'clock, then went with Anne on avisit of condolence to Mrs. Pringle of Yair and her family. Mr. Pringlewas the friend both of my father and grandfather; the acquaintance ofour families is at least a century old._March_ 21.--Wrote till twelve, then out upon the heights though the daywas stormy, and faced the gale bravely. Tom Purdie was not with me. Hewould have obliged me to keep the sheltered ground. But, I don't know--    "Even in our ashes live our wonted fires."There is a touch of the old spirit in me yet that bids me brave thetempest,--the spirit that, in spite of manifold infirmities, made me aroaring boy in my youth, a desperate climber, a bold rider, a deepdrinker, and a stout player at single-stick, of all which valuablequalities there are now but slender remains. I worked hard when I camein, and finished five pages._March_ 22.--Yesterday I wrote to James Ballantyne, acquiescing in hisurgent request to extend the two last volumes to about 600 each. Ibelieve it will be no more than necessary after all, but makes one feellike a dog in a wheel, always moving and never advancing._March_ 23.--When I was a child, and indeed for some years after, myamusement was in supposing to myself a set of persons engaged in variousscenes which contrasted them with each other, and I remember to this daythe accuracy of my childish imagination. This might be the effect of anatural turn to fictitious narrative, or it might be the cause of it, orthere might be an action and reaction, or it does not signify a pin'shead how it is. But with a flash of this remaining spirit, I imagine mymother Duty to be a sort of old task-mistress, like the hag of themerchant Abudah, in the Tales of the Genii--not a hag though, by anymeans; on the contrary, my old woman wears a rich old-fashioned gown ofblack silk, with ruffles of triple blonde-lace, and a coif as rich asthat of Pearling Jean;[496] a figure and countenance something like LadyD.S.'s twenty years ago; a clear blue eye, capable of great severity ofexpression, and conforming in that with a wrinkled brow, of which theordinary expression is a serious approach to a frown--a cautionary andnervous shake of the head; in her withered hand an ebony staff with acrutch head,--a Tompion gold watch, which annoys all who know her bystriking the quarters as regularly as if one wished to hear them.Occasionally she has a small scourge of nettles, which I feel her layacross my fingers at this moment, and so _Tace_ is Latin for acandle.[497] I have 150 pages to write yet._March_ 24.--Does Duty not wear a pair of round old-fashioned silverbuckles? Buckles she has, but they are square ones. All belonging toDuty is rectangular. Thus can we poor children of imagination play withthe ideas we create, like children with soap-bubbles. Pity that we payfor it at other times by starting at our shadows.    "Man but a rush against Othello's breast."The hard work still proceeds, varied only by a short walk._March_ 25.--Hard work still, but went to Huntly Burn on foot, andreturned in the carriage. Walked well and stoutly--God be praised!--andprepared a whole bundle of proofs and copy for the Blucher to morrow;that damned work will certainly end some time or other. As it drips anddribbles out on the paper, I think of the old drunken Presbyterianunder the spout._March 26._--Despatched packets. Colonel and Captain Ferguson arrived tobreakfast. I had previously determined to give myself a day to writeletters; and, as I expect John Thomson to dinner, this day will do aswell as another. I cannot keep up with the world without shying a letternow and then. It is true the greatest happiness I could think of wouldbe to be rid of the world entirely. Excepting my own family, I havelittle pleasure in the world, less business in it, and am heartilycareless about all its concerns. Mr. Thomson came accordingly--not JohnThomson of Duddingston, whom the letter led me to expect, but JohnAnstruther Thomson of Charlton [Fifeshire], the son-in-law of LordCh.-Commissioner._March 27._--Wrote two leaves this morning, and gave the day afterbreakfast to my visitor, who is a country gentleman of the bestdescription; knows the world, having been a good deal attached both tothe turf and the field; is extremely good-humoured, and a good deal of alocal antiquary. I showed him the plantations, going first round theterrace, then to the lake, then came down by the Rhymer's Glen, and tookcarriage at Huntly Burn, almost the grand tour, only we did not walkfrom Huntly Burn. The Fergusons dined with us._March 28._--Mr Thomson left us about twelve for Minto, parting apleased guest, I hope, from a pleased landlord. When I see a "gemman as_is_ a gemman," as the blackguards say, why, I know how to be civil.After he left I set doggedly to work with _Bonaparte_, who had fallen alittle into arrear. I can clear the ground better now by mashing up myold work in the Edinburgh Register with my new matter, a species of_colcannen_, where cold potatoes are mixed with hot cabbage. After all,I think Ballantyne is right, and that I have some talents forhistory-writing after all. That same history in the Register readsprettily enough. _Coragio_, cry Claymore. I finished five pages, butwith additions from Register they will run to more than double I hope;like Puff in the Critic, be luxuriant.[498]Here is snow back again, a nasty, comfortless, stormy sort of a day, andI will work it off at _Boney_. What shall I do when _Bonaparte_ is done?He engrosses me morning, noon, and night. Never mind; _Komt Zeit komtRath_, as the German says. I did not work longer than twelve, however,but went out in as rough weather as I have seen, and stood out severalsnow blasts._March 29, 30._--    "He walk'd and wrought, poor soul! What then?    Why, then he walk'd and wrought again."_March 31._--Day varied by dining with Mr. Scrope, where we found Mr.Williams and Mr. Simson,[499] both excellent artists. We had not toomuch of the palette, but made a very agreeable day out. I contrived tomislay the proof-sheets sent me this morning, so that I must have arevise. This frequent absence of mind becomes very exceedingtroublesome. I have the distinct recollection of laying them carefullyaside after I dressed to go to the Pavilion. Well, I have a head--theproverb is musty.FOOTNOTES:[481] See Townley's _Farce_.[482] _Hamesucken_.--The crime of beating or assaulting a person in hisown house. A Scotch law term.[483] King had retired from the stage in 1801. He died four years later.[484] _Cramond Brig_ is said to have been written by Mr. W.H. Murray,the manager of the Theatre, and is still occasionally acted inEdinburgh.[485] Marginal Note in Original MSS. "I never saw it--not mine.--J.G.L."[486] By Dodsley.[487] That singular personage, the late M'Nab of _that ilk_, spent hislife almost entirely in a district where a boat was the usualconveyance.--J.G.L.[488] _Ancient Scottish Ballads, recovered from tradition, with notes_,etc., by George R. Kinloch, 8vo, London, 1827.[489] Issued by the Club, June 4, 1827.[490] Zanga in _The Revenge_, Act I. Sc. 1.--J.G.L.[491] Nimrod, a staghound.--J.G.L.[492] _Anecdotes of Cranbourne Chase_, etc., by Chafin. 8vo, London,1818. Mr. Lockhart says, "I am sorry Sir Walter never redeemed hispromise to make it the subject of an article in the _QuarterlyReview_."--See _Life_, vol. vii. pp. 43-44.[493] The article appeared in the Number for June 1827, and is nowincluded in the _Prose Misc. Works_, vol. xix. pp. 283-367.[494] See Captain John Pringle's remarks on the campaign of 1815 in App.to Scott's _Napoleon_, vol. ix. pp. 115-160.[495] _Lear_, Act III. Sc. 4.[496] "Pearling Jean," the name of the ghost of the Spanish Nun atAllanbank, Berwickshire. See Sharpe's _Letters_, vol. i. pp. 303-5, andIngram's _Haunted Homes_, Lond. 1884, vol. i. pp. 1-4.[497] This quaint saying, arising out of some forgotten joke, has beenthought to be Scott's own, as it was a favourite with him and hisintimates, and he introduces it in more than one of his works.[A] Butthough its origin cannot be traced, Swift uses it in that very curiouscollection of proverbs and saws, which he strung together under thetitle of _Polite Conversation_, and published about 1738.[B] Fieldingalso introduces it in _Amelia_,[C] 1752. See _Notes and Queries_, firstseries, vol. i. p. 385; ii. p. 45; iv. p. 450; x. p. 173; sixth series,vol. iii. p. 213; iv. p. 157.[A] e.g. _Redgauntlet_, ch. xii. Pate-in-Peril at Dumfries.[B] _Lord Smart_--"Well, Tom, can you tell me what's Latin for acandle?"_Neverout_--"O, my Lord, I know that [answer]: Brandy is Latin for agoose! and _Tace_ is Latin for a candle."--SCOTT'S _Swift_, vol. ix. p.457.[C] "_Tace_, Madam," added Murphy, "is Latin for a candle."--_Amelia_,Bk. 1. cap. xi.[498] Sheridan's Play, Act II. Sc. 1.[499] William Simson, R.S.A., landscape painter. He died in London,1847.APRIL._April_ 1.--The proofs are not to be found. Applications from R.P.G[illies]. I must do something for him; yet have the melancholyconviction that nothing will do him any good. Then he writes letters andexpects answers. Then they are bothering me about writing in behalf ofthe oil-gas light, which is going to the devil very fast. I cannot begoing a-begging for them or anybody. Please to look down with an eye ofpity--a poor distressed creature! No, not for the last morsel of bread.A dry ditch and a speedy death is worth it all._April_ 2.--Another letter from R.P.G. I shall begin to wish, like S.,that he had been murthered and robbed in his walks between Wimbledon andLondon. John [Archibald] Murray and his young wife came to dinner, andin good time. I like her very much, and think he has been very lucky.She is not in the vaward of youth, but John is but two or three years myjunior. She is pleasing in her manners, and totally free fromaffectation; a beautiful musician, and willingly exerts her talents inthat way; is said to be very learned, but shows none of it. A largefortune is no bad addition to such a woman's society._April_ 3.--I had processes to decide; and though I arose at my usualhour, I could not get through above two of five proofs. After breakfastI walked with John Murray, and at twelve we went for Melrose, where Ihad to show the lions. We came back by Huntly Burn, where the carriagebroke down, and gave us a pretty long walk home. Mr. Scrope dined withhis two artists, and John [Thomson?]. The last is not only the bestlandscape-painter of his age and country, but is, moreover, one of thewarmest-hearted men living, with a keen and unaffected feeling ofpoetry. Poor fellow! he has had many misfortunes in his family. I dranka glass or two of wine more than usual, got into good spirits, and _camefrom Tripoli_ for the amusement of the good company. I was in goodfooling._April_ 4.--I think I have a little headache this morning; however, asOthello says, "That's not much." I saw our guests go off by seven in themorning, but was not in time to give them good-bye.    "And now again, boys, to the oar."I did not go to the oar though, but walked a good deal._April_ 5.--Heard from Lockhart; the Duke of W[ellington] and Croker arepleased with my historical labours; so far well--for the former, as asoldier said of him, "I would rather have his long nose on my side thana whole brigade." Well! something good may come of it, and if it does itwill be good luck, for, as you and I know, Mother Duty, it has been arummily written work. I wrote hard to-day._April_ 6.--Do. Do. I only took one turn about the thicket, and havenothing to put down but to record my labours._April_ 7.--The same history occurs; my desk and my exercise. I am aperfect automaton. _Bonaparte_ runs in my head from seven in the morningtill ten at night without intermission. I wrote six leaves to-day andcorrected four proofs._April_ 8.--Ginger, being in my room, was safely delivered in her basketof four puppies; the mother and children all doing well. Faith! that isas important an entry as my Journal could desire. The day is sobeautiful that I long to go out. I won't, though, till I have donesomething. A letter from Mr. Gibson about the trust affairs. If theinfernal bargain with Constable go on well, there will be a pretty sopin the pan to the creditors; 35,000 at least. If I could work aseffectually for three years more, I shall stand on my feet like a man.But who can assure success with the public?_April_ 9.--I wrote as hard to-day as need be, finished my neat eightpages, and, notwithstanding, drove out and visited at Gattonside. Thedevil must be in it if the matter drags out longer now._April_ 10.--Some incivility from the Leith Bank, which I despise withmy heels. I have done for settling my affairs all that any man--muchmore than most men--could have done, and they refuse a draught of 20,because, in mistake, it was 8 overdrawn. But what can be expected of a_sow_ but a _grumph_? Wrought hard, hard._April_ 11.--The parks were rouped for 100 a year more than theybrought last year. Poor Abbotsford will come to good after all. In themeantime it is _Sic vos non vobis_--but who cares a farthing? If _Boney_succeeds, we will give these affairs a blue eye, and I will wrestlestoutly with them, although    "My _banks_ they are covered with _bees_,"[500]or rather with wasps. A very tough day's work._April_ 12.--_Ha-a-lt_--as we used to say, my proof-sheets being stillbehind. Very unhandsome conduct on the part of the Blucher[501] while Iwas lauding it so profusely. It is necessary to halt and close up ourfiles--of correspondence I mean. So it is a chance if, except forcontradiction's sake, or upon getting the proof-sheets, I write a lineto-day at _Boney_. I did, however, correct five revised sheets and oneproof, which took me up so much of the day that I had but one turnthrough the courtyard. Owing to this I had some of my flutterings, mytrembling exies, as the old people called the ague. Wrote a great manyletters--but no "copy."_April_ 13.--I have sometimes wondered with what regularity--that is,for a shrew of my impatient temper--I have been able to keep thisJournal. The use of the first person being, of course, the very essenceof a diary, I conceive it is chiefly vanity, the dear pleasure ofwriting about the best of good fellows, Myself, which gives meperseverance to continue this idle task. This morning I wrote tillbreakfast, then went out and marked trees to be cut for paling, and amjust returned--and what does any one care? Ay, but, Gad! I care myself,though. We had at dinner to-day Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun (Burns's Maria ofBallochmyle[502]), Mr. Bainbridge and daughters, and Colonel Russell._April_ 14.--Went to Selkirk to try a fellow for an assault on Dr.Clarkson--fined him seven guineas, which, with his necessary expenses,will amount to ten guineas. It is rather too little; but as his incomedoes not amount to 30 a year, it will pinch him severely enough, and isbetter than sending him to an ill-kept jail, where he would be idle anddrunk from morning to night. I had a dreadful headache while sitting inthe Court--rheumatism in perfection. It did not last after I got warm bythe fireside._April_ 15.--Delightful soft morning, with mild rain. Walked out and gotwet, as a sovereign cure for the rheumatism. Was quite well, though, andscribbled away._April_ 16.--A day of work and exercise. In the evening a letter fromL[ockhart], with the wonderful news that the Ministry has broken up, andapparently for no cause that any one can explain. The old grudge, Isuppose, betwixt Peel and Canning, which has gone on augmenting like acrack in the side of a house, which enlarges from day to day, till downgoes the whole. Mr. Canning has declared himself fully satisfied withJ.L., and sent Barrow to tell him so. His suspicions were indeed mosterroneous, but they were repelled with no little spirit both by L. andmyself, and Canning has not been like another Great Man I know to whomI showed demonstrably that he had suspected an individual unjustly. "Itmay be so," he said, "but his mode of defending himself wasoffensive."[503]_April_ 17.--Went to dinner to-day to Mr. Bainbridge's Gattonside House,and had fireworks in the evening, made by Captain Burchard, agood-humoured kind of Will Wimble.[504] One nice little boy announced tous everything that was going to be done, with the importance of aprologue. Some of the country folks assembled, and our party wasenlivened by the squeaks of the wenches and the long-protracted Eh,eh's! by which a Teviotdale tup testifies his wonder._April_ 18.--I felt the impatience of news so much that I walked up toMr. Laidlaw, surely for no other purpose than to talk politics. Thisinterrupted _Boney_ a little. After I returned, about twelve or one,behold Tom Tack; he comes from Buenos Ayres with a parcel of littlecuriosities he had picked up for me. As Tom Tack spins a _tough yarn_, Ilost the morning almost entirely--what with one thing, what witht'other, as my friend the Laird of Raeburn says. Nor have I much to sayfor the evening, only I smoked a cigar more than usual to get the boxended, and give up the custom for a little._April_ 19.--Another letter from Lockhart.[505] I am sorry when I thinkof the goodly fellowship of vessels which are now scattered on theocean. There is the Duke of Wellington, the Lord Chancellor, LordMelville, Mr. Peel, and I wot not who besides, all turned out of officeor resigned! I wonder what they can do in the House of Lords when allthe great Tories are on the wrong side of the House. Canning seems quiteserious in his views of helping Lockhart. I hope it will come tosomething._April_ 20.--A surly sort of day. I walked for two hours, however, andthen returned chiefly to _Nap_. Egad! I believe it has an end at last,this blasted work. I have the fellow at Plymouth, or near about it.Well, I declare, I thought the end of these beastly big eight volumeswas like the end of the world, which is always talked of and nevercomes._April_. 21.--Here is a vile day--downright rain, which disconcerts aninroad of bairns from Gattonside, and, of course, annihilates a part ofthe stock of human happiness. But what says the proverb of your truerainy day--    "'Tis good for book, 'tis good for work,    For cup and can, or knife and fork."_April_ 22.--Wrote till twelve o'clock, then sallied forth, and walkedto Huntly Burn with Tom; and so, look you, sir, I drove home in thecarriage. Wrought in the afternoon, and tried to read _De Vere_, asensible but heavy book, written by an able hand--but a great bore forall that.[506] Wrote in the evening._April 23._--Snowy morning. White as my shirt. The little Bainbridgescame over; invited to see the armoury, etc., which I stood showman to.It is odd how much less cubbish the English boys are than the Scotch.Well-mannered and sensible are the southern boys. I suppose the sunbrings them forward. Here comes six o'clock at night, and it is snowingas if it had not snowed these forty years before. Well, I'll work away acouple of chapters--three at most will finish _Napoleon_._April 24._--Still deep snow--a foot thick in the courtyard, I dare say.Severe welcome to the poor lambs now coming into the world. But whatsignifies whether they die just now, or a little while after to beunited with salad at luncheon-time? It signifies a good deal too. Thereis a period, though a short one, when they dance among the gowans, andseem happy. As for your aged sheep or wether, the sooner they pass tothe Norman side of the vocabulary the better. They are like some olddowager ladies and gentlemen of my acquaintance,--no one cares aboutthem till they come to be _cut up_, and then we see how the tallow lieson the kidneys and the chine._April 25._--Snow yet, and it prevents my walking, and I grow bilious. Iwrote hard though. I have now got _Boney_ pegg'd up in the knottyentrails of Saint Helena, and may make a short pause.So I finished the review of John Home's works, which, after all, arepoorer than I thought them. Good blank verse and stately sentiment, butsomething lukewarmish, excepting Douglas, which is certainly amasterpiece. Even that does not stand the closet. Its merits are for thestage; but it is certainly one of the best acting plays going. Perhaps aplay, to act well, should not be too poetical.There is a talk in London of bringing in the Marquis of Lansdowne, thenLauderdale will perhaps come in here. It is certain the old Tory partyis down the wind, not from political opinions, but from personalaversion to Canning. Perhaps his satirical temper has partly occasionedthis; but I rather consider emulation as the source of it, the head andfront of the offending. Croker no longer rhymes to joker. He has made agood _coup_, it is said, by securing Lord Hertford for the newadministration. D.W. calls him their viper. After all, I cannotsympathise with that delicacy which throws up office, because the mosteloquent man in England, and certainly the only man who can manage theHouse of Commons, is named Minister.[507]_April_ 26.--The snow still profusely distributed, and the surface, asour hair used to be in youth, after we had played at some active game,half black, half white, all in large patches. I finished the criticismon Home, adding a string of Jacobite anecdotes, like that which boys putto a kite's tail. Sent off the packet to Lockhart; at the same time sentCroker a volume of French tracts, containing _La Portefeuille deBonaparte_, which he wished to see. Received a great cargo of papersfrom Bernadotte, some curious, and would have been inestimable twomonths back, but now my siege is almost made. Still my feelings for poorCount Itterburg,[508] the lineal and legitimate, make me averse to havemuch to do with this child of the revolution._April_ 27.--This hand of mine gets to be like a kitten's scratch, andwill require much deciphering, or, what may be as well for the writer,cannot be deciphered at all. I am sure I cannot read it myself. Weatherbetter, which is well, as I shall get a walk. I have been a littlenervous, having been confined to the house for three days. Well, I maybe disabled from duty, but my tamed spirits and sense of dejection havequelled all that freakishness of humour which made me a voluntary idler.I present myself to the morning task, as the hack-horse patientlytrudges to the pole of his chaise, and backs, however reluctantly, tohave the traces fixed. Such are the uses of adversity._April_ 28.--Wrought at continuing the Works, with some criticism onDefoe.[509] I have great aversion, I cannot tell why, to stuffing the"Border Antiquities" into what they call the Prose Works.There is no encouragement, to be sure, for doing better, for nobodyseems to care. I cannot get an answer from J. Ballantyne, whether hethinks the review on the Highlands would be a better substitution._April_ 29.--Colonel and Captain Ferguson dined here with Mr. Laidlaw. Iwrote all the morning, then cut some wood. I think the weather gets toowarm for hard work with the axe, or I get too stiff and easily tired._April_ 30.--Went to Jedburgh to circuit, where found my old friend andschoolfellow, D. Monypenny.[510] Nothing to-day but a pack of riff-raffcases of petty larceny and trash. Dined as usual with the Judge, andslept at my old friend Mr. Shortreed's.FOOTNOTES:[500] See Shenstone's _Pastoral Ballad_, Part ii., Hope.[501] The coach to Edinburgh.[502] See "The Braes of Ballochmyle;" Currie's _Burns_, vol. iv. p. 294.[503] The conduct of the _Quarterly_ at this time was in after yearsthus commented upon by John Wilson."_North._--While we were defending the principles of the Britishconstitution, bearding its enemies, and administering to them the knout,the _Quarterly Review_ was meek and mum as a mouse."_Tickler._--Afraid to lose the countenance and occasional assistance ofMr. Canning."_North._--There indeed, James, was a beautiful exhibition of partypolitics, a dignified exhibition of personal independence."--_NoctesAmbrosianae._It is understood that Canning, who had received the King's commands inApril 10, felt keenly the loneliness of his position--estranged from hisold comrades, and deterred by the remembrance of many bitter satiresagainst them from having close intimacy with his new co-adjutors.[504] See _Spectator_.[505] "... Your letter has given me the vertigo--my head turns roundlike a chariot wheel, and I am on the point of asking--'Why, how now? Am I Giles, or am I not?'"The Duke of Wellington out?--bad news at home, and worse abroad. LordAnglesea in his situation?--does not much mend the matter. Duke ofClarence in the Navy?--wild work. Lord Melville, I suppose, falls ofcourse--perhaps _cum tot sequel_, about which _sequela_, unless Sir W.Rae and the Solicitor, I care little. The whole is glamour to one whoreads no papers, and has none to read. I must get one, though, if thiswork is to go on, for it is quite bursting in ignorance. Canning ishaughty and prejudiced--but, I think, honourable as well as able: _nousverrons_. I fear Croker will shake, and heartily sorry I should feel forthat...."--Scott to Lockhart: _Life_, vol. ix. p. 99.[506] R. Plumer Ward.--See July 4.[507] A fuller statement of Scott's views at this crisis will be foundin his letters to Lockhart and Morritt in _Life_, vol. ix. (April, May,and June, 1827).[508] Count Itterburg, then in his 20th year, was the name under whichGustavus, the ex-Crown Prince of Sweden, visited Scotland in 1819. Itwas his intention to study at the University of Edinburgh during thewinter session, but, his real name becoming known, this was renderedimpracticable by the curiosity and attention of the public. He devotedhimself mainly to the study of military matters, and out-door exercises,roughing it in all sorts of weather, sometimes,--to his mentor BaronPolier's uneasiness,--setting out on dark and stormy nights, and makinghis way across country from point to point. This self-imposed trainingwas no doubt with the secret hope that he might some day be called uponby the Swedes to oust Bernadotte, and mount the throne of the greatGustavus. Mr. Skene saw a good deal of him, and gives many interestingdetails of his life in Edinburgh, such as the following account of ameeting at his own house. "He was interested with a set of portraits ofthe two last generations of the Royal Family of Scotland, which hung inmy dining-room, and which had been presented to my grandfather by PrinceCharles Edward, in consideration of the sacrifices he had made for thePrince's service during the unfortunate enterprise of the year 1745,having raised and commanded one of the battalions of Lord Lewis Gordon'sbrigade. The portrait of Prince Charles Edward, taken about the same ageas Comte Itterburg, and no doubt also the marked analogy existing in thecircumstances to which they had been each reduced, seemed much to engagehis notice; and when the ladies had retired he begged me to give himsome account of the rebellion, and of the various endeavours of theStewarts to regain the Scottish crown. The subject was rather acomprehensive one, but having done my best to put him in possession ofthe leading features, it seemed to have taken very strong hold of hismind, as he frequently, at our subsequent meetings, reverted to thesubject. Upon another occasion by degrees the topic of conversationslipped into its wonted channel--the rebellion of 1745, its finaldisaster, and the singular escape of the Prince from the pursuit of hisenemies. The Comte inquired what effect the failure of the enterprisehad produced upon the Prince's character, with whose gallant bearing andenthusiasm, in the conduct of his desperate enterprise, he evinced thestrongest interest and sympathy. I stated briefly the mortifyingdisappointments to which Charles Edward was exposed in France, thehopelessness of his cause, and the indifference generally shown to himby the continental courts, which so much preyed on his mind as finallyto stifle every spark of his former character, so that he gave himselfup to a listless indifference, which terminated in his becoming a sotduring the latter years of his life. On turning round to the Prince, whohad been listening to these details, I perceived the big drops chasingeach other down his cheeks and therefore changed the subject, and henever again recurred to it."--_Reminiscences_.Count Itterburg, or Prince Gustavus Vasa, to give him the title of anold family dignity which he assumed in 1829, entered the Austrian army,in which he attained the rank of Lieutenant Field-Marshal. His services,it is needless to say, were never required by the Swedes, though henever relinquished his pretensions, and claimed the throne at hisfather's death in 1837. He died at Pillnitz on the 4th August 1877,leaving one daughter, the present Queen of Saxony.Notices of his visits to 39 Castle Street and Abbotsford are given inthe 6th vol. of _Life_.[509] This refers to the _Miscellaneous Prose Works_, forming 24 vols.,the publication of which did not commence until May 1834, although, asis shown by the Journal, the author was busy in its preparation. The"criticism on Defoe" will be found in the fourth volume, pp. 247-296,forming a supplement to John Ballantyne's Biographical Notice of Defoein the same volume. The "Essay on Border Antiquities" appeared,notwithstanding Scott's misgivings, in the seventh volume.[510] Lord Pitmilly.--See _ante_, p. 125.MAY._May_ 1.--Brought Andrew Shortreed to copy some things I want. Maxpopplecame with us as far as Lessudden, and we stopped and made a pilgrimageto Fair Maiden Lilliard's Stone, which has been restored lately, to thecredit of Mr. Walker of Muirhouselaw.[511] Set my young clerk to workwhen we came home, and did some laborious business. A letter from SirThomas Lawrence informed me I am chosen Professor of Antiquities to theRoyal Academy--a beautiful professor to be sure!_May_ 2.--Did nothing but proofs this morning. At ten went to Selkirk toarrange about the new measures, which, like all new things, will throwus into confusion for a little at least. The weather was so exquisitelygood that I walked after tea to half-past eight, and enjoyed a sort ofhalf-lazy, half-sulky humour--like Caliban's, "There's wood enoughwithin."[512] Well, I may be the bear, but I must mount the ragged staffall the same. I set my myself to labour for R.P.G.[513] The GermanicHorrors are my theme, and I think something may be yet made of them._May_ 3.--An early visit from Mr. Thomas Stewart, nephew of Duchess ofWellington, with a letter from his aunt. He seems a well-behaved andpleasant young man. I walked him through the Glen. Colonel Ferguson cameto help us out at dinner, and then we had our wine and wassail._May_ 4.--Corrected proofs in the morning. Mr. Stewart still here, whichprevented work; however, I am far beforehand with everything. We walkeda good deal; asked Mr. Alexander Pringle, Whytbank, to dinner. This israther losing time, though._May_ 5.--Worked away upon those wild affairs of Hoffmann for Gillies. Ithink I have forgot my German very much, and then the stream ofcriticism does not come freely at all: I cannot tell why. I gave it upin despair at half-past one, and walked out.Had a letter from R.P.G. He seems in spirits about his work. I wish itmay answer. Under good encouragement it certainly might. But--Maxpopple came to dinner, and Mr. Laidlaw after dinner, so that broke upa day, which I can ill spare. Mr. Stewart left us this day._May_ 6.--Wrought again at Hoffmann--unfructuously I fear--unwillingly Iam certain; but how else can I do a little good in my generation? I willtry a walk. I would fain catch myself in good-humour with my task, butthat will not be easy._May_ 7.--Finished Hoffmann, _talis qualis_. I don't like it; but then Ihave been often displeased with things that have proved successful. Ourown labours become disgusting in our eyes, from the ideas having beenturned over and over in our own minds. To others, to whom they arepresented for the first time, they have a show of novelty. God grant itmay prove so. I would help the poor fellow if I could, for I am poormyself._May_ 8.--Corrected Hoffmann with a view to send him off, which,however, I could not accomplish. I finished a criticism on Defoe'sWritings.[514] His great forte is his power of _vraisemblance_. This Ihave instanced in the story of Mrs. Veal's Ghost. Ettrick Shepherdarrived._May_ 9.--This day we went to dinner at Mr. Scrope's, at the Pavilion,where were the Haigs of Bemerside, Isaac Haig, Mr. and Mrs. Bainbridge,etc. Warm dispute whether par are or are not salmon trout. "Fleas arenot lobsters, d--n their souls."Mr. Scrope has made a painting of Tivoli, which, when mellowed a littleby time, will be a fine one. Letters from Lockhart, with news concerningthe beautiful mess they are making in London. Henry Scott will bethreatened in Roxburghshire. This would be bad policy, as it would drivethe young Duke to take up his ground, which, unless pressed, he may bein no hurry to do. Personally, I do not like to be driven to a point, asI think Canning may do much for the country, provided he does not standcommitted to his new Whig counsellors. But if the push does come, I willnot quit my old friends--_that_ I am freely resolved, and _dissolutely_,as Slender says.[515]_May_ 10.--We went to breakfast at Huntly Burn, and I wandered all themorning in the woods to avoid an English party who came to see thehouse. When I came home I found my cousin Col. Russell, and his sister,so I had no work to-day but my labour at proofs in the morning. To-day Idismiss my aide-de-camp, Shortreed--a fine lad. The Boar of the Forestleft us after breakfast. Had a present of a medal forming one of aseries from Chantrey's busts. But this is not for nothing: the donorwants a motto for the reverse of the King's medal. I am a bad hand toapply to._May_ 11.--Hogg called this morning to converse about trying to get himon the pecuniary list of the Royal Literary Society. Certainly hedeserves it, if genius and necessity could do so. But I do not belong tothe society, nor do I propose to enter it as a coadjutor. I don't likeyour royal academies of this kind; they almost always fall into jobs,and the members are seldom those who do credit to the literature of acountry. It affected, too, to comprehend those men of letters who arespecially attached to the Crown, and though I love and honour my King asmuch as any of them can, yet I hold it best, in this free country, topreserve the exterior of independence, that my loyalty may be the moreimpressive, and tell more effectually. Yet I wish sincerely to help poorHogg, and have written to Lockhart about it. It may be my own desolatefeelings--it may be the apprehension of evil from this politicalhocus-pocus, but I have seldom felt more moody and uncomfortable thanwhile writing these lines. I have walked, too, but without effect. W.Laidlaw, whose very ingenious mind is delighted with all novelties,talked nonsense about the new government, in which men are to resignprinciple, I fear, on both sides._May_ 12.--Wrote Lockhart on what I think the upright and honestprinciple, and am resolved to vex myself no more about it. Walked withmy cousin, Colonel Russell, for three hours in the woods, and enjoyedthe sublime and delectable pleasure of being well,--and listened to onthe subject of my favourite themes of laying out ground and plantation.Russel seems quite to follow such an excellent authority, and my spiritsmounted while I found I was haranguing to a willing and patient pupil.To be sure, Ashestiel, planting the high knolls, and drawing woodlandthrough the pasture, could be made one of the most beautiful forestthings in the world. I have often dreamed of putting it in high order;and, judging from what I have been able to do here, I think I shouldhave succeeded. At any rate, my blue devils are flown at the sense ofretaining some sort of consequence. Lord, what fools we are!_May_ 13.--A most idle and dissipated day. I did not rise till half-pasteight o'clock. Col. and Capt. Ferguson came to breakfast. I walkedhalf-way home with them, then turned back and spent the day, which wasdelightful, wandering from place to place in the woods, sometimesreading the new and interesting volumes of _Cyril Thornton_,[516]sometimes chewing the cud of sweet and bitter fancy which strangelyalternated in my mind, idly stirred by the succession of a thousandvague thoughts and fears, the gay thoughts strangely mingled with thoseof dismal melancholy; tears, which seemed ready to flow unbidden;smiles, which approached to those of insanity; all that wild variety ofmood which solitude engenders. I scribbled some verses, or rathercomposed them in my memory. The contrast at leaving Abbotsford to formerdepartures is of an agitating and violent description. Assorting papersand so forth. I never could help admiring the concatenation betweenAhitophel's setting his house in order and hanging himself. The oneseems to me to follow the other as a matter of course. I don't mind thetrouble, though my head swims with it. I do not mind meeting accounts,which unpaid remind you of your distress, or paid serve to show you youhave been throwing away money you would be glad to have back again. I donot mind the strange contradictory mode of papers hiding themselves thatyou wish to see, and others thrusting themselves into your hand toconfuse and bewilder you. There is a clergyman's letter about theScottish pronunciation, to which I had written an answer some weekssince (the person is an ass, by the by). But I had laid aside my answer,being unable to find the letter which bore his address; and, in thecourse of this day, both his letter with the address, and my answerwhich wanted the address, fell into my hands half-a-dozen times, butseparately always. This was the positive malice of some hobgoblin, and Isubmit to it as such. But what frightens and disgusts me is thosefearful letters from those who have been long dead, to those who lingeron their wayfare through this valley of tears. These fine lines ofSpencer came into my head--    "When midnight o'er the pathless skies."[517]Ay, and can I forget the author!--the frightful moral of his own vision.What is this world? A dream within a dream--as we grow older each stepis an awakening. The youth awakes as he thinks from childhood--thefull-grown man despises the pursuits of youth as visionary--the old manlooks on manhood as a feverish dream. The Grave the last sleep?--no; itis the last and final awakening._May_ 14.--To town per Blucher coach, well stowed and crushed, but savedcash, coming off for less than 2; posting costs nearly five, and youdon't get on so fast by one-third. Arrived in my old lodgings here witha stouter heart than I expected. Dined with Mr. and Mrs. Skene, and metLord Medwyn and lady._May_ 15.--Parliament House a queer sight. Looked as if people weresinging to each other the noble song of "The sky's falling--chickiediddle." Thinks I to myself, I'll keep a calm sough.    "Betwixt both sides I unconcerned stand by;    Hurt, can I laugh, and honest, need I cry?"I wish the old Government had kept together, but their personal disliketo Canning seems to have rendered that impossible.I dined at a great dinner given by Sir George Clerk to his electors,the freeholders of Midlothian; a great attendance of Whig and Tory,huzzaing each other's toasts. _If_ is a good peacemaker, but quarter-dayis a better. I have a guess the best gamecocks would call a truce if ahandful or two of oats were scattered among them._May_ 16.--Mr. John Gibson says the Trustees are to allow my expense intravelling--300, with 50 taken in in Longman's bill. This will placeme _rectus in curia_, and not much more, faith!There is a fellow bawling out a ditty in the street, the burthen ofwhich is    "There's nothing but poverty everywhere."He shall not be a penny richer for telling me what I know but too wellwithout him._May_ 17.--Learned with great distress the death of poor RichardLockhart, the youngest brother of my son-in-law. He had an exquisitetalent for acquiring languages, and was under the patronage of mykinsman, George Swinton, who had taken him into his own family atCalcutta, and now he is drowned in a foolish bathing party._May_ 18.--Heard from Abbotsford; all well. Wrought to-day butawkwardly. Tom Campbell called, warm from his Glasgow Rectorship; he islooking very well. He seemed surprised that I did not know anythingabout the contentions of Tories, Whigs, and Radicals, in the greatcommercial city. I have other eggs on the spit. He stayed but a fewminutes.[518]_May_ 19.--Went out to-day to Sir John Dalrymple's,[519] at Oxenford, apretty place; the lady a daughter of Lord Duncan. Will Clerk and RobertGraeme went with me. A good dinner and pleasant enough party; but tenmiles going and ten miles coming make twenty, and that is something of ajourney. Got a headache too by jolting about after dinner._May_ 20.--Wrote a good deal at Appendix [to Bonaparte], or perhaps Ishould say tried to write. Got myself into a fever when I had finishedfour pages, and went out at eight o'clock at night to cool myself ifpossible. Walked with difficulty as far as Skene's,[520] and there satand got out of my fidgety feeling. Learned that the Princes Streetpeople intend to present me with the key of their gardens, which will bea great treat, as I am too tender-hoofed for the stones. We must now getto work in earnest._May_ 21.--Accordingly this day I wrought tightly, and though not in myvery best mood I got on in a very businesslike manner. Was at the GasCouncil, where I found things getting poorly on. The Treasury haveremitted us to the Exchequer. The Committee want me to make privateinterest with the L.C. Baron. That I won't do, but I will state theircause publicly any way they like._May_ 22.--At Court--home by two, walking through the Princes StreetGardens for the first time. Called on Mrs. Jobson. Worked two hours.Must dress to dine at Mr. John Borthwick's, with the _young folk_, nowMr. and Mrs. Dempster.[521] Kindly and affectionately received by mygood young friends, who seem to have succeeded to their parents' regardfor me._May_ 23.--Got some books, etc., which I wanted to make up the SaintHelena affair. Set about making up the Appendix, but found I had mislaida number of the said postliminary affair. Had Hogg's nephew here as atranscriber, a modest and well-behaved young man--clever, too, Ithink.[522] Being Teind Wednesday I was not obliged to go to the Court,and am now _bang up_, and shall soon finish Mr. Nappy. And how then? Ay,marry, sir, that's the question.    "Lord, what will all the people say,    Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor!""The fires i' the lowest hell fold in the people!"[523] as Coriolanussays. I live not in their report, I hope._May_ 24.--Mr. Gibson paid me 70 more of my London journey. A goodthought came into my head: to write stories for little Johnnie Lockhartfrom the History of Scotland, like those taken from the History ofEngland. I will not write mine quite so simply as Croker has done. I ampersuaded both children and the lower class of readers hate books whichare written _down_ to their capacity, and love those that are morecomposed for their elders and betters. I will make, if possible, a bookthat a child will understand, yet a man will feel some temptation toperuse should he chance to take it up. It will require, however, asimplicity of style not quite my own. The grand and interesting consistsin ideas, not in words. A clever thing of this kind will have a run--    "Little to say,    But wrought away,    And went out to dine with the Skenes to-day."Rather too many dinner engagements on my list. Must be hard-hearted. Icannot say I like my solitary days the worst by any means. I dine, whenI like, on soup or broth, and drink a glass of porter or ginger-beer; asingle tumbler of whisky and water concludes the _debauch_. This agreeswith me charmingly. At ten o'clock bread and cheese, a single draughtof small beer, porter, or ginger-beer, and to bed._May_ 26.--I went the same dull and weary round out to the ParliamentHouse, which bothers one's brains for the day. Nevertheless, I get on.Pages vanish from under my hand, and find their way to J. Ballantyne,who is grinding away with his presses. I think I may say, now I begin toget rid of the dust raised about me by so many puzzling little facts,that it is plain sailing to the end.Dined at Skene's with George Forbes and lady. But that was yesterday._May_ 27.--I got ducked in coming home from the Court. Naboclish!--Ithank thee, Pat, for teaching me the word. Made a hard day of it. Scarcestirred from one room to another, but at bed-time finished a handsomehandful of copy. I have quoted Gourgaud's evidence; I suppose he will bein a rare passion, and may be addicted to vengeance, like along-moustached son of a French bitch as he is. Naboclish! again forthat.    "Frenchman, Devil, or Don,     Damn him, let him come on,       He shan't scare a son of the Island."[524]_May_ 28.--Another day of uninterrupted study; two such would finish thework with a murrain. I have several engagements next week; I wonder howI was such a fool as to take them. I think I shall be done, however,before Saturday. What shall I have to think of when I lie down at nightand awake in the morning? What will be my plague and my pastime, mycurse and my blessing, as ideas come and the pulse rises, or as theyflag and something like a snow haze covers my whole imagination? I havemy _Highland Tales_--and then--never mind, sufficient for the day is theevil thereof._May_ 29.--Detained at the House till near three. Made a call on Mrs.Jobson and others; also went down to the printing-office. I hope JamesBallantyne will do well. I think and believe he will. Wrought in theevening._May_ 30.--Having but a trifle on the roll to-day, I set hard to work,and brought myself in for a holiday, or rather played truant. At twoo'clock went to a Mr. Mackenzie in my old house at Castle Street, tohave some touches given to Walker's print.[525] Afterwards, having youngHogg with me as an amanuensis, I took to the oar till near teno'clock.[526]_May_ 31.--Being a Court day I was engaged very late. Then I called atthe printing-house, but got no exact calculation how we come on. Met Mr.Cadell, who bids, as the author's copy [money] 1s. profit on each bookof _Hugh Little-john_. I thought this too little. My general calculationis on such profits, that, supposing the book to sell to the public for7s. 6d., the price ought to go in three shares--one to the trade, one tothe expense of print and paper, and one to the author and publisherbetween them, which of course would be 1s. 3d., not 1s. to the author.But in stating this rule I omitted to observe that books for youngpersons are half bound before they go out into the trade. This comes toabout 9d. for two volumes. The allowance to the trade is also heavy, sothat 1s. a book is very well on great numbers. There may besides be athird volume.Dined at James Ballantyne's, and heard his brother Sandy sing and playon the violin, beautifully as usual. James himself sang the Reel ofTullochgorum, with hearty cheer and uplifted voice. When I came home Ilearned that we had beat the Coal Gas Company, which is a sort oftriumph.FOOTNOTES:[511] The rude inscription on the stone placed over the grave of thisBorder amazon, slain at Ancrum Moor, A.D. 1545, ran thus--  "Fair maiden Lilliard lies under this stane,  Little was her stature but great was her fame,  Upon the English louns she laid many thumps,  And when her legs were cuttet off she fought upon her stumps."_See New Stat. Account Scot._, "Roxburgh," p. 244.[512] _Tempest_, Act I. Sc. 2.[513] An article for the _Foreign Quarterly Review_, regarding which Mr.Lockhart says:--"It had then been newly started under the Editorship ofMr. R.P. Gillies. This article, it is proper to observe, was abenefaction to Mr. Gillies, whose pecuniary affairs rendered suchassistance very desirable. Scott's generosity in this matter--for it wasexactly giving a poor brother author 100 at the expense of considerabletime and drudgery to himself--I think it necessary to mention; the dateof the exertion requires it of me."--_Life_, vol. ix. pp. 72-3; see_Misc. Prose Works_, vol. xviii. p. 270.[514] See note 1, p. 387.[515] _Merry Wives_, Act I. Sc. 1.[516] _The Youth and Manhood of Cyril Thornton_, by Captain ThomasHamilton, had just been published anonymously.[517] Mr. Lockhart adds the following lines:--  "The shade of youthful hope is there,  That lingered long, and latest died;  Ambitions all dissolved to air,  With phantom honours by his side.  "What empty shadows glimmer nigh?  They once were friendship, truth, and love!  Oh, die to thought, to memory die,  Since lifeless to my heart ye prove."(Poems by the Hon. W.R. Spencer, London, 1811, p. 68.) "The best writerof _vers de socit_ in our time, and one of the most charming ofcompanions, was exactly Sir Walter's contemporary, and, like him, firstattracted notice by a version of Brger's _Lenore_. Like him, too, thisremarkable man fell into pecuniary distress in the disastrous year 1825,and he was now (1826) an involuntary resident in Paris, where he died inOctober 1834, _anno tat_. 65."--J.G.L.[518] The following note to Mr. and Mrs. Skene belongs to this day:--My dear Friends,--I am just returned from Court dreeping like the WaterKelpy when he had finished the Laird of Morphey's Bridge, and am, likethat ill-used drudge, disposed to sing--Sair back and sair banes.[D]In fact I have the rheumatism in head and shoulders, and am obliged todeprive myself of the pleasure of waiting upon you to-day to dinner, tomy great mortification.--Always yours, WALTER SCOTT.WALKER STREET,_Friday, 18th May, 1827_.--_Skene's Reminiscences_.[D]  Sair back and sair banes  Carrying the Lord of Morphey's stanes._Border Minstrelsy_, vol. iii. pp. 360, 365.[519] Afterwards (in 1840) eighth Karl of Stair.[520] 126 Princes Street.[521] George Dempster of Skibo had just married a daughter of the Houseof Arniston. This lady has had the singular gratification of listeningto these pleasant impressions of a dinner party given in her honoursixty-two years ago, and which she never forgot, nor Sir Walter's talkas he sat next her at table, and with unfeigned kindness devoted himselfto her entertainment.[522] See _Life_, vol. ix. p. 114.[523] _Coriolanus_, Act III. Sc. 3.[524] Sir Walter _varies_ a verse of _The tight little Island_.--J.G.L.[525] The engraving from Raeburn's picture.--See _ante_, p. 212.[526] Mr. Robert Hogg relates that during these few days Sir W. and helaboured from six in the morning till the same hour in the evening, withthe exception of the intervals allowed for breakfast and lunch, whichwere served in the room to save time. He noted a striking peculiarity inScott's dictation, that with the greatest ease he was able to carry ontwo trains of thought at one time, "one of which was already arranged,and in the act of being spoken, while at the same time he was in advanceconsidering what was afterwards to be said."--See his interesting letterto Mr. Lockhart, _Life_, vol. ix. pp. 115-117.JUNE._June_ 1.--Settled my household-book. Sophia does not set out till themiddle of the week, which is unlucky, our antiquarian skirmish beginningin Fife just about the time she is to arrive. Letter from John touchingpublic affairs; don't half like them, and am afraid we shall have theWhig alliance turn out like the calling in of the Saxons. I told this toJeffrey, who said they would convert us, as the Saxons did the British.I shall die in my Paganism for one. I don't like a bone of them as aparty. Ugly reports of the King's health; God pity this poor countryshould that be so, but I think it a thing devised by the enemy. Annearrived from Abbotsford. I dined at Sir Robert Dundas's, with Mrs.Dundas, Arniston, and other friends. Worked a little, not much._June_ 2.--Do. Do. Dined at Baron Hume's. These dinners are cruelly inthe way, but _que faut-il faire_? the business of the Court must bedone, and it is impossible absolutely to break off all habits ofvisiting. Besides, the correcting of proof-sheets in itself is nowbecome burdensome. Three or four a day is hard work._June_ 3.--Wrought hard. I think I have but a trifle more to do, but newthings cast up; we get beyond the life, however, for I have killed himto-day. The newspapers are very saucy; _The Sun_ says I have got 4000for suffering a Frenchman to look over my manuscript. Here is a properfellow for you! I wonder what he thinks Frenchmen are made of--walkingmoney-bags, doubtless. Now as Sir Fretful Plagiary[527] says, anotherman would be mad at this, but I care not one brass farthing._June_ 4.--The birthday of our good old king. It was wrong not to keepup the thing as it was of yore with dinners, and claret, and squibs, andcrackers, and saturnalia. The thoughts of the subjects require sometimesto be turned to the sovereign, were it but only that they may rememberthere is such a person.The Bannatyne edition of Melville's _Memoirs_ is out, and beats allprint. Gad, it is a fine institution that; a rare one, by Jove! beatsthe Roxburghe. Wrought very bobbishly to-day, but went off atdinner-time to Thomas Thomson, where we had good cheer and good fun. Bythe way, we have lost our Coal Gas Bill. Sorry for it, but I can't cry._June_ 5.--Proofs. Parliament House till two. Commenced the character of_Bonaparte_. To-morrow being a Teind-day I will hope to get it finished.Meantime I go out to-night to see _Frankenstein_ at the theatre._June_ 6.--_Frankenstein_ is entertaining for once--considerable art inthe man that plays the Monster, to whom he gave great effect. Cooper ishis name; played excellently in the farce too, as a sailor--a morenatural one, I think, than my old friend Jack Bannister, though he hasnot quite Jack's richness of humour. I had seven proof-sheets to correctthis morning, by Goles. So I did not get to composition till nine; workon with little interruption (save that Mr. Verplanck, an American,breakfasted with us) until seven, and then walked, for fear of the blackdog or devil that worries me when I work too hard._June_ 7.--This morning finished _Boney_. And now, as Dame Fortune says,in Quevedo's Visions, _Go, wheel, and the devil drive thee_.[528] It washigh time I brought up some reinforcements, for my pound was come tohalf-crowns, and I had nothing to keep house when the Lockharts come.Credit enough to be sure, but I have been taught by experience to makeshort reckonings. Some great authors now will think it a degradation towrite a child's book; I cannot say I feel it such. It is to be inscribedto my grandson, and I will write it not only without a sense of itsbeing _infra dig_. but with a grandfather's pleasure.I arranged with Mr. Cadell for the property of _Tales of a Grandfather_,10,000 copies for 787, 10s._June_ 8.--A Mr. Maywood, much protected by poor Alister Dhu, brought mea letter from the late Colonel Huxley. His connection and approach to meis through the grave, but I will not be the less disposed to assist himif an opportunity offers. I made a long round to-day, going to DavidLaing's about forwarding the books of the Bannatyne Club to Sir GeorgeRose and Duke of Buckingham. Then I came round by the printing-office,where the presses are groaning upon _Napoleon_, and so home through thegardens. I have done little to-day save writing a letter or two, for Iwas fatigued and sleepy when I got home, and nodded, I think, over SirJames Melville's _Memoirs_. I will do something, though, when I havedined. By the way, I corrected the proofs for Gillies; they read betterthan I looked for._June_ 9.--Corrected proofs in the morning. When I came home from CourtI found that John Lockhart and Sophia were arrived by the steam-boat atPortobello, where they have a small lodging. I went down with a bottleof Champagne, and a flask of Maraschino, and made buirdly cheer withthem for the rest of the day. Had the great pleasure to find them all inhigh health. Poor Johnny is decidedly improved in his general health,and the injury on the spine is got no worse. Walter is a very finechild._June_ 10.--Rose with the odd consciousness of being free of my dailytask. I have heard that the fish-women go to church of a Sunday withtheir creels new washed, and a few stones in them for ballast, justbecause they cannot walk steadily without their usual load. I feelsomewhat like this, and rather inclined to pick up some light task, thanto be altogether idle. I have my proof-sheets, to be sure; but what arethese to a whole day? Fortunately my thoughts are agreeable; cashdifficulties, etc., all provided for, as far as I can see, so that we goon hooly and fairly. Betwixt and August 1st I should receive 750, and Icannot think I have more than the half of it to pay away. Cash, to besure, seems to burn in my pocket. "He wasna gien to great misguiding,but coin his pouches wouldna bide in."[529] By goles, this shall becorrected, though! Lockhart gives a sad account of Gillies'simprudences. Lockhart dined with us. Day idle._June_ 11.--The attendance on the Committee, and afterwards the generalmeeting of the Oil Gas Company took up my morning, and the rest dribbledaway in correcting proofs and trifling; reading, among the rest, an oddvolume of _Vivian Grey_;[530] clever, but not so much so as to make me,in this sultry weather, go up-stairs to the drawing-room to seek theother volumes. Ah! villain, but you smoked when you read.--Well, Madam,perhaps I think the better of the book for that reason. Made ablunder,--went to Ravelston on the wrong day. This Anne's fault, but Idid not reproach her, knowing it might as well have been my own._June_ 12.--At Court, a long hearing. Got home only about three.Corrected proofs, etc. Dined with Baron Clerk, and met several oldfriends; Will Clerk in particular._June_ 13.--Another long seat at Court. Almost overcome by the heat inwalking home, and rendered useless for the day. Let me be thankful,however; my lameness is much better, and the nerves of my unfortunateankle are so much strengthened that I walk with comparatively littlepain. Dined at John Swinton's; a large party. These festive occasionsconsume much valuable time, besides trying the stomach a little by latehours, and some wine shed, though that's not much._June_ 14.--Anne and Sophia dined. Could not stay at home with themalone. We had the Skenes and Allan, and amused ourselves till teno'clock._June_ 15.--This being the day long since appointed for our cruise toFife, Thomas Thomson, Sir A. Ferguson, Will Clerk, and I, set off withMiss Adam, and made our journey successfully to Charlton, where met LordChief-Baron and Lord Chief-Commissioner, all in the humour to be happy,though time is telling with us all. Our good-natured host, Mr. A.Thomson, his wife, and his good-looking daughters, received us mostkindly, and the conversation took its old roll, in spite of woes andinfirmities. Charlton is a good house, in the midst of highly-cultivatedland, and immediately surrounded with gardens and parterres, togetherwith plantations, partly in the old, partly in the new, taste; I like itvery much; though, as a residence, it is perhaps a little too muchfinished. Not even a bit of bog to amuse one, as Mr. Elphinstone said._June_ 16.--This day we went off in a body to St. Andrews, which ThomasThomson had never seen. On the road beyond Charlton saw a small cottagesaid to have been the heritable appanage of a family called the _Keays_[?]. He had a right to feed his horse for a certain time on theadjoining pasture. This functionary was sent to Falkland with the fishfor the royal table. The ruins at St. Andrews have been lately clearedout. They had been chiefly magnificent from their size--not their extentof ornament. I did not go up to St. Rule's Tower as on former occasions;this is a falling off, for when before did I remain sitting below whenthere was a steeple to be ascended? But the rheumatism has begun tochange that vein for some time past, though I think this is the firstdecided sign of acquiescence in my lot. I sat down on a grave-stone, andrecollected the first visit I made to St. Andrews, now thirty-four yearsago. What changes in my feeling and my fortune have since then takenplace! some for the better, many for the worse. I remembered the name Ithen carved in Runic characters on the turf beside the castle-gate, andI asked why it should still agitate my heart. But my friends came downfrom the tower, and the foolish idea was chased away.[531]_June_ 17.--Lounged about while the good family went to church. The dayis rather cold and disposed to rain. The papers say that the Corn Billis given up in consequence of the Duke of Wellington having carried theamendment in the House of Lords. All the party here--Sir A.F. perhapsexcepted--are Ministerialists on the present double bottom. They say thenames of Whig and Tory are now to exist no longer. Why have they existedat all?In the forenoon we went off to explore the environs; we visited twoancient manor-houses, those of Elie and Balcaskie. Large roomy mansions,with good apartments, two or three good portraits, and a collection ofmost extraordinary frights, prodigiously like the mistresses of KingGeorge I., who "came for all the goods and chattels" of old England.There are at Elie House two most ferocious-looking Ogresses of thiscast. There are noble trees about the house. Balcaskie put me in mind ofpoor Philip Anstruther, dead and gone many a long year since. He was afine, gallant, light-hearted young sailor. I remember the story of hisdrawing on his father for some cash, which produced an angry letter fromold Sir Robert, to which Philip replied, that if he did not know how towrite like a gentleman, he did not desire any more of hiscorrespondence. Balcaskie is much dilapidated; but they are restoringthe house in the good old style, with its terraces and yew-hedges. Thebeastly fashion of bringing a bare ill-kept park up to your very doorsseems going down. We next visited with great pleasure the Church of St.Monans, which is under repair, designed to correspond strictly with theancient plan, which is the solid, gloomy, but impressive Gothic It wasbuilt by David II., in the fulfilment of a vow made to St. Monan on thefield of battle at Neville's Cross. One would have judged the king to bethankful for small mercies, for certainly St. Monan proved but anineffective patron.Mr. Hugh Cleghorn[532] dined at Charlton, and I saw him for the firsttime, having heard of him all my life. He is an able man, has seen much,and speaks well. Age has clawed him in his clutch, and he has becomedeaf. There is also Captain Black of the navy, second lieutenant of theMars at Trafalgar. Villeneuve was brought on board that ship after thedebate. He had no expectation that the British fleet would have foughttill they had formed a regular line. Captain Black disowns the idea ofthe French and Spaniards being drawn up chequer form for resisting theBritish attack, and imputes the appearance of that array to sheeraccident of weather._June_ 18.--We visited Wemyss Castle on our return to Kinghorn. On theleft, before descending to the coast, are considerable remains of acastle, called popularly the old castle, or Macduff's Castle. That ofthe Thane was situated at Kennochquay, at no great distance. The frontof Wemyss Castle, to the land, has been stripped entirely of itscastellated appearance, and narrowly escaped a new front. To the sea ithas a noble situation, overhanging the red rocks; but even there thestructure has been much modernised and tamed. Interior is a good oldhouse, with large oak staircases, family pictures, etc. We were receivedby Captain Wemyss--a gallant sea-captain, who could talk against anorth-wester,--by his wife Lady Emma, and her sister LadyIsabella--beautiful women of the house of Errol, and vindicating itstitle to the _handsome Hays_. We reached the Pettycur about half-pastone, crossed to Edinburgh, and so ended our little excursion. Ofcasualties we had only one: Triton, the house-dog at Charlton, threwdown Thomson and he had his wrist sprained. A restive horse threatenedto demolish our landau, but we got off for the fright. Happily L.C.B.was not in our carriage.Dined at William M'Kenzie's to meet the Marquis and Marchioness ofStafford, who are on their road to Dunrobin. Found them both very well._June_ 19.--Lord Stafford desires to be a member of the BannatyneClub--also Colin M'Kenzie. Sent both names up accordingly.The day furnishes a beggarly record of trumpery. From eight o'clock tillnine wrote letters, then Parliament House, where I had to wait onwithout anything to do till near two, when rain forced me into theAntiquarian museum. Lounged there till a meeting of the Oil GasCommittee at three o'clock. There remained till near five. Home andsmoked a cheroot after dinner. Called on Thomson, who is still disabledby his sprain. _Pereat inter hc_. We must do better to-morrow._June_ 20.--Kept my word, being Teind Wednesday. Two young Frenchmen,friends of Gallois, rather interrupted me. I had asked them tobreakfast, but they stayed till twelve o'clock, which is scarce fair,and plagued me with compliments. Their names are Rmusat andGuyzard.[533] Pleasant, good-humoured young men. Notwithstanding thisinterruption I finished near six pages, three being a good Session-day'swork. _Allons, vogue la galre_. Dined at the Solicitor's with LordHopetoun, and a Parliament House party._June_ 21.--Finished five leaves--that is, betwixt morning anddinner-time. The Court detained me till two o'clock. About nine leaveswill make the volume quite large enough.By the way, the booksellers have taken courage to print up 2000 more ofthe first edition [of Napoleon]; which, after the second volume, theycurtailed from 8000 to 6000. This will be 1000 more in my way, atleast, and that is a good help. We dine with the Skenes to-day, Lockhartbeing with us.[534]_June_ 22.--Wrought in the morning as usual. Received to breakfast Dr.Bishop, a brother of Bishop the composer. He tells me his brother wasvery ill when he wrote "The Chough and Crow," and other music for GuyMannering. Singular! but I do think illness, if not too painful, unsealsthe mental eye, and renders the talents more acute, in the study of thefine arts at least.[535]I find the di